

iEWAR S
■P*
Distillers
to
By Appointment
H.M.The Kino.
WHISKY.
9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr <K
SOLE AGENTS FOR
McLaren
Traction Engines.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HQI3AEIT.
Hadley s Orient ptel.
LEATHER
HIEtTJNGI
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
-=>\
Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTON’S
HAMS ®
ON
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS
The Sun-god seeks the ocean,
The ocean hugs the shore,
In touch with one emotion,
Arising evermore.
Honey Kisses
To which the world’s devotion
Is bound and given o’er.
OF ALL CONFECTIONERS.
cdl, IdaJJfau) Muj4(u u £e&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Hr
We make It a point of never being; out of anything;. Wo keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
THE, SIEVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
879 GEORGE. STREET —SYDNEY.
I
AL
CH
c
u!
MALTHOID Roofing, in
combination with our
Patented Fire Joint, ia
the most perfect in the
world.
nlsClitAxnd
MALTHOID Roofing is
economical in cost, easy
to lay, and will last as
long as the building it is
upon.
X
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
c. A. MacDONALD,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
cScfip
it
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in. less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOE. CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers ia Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-MaSing Machinery.
HELIDON spa water
HELSDON SPA comes from Nature’s own laboratory, 1
absolutely pure beyond reach of contamination. J
GOLLIN & 00.,
Ag-ents.
The Bulletin
V01.30.—N0. 1519.]
[Thursday, March 25, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY. ’
New Books of the Week, with those reviewed on this Page.
Wells, H. G., Tono Bungay ; a novel, cloth 3s 6d, post sd.
Twain, Mark, Hucklebury Finn, cheap ed., 8d posted.
Send for big list of sixpenny editions.
Sinclair, Upton, The Money Changers ; a novel, by the
author of “ The Jungle,” “ The Metropolis,” cloth 3s 6d,
post 6d. Cricket, Who’s Who, just issued, 8d posted.
Hamilton, Materials and Methods of Fiction, 6s, post 6d.
Travis, Elma A., The Cobbler ; a successful novel, 3s 6d,
post 6d. Fayrer, Venomous Snakes, 3s, postage 4d.
Churchill, My African Journey, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d
Noyes, William Morris, “Eng. Men of Letters,” 2s 6d n 4,'rt
Locke, W. J., Septimus, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d. ’ .*
Kudd, Back at Our Selection.
Kudd, From Selection to City.
Brasch, Adventures of Barnes.
Cameron, Spell of the Bush.
each :
postage:
each extra.
Jose, A. W., Hist, of Australasia, 2s 6d, postage 6d
Lawson, Will, Stokin' and Other Verses, Is, postage
Bertram Mackennal, sculptor, has been
A.R. A.—the first Australian Associate.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT II LUNGS 111
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
AN IDEAL. REMEDY
KiuTnujvi
MEOICAU tnßnt'sMS..
I 'SHQUU>PWCWfc OPGRCXT
g.Hudson:
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing- No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says : “ Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 in Stamps,
COMPANY, LTD., 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Churchill on Africa
Winston Spencer Churchill, “ the bril-
liant boy ” of the British Cabinet, writes
an interesting account of the red patches
on the map of North-Eastern Africa.
My African Journey (Hodder and Stough-
ton) was taken from Mombasa to Uganda,
and thence down the Nile to Cairo.
Living at home in the eye of the camera,
it naturally followed him on his trip, and
the result is over sixty illustrations—
Winston and his rhino., Winston on the
cow-catcher, Winston and his shooting
party, etc. In one of the groups is a
marquis, clad in pith helmet, tunic, High-
lander s pants and puttees—a costume
which may be cool, but is not calculated
to inspire respect. Lions, rhinoceroses,
hippopotami, and other small deer
abounded, but the Right Honorable does
not enlarge upon the slaughter. Though
he may agree with Chesterton that the
hippo, is a great mistake, Churchill had
twinges of conscience in his first meeting
with Behemoth—“ If there is such a
thing as right and wrong between man
and beast—and who shall say there is
not ?—right is plainly on his side.”
He gives a flashlight on the already
complicated politics of British East
Africa. It is the country of the Young
Man:
The African Protectorates now administered by
the Colonial Office afford rare scope for the
abilities of earnest and intelligent youth. A man
of 25 may easily find himself ruling a large tract of
country and a numerous population.
The results, on the whole, have been
admirable. The race question is the great
problem awaiting solution. The white man
refuses to do “ black man’s work.” The
native cannot displace the white in skilled
employments, but the brown man from
Asia ( can. The whites fear the possi-
bility of a vast army of African laborers,
officered by educated Indians or Chinese,
squeezing them out. The Indian was
there first. He supplied most of the
capital used in exploiting the country,
and built the indispensable railway. He
is keen, thrifty, and industrious, and his
friends claim that he can live where the
white man cannot. Churchill thinks it
would be good policy to let him spread
himself in East Africa, as he is refused
admission, in large numbers, in other
countries, such as Australia.
However, Churchill was on a holiday
trip to escape politics, and turned from
Man to Nature with relief. And Nature
there is exceedingly attractive. She
does everything in the grand manner.
Through mighty forests, so thick that
the sun’s light is almost excluded, the
railway runs to Uganda :
Great trees overhang the line. The creepers
trail down the cuttings, robing the red soil with
cloaks of flowers and foliage. The embankments
are already covered. Every clearing is densely
overgrown with sinuous plants. . . . The long
fingers of the encroaching forest are everywhere
stretching out enviously towards the bright metals.
Neglect the Uganda Railway for a year, and it
would take an expedition to discover where it had
run.
Beyond the forest, 8000 ft. above the
sea, are great, park-like plains; then the
great lakes on the Equator. Here the
traveller met the Kavirondo tribe, the
greatest in that part of the country:
The Kavirondo are naked and unashamed.
Both sexes are accustomed to walk about in the
primitive simplicity of Nature. Their nudity is
based, not upon mere ignorance, but reasoned
policy. They have a very strong prejudice against
the wearing of clothes, which, they declare, lead
to immorality ; and no Kavirondo woman can
attire herself, even in the most exiguous raiment,
without sullying her reputation. They are said
to be the most moral of all the tribes dwelling on
the Lake shore.
Crossing the northern corner of the
Victoria Nyanza, he reached Entebbe,
the capital of Uganda, where the people
are simple, dignified, educated—and
clothed. The country is a gigantic gar-
den. Douglas Jerrold once spoke of
some land as being so fertile that if you
but tickled it with a hoe it laughed with
a harvest. In Uganda the hoe is not
needed:
English garden products brought in contact
with the surface of Uganda simply give one wild
bound of efflorescence or fruition, and break
their hearts for joy. Does it not sound a Para-
dise on earth ?
But there is a serpent in Eden, or,
rather, a fly in the ointment—strictly
speaking, a fly and a tick. The Spiril-
lum tick, producing distressing fevers
and facial paralysis, is dreadful enough.
The other and far more terrible scourge
is the tsetse-fly, which is the cause of the
mysterious sleeping sickness, first noticed
in July, 1901, and by the end of 1905
responsible for 200,000 deaths out of a
population of 300,000 ! The Government
is attacking the enemy, scientists have
trained their deadly artillery on the
tsetse, and there is hope of his being
utterly routed. The curious thing is that
these scourges sprang up after the white
man came to Uganda.
Churchill’s thought upon viewing the
Ripon Falls, the beginning of the Nile,
was—“ How easy it would be to harness
the whole river, and let the Nile begin
its long and beneficent journey by leap-
ing through a turbine ! ” This tremend-
ous power is still in the hands of the
State, and all the conditions in Uganda
make it, in his opinion, admirably suited
for a practical experiment in State
Socialism.
The rest of the journey down to the
Albert Nyanza, past the Murchison
Falls—where the gigantic Nile is squirted
through a rocky channel not six yards
wide, and falls a sheer hundred and sixty
feet—then by boat to Khartoum, shoot-
ing crocodiles, hippopotami, etc., on the
way, was tame after the splendor of
Uganda.
William Morris
IT would seem as if Mr. Alfred Noyes
had written his monograph on
William Morris (English Men of
Letters) principally to prove that the
author of “ The Earthly Paradise ” was
not so great a poet as the author of “ The
Idyls of the King.’' The comparison
with Tennyson is too long drawn out for
a small book, and is not much more valu-
able than would be a similar comparison
with Lewis Morris. Noyes begins on a
bad note by carping at “ the authorised
biography.” Mackail’s Life is not with-
out faults, especially in its treatment of
Rossetti, but Noyes’s own performance is
certainly written on “a lower scale of
values to use a phrase he has almost
worn out. His criticism includes a repe-
tition of the introductory remarks to
Morris’s Early Romances in Everyman’s
Library, and is not illuminating; he
fails to appreciate the real value of News
from Nowhere and Morris’s writings on
Socialism ; and he does not even mention
a number of volumes of importance. To
anyone unacquainted with Morris, Noyes
offers a very poor introduction, and those
who do know and care a little about “ the
happiest of the poets,” as Yeats calls him,
will find this book, in such a fine series,
disappointing and inadequate.
Morris was a vigorous, full-blooded
man, large-hearted, and simple-natured,
who began with a comfortable income,
increased to riches, was fortunate in his
friendships, and successful in most of his
enterprises. Early in life he caught the
Gothic fever from Ruskin, and that
affected all his subsequent work. Ob-
stinate, vehement, and liable to fits of
ungovernable rage, his poetry is remark-
ably smooth and placid. The fountain
head is in Chaucer (though in style it
bears a closer resemblance to Spenser),
Malory, Froissart, and The Romance of
the Rose. In his first book, The Defence
of Guenivere, it runs through mediaeval
regions into a realm of fantasy, the coun-
try of his early prose romances. There
is a simple directness, a stark reality
about some of these poems which make
more noticeable the air of fantasy about
others like “ Golden Wings ” and “ Two
Red Roses across the Moon.” In The
Life and Death of .Jason and through The
Earthly Paradise , the stream rippled
along sweetly, translucently, never deep,
never boiling, but every now and again
throwing up a little rainbow-hued spray.
It is very pleasant to float with the
current pjrst a beautiful panorama in an
atmosphere of dreamy languor; but one
would like the excitement of a cataract
occasionally. There is more “ surge
and thunder ” in Sigurd the Volsung, but
it is too long to read for pleasure*
Agreeing with Noyes, that The Earthly
Paradise is the most representative
achievement of Morris, one recognises as
part of its merit that it is a collection of
separate and independent poems, and not
a unity, as he contends. Jason was
intended for the collection, but grew un-
wieldy and was launched by himself.
Morris’s narrative verse is too unrelieved
to carry the weight of an epic like Sigurd ,
and, as somebody said before, he told the
story better in prose.
The whole of Morris’s work in prose is
delightful—as soon as you accept his con-
ventions and understand the terminology
he revived—and Noyes disappoints by
the scant attention he has given to it.
From “The Hollow Land” to “The
Sundering Flood” you are in the company
of simple, natural men and women, the
elemental passions are at work, beauty
and romance are abroad, and Nature,
bravely dressed, has a part in the play.
The era is indefinite—anywhere about
the thirteenth century will do. Morris
so hated the sordid age in which he lived,
the commercial vampires, the narrow-
minded middle class, the squalor and
ugliness of the poor, that he naturally
harked back to an age of chivalry, when
folk were wholesomer and life more
beautiful. But he did not take refuge in
the past—rather he sought to re-create it
for the benefit of his own time, so that
every worker might again be an artist,
rejoicing in the deeds of his hand, and
England once more be happy and free.
His work as a poet, artist and socialist
was all of a piece, and he did it nobly.
Locke on the Wisdom of the
Foolish
Septimus, by W. J. Locke, does not come
up to expectations based on The Morals of
Marcus Ordeyne, or The Beloved Vagabond.
In many respects it resembles Marcus. There
a bedraggled but beautiful girl throws her-
self upon the protection of a man absorbed
in the history of the morals of the Middle
Ages, and occupies a position in his house
which excites the indignation of his highly
respectable aunt. Here an impossibly
childish man, absorbed in inventions, "hands,
himself over, body and soul, to a magnificent
young Amazonian Avidow, who hates Men,
and regards him Avith tender amusement, as
she would a bob-tailed sheep dog. Septi-
mus Dix, the cheerful idiot with the Struwel-
peter hair, is supported by a massive patent
medicine man, Clem Sypher, who exudes
energy at every pore, and has “bounder”
writ large all over him. Clem also suc-
cumbs to the widow, who, however, goes far
afield looking for adventure and the meaning
of life. Just as Marcus Ordeyne, is brought
to the homely earth from the bad air of the
Middle Ages by the pervasive femininity of
Carlotta, so the imperious Zora in this story
drops from her selfish altitude Avhen hit by
the masculinity of Clem. In each of the stories
there is an unauthorised baby, but the part
of Pasquale is here taken by a more shadowy
character. The simplicity of the charm-
ingly irrelevant Dix, who, loving Zora,
marries her sister to save her from trouble,
and brings the Amazon back to London for
the benefit of Clem, forms the leading
motif in the story. In London Zora finds
that the meaning of life, for a woman, is to
look after and be looked" after by a Man.
Wisdom coming from the mouths of the
seemingly foolish, and nobility shown by the
simple-minded in doing the duty which lies
nearest to hand, are old in story. Locke,how-
ever, leads up to his moral in an entertaining
fashion. But neither Septimus nor Sypher
has the breath of life in him as has the
belov&d Paragot.
Australian
Another batch of cheap Australian books
from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. are evidence
of the increasing demand in Australia for
home-grown light reading matter. First
there are our familiar friends, the Rudds—
Back at Our Selection (second edition) and
From Selection to City. One might have
thought that Steele would be hard pressed
to find new adventures and mishaps for that
tempestuous and plucky family of his; but
there is no sign of weakening invention. Of
course you know what to expect of Bad;
though now getting old, he potters about in
his usual style ; and the young Rudds are as
frisky as ever. All who saw the beginning
of the famous selection are bound to read
the further adventures of the Rudds.
The Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by A If.
Brasch, will not be new to Bulletin readers,
but many will be glad to have them collected
in a handy volume. They are rather broad
farce at times, but Mr. Barnes tells his
stories well, and his metaphors are pic-
turesque and original. His affair with
the confidence men and his experiences as a
millionaire (for one night only) are funny
enough to tickle the not-too-superior reader.
Like old Omar, Mr. Bames has puzzled over
a great problem—“ Now wat I want to
know is—wat can the cove ’oo sells the beer
buy that is ’arf so precious as beer ”
Opening John X. Cameron’s The Spell of
the Bush by chance at chapter" 9, one comes
across an old friend in the heading—“ The
Attack on the Mail.” How many 6f these
“attacks” has Australian fiction had?
However, beginning at the proper place, it
appears that an Irish gentleman named
O’Carroll came out to this country—called on
one page “ Ulimaroa ” and on another “Aus-
tralia ” —straightway enters the police as a
special officer, and journeys into the bush to
act against a dreaded bushranger, Black
Moran. On the way he meets the heroine,
who tells him she is a foster sister of
Moran’s, and “ a line of Gordon’s came to
him ” :
They say that poison-scented flowers
Are sweeter in perfume,
from “A Fragment,” which happens not to
be Gordon’s, but Aytoun’s, though it is in-
cluded in Gordon’s collected poems, where,
we may assume, O’Carroll read it on the
voyage out. There are a few good touches
in the book, but the title is a misnomer ;
“the bush ” in it does not “ spell ” worth a
cent, and the author has much to learn in
the art of story-telling.
The third 'edition of Arthur W. Jose’s
History of Australasia (Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd.) gives, in compact form, a clear
and accurate account of these States and the
neighboring Dominion from the earliest
times up to the day before yesterday. It is
thepnost complete handbook on the subject
available ; the tone is judicial and the work-
manship thorough, The story of the ex-
plorers is well told ; but in the relation of
some of the Stormy scenes of our history the
studious avoidance of partisanship makes
the treatment seem unsympathetic—the
story of the Eureka Stockade, for instance,
is cold and official. The new chapter on
Australian Literature is the best view of that
strange plant yet presented ; and the book is
very weil printed and bound.
Will Lawson
Stokin’ and Other Verses (Gordon and
Crotch, Ltd.) is a selection from two previous
volumes now out of print, with some new
verses, and in variety of subject matter and
metre it shows Will Lawson’s talent to good
advantage. The influence of Kipling is
obvious. It appears in :
When the years that mattered have gone before
And there’s naught in the years to be
Save thrashing a tramp '
Like the ‘‘Binnacle Lamp,”
Through God’s implacable sea.
—and in other places. There are hints of
Brady, who also derives from Kipling, and
“Ladies in the Engine Room ” was probably
suggested by Henry Lawson’s “ When the
Ladies Come to the Shearing Shed.” It is
interesting to compare “Stokin’” with
Roderic Quinn’s “The Furnace Room”—
the one written from the inside, the other
from the outside point of view, and on a
higher poetic level. Nevertheless, Will
Lawson has plenty of individual merit—
human sympathy, knowledge of his subjects,
and vigorous handling of running measures.
The lines race along in “ The Hunters,”
“ The Mails,” and a number of others where
rapid movement is to be suggested. His
imagery is usually vivid and actual, but in
“ The Forty-Fours ” he says :
Nobody saw her fly
Like a stag from the din of wars.
Has anybody lately seen a stag flying from
the din of wars ? There is a jolting line in
“ Hearts Astern ” :
But it came to be “ last down car ” —poor girl.
And in the second stanza of “The White
Patrol,” “makes” should be “make.”
These are slight blemishes in a book full of
rattling verses about the sea and sailor men,
with some terse dramatic lyrics, such as
“ The Shunter,” and “ A Woman’s Song.”


JL
Gent.’s Fitted Suit Cases, No. 354,
1265., 1475., 1685., 210 s.
This shape is much favored, being easy to pack
and carry, and providing quick access to any
article required. These cases v<ary in length and
depth, and in the number and method of arranging
the fittings.
■
m
i
■I
1
mm
mm.
m
The Britannia Casa, No. 356, fitted for Ladies,
with Curling Tongs and Spirit Lamp, etc., 40s.
A host of other designs can be had at 155., 215.,
255., 305., 40s. to 105 s.
Roan Writing' Case, fitted with gussetted stationery pockets
and blotter, 31s. A similar line in Morocco, calf lined, 425.
■
m
rpp
The Clarendon Gentlemen’s Dressing Case, No. 357,
superior fittings and finish, 505., 555.
Numerous other designs, containing all the necessary toilet
requisites, 225. 6d., 275. 6d., 335., 405., 455., 50s. to 105 s.
Travellers’ Requisites
... AT ...
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Ladies’ Dressing Cases, No. 358, 215., 255., 30s.
The illustration shows a Folding Dressing Case. It takes but little
room in a box or bag, and is therefore inpch used in travelling. We
have a large assortment in this class of Case, the prices varying in
accordance with the size and quality of Case, and the number of
fittings therein, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d., 21s. and up to 50s.
The Austral Brush Case,
No. 351, containing two Gen-
tlemen’s Hair Brushes, Comb
and Mirror, made in attrac-
tive Grained Leather, 10s. 6d.,
12s. 6d., 155., 17s. Gd.
The Grosvenor Brush Case,
No. 351 x, containing one each
Hair, Cloth and Hat Brush,
also Comb and Mirror, in
Leather Cases, 16s. 6d., 225. 6d.
The designs in Dressing Cases are not only so numerous,
but are subject to such frequent change in regard to shape
and arrangement of fittings as to render anything like
complete illustration or description impossible. Our customers
may rest assured that their wishes in matters of shape
of case, quantity and quality of contents, shall always
receive our best attention.
The Cambridge Gentlemen’s Dressing Case,
No. 355 x, only one of many styles, admirably adapted
for presentation, 335. Similar contents placed in other
shaped cases, 215., 255., 305., 375. 6d., 425. to 635.
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Fur-
nishers, Manufacturing Jewellers, and
Universal Providers.
Write for our Departmental Price Lists,
posted free on request.
The Victoria Pitted Bag 1 for Ladies, No. 348.
In ordering Fitted Bags it is well to leave a little
margin as to shape and price.
635., 755., 845., 1055., 1155., 1265.
The Belgravia v ase, No. 355, fitted for Ladies.
In assorted leathers, 18s. 6d., 255., 30s.
In different designs, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 155., 225. 6d. to 84s.
Writing 1 Case, in Pigskin, upright, with large
writing pad and ample stationery pockets, and
double locks, 555.
Smaller size in Morocco, with one lock, 40s.
Gent.’s Fitted Bags, No. 350, 845., 905., 955., 1055., 120 s.
The 350 design represents a very useful make of bag, con-
taining the necessary toilet requisites for Gentlemen’s use.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S


AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen ,
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Tjtti.
STDNE 'ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL-SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special/attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Jtxceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free'storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Ag-ents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DHOPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
UREAT
BOOK OF MATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE ~ms
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, See 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote's Plain Homk Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
4OO colored plates
and enftravinsrs, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner's Original Book
ok Nature, tile only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Rkcitur, 1/-. Beadv-niade
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride ok the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. ' How to
Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, 1/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
W>9/VD ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
L>
Marvellously Simple I
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,.
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest'
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing- some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,;
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-’
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2'G. ’
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
**!
Sfci
m
4< New Kival” Black Powder
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
THE RED BRAND
TRADE MARK REG. IN U. 6. PAT. OFP.
Shoot Strong and Evenly— Are Sasr© Fire— Well Stand Reloading
THEY ALWAYS GET THE GAftJSE. FOR SALE EVERYWHERE*
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverag'es,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin and Kidne-os
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it hag been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, m innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
GACTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT'
otherwise, you have the sincerest form, of flattery-IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS London
S.E., Eng., by <J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £,900,000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO> COMPETITION.
WIIfES
MANUI
ILent
The Best Brands Only of
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, <fec.
SPIRITS.
DIALS, &o.
SYDNEY.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
4
\
<2*
\
? V*
r /
i
'•lor '.MIAMI
CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
C.B. Tailor Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Mdlion Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant '
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE
>• „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
% Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
-
MAGNESIA
iarjdH*iH
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full PrU ticulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
Debility, indigestion
and Palpitation.
A COMPLETE CURE.
By perusing the following story, the reader will
be made acquainted with circumstances that pos-
sibly bear a personal resemblance, in which event
gratefulness would be felt towards Mrs. Josephine
Mack, of No. 21 Parsons Street, Balmain, for
placing on record her remarkable experience.
Answering the reporter’s first question Mrs.
Mack said :
“ As a sufferer from debility and indigestion, I
ought to be able to speak with authority on the
subject of what is the most effective remedy for
such afflictions, and the knowledge I gained in this
respect came through following the example of a
relative, who had been suffering like myself, and
who was quite restored to health by Clements
Tonic.”
“Had you been ailing long, Mrs. Mack?”
“Yes, too long for my liking, and a weary time
it was, too. I had tried many alleged remedies,
and only wasted my money in doing so. Need-
less to say how despondent I was as a result. I
had no strength to get about, and the easiest work
in the house was often too much for me. Yes,
anybody around here can tell you what I was like
then, for I have been in this house for the past
eleven years and am pretty well known. Ah !
little did I think of the misery that was in store
for me when I was a healthy, young woman,
teaching at a school in Tipperary. But we never
know what is before us. Why, my life became a
positive burden to me. I was subject to reeling
sensations. I would feel myself swaying to and
fro, and it required a big effort to save myself from
falling: to the floor. The severest form of head-
aches attacked me, and I was terribly nervous,
too, and when nervousness hinges on to a woman
her unhappiness is complete. The terrifying
thoughts that come to the brain, such as strange
sounds being present, making the belief that
somebody is stealthily moving about the room, or
a window being raised in the dead of night, are
enough to distract a person entirely. And in the
fretful state of mind then ruling every little
trouble was magnified into an impassable mountain
of adversity. Very often I would go and lie down,
quite unable to keep up any longer, and I don’t
know what would have happened only for the
Clements Tonic that I fortunately started taking
in time.”
“ Did your illness entail any difference in your
weight? ”
“My word, it did; but it was astonishing how
soon it came back once I had got properly going
with Clements Tonic, which seemed to make the re-
moval of my afflictions quite easy. Before this, I
hadn’t any prospect of getting my strength back,
for I could not eat, and a person cannot do much
good without an appetite. But the trouble was
that when I did force myself to eat, I suffered
fearfully from indigestion—heavy sensations in
the chest, such as made the very act of breathing
a difficulty, and pains under my shoulders, across
my back, and aches in my limbs that were most
wearisome. My heart palpitated dreadfully, and
there were pains in the region of that organ, too.
So you see, I was altogether in a bad way. But,
thank God, there is a very marked difference in
my physical condition between now and then, and
I have to give all the credit to the remedy I’ve
already mentioned. The derangements of my
nervous system, that had obstinately remained in
existence until Clements Tonic was brought into
requisition, do not trouble me now, neither cloany
the disorders that had proved so wearisome.
By judiciously keeping to my newly-won friend,
Clements Tonic, I succeeded in regaining the
priceless gift of good, robust health, and it is only
fair that I should give to that remedy all the
credit that is due to it. As a nerve tonic, to
brace a woman up, and make her feel invulner-
able against the hardest work and the severest
trials that happen during one’s course through
life, I recommend Clements Tonic. It not only
cured my indigestion, but also supplied in unstint-
ed measure nerve force and strength, which gives
a woman confidence in herself, and to the weak
and sickly I shall always advise the use of that
grand preparation.”
“ Your views will be duly chronicled.”
“Very well, you are at liberty to publish them
where and how you think best for the benefit of the
whole community.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JOSEPHINE MACK, of 21 Parsons Street, Balmain,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain, this twenty-fourth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
8] SYD. J. LAW, J.P.


M
w
*£■l%
///////;
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
ytair Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Precared b-' Dr. J. C. Aver & Co., LoweH, Mass., U.S.A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle bought o£ us. Your
money in lull refunded with ut qui atlon
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycle®,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyonecw approval
at less than lowest manufactures' pricfa.
LATEST
MODELS
&3 alO to Js3
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Elm Frskeß, variable gears
andalllates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
wanted in each district.
Large profltß easily made.
ACTIVE AGENTS f t w
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our * >ec>al offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool-
ORLICK’S
, HALTED MILK
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
.CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick's Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
ness.
fast
time or
supper time
Horlick's
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples : 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd., Slough, Bucks., Eng.
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE
“ FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Casti.hrf.aqii St.,
SYDNEY
IF you don’t, read TtlE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
itories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
\l2s.) to the office. 214 George Street Sydney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
MOM
LRjSUtJIQSS
of “ Bonniiigton’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, GOLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
£3
£
©
*3
x.
3
/
3
/
For over Fifty years the
name 11 ALCCCK iJ has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the Kew
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day -for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
FIELD-GLASSES
WITH
ENHANCES
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
Distance between
Oculars.
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
Features
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field
Great Liijht
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
j Stability,
[ Tropic Proof.
Obtainable
from all
Opticians.
Increased
distance between Objectives.
MEW MODELS,
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH—29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Ca*alo£ue
T 78
Post Free.
ALWAYS HAVE
BOVRIL
By Royai Warrant
<fe W,
to H. M. the i::nr
handy in the kitchen for Soups, Gravies, etc.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
If the Gift of Song Were Mine.
If only the gift of song were mine—
Ah ! splendid things would I give you then !
How your pulse would throb at each ringing line ;
For I would write to the hearts of men.
I have lived and learnt through the drifting years,
And have studied man in his changing moods ;
I have taken my share of life’s hopes and fears,
And have wisdom gained in the solitudes.
Each song of mine would be straight and true,
And around your heart would my verses ’twine.
Ah ! manly songs would I sing to you—
If only the gift of song were mine.
I have feasted when Fortune smiled on me,
And I have fasted beneath her frown ;
I have toiled when the drought raged direfully,
And the land was waterless, bare and brown.
I have ridden over the country wide
When the tall grass tossed like an angry sqa,
When the bones were hidden on every side—
The bones from the droughts that used to bo.
I have known a friend whom I thought untrue,
And a foe who came in a guise benign ;
And of all these things I would sing to you—
If only the gift of song were mine.
Oft have I listened with ecstasy
To the bush-birds’ notes in the eventide,
And ever and ever the melody
Floating around me seems to bide.
And the tender blooms which in sunshine throng
Delight me too, but, by some mischance,
The Being Who fashioned my heart for song
Has left me lacking the utterance.
So I must wander in silence through
The scenes that I love in shade or shine ;
But splendid songs I would sing to you—
If only the gift of song were mine.
N.S.W.
RIVEKINA.
Better Days.
n.s.w.
Our fancy into past times strays,
And we are sure
That most of us knew better days
That are no more.
I know that is the way w.th me—
And with my clothes ;
And lots of folk who gloomily
Tell me their woes.
As on the stage where mem’ry plays
Our days rehearse.
We in the light of better days
Forget the worse.
And there need we should weep ;
We’ll think it bliss
When in worse times to come we peep
Backward to this.
It is a poor thing to complain
Of what we’ve seen :
Our better days may come again—
If they have been.
If they were real, ours is no lot
To grumble at;
There’s quite a number who have not
Seen even that.
HAMER.
The Difference in Magill.
Magill lives on the other side,
I see him passing to his wor k.
No sinful trace have I descried
Of haughtiness or mortal pride
In James Magill, the city clerk.
He dons a modest suit of tweed,
He bears himself with meekness when
He walks (a trifle gander-kneed)
As James, the simple citizen.
But see Magill in martial garb, with sabretasche
and cap,
His brow is bold and brazen now, his manner full
of snap.
There’s gold upon his shoulders, he is prmked
and curled to kill.
Most marvellous the diff’rence in Lieutenant
Janies Magill!
He comes to lunch at one, and wears
A faded air before his frau.
The stress of business hardly bears
On James Magill. Domestic cares
Have left their impress on his brow.
Bent is the back and limp the locks
Of this the most demure of men,
And five foot five in boots and socks
Is James the modest citizen.
But when his uniform he wears he’s straight and
proud and tall,
He eyes the ladies boldly with a twinkle for them
all,
His speech is sharp, his style abrupt. A man of
granite will
Is that celebrated warrior, Lieutenant James
Magill.
At business in the warehouse he
Has never yet been known to err,
And for his suave subserviency
He’s much appreciated. We
Have heard him call the dustman “sir.”
For pennyworths of milk he’ll go,
He’ll wash the bricks down—after dark—
And, if the missus wills it so,
He’ll wheel the baby in the park.
Yet terrible and stern is James when drilling
simple men ;
His mo. is like two bayonets, lie’s clothed in
thunder then.
If true the tailor makes the man, how marvellous
the skill
Of him who often makes a man of little James
Magill!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


pHPlß|.ick
LIMITER
/
fy
o
£
■5-
i
\
D'W
k
c
&L V&
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of working out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crack
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms;
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474, G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms!
243 COLLINS ST.
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using;
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Bladesfin.,fin.,orsin.deep. Round, Square or Irish Point.
Sold under absolute guarantee at t* It J Torrey’s Swing- Strop, 2/6.
Post Free to any part of Australia. "/ O. Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d.
SOLI! AGENTS FOB MAXIM RAZOR
p TY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Luxton & Sons),
Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods.
1
Ride only
BROOKS
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham/
England.
M.Siii
Fig. 887
Goulds Deep Well Force Pump
Standards and Pump Cylinders
This strong deep well standard is
well adapted for wells 75 to 150 feet
deep —it has a long balance lever
making pumping comparatively easy.
The stock is made in two pieces with
intermediate flange bolted between
them. We manufacture a complete
line of pump standards and cylinders
and solicit correspondence with those
interested. Let us send you our catalogue.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
SB
Fig. 1235
Fig. 1230
EVERY PIPEFUL A PLEASURE
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plug's, or Cut XJp in Xins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
OKI I a OOH
;
Hi Q
“ To have your
Roof last —
Use RUBEROID
ROOFING first.”
RUBEROID
can be
depended
upon at all
times and
under all
conditions.
E. Rich 8 Co. Ltd
Sydney 8 Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1519.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1909.
Phiou 6d
WHEN THE JAPS ARRIVE.
The British navy is defending Australia, and defending it more effectively the further it is away .—Tory Sentiment.
FAT MAN (up a tree): “HUSH! LISTEN! IT AIN’T ALL OVER YET. WAIT TILL THE BRITISH START FIRING IN THE BALTIC! ”


NOTICE TO AGENTS.
Agents are notified that, on
account of the Easter Holidays,
THE BULLETIN dated April 8
will be published on Wednesday,
April 7.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maolicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Ton Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maolicod, Managing Director.
lloir to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
'l'he Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with .1 ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not, acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tub Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Anmfr.iirs in. Hi tide- ft ml White,,
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tun Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 liigh Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. — The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouvkr. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Eoyrr. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Ilong Kong.
Shanghai. — Breiver and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1909.
HOW TO PAY ALL OUR DEBTS OUT OF
NOTHING.
There are quite a number of reasons why Aus-
tralia should desire to pay off its debts. One is
that it is a good thing, in a general and religious
way, to be out of debt—the Scripture says, “ Owe
no man anything,” and the Scripture has bright
ideas at times. Another is that we may have to
borrow again ; when war comes—war, with its
sudden and imperative demand for plain, hard,
visible cash—even the best of C.O.D. principles
must go to the wall; but no country can hope to
borrow largely and freely in war time if it has
recklessly used up the last vestige of its credit in
time of peace. A third reason why Australia
should want to pay off its debts is that they stand
greatly in the way of a settlement of the financial
problem as between the States and the Common-
wealth. And there are other reasons—quite a heap
of other reasons. Therefore The Bulletin again
draws attention to a simple method whereby the
burdensome public liability of Australia might be
paid off out of nothing. It doesn’t claim that
this is a work which could be done in a year, or
even in a generation—the thing that is done out
of nothing is apt to take a long time doing. But
by the slow accumulation of compound interest
the liquidation of our debts would be going on all
the time. It would not interrupt the country’s
sleep, or its football, or its interest in any question
about the respective merits of Johnson and
Jeffries. It would be like the growing of the
oak-tree ; the acorn costs nothing, and the work of
planting the acorn costs nothing, and the bit of
uninhabited wilderness in which it is planted
costs nothing—yet out of all these things that
cost nothing there comes, in a century or so, a
valuable tree, and the process of waiting for the tree
to grow costs nothing either, for the same amount
of time would be spent in any case. Australia is
waiting now for trees to grow. In any number
of places there is a twig just showing above the
ground, which twig will be a forest giant in the year
2000 or thereabouts. The fact that the giant will
be a long time growing is no reason why the twig
should be pulled up; and as the growing of the
tree doesn’t interfere with anybody’s work or
pleasure or profit, even the fact that the ultimate
dividend is a century ahead gives no one any fair
ground of complaint. And it is the same—exactly
the same—with the scheme for paying off all our
debts out of nothing.
* * * *
Many years ago Canada passed a law, which is
still in force and working well, whereby every
bank has to hold 40 per cent, of its cash reserves
in Government paper money. The cash reserves
are simply the money which the bank isn’t using,
the money which isn’t invested, and which, for
the time being, returns no interest; and Canada
discovered that £4O in notes and £6O in coin
can lie quiet in a bank’s cellar just as well as £lOO
in coin. There is nothing in the device about a
forced paper currency or anything of that sort, for
the Dominion Government’s notes are not sup-
posed to circulate (though, as a matter of fact,
they do); they are supposed to be part of the un-
used currency in the banks’ strong rooms. The
law doesn’t prevent the banks having a note issue
of their own. And though the Canadian system
has led the people, as a mere matter of habit, to use
notes more extensively, and to avoid the fearful
waste attached to the circulation and perpetual
wearing away of gold coinage, it doesn’t really
diminish the amount of gold available to meet
public demands. The Government keeps a suf-
ficient gold reserve against its notes, and any bank
which finds its own gold reserves diminishing, and
its paper reserve consequently swelling up to 45
or 50 or 60 or 80 per cent, of the total, can always,
if it feels that way, cash sufficient notes at the
Treasury to bring down its holding of paper to
the legal 40 per cent. As a matter of fact, the
banks don’t do this, but the power is there if they
care to use it. The system has been at work for
many years, and nothing has gone wrong with it;
in fact, it and the Protectionist tariff seem to be
the two most stable things in the Canuck land.
* * * *
If this system were applied in Australia, the
Federal Government could get immediate control
of about £10,000,000 in cash, with no interest to
pay upon it. Out of this it would probably be
prudent to retain £2,000,000 in gold as a reserve
against the Federal note issue. The other
£8,000,000 could be applied to the purchase of
State securities in the British market at the
lowest possible price. Probably £8,000,000 in
cash would purchase more than £9,000,000 (face
value) of State securities, but if it be assumed
that the Federal Sinking Fund Department never
made any better bargain than the purchase of 3£
per cent. State securities at par, this would be the
result of the first ten years’ operations :
Cash and
Annual Securities
Income held against
Amount at Available for £10,000,000 of
Credit of Repurchase of Federal Paper
Year. Sinking Fund. State Securities. Money.
1910 .. £8,000,000 £280,000 £10,000,000
1920 .. 11,284,800 394,968 13,284,300
1930 .. 15,918,400 557,144 17,918,400
So by the year 1930 it would have to be
admitted that the progress made in the abo-
lition of some £245,000,000 of public debt
hadn’t been very rapid. Yet it is diffi-
cult to see that any one could complain of
that. Supposing the sinking fund began in 1910,
by the year 1930 the amount accumulated would
be £15,918,400. (Probably, through the repur-
chase of securities at a discount, it would really
be more than that.) All thi5£15,918,400 wouldn’t
have cost Australia one penny, and the country
which gets nearly 16 million pounds for nothing
in 20 years has no right to complain. There
would be still the £10,000,000 of Federal paper
money in existence, but when £10,000,000 of
paper money is backed by nearly £18,000,000 of
gold and State securities, there isn’t much to
grumble about; 365. in the £ is a fairly good
guarantee.
• * * •
The process of converting the privately-owned
(and mostly foreign-owned) State debt into a
Federal debt which had been bought up by the
people of Australia would still continue. These
would be the results in a further 30 years:—
Cash and
Annual Securities
Income held against
Amount at Available for £10,000,000 of
Credit of Repurchase of Federal Paper
Year. Sinking Fund. State Securities. Mon y.
1940 .. £22,454,400 £785,904 £24,454,400
1950 .. 31,674,400 1,108,604 33,674,400
1960 .. 44,679,200 1,563,772 46,679,200
The process may seem fairly slow, but it must be
remembered that Australia all this time wouldn’t
have paid one penny more than it would have
paid if it had never started the sinking fund on
the lines proposed. It would be £44,679,200 to
the good without the outlay of a single extra
copper. The fact that the sinking fund was
growing all the time would involve no more expense
and worry than the fact that a big tree was growing
all the time in the Northern Territory. The
community would have suffered no interference
with its cricket, its football, its boxing match, its
picnic down the harbor, its pursuit of its best girl,
or anything else. It could still argue about the
respective merits of Johnson and Jeffries,
supposing these two men were alive in
1960. Ancl it would, in 50 years, have got
£44,679,200 out of nothing, and it would have got
an annual income of £1,563,772 out of nothing,
and every year that income would be increasing
out of nothing. And a country which has got all
this out of nothing can’t complain merely because
it doesn’t get still more out of nothing.
* * ■* *
And while Australia slept or followed its usual
avocations, the process of repaying the public debt
out of nothing would still go on. Here are some
more results :
Cash and
Annual Securities
Income held against
Amount at Available for £10,000,000 of
Credit of Repurchase of Federal Paper
Year. Sinking Fund. State Securities. Money.
1980 .. £88,902,672 £3,111,594 £90,902,672
2000 .. 176,898,356 6,191,442 178,898,356
2010 .. 249,528,804 8,733,510 251,528,864
That shows the final result so far as the existing
debt is concerned. It shows how, by a device
which cost nothing, Australia could pay off, in a
century, every penny of its present liabilities.
A century maj' be a long time to wait for
£249,528,864, but it is better to wait 100 years for
£249,528,864 than, as Australia is doing at present,
to wait 100 years for nothing at all. At the end
of 100 years, by this method, Australia would be
in a position to put all to-day’s liabilities in the
fire, to stop paying about £8,700,000 a year of in-
terest, to write off as fully liquidated the nearly
£250,000,000 of debt which it owes in this year of
disgrace, 1909—and all this would have been done
without a penny of extra expenditure. But if, in
the century between 1909 and 2010, Australia
foolishly piled up a heap of new debts, then
the best thing it could do in 2010 would be to
keep on paying the interest and piling up the
Sinking Fund till the Fund had overtaken these
new debts also. By the year 2010 the Sinking
Fund Commissioners would have bought up
£249,528,864 of this country’s debts without
charging the community anything at all for the
work. The people would simply pay the interest
on their debts to their own Sinking Fund Com-
missioners instead of to Cohen in England. By
the year 2010 the Sinking Fund Commissioners
would have an annual income of £8,733,510 in the
way of interest, and they wouldn’t have charged
the Australian taxpayer one extra shilling to pro-
duce all that money; the people would merely
pay to their own Sinking Fund Commis-
sioners £8,733,510 which they would otherwise
pay to Cohen in England. So if Australia
had, by the year 2010, piled up another
£250,000,000 of debt, the obvious remedy would
be to let the sinking fund keep on accumula-
ting till it had overtaken that debt and any
further debt —till it had, without costing Aus-
tralia a single extra copper, wiped out all the
country’s liabilities. This would, of course, be a
long stern chase, but when the chase involves no
expense at all it might as well be undertaken. It
would be a better sporting event than the chase
of a football, or a polo ball, or a fox, or a hare, or
a red herring, or any one of a dozen other things,
down to cats, that this country chases with
avidity.
* * * «
Of course, there is no special reason why it
should take the Sinking Fund (which would cost
Australia nothing) so long as 100 years to overtake
and wipe out the debt which exists to-day. By
the purchase of Australian securities at a low
price in times of depression the Fund might make
a lot of money which hasn’t been included in the
above calculation. With the expansion of banking
business the £10,000,000 of Federal paper money
might expand to £15,000,000 or more, and then
the redemption of the public debt would be im-
mensely accelerated. Also Australia might have
an occasional spasm of virtue, and help the Sinking
Fund with a vote out of revenue. On the other
hand, the Fund might not achieve its purpose in
100 years. If it happened that, say in 1960,
Australia was fighting for its very existence, it
might be advisable for the Sinking Fund Com-
missioners to burn the £44,679,200 of State securi-
ties which they would then own, and let the
£1,563,772 per annum of interest attached to these
securities be devoted to defence purposes, instead
of paid in further reduction of the public debt.
It would be a lamentable thing if it was found
necessary to suspend the repayment of the public
debt in any such fashion, but if the necessity
arose, it would be a great and blessed circumstance
that Australia should have £44,679,200 (all made
out of nothing) available for an emergency. There
isn’t any direct connection between this scheme
for the repayment of the Australian public debt
out of nothing and the question of the transfer
of the State debts to the Commonwealth ;
still the two are. indirectly related. The
difficulty about the transfer lies in the pro-
blem of devising some method whereby the
State debt that represents £7B per inhabitant
and the one which only stands for £45 per in-
habitant can be lumped together without the
more solvent State having to carry the burden of
the less solvent one ; and if the Commonwealth
had a Sinking Fund of its own, which hadn’t cost
any State a single copper, it would be in a better
position to make terms. And there is no direct
relationship between this scheme and the row
about the division of the tariff revenue between
the Commonwealth and the States, yet these
matters are also indirectly related. The reason
why the States clamor for a large share of- the
tariff revenue is that they require money to meet
the interest on their existing debts, and if the
Commonwealth had a Sinking Fund of its own,
which hadn’t cost any State so much as a half-
penny, with which to extinguish these State
debts, it would again be in a better position to
make terms. But, quite apart from the squabbles
of the Commonwealth and the State Governments,
the facts remain that Australia owes a terrible
amount of money ; that whether the money is
owed in a State capacity or a Federal capacity, it
is the Australian people who owe it; and that
any device —Federal or State—which will ex-
tinguish that awful load of debt without costing
the country anything is worth a heap of considera-
tion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Yassberra, the Cotter Trickle, and the Need
for Water Trains.
The Wade Government and the party that wants
the Commonwealth capital built against the back
door of Sydney were cheered up the other day by
a report from E. M. De Burgh, the engineer
whom the Wade Government turned on to the
job of proving that the Cotter trickle afforded a
magnificent water supply. De Burgh took
gaugings from February, 1908, to February, 1909,
and then joyfully reported to the effect that the
average discharge was 37,677,205 gallons a day;
while the consumption of Sydney is only
24,567,493 gallons a day, and of Melbourne
31,582,000 gallons. So De Burgh concluded :
It will be seen that the discharge of the Cotter River
during one of the worst years we have on record would
have sufficed for the support of either Melbourne or
Sydney and suburbs, and left a margin in reserve.
It is all very beautiful, only unfortunately Mr.
DE Burgh forgot one or two little things. In the
first place, he forgot evaporation ; and if he had
remembered everything else and forgotten that,
his report would have been worth just nothing at
all. In Sydney the average annual evaporation
is 37'40in. ; in Melbourne it is 38‘33in. But “in
the interior of N. S. Wales the annual evapora-
tion is as high as 84in.,” says the Official Year
Book of the Commonwealth. “At Coolgardie
(W.A.) it was 85in. in 1905, and at Laverton in
the same year it was 140'Sin., or nearly 12ft.”
Fortunately there are means of ascertain-
ing what the losses actually are on these
plains of the Australian inlands. Broken
Hill has just such another water supply as Yass-
berra would necessarily have—a dam, that is,
thrown across a creek, and fed by flood waters that
have swept over a rabbit-infested plain. On June
30,1905. the contents of the Broken Hill reservoir
were 3.847,669,000 gallons. The consumption in
the next half-year was 97,423,090 gallons; so,
assuming that not a drop of water was stored
meantime, there should have been 3,750,245.910
gallons left on December 31. As a matter of fact,
however, there were only 2,625,680,000 gallons.
Thus, while the consumption was 97,423,090 gal-
lons, the loss by evaporation was 1,124,565,910
gallons plus whatever was stored meantime. In
the following half-year, starting with 2,625,680.000
gallons, there was an intake of 893,960,000 gal-
lons ; total, 3,519,640,000 gallons. The consump-
tion was 163,810,280 gallons, so there should have
remained 3,355,829,720 gallons; but, as a
matter of fact, only 2,360,973,000 gallons re-
mained. Thus, while 163,810,280 gallons were
consumed, 994,856,720 gallons, or approxi-
mately six times as much, were lost by
evaporation. Similar figures can be got for every
year. These were not bad periods ; there have,
in fact, been half-years when the evaporation has
been nine times greater than the consumption.
And yet Wade’s engineer, De Burgh, though he
was dealing with an inland district of very similar
character, absolutely disregarded evaporation, al-
though it is obviously so tremendous that alleged
lakes like Lake George are, as a rule, sucked up
every year of their lives. On this ground alone
De Burgh’s report is worthless. But, to add to
the worthlessness of it, Wade’s engineer takes
what is alleged to be a year of very low rainfall,
when 28Jin. were recorded. (He actually pro-
fessed that 1908-1909, one of the best years, judged
by the agricultural returns, that N.S.W. has had,
was “ one of the worst years we have on record.”)
The Bulletin doesn’t know what the rainfall over
the alleged catchment is, simply because there
is no official record of it, wherefore most likely
nobody else knows for certain either. But the
official records do show what the rainfall of Yass
is, and the average is 25in. While, however, the
average is 25in., the fall, taken year by year, is as
jumpy as the rabbit which pollutes the watershed.
In 1901, 1902, and 1903 the annual average was
only 18in.—in 1902 it got down to 13in. So instead
of being “one of the worst years we have on
record ” it was more than twice as good as
the worst year on recent record. (In that
year of drought, 1902, the rainfall at Kiandra,
whence comes the supply of the never-failing
Snowy River that flows past Dalgety, was 47in.)
With a rainfall that runs down to 13in., and an
evaporation that runs up to 7ft., or pro-
bably more in a bad season, any Federal
capital that may be pitched in the Yass district
will be liable to get down to an allowance of a
pint and a half per head per day—a pint of water
and half-a-pint of extract of excessively dead
rabbit. Under the circumstances, and while
Wade’s engineer has his ready-reckoner in use,
it seems a fair and necessary thing to ask him for
a report on the probable cost of running water-
trains from Sydney’s Prospect reservoir up to
Yassberra, because, for almost a dead certainty,
if the Federal city is built there the time will
come when it will be necessary to run them.
+
About a Capital Site and Typhoid.
“The opponents of the Yass site,” said a Sydney
evening paper, sourly, last week, “ seem to con-
sider that all the coming Federal city needs is a
profuse water-supply.” It was meant to indicate
the unreasonableness of anti-Yassites, and yet it
expresses, albeit somewhat hyperbolically, just
what anti-Yassites do think and are not ashamed
to say. Any big city in any country needs, if
that city is to be habitable, a profuse natural
water supply. In inland Australia, with its
droughts and its of ten-dry water courses, the need
of a permanent flow that is independent of dry
seasons is so vital as to overshadow all other
questions. Last week the S. M. Herald turned
its attention to the usual old epidemic of typhoid
that is always surging up in the baclcblocks towns
of N.S.W. The paper said :
Outbreaks of typhoid continue to be reported from
country towns with a frequency which would be alarming
had we not grown used to it. This disease is the con-
tinually recurring scourge of country places. Towns
lack proper water supplies, and make no pretence at
drainage. A contaminated water supply is the most
effective cause of typhoid.
Havelock Ellis, in his “Nationalisation of
Health,” apologises, while discussing typhoid
(Chap. vii.), for stating this truism
One of the very first essentials for the healthy life of
any community is an abundant supply of pure water.
He points out that, wherever there is an inadequate
water supply, there, inevitably, is defective
drainage and, as a result, typhoid _ and allied
diseases. Over and over again he reiterates the
urgency, in the interests of the community’s
health, of much water —and he is writing, be it
remembered, not of Australia, but of England—
not of the country where rain is scarce, and where
the loss by evaporation is great, but of the country
where it is hardly ever dry, and where rivers run
“ bankers ” the year round. Yass-Canberra, like
most of the other indifferently watered districts
of N.S.W., has its big anuual tally of typhoid. It
is always likely to. The health officers are not to
blame. They do everything that is possible to le
done with the means at their disposal. The root
of the trouble lies outside their jurisdiction. This
extract from Sydney Evening News (12/l/’O9)
anent one of the Yassberra sites especially
favored by the Sydney press is illuminating
Matters concerning the man on the land in the Goul-
burn district do not look very promising at present. Re-
ports from various parts are of a gloomy nature, and
unless rain falls soon things will assume a gloomy aspect.
At Bungendore, everything has a parched appearance.
Between heat, dust, and smoke, with hot winds, herbage
did not stand much chance. The water supply has given
out in many places.
On Friday last the Sydney Telegraph published
the following about a member of the Government
which was responsible for the selection of the
Yassberra site :
Mr. James Hutchison, Hon. Minister in the Fisher
Cabinet, who has been on a visit to the camp in Yass-
Canberra, says he is not at all impressed with the possi-
bilities of the district from a water-supply standpoint.
Hutchison, M.P., said to the Telegraph
representative :
I am free to express my own opinion of the district
from a scenic point of view. The surroundings of the
Mugga Mugga site—the best I saw —are beautiful, but the
great consideration in selecting a site is an adequate
water supply for drinking and for power. This the dis-
trict does not possess. Experts say that Cotter Creek
could be made to provide only about 3000 h.p. for lighting
the new city by electricity, or the driving of machinery,
but without leaving any water for domestic purposes,
etc., etc.
These are no belated items. Dampness always is
“giving out ” in the Yassberra district; people
who visit it never are “impressed with it from a
water-supply standpoint” ; no one, outside De-
form newspaper offices and committee rooms and
the like, ever does suggest that it possesses enough
water to fulfil the drinking and power needs of a
city. In these parts the cycle of events is of a
depressing regularity. In the drought season the
water supply fails entireiy in some centres, and
becomes hideously attenuated in others. Cattle,
sheep, rabbits and the like struggle to where the
Cotter or the Murrumbidgee used to be, and
there die. Later, they rot; and they don’t
trouble to move away to do it, either. Then the
drought breaks, and the awakened rivers disperse
about the countryside (1) the myriads of clamor-
ously dead remains that have been reposing be-
tween their banks, and (2) the other unmention-
able things that the humans in the neighborhood
haven’t been able to drain away. Then disease


gets up and starts slaying. If in England, where
it rains three days in the week, the drainage ex-
perts, whose efforts alone can avert typhoid and
kindred diseases, are led to cry out for more and
yet more water for the big towns, it seems ob-
vious that Australia, where it rains about once in
three weeks, should be considerably more anxious
on the same score. There is only one district in
N.S.W. that contains a big stream which never
gives out, and is uncontaminated and uncontam-
inatable—and that is the Monaro tableland on
which Dalgety stands. It is the one inland dis-
trict in the State which is indisputably capable of
fulfilling modern civilised requirements for pre-
serving°the health of the big city, which the capi-
tal of Australia must one day be. That is the
chief reason why The Bulletin barracks for it.
If anyone knows of a better or more vital reason,
in the circumstances, this paper would like to hear
from him. Australia isn’t a desert, as some people
have alleged ; that is to say, there are few parts
of it where agricultural and pastoral pursuits
can’t be made to pay if the very best is made of
the water supply. But there are very few inland
places in Australia where there is sufficient clean
water, over and above the pastoral and agricul-
tural demand, to supply a big city, and Yassberra
is eertainlv not one of them.
+
The Calls on the Commonwealth.
The shortage of rifles and ranges is a menace to the
countrv. The country marksmen are the best raw
material in the world, yet, should an enemy attack us,
these men would be practically murdered through not
being properly equipped.— Dr. Florence, President
Jiiverina Rifle, Association (13/3/’O9).
I am sorry for the cadets ; I would like to send them
into camp at Easter ; but we have got no money.— Prime
Minister Fisher ( IS/S/’O'J ).
It is certainly unfortunate that these Geelong cadets
have no rifles—if we had all the money we should have
there would be rifles for all.— Defence Minister Pearce
{16131'09).
Before Prime Minister and Treasurer Fisher
makes his policy speech at Gympie he would do
well to ponder these statements at length ; and
when he and his Ministers decide how far they
propose to go towards meeting the demands of the
State Insects, or whether they think a half-brick
will be most suitable, they had better consider
them some more. “ If we had all the money we
should have ” —at that point it is desirable to pull
up and do some thinking. Two years hence the
Commonwealth Government will have possession
and the use of all the money it can collect in
Customs and Excise duties ; and, if that isn’t
enough for its business, it will be the Govern-
ment’s duty to raise more. For there is
one great business that must be done—
the country’s Defence must be prepared.
Defence here includes not only the build-
ing of a navy and the manufacture of rifles,
guns, and ammunition, but the construction of
two transcontinental lines, the settlement of the
Northern Territory, and the reduction of the
State debts. So long as these things remain un-
done, Australia’s national existence is in tremen-
dous danger. We have made a start with the
navy; but, as far as the land forces are con-
cerned, the position is almost humorous. There
are rifle clubs by the score and cadet corps all over
the Commonwealth ; but the Defence depart-
ment can only manage to lend them one rifle for
every 10 members. For the rest, the transcon-
tinental railways are still to be built; the Terri-
tory still lies unattached, open to any acquisitive
nation that chooses to call in and collar it; and the
State debts are being piled up to such a colossal
height that when trouble arrives, and it becomes
a question of either borrowing or bursting, Aus-
tralia will probably be told that it has borrowed
far too much already. Yet, with all this
costly work waiting for the Commonwealth
to do, the Insects demand three-fifths of
the Customs and Excise revenue in place of
three-fourths, along with a fixed minimum.
Before he so much as considers whether he will
promise these State Insects anything at all,
Treasurer Fisher might figure out how much he
will have left out of even ten or eleven millions if
he does all he should do in regard to Defence in
its various branches. There are a dozen or more
destroyers needed, as well as cruisers, torpedo
boats, dockyards, and arsenals; there must be a
rifle for every man able to use it (it will be too
late to cable across the earth for guns when the
enemy’s shells are shrieking off the coast); there
are the railways to be built and maintained (and
neither line is likely to pay for a few
years); and the Territory cannot be settled
for an expenditure of sixpence or even eightpence.
Remembering all which items, Prime Minister
Fisher had better go the whole hog at Gympie, and
say plainly that he can hold out no hope whatever
that he will be able to return so much as one
farthing of the tariff revenue to the States. And
if the State Insects point to the vast Customs
revenue which they used to get in the days before
Federation arrived, Fisher’s reply should simply
be that, in the first place, the menace of invasion
has increased enormously during the past few
years, and that, anyway, the business of the Com-
monwealth is to do things which the States
neglected to do—that that, indeed, is what the
Commonwealth is for.
«.
The Leaning Tower of Credit.
Thf. luck which attaches to Australian State
Government loans in London is pretty bad these
days. The money is still forthcoming, but it is
dragged out of Bull’s reluctant pocket with in-
creasing difficulty, and there is a hostile expres-
sion on Bull’s countenance which is bad to
look upon. Things were not always thus,
but they are very much thus at present. In old
times it was seldom considered necessary to have
loans underwritten. (Underwriting is a process
by which certain great capitalists guarantee that
they will take up all of the loan which the public
refuses to touch, and for doing this they get a
heavy commission, not only on that part of the
loan which they take up themselves, but on the
iohole of it.) The Bull public in brighter days
was simply appealed to for the money, and the
Bull public put up the money—put it up, very
often, several times over. Then London began
to look askance as Australia’s debt continued to
pile up like the Tower of Pisa, and to get the same
top-heavy lean on it which characterises that
notable edifice. So Australia began to accept
smaller prices for its loans ; there were notable
occasions when N.S. \V. borrowed at £2l9s. 9d. per-
cent. and Queensland at £3 Is. 10d., but these things
don’t happen now. The next stage was when ic
became unsafe to trust the J. Bull public to sub-
scribe, and underwriting became the regular and
costly method of propping up the public credit.
For a while things went fairly well with this
device; sometimes the public took all the loan,
and at the worst the amount left on the under-
writers’ hands was small. But circumstances have
changed, and nowadays, as a regular thing, the
underwriters have almost the entire loan left on
their hands. They work it off on the public after-
wards by driblets, but for the time being they
have to carry the infant. Last week, for instance,
Queensland asked in London for £2,000,000 at
about £3 12s. Gd. per cent., and as the public only
offered £320,000, the underwriters had to take
up £1,680,000. Still, as already mentioned,
they have always managed to sell out to the
public in time. Of course, the next trouble
will be when the underwriters, who are stuck
with a big Australian loan, fail to unload it
upon the public later on. When that happens
the bottom will have pretty well dropped out of
the great foreign loan industry, and presumably
that will happen some day—it is the only thing
which hasn’t happened so far. And then —well,
between 1912 and 1918 Australia requires to
borrow £72,000,000 merely for the renewal of old
loans that are falling due, and some very exciting
things may happen between this difficulty and the
struggle to float new loans at the same time. Yet
there are people and newspapers that urge the
Australian Government to burst wildly into the
pawnshop, and add a heap of Federal borrowings
to the already top-heavy mass. That mass begins
to look altogether too like the Leaning Tower of
Pisa to be pleasant. All it wants to make things
complete is a cross-piece at the top to hang
Treasurers from.
♦
An Undesirable Recruit.
The Sydney Watchman, the unconscious humor-
ist of local journalism—the paper that discovered
and advertised those earnest French workers in
the cause, whose names, being translated, were Mr.
Yellowpup and Mr. Monkeyshave, and which
gravely received a shilling towards a fund to re-
sume and destroy Rome, has attached itself to a
new political party. With certain qualifications, it
now proposes to be DEAKiN-ite. It urges (18/3/’O9)
on the Federal Opposition “ the acceptance of
Mr. Leakin’S leadership.” Concerning its
whilom idol, Joe Cook, it states these cruel
truths :
He seems to lack the magnetic qualities which are
essential to leadership at the present juncture. He is
repeating Mr. Reid’s mistakes rather than avoiding them
by pursuing a policy of negation and ultra-Conservatism,
when the demand to-day is unmistakably for a bold, in-
spiring leader, who will cast tradition to the winds and
proclaim a gospel of social and political salvation that
shall stir the hearts of the masses to enthusiasm.
The Watchman is thus in the unique position of
having supported successively, by way of hamper-
ing the on-rush of Rome, the Tory, the Labor
and the Nationalist cause—and all within six
months. Till a short time ago, this weirdly
muddle-headed sheet, with its rheumy gaze fixed
on the way it thought the cat of State meant to
jump, was of the RmiD-ite persuasion. It was
under the delusion then that G. Reid wasn’t
politically in his death rigor. It told its Pro-
testant subscribers that the surest way to smite
Rome hard was to promote the free importation
to Australia of goods whose manufacture had given
employment to Romanists in Europe. The doings
of Sosh appalled it. The paper, 90 per cent,
of whose readers are the poorest sort of workers,
was a warm adherent up to, and for some time
after, the 1906 Federal elections, of the frayed old
capitalist untruth that the efforts of local
working men to get better conditions for
themselves amount to anarchy. It starred
G. Reid”s manifesto to that _ effect right
joyfully; and in general did its best
to weaken and discredit the cause of the toiler.
Then Bill Wilks, whose working-men con-
stitutents have been getting of late somewhat
impatient of his interminable but resultless
mouthings about Derry, came to the conclusion
that the safest policies for a modern Yellow Pup
were Protection and Socialism. He engineered
DiLL-ism into adopting a species of Democratic
platform. At Clifton Gardens (23/l/’O9) the
following “ Orange ticket ” was read out
(1) So far, and just so far, as Continental Socialism
denies religion and works for atheism —Anti-Socialism.
(2) To return to the worker as nearly as may be the full
product of his labor.
(3) For defence on land—an army raised in Australia ;
the effective training of Australians to defend themselves
if necessary.
And the Watchman approved the new policy
vehemently. It conjured up visions of clouds of
workingmen flocking to join the lodges, and subse-
quently pouring multitudes of thrippences in the
plate at Pleasant Sabbath Howls and the like.
However, the scheme didn’t come off. The same
old half-witted worker with the inonkey-shave
and the narrow brow and the uneasy Rome-
apprehensive eye rolled up at “Black Chap-
ters,” “Prentice Boys’ Rallies,” etc., and engaged
in the same old futile chat anent the bygone
dissoluteness of Pope John XXII. and other
utterly dead and negligible corpses. The effort to
democratise the Yellow Pup was a frost. There
is no reason to think that the attempt to render it
Nationalist is going to be any more successful.
The Watchman crowd is of its essence reactionary.
Its natural inclination is to barrack for the people
with the most money—which is why it has always,
hitherto, supported importerdom—or for those
whom it thinks have most power, which is why
it has barracked in the past for State Frightism.
It may talk of mending its political ways,
and draw up platforms in token of good faith. It
won’t get anyone to believe in it; and, indeed, it
is doubtful if it believes in its antics itself. The
sectarian isn’t wanted among people who are
handling big national issues. The militant
Yellow Pup would feel uncomfortable in Labor
or Nationalist circles, and Laboritesor Nationalists
would feel uncomfortable with his kind about the
premises. The Watchman is hereby urged to get
hack to the Jawbone Neild-Bill Wilks-Willy
Kelly kennel where it belongs.
The Vic. P.L.L. and its New Aristocracy.
From a Melbourne correspondent
The legitimate Laborites of Melbourne have lately
given some faint indications of a desire to combat the
disease of WiUiN-ism which is eating into their cause. At
a meeting of the Collingwood Political Labor League,
t’other Monday night, a member named Lewis charged
one Kierce, a hew light of the League, with being a tool
in the hands of Wren. Moreover, Mr. Lewis quoted
extensive! v from -Tiik Lone Hand in proof of his
contention that the influence of Wren and his nominees
was not calculated to aid the Labor Party in Victoria.
The meeting half-heartedly said “ Hear, hear” ; or mur-
mured “ expressions of dissent." Kierce, previous to
this attack on his artless working-man character, had pro-
posed several new members for the League, so he couldn’t
allow the meeting to close until the virtue of WRKN-ism
was proved beyond question. He proceeded to do this,
hot by pretending to answer The Lone Hand article —
which, for the past two years has challenged contradiction
in the law courts—but by uttering bare-faced lies_ against
Wren’s accusers in accordance with the foul traditions of
Tote Government. Kierce, who is the official measurer
of ponies at Wren’s pony meetings, told the Collingwood
P.L.L. that The Bulletin and The Lone Hand are black-
mailing publications, and that some years ago the direc-
tors of The Bulletin (who are also the directors of The
Lone Hand) were prosecuted for blackmail. Had the
meeting been rather less intelligent, this typical
representative of Wren might as readily have stated that
the directors of The Bulletin are escaped murderers who
live' by highway robbery. Seemingly, however, Mr.
Kierce wagged liis lying tongue rather too loosely. A
further discussion of his allegations will presumably
result in the expulsion of Wren’s precious pony measurer
from the P.L.L. If it doesn’t—well, the P.L.L. will richly
deserve to have Kierce among its members.
On the next Monday night the Fitzroy L.L. heard
something about The Bulletin from Frank Lawrence.
In its issue of March 11 this paper mentioned that
Lawrence, the new vice-president of the Fitzroy Labor
League, was formerly the secretary of Wren’s pestilential
betting club, incidental to which statement it added the
remark that “ anywhere within a three-miles radius of the
site of Wren’s defunct tote, the odor of its decom-
posed remains infects the atmosphere of Labor party
gatherings.”
Lawrence, on the evening in question, made a
personal statement re The Bulletin paragraph. On
general WREN-istic principles he pronounced it
“malicious and untruthful,” but he stopped short
of denying that he was the Lawrence who acted
as secretary of Wren’s club. “He was out of
employment when he took the billet,” he said. “ When he
found out that the club was illegal he left it.” The Bul-
letin hopes to be always called malicious and untruthful
by such persons as Frank Lawrence aforesaid. The man
was connected with Wren’s club long before he became
“secretary,” and it was he who distinguished himself
rather humorously by joining himself with the Judkins
crowd at the time when public meetings were clamoring
for the suppression of Wren’s tote. Disguised as a mem-
ber of the “ Public Morals Society,” brother Lawrence
practically chanted praises of Wren’s tote in comparison
with other gambling shops, and told the astonished Jud-
kins crowd that their agitation ivas most uncalled-for
behavior. In fact, he practically burst up the meeting in
the interests of Wren.
Wren’s City Tattersall’s Club had been going for about
18 months in its “ reconstructed ” form, with Lawrence
as secretary, before the long-delayed and abortive prose-
cution of it was commenced. He was an important
witness for the defence, and he swore a lot of things
which might have got him into trouble, and didn’t. None
of Wren’s witnesses ever got into trouble. Lawrence
retained his billet as secretary of the illegal club, in the
full and joyful knowledge of its illegality, until his billet
left him. He remained on the premises after they were
quarantined by Act of Parliament, and the formal
“surrender” of them to the police had taken place.
He helped to remove the precious books that he had
been handling for years. So much for Mr. Frank
Lawrence’s personal explanation to the Fitzroy Labor
League concerning The Bulletin’s “ malicious and un-
truthful ” paragraph !
All things considered, the credibility given to Vice-
President Lawrence’s “ explanation ” by a body of pre-
sumably sane and decent workingmen, is hard to account
for. The meeting appeared to take it for granted that
Lawrence was a worthy and truthful person because
he said so, and, to show its confidence in Wren’s
ex-secretary, he was elected the Fitzroy L.L.’s dele-
gate to the Easter Conference of Political Labor
representatives. The choice lay between him and
Mr. W. C. Miller, president of the Trades Hall Council,
and president of the Typographical Society, and the
voting was 13 to seven in favor of the audacious Wren-
ite against the veteran champion of the Labor cause.
What this paper remarked of Kierce at Colli ngwood it
remarks, with equal feeling, of Lawrence at Fitzroy. If
the Labor League wants him for a vice-president and an
honored delegate, it deserves to have him. But as long
as it has him it will never get the respect of the large
majority of thoughtful democrats who regard WREN-ism
in politics with abhorrence and alarm.
Something that Prime Minister Fisher said when
he was over in Westralia has stirred up an inter-
esting discussion. The Westralian Government
gets some of its printing done in the gaol; if there
are printers “inside” they are put to print and not
to stone-crack. Fisher heard of it, and told the
local Minister Price that he wasn t going to let
the State tender for printing for the Common-
wealth if it used prison labor—he wasn t going to
have prison labor competing with the other sort
of labor that needn’t go to bed at 7.30 if it doesn t
want to. Fisher was partly right, and so was
Price ; but Price was further on the common-
sense side of the fence than Fisher was. Fisher
was right in insisting that prison labor shouldn t
be used to squeeze down prices; but Price
was right in insisting that if, by some horrible
mischance, a printer has reached the inside, he
should be kept at the job that he is beat at. If a
man can print better than he can do anything
else, then it is a shocking*'waste not to set him
printing. A line has, of course, to be drawn some-
where ; for instance, it is hard to see how a man
who is best at catching whales can be given his
most suitable job while he is doing 14 days. But,
in general, there is no earthly reason why the
trades that can be done inside shouldn’t be
done inside, and the proceeds used to help
pay the huge expense incurred in housing and
entertaining the guests. If they don’t earn
the money themselves somebody else has to earn
it; and these somebody elses generally have just
as much as they can do to earn enough to keep
themselves and their families without keeping
anybody else’s family. Prime Minister Fisher
laid down the law this way —“ I would give to no
lawbreaker an opportunity to take the bread of
the lawkeeper.” And that is precisely why the
prisoner ought to be set to work and kept at it
hard ; if he isn’t, then we must either starve him
and his family, or take some of the bread of the
lawkeeper to feed him and his family with.
♦
Last week Sydney Evening News opened out
again on the Federal capital question, and headed
its remarks “A Big Slice.” The Big Slice it
spoke about was the utterly inadequate area of
1000 square miles (it should be 5000 square miles)
which is mentioned as a possible Federal territory
—a narrow, crooked bit of ground shaped like a
camel that has eaten strychnine ; but then it has
to be that shape to take in the two little creeks
which are to be the only hope and joy of the
Federal city. The News thought 1000 square
miles a lot for N.S.W. to part with, but it seri-
ously urged its followers not to make a fuss. The
idea, it said, had “met with disapproval in cer-
tain quarters,” but the paper implored these fore-
quarters or hindquarters to smother their feel-
ings. “Delays,” it said, “are dangerous.” It
pointed out—in effect, though not in these exact
words—that the complaisant, not to say cowardly,
Fisher Government can’t last for ever; that
unless things are rushed people may get to know
too much about Yassberra ; that the conspiracy
to make the Australian capital—the only place on
earth which will be the metropolis of a whole
continent —a mere one-horse village snoozing on a
railway by-line in a rather dry spot, when it
might be a great City Beautiful beside a splendid
river, isn’t absolutely fixed up. There is a
danger that a Government of really great national
ideas may even yet arise in time to spoil the
awful job that is being perpetrated on Australia
by a week-kneed, backdown Ministry, and lest this
should happen the News urged people in general
not to make delays by haggling over the question
of area, but to nail the fraud down in haste.
Then, as a further reason why there should be no
serious trouble about the 1000 square miles, the
News added these memorable words
We must remember too that many thousands of acres
of the country [the proposed Federal territory at Yass-
berra] are of a rough and mountainous description,
rendering them quite unfitted for settlement of any
kind.
And yet, somehow, that strange and cow-like
person, Senator Russell, of S.A., was induced to
barrack for Yassberra on the ground that the
splendid fertility of the proposed territory made
it eminently suitable for agriculture—it was to be
the sort of place where fine crops of oats would
grow in the main street and oxen would fatten at
the door of Parliament House. These things are
hard to adjust somehow, and the discrepancies are
awful.
♦
Joseph Cook’s recent statement of his programme
has let the country know with a fair amount of
accuracy where Joseph stands. He stands just
where George Reid did at last Federal election,
when George, finding that the political game was
going against him, suddenly leaped to his politi-
cal feet, and upset the table and the cards, and
cried out that he smelt the house burning. Joe
Cook is still Anti-Sosh. There are a vast number
of things to be done in Australia—the handful of
people who huddle together in the extreme south-
east of this continent have begun to realise that
they have on their hands the biggest work of de-
velopment that ever a handful of people under-
took, and that there are a lot of reasons for doing
the work in a hurry—but Joseph Cook knows
nought of these matters. He has practically
nothing to say about immigration, finance, the
breaking-up of big estates, land settlement, trans-
continental railways, the guarding of the un-
protected North, land defence or sea defence
—he just sticks to the old, tired theory
about the marriage-tie being in danger and
the alleged threatened bursting-up of the home.
A so-called leader who, when there is so much to
do, can potter round after this ancient and disused
small beer is a hopeless proposition. He is as
grotesque as the person who collected dried
beetles inside besieged Jerusalem—if there was
such a person. There ought to have been to pro-
vide Cook with a precedent. Joseph Cook is
partly a jest and partly a disrister. He has appar-
ently no constructive policy himself, and he objects
to any other person having one. Therefore, when
Australia wants to construct anything it has
always to wait till Cook and his party have
talked themselves into a state of exhaustion before
it can proceed ; and as the party’s lower jaw is
like a fortification a lot of time is spent before
business really starts.
+.
The Melbourne Argus is troubled in spirit over
the Federal outlook. It has two grievances ; and,
by a stroke of genius, it has evolved a scheme for
remedying them by one operation. Grievance
No. 1 relates to the absence of a united opposition
to the Labor party. The old designation of Anti-
Sosh has been found to be lamentably wanting in
attractiveness. And so—
If Mr. Deakin and Mr. Joseph Cook require a name for
the united party which the necessities of the situation
may force thereto form, they could get no better title for
it than “The Federal Party.” It should be a party dis-
tinguished above all things by its broad Federal outlook,
ruling the Commonwealth fairly in the spirit of the Con-
stitution, and not regarding the States’ Governments as
hostile bodies who ought to be steadily diminished in
importance and finally suppressed.
The States have, until very recently at any rate,
been so truculent in their demeanor towards the
Commonwealth, that it is refreshing now to have
one of their champions pleading for Protection for
them. But, badly as the Argus wants a new
party, and a new name, it wants something else
even more. It has been looking into the Com-
monwealth expenditure, and it is amazed at the
opportunities for getting Australia further into
pawn that the Commonwealth has missed. In
fact, it regards these lost opportunities much as a
crime. Tasmania has a hopeless sort of Statist,
who furnished some remarkable figures to the
recent conference of State Premiers, and the
Argus quotes him approvingly :
An interesting table was presented to the Conference,
prepared by Mr. R. M. Johnston, the Tasmanian Statist.
It shows that, out of the expenditure out of revenue up
to the present time, there has been a total of £3,331,000
which should have been provided for by loan. Allowing
for interest and sinking fund, only £429,000 should have
been charged to revenue. During the last two years the
sums charged to revenue in this way have been £BBO,OOO
An Hour to Arm!
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Along the frontier of our North
The yellow lightning shudders forth ;
But we have shut our eyes.
Yet in the tropic stillness warm
We hear the mutter of the storm
That all too soon must rise !
After the flash the thunder comes,
And now the menace of the drums
Wakens the last alarm.
Prolong this hush of warning, Lord,
That we have time to clutch the sword :
Grant us one hour —to arm!
O Lord, bear not our sins in mind :
We have been foolish, little, blind —
But we were children then.
We dreamed within a childish heart
That we could play in peace apart
Amid a world of men !
Now we have glimpsed our looming fate,
Hold back Thy hand, ere ’tis too late
To shield our own from harm !
Within us loud our manhood calls,
Before Thy bolt of terror falls
Grant us an hour—to arm!
Lord, in this lull before the break
Of Thy wide tempest, let us make
Our ramparts round complete,
With noise of rivets, whir of wheels,
And waters hissing ’neath the keels
Of our star-guerdoned fleet !
With workshops fashioning our might,
With bugles singing through the night
In city and in farm ;
The steady drill, the hammered din,
The quiet heart of discipline :
Grant us our hour—to arm !
Then each shall take with stubborn grip
His rifle as he took his whip,
And, when the Flag’s unfurled,
The clerk shall drop his futile pen
To lift hi s well-loved lance—and then
A nation fronts the world !
Each dread and desperate and White,
Each trained from youth like Youth to fight,
Ready to save from harm
The home that he himself had built,
To spill his blood as sweat was spilt:
Grant us that hour—to arm!
So on that Judgment Day of Fate
Each mother proud will dedicate
Her son his land to save;
And with no tear will let him go
To camp or submarine—although
She knows ’tis to his grave.
And though in lonely death he lies,
Our Cross above his grave shall rise
Her anguish to disarm.
That she may see, Lord, in the night
Our Stars triumphant, steady, White :
Grant us the hour —to arm !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


NOTICE TO AGENTS.
Agents are notified that, on
account of the Easter Holidays,
THE BULLETIN dated April 8
will be published on Wednesday,
April 7.
The Electrolytic Refining; and
Smelting; Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
Cinematograph Films.
250,000 feet of Films for HIRE.
NEW SUBJECTS arriving EVERY WEEK.
Instruments and all Accessories Stocked.
HARRINCTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Britain’s inner consciousness seems to have
been penetrated at last by the German Dread'
nought hustle. And the nation which imbibes its
progressive wisdom from D.C.L., the scholarly
brand of whisky, is certain to materialise a
supreme effort once its necessity is realised. The
hope of the Empire for peace is in the inspiration
to Enterprise of D.C.L. and the Dreadnoughts it
will call into being.*
and £737,000 respectively. This sort of financing cannot
go on.
The rush to Cohen for every few pounds is such
an ingrained habit in the bad, old school of poli-
ticians that any departure from the mischievous and
immoral practice is now really regarded as some-
thing wrong. Australia is the only rich country
in the wide world where, after a succession of
prosperous seasons, an allegedly leading paper
can be found to raise the bitter complaint that the
Government is doing wrong by paying its way,
and that the right course to pursue is to make an
immediate canter to the premises of the three-ball
man. If the Argus can get a party to father its
mendicant policy, it should call it, not the Federal
party, but the Pawnshop party.
♦
The Dreadnought Madness.
Britain has suddenly awakened to the fact that,
so far from maintaining the two-Power standard
at sea, it is hardly keeping up a one-Povver
standard. In these days it is only the powerful,
swift, long-range, heavily-gunned ships that
really count, and they are very few; the great
modern navies are mostly tail. And when
Britain learned that Germany was building, in
red-hot haste, eight first-class ships where it was
only supposed to be building four, it felt the
trident slipping. There was panic ; and amid the
panic arose the voice of the local Jingo proposing
that Australia should abandon its own defence
programme, and, as a substitute, should present
Britain with a Dreadnought. It was said that the
deed would have a great moral effect, and would
impress Germany with the fact that the imperial
dependencies meant to stand by the old Ma Coun-
try. And The Bulletin asks seriously—Would it ?
In the first place, the money for that warship
would, of course, be borrowed in England—pro-
vided England would lend it, for J. Bull has
turned a very embittered eye on Australian loans
of late. The people who are clamoring for the
silly act are the Kellys and Pulsfords —the
Freetraders, the anti-Australians, the State
Frights folk who want the State Governments to
get so much of the tariff revenue that the Com-
monwealth wouldn’t have the price of half a
Dreadnought about its clothes—and their policy
can be readily imagined. So Australia would
begin by advertising itself as a place with no
money. Then the vessel would be built in Eng-
land, and Australia would advertise itself as a
place without even a ship yard. Then the new
ship would be manned by Englishmen to show
that Australians can’t fight, and officered by Eng-
lishmen to show that Australia can’t command,
and controlled by Englishmen to show that Aus-
tralians can’t organise. Australia has one-tenth
Britain’s population. If it built in its
own yards, and personally manned and
controlled a war-fleet one-tenth the size
of Britain’s, and if it set aside one-tenth as
much as Britain does for military purposes and
armed and trained its whole male population, Ger-
many might be impressed. It might realise that
there were 4,000,000 more people to be reckoned
with than it had supposed, and that they were
people who could Do Things. It might realise
that there was twice as big an army to be reckoned
with as it had imagined, and 10 per cent, more
navy; that the nation hadn’t all its eggs in one
basket; and that even a rush on London wouldn’t
necessarily end everything for the Empire, for
there were fighting resources and capacity outside.
These things might impress Hans of Berlin ; but
if the worst war-scare of a century didn’t rouse
Australia to arm and train its people, to learn how
to build and man its own ships, and to make its
own rifles—if it only made the Australian sit
down helplessly and show his patriotism by
borrowing the price of a ship from his hard-
up parent, Hans almost certainly wouldn’t
be impressed. The idea of giving Britain
a Dreadnought is the cheap patriotism of
the cowards who don’t want to fight and who
want to shirk work and responsibility. Australia
should help the Empire with, not one, but several
first-class ships ; this place is part of the Empire,
and to provide for the defence of Australia is to
assist the great Bull dominion generally. It
should help the Empire by establishing ship-
yards, rifle and ammunition works and land forti-
fications, by building its two transcontinental
railways so that nearly 2,000,000 square miles of
the Empire will be no longer inaccessible and
indefensible, by drilling and arming its people,
and by releasing the present hired British squad-
ron so that it can go to the assistance of England.
But these things mean sustained effort and a
whole-souled shouldering of the white man’s bur-
den. It is easier to do a little temporary hysteria,
and buy Bull a ship with Bull’s own money, and
hand down the bill to posterity, and leave Bull
to do the fighting and organising. And, in ad-
dition to being cheap and easy, that kind of glit-
tering hysteria may lead to applause in England,
and a distribution of shoddy titles—the kind that
are given to suburban mayors in the Cold Land.
♦
Maoriland, which tried to rush in ahead of
everybody else with its offers of contin-
gents in Boer War time, is rushing again.
It has leaped wildly at Britain with its mouth
open and an offer of a first-class battleship—or
two if wanted. Maoriland is mad these days—
raving mad. It has borrowed till it has lost all
sense of the value of money, and has lost most of
its other senses as well—till it is mentally decayed
and irresponsible. In proportion to population its
off-hand tender of two first-class battleships is
equivalent to a decision by Britain to put up 88
new first-class battleships in one act- —which is
more than there are in the world at present—or
a resolution by Germany to build 122 first-class
war vessels right-off, or by the United States to
build 160 of them. These countries don’t do such
huge insanities, because they try to pay their way
—consequently, they know the value of money.
But Maoriland borrows for almost everything—
even for “preservation of scenery ” at times—and
never repays, and never dreams of the smash that
must come. Quite possibly this warship business
may bring the smash. Ward’s islands raise about
£2,000,000 a year at a pretty steep rate of interest.
If they make Britain a present of one first-class
battleship they will want to borrow £4,000,000
that year; if they supply two they will want
£6,000,000. That extra demand may easily bring
the whole crazy loan fabric down on Joe Ward’s
head and leave him quite unable to give Britain
even a mud punt. Maoriland depends almost
wholly on London, Melbourne and Sydney for its
loans; and if a war scare comes in earnest the
chances are that it won’t be able to borrow at all.
Ward is really making a lavish offer of his lOU,
and it is a terribly frayed lOU these days.
♦
The mendacity of Bent in assuring the Vic. State
Governor, last December, that “neither Mr.
Murray nor Mr. Prendergast could form an
Administration,” was not so remarkable as the
gullibility of Gibson Carmichael in accepting
the political word of that disreputable old politi-
cian on a question concerning his retention or
relinquishment of office. Carmichael’s excuse,
that he had no higher authorised adviser than
Bent aforesaid, doesn’t relieve him of responsi-
bility for his vice-regal foolishness. He had been
long enough in the country to know that Bent
was incapable of recommending his own efface-
ment whilst he had still the option of advising a
dissolution of the House. In short, he knew that
Bent couldn’t tell the truth to his own disadvan-
tage ; therefore, his Excellency was practically
asking Bent for a lie, and he got what he asked
for. The old man seems to glory in his untruth-
fulness. The last item in his evidence given to
the Select Whitewashing Committee last week
was his admission of having told the Governor
that the Murray Cabinet which now is could
never be.
The shindy which the N.S.W. Typographical
Association is making because it is proposed to
have certain small returns relating to N.S.W.
printed with the Federal Government’s own
printing plant in Melbourne, instead of at a
private enterprise printery in Sydney, is a fairly
mean sort of business. The reasons given for the
Ministry’s action are simple enough. The
Federal Government believes in public rather
than private enterprise, so it wants to do the
work with its own machinery. It finds that it
can do it more cheaply at its own office, and that
is usually the case with public enterprise. (The
Typographical Association probably takes the
same view as a general thing, though in this par-
ticular case it declares that private enterprise is
the real economical thing.) It finds it simpler
and cheaper to have its printing done in one place,
right under the Minister’s eye, than to have it
scattered round Perth, Adelaide, Hobart,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, and possibly
other places as well; for if it once ad-
mits that it must scatter its jobs all round
in order to satisfy State jealousies, then it
can’t get away from the fact that Sydney isn’t
N.S.W., and that Newcastle, Armidale, Goulburn,
Wagga, Albury, Bathurst, Broken Rill, etc., are
all entitled to a bite. The fact that the Minis-
terial eye, under which the printing is to be done,
is in Melbourne at the momen t is a matter for which
the Fisher Government isn’t responsible ; but for
Sydney obstruction the Government eye, and the
printing job also, would ere this have been per-
manently located in N.S.W., and they will be
there before very long. And seeing that Sydney
has just got the contract for fitting boilers to the
Federal gunboat Countess of Hopetoun, and that
it is making demands for a monopoly of the
Federal Government’s shipbuilding, and that it is
getting the Federal capital right at its own door,
this obscure little printing job doesn’t seem worth
all the fuss.
♦
Chief-insect Wade, of N. S. Wales, has magni-
ficent ideas of finance. “The States object, in
short,” he said, when he got back from Hobart,
“ to the Commonwealth spending £lOO upon the
construction of works when the same object can
be achieved by spending £3 10s. or £4 for interest,
and returning the rest for division among the
States.” Wade doesn’t mention (possibly be-
cause he doesn’t know—there is nothing that
Wade isn’t liable not to know) that, if the money
is borrowed, the £3 10s. or £4 has to be paid every
year; so, though the States might be £96 to the
good the first year, they would be £4 to the bad
every subsequent year. Therefore in 30 years,
instead of being anything at all to the good,
they would be a clear £l2O to the bad. And just
about that time the £lOO which they borrowed in
the first place would have to be paid back ; if it
wasn’t paid back, but was borrowed again, the
States thereafter would probably be £4 to the
bad every year. And all the time the £lOO debt
would keep as good as new, waiting to dodge in
for payment when probably it was least wanted.
Years ago some other fool said that, though Aus-
tralia had £lOO in its pocket, it was cheaper
to let it lie there, and borrow £lOO, and pay
£4 a year. On those early loans it has
paid in interest nearly twice as much as it
borrowed, and it still owes the principal.
If it had put into works the money which it has
paid in interest, Australia could have had as
many public works as it has to-day, and it would
have £249,000,000 less debt to pay interest
on ; so that the £8,700,000 which it now has to
pay every year for interest would be available for
more public works. Wade’s beautiful scheme
would pan out just the same way. For the first
year the States certainly would be £96 or so to the
good ; every succeeding year they would be £4 to
the bad, and after many years of that they would
end by being £lOO to the bad in addition.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Havana.”
Theatre Royal “A Royal Divorce.”
Criterion “ She Stoops to Conquer.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Palace Cherniavski Concerts.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Town Hall Ada Crossley (27th and 29th).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Girl of the Golden West.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera Hodse Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King’s “The French Spy.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
<►
“A Royal Divorce,” which the Julius
Knight Co. revived at Sydney Royal last week,
doesn’t pretend to bear any relation to history.
In it Napoleon, the man of countless liasons, is
limned as one of those rare citizens whose first love
dominates thewholeof his life. Vaulting ambition,
and that naughty, stiff-necked pride that goes,
as all the moralists are agreed, before a fall, make
him run counter to his finer feelings, and fracture
the tie that binds him in lawful wedlock to
Josephine. But his heart breaks in the pro-
cess. Thereafter he puts love from him, and
contents himself with being dreary and spectacu-
lar. And Josephine—the Theatre Royal Josephine
—is well worth it. She is not the flirtatious,
selfish, bill-contracting, irresponsible smart-setter
that history tells us her old-time prototype was.
Far from it. Strong, dignified, self-sacrificing,
wondronsly obedient, affectionate, faithful to the
brink of insanity—she possesses all the points of
the ideal wife. The play has an object. It
teaches the somewhat crusted doctrine of Retribu-
tion. Napoleon lets his wicked ambition swamp
his duty as a respectable husband and house-
holder, and so he has to retreat from
Moscow, and he gets beaten at Waterloo,
and, finally, is shut up for life at St.
Helena. The wonder is, considering the saintly
character of the woman whom he wrongs, that the
playwright didn’t take the further historical
license of representing him being boiled as the
final curtain fell.
MISS GLADYS HARVEY,
Daughter of the well-known English actor, Martin
Harvey, who will make her first appearance in
Australia in “ The Hypocrites,'” by Henry Arthur
Jones, at Sydney Criterion,
Photo, by Lankester, Tunbridge Wells.
Julius Knight’s make-up as Napoleon is a
work of art. He plays the defunct Corsican in
the grand manner. Knight’s Bonaparte never
forgets that he is a great, almost a superhuman,
being. He does not relax, for a single instant,
from an impassivity of appearance as complete as
that of the front door of a deserted hash-house.
He has no mannerisms. If he sneezed the sound
would be as sacrilegious as the loud employment
in a Methody Kirk of the oath “ Blanky.” A
stalge Jehovah could not be more gloomy, and
suggest vastness and omnipotence more surely. He
strikes the onlooker as the sort of gorgeously-pic-
turesqueand impressive Napoleon that the original
would have liked but wasn’t able to be owing
to the limitations of human nature. Miss Day is
a delightful Josephine. If the real one had been
like her she would never have been deserted, and
the whole course of history would have been
changed. Harry Plimmer (Augereau), Reynolds
Denniston (de Beaumont), Leslie Victor (Talley-
rand), and Eardley Turner (Grimaud) do good
work in minor parts.
#* * *
The Beatty-Mclntosh co. produced “She
Stoops to Conquer,” at Sydney Criterion, on
Saturday night. In the interests of truth, the
writer refrains from saying that it appeared in
Goldsmith’s play of that name. The Criterion
production may be described more exactly as the
joint work of O. Goldsmith and that well-
known old sporting identity, A. N. Other.
It were futile to attempt to conceal the
fact that Other, as an improver on Goldsmith,
is a disappointment. He transposes Scenes I.
and 11. (Act I.) for no discernible reason. In
Goldsmith’s version (and, for that matter, in any
acting edition that has come the writer’s way),
Scene I. (Act I.) discovers the old folks discussing
Tony. Tony crosses the stage on his way to the
alehouse. Scene 11. finds him there. Which is
natural enough. At the Criterion the curtain
rises on Tony in the alehouse. In the next scene
he is found heading for that immoral resort. And
the spoken lines indicate that his roysterings
have not yet begun. (Mrs. H. : “ You shan’t
venture out this raw evening.” . . . “ Pray, my
dear, disappoint them for to-night at least,” etc.,
etc.) It is a pointlessly confusing re-arrangement.
But Other gets in his deadliest assaults on the
play’s coherency when he starts “cutting.” Act
11. is made to end with the discovery by Hard-
castle of his daughter in Marlow’s arms. He is
offered no explanations by anyone. Yet Act 111.
finds him genially well-disposed towards the
forcible hugger of his child, and seized of prac-
tically all the mitigating circumstances in his
favor. To expect a Criterion or any other audi-
ence to fill up a hiatus like that out of its own
inner consciousness amounts to crediting it with a
talent for “ subtle crafts ” of which it is guilt-
less. Very exasperating is the license Other
allows himself in the matter of “gagging.”
Goldsmith strikes him as hardly humorous
enough, so when Marlow, in his first scene
with Kate, stammers over the word “hypocrite,”
the lady is made to cry brightly, “Hip! Hip!
Hip ! Hooray ! ” And where Hastings and Mar-
low are discussing with Hardcastle what they
shall have for supper, these supremely fatuous
lines are interpolated : —-
Hardcastle : “ And sheep’s head and brains.”
Hastings: “Do away with the brains; I can’t stand
them.”
Marlow : “No ! Put them on a small plate for me. I
like them.”
Hardcastle (aside, meaningly) : “ You’ll need them.’’
* * * *
The writer can see no justification for this
sort of thing. Such saving of time as is gained by
“ cutting ” good lines is more than balanced by
wearisomely spun out “ business ” and malapropos
quips. The great charm of witnessing classic re-
vivals consists in seeing them in the form, as nearly
as possible, in which they appeared in the author’s
day. Miss Margaret Anglin, like the artist she
was, did not fear to produce “The Taming of the
Shrew ” recently with practically all the idiotic
comic business, that had grown up barnacle-like
around it since Gibber’s day, deleted. The result
was a show astonishingly good on the artistic side,
and sufficiently amusing for those who revel in
broad farce. We don’t want the characters in a
comedy like “ She Stoops to Conquer ” to corus-
cate a bit more than they did 150 years ago. All
a reasonable person asks is to be allowed to con-
sider in an unfaked state those pictures of 18th
century country life in England which Goldsmith
painted so exquisitely. That joy, mainly owing
to the intrusions of the criminal Other, the Cri-
terion doesn’t provide.
* * * *
The acting is excellent. Tom Cannam is
as good a Tony Lumpkin as it is possible to
imagine. Harcourt Beatty’s impersonation of
Young Marlow is perhaps the best thing that he
has done in Sydney. Miss Madge Mclntosh is a
particularly arch and sprightly Kate, and Miss
Winifred Gunn makes Miss Neville a very allur-
ing maiden. Gaston Mervale (Hastings), George
Carey (Hardcastle), and Miss Nellie Mortyne
(Mrs. Hardcastle) all do well.
** # *
Florence Young continues to take a little
gentle riding exercise every evening at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), making her first appearance
in “ Havana ” astride a white ass. To help the
poor piece out, she sings subsequently a Spanish
melody by old-star Kenningham, dealing mostly
with the advantages of leaning heavily on to-
morrow. Roberts also helps things out with a
topical verse on “The Dreadnought” craze, in
which Germans in general are reminded that—
One thing in the contest they’ve forgotten
While building ships at night as well as day,
There are children that Britannia has begotten,
And they will want to have their little say !
Then, as an afterthought, Roberts sings—
New Zealand’s shown you what to do,
Australia ; now it’s up to you.
By way of variation, Florence Young and Roberts
might make a duet of it; after Roberts has sung
his little bit, the lady might trill—
One thing, no doubt, our friend has not forgotten—
On us to pay a call some later day :
To meet him we’ve got ships, but mostly rotten,
And even those will p’rhaps be called awa.v.
And after Roberts has remarked that Maoriland
has shown Australia what to do, Miss Young
might put her say in—
Great Britain’s shown us what to do—
Built docks, and then a navy, too.
At which point, Percy, as the comic man of the
“ Havana ” show, might chip in with song-and-
dance —
Maoriland—what’s she going to do?
Why, give a battleship or two,
And pay up with an lOU.
It hasn’t got much to do with “Havana,” but it
will all be good for the box-office.
* * *
“ For the Term of His Natural Life,” the
film that is branded all over with the broad arrow,
turned itself out at Sydney Palace on Monday
(22nd), and the Cherniavski Co., which presum-
ably started to make music on Wednesday (24t’n),
when this Bulletin was whizzing through the
presses that are tended by devils with ink on
their tails, arrived too late for notice in this issue.
It may consider itself reprimanded and held over
until next week.
** * *
The Ella Casper’s Fund now stands at the
satisfactory attitude of £250, but as the promoters
trust it will grow some more, the time of closure
has been postponed.
*# * *
This is an over-melodied week in Syd-
ney. Ada Crossley, Emil Greder, and the
Cberniavskis were all due to open last
(Wednesday) night. On the Wednesday of next
week the Liedertafel will perform the very newest
treatment of an old favorite —a choral arrange-
ment of “ The Lost Chord,” by an American, one
James Hyatt-Brewer.
** * *
The backbone of Sydney Tivoli programme
will be removed painlessly on Saturday, 24th,
when Paul Cinquevalli packs up his cannon-ball
preparatory to departing for Maoriland. The
programme is expected to survive the operation,
but it will be a good deal weaker. Geoffrey and
Benson, and the Scottish Meisters, also fade away
towards the end of this week. The chief sur-
vivors will then be Tom Woottwell, Miss Aimee
Desiree, the illusionist, of the captivating
voice, the two dancing Bells, and the three
dancing Donnelleys. The booking fee of Is. will,
presumably, be declared off after the departure of
the Incomparable for the country where a bottle
of beer is looked upon as mortal sin, and whisky
is supposed to be Sheol in liquidation.
** * *
The Titfcell Brune season at Adelaide
Royal is booming. The star has, in “ The Golden
West,” one of those “ (Sunday ” parts that show
her at her very best; it is a bustling play, full of
fun and revolvers —with the most unnecessary
fourth act ever seen on any stage. “Diana of
Dobson’s,” which is allowed only a short run,
resembles the Curate’s egg in the moss-grown
anecdote. All the middle of it is quite ordinary ;
but much can be forgiven for the sake of its uncon-
ventional opening in a bedroom, and its finish in


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jordan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Kates Charoed.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. 6. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
raffs on the Thames Embankment. Also it serves
to bring back Mrs. Brough to an adoring public.
The Scarlet Troubadours have had a profitable
week with their gentle humor at the Town Hall ;
and the Tivoli, Darting regretfully from the
Latona pair, has brought in instead an Indian
“Red Bird ” who is a kind of red-skinned William
Tell.
** # *
Owing to an unsatisfied demand on the
part of the Melbourne public for seats at the third
and extra Melba concert last Saturday, a fourth
and final will occur next Saturday (27th). On the
31st Melba departs for Tasmania and Maonland,
nor is she likely to be back in Melbourne for the
next six months, even though General Desire were
to beseech her on his bended knees to reconsider
her business arrangements. The third concert at
the Town Hall was as effective as the first two, or
even more so. Melba repeated yet again the
*‘ Salce ” and “ Ave Maria” from “ Otello,” with
a result delightfully impressive as regards the
singing, but somewhat painful in the matter of
vegetable tributes. Some soulful admirer had
forwarded a large offering of stale willow, because
the “Salce” is known as “The Willow Song,
and the melancholy odor of that bit of
tree as it was passed up to the embarrassed
daughter of the soil cast a temporary gloom over
the proceedings. Also Melba repeated Lalo s
Aubade, which she gave for an encore number at
her first concert, and the Mad Scene fiom
“Hamlet.” Moreover she sang Tosti’s “Good-
bye” more thrillingly than she had ever sung it
before, and then the conquest of the audience was
complete. The rest of the concert was supplied
by Ranalow, the mediocre baritone, and Marshall
Hall’s mixed orchestra, the conductor whereof in-
sisted upon breathless silence ere permitting his
orchestra to make a noise. Marshall Hall
was an appalling pedagogue what time he
grew a beard, but since he shaved his chin
he has gone from awful to worse, seem-
ingly. On Saturday night two people were ob-
served to be making their escape from the building
just as the orchestra was about to break the still-
ness, whereupon the autocrat in the rostrum
tapped the railing in front of him again and
again with the idea of compelling the fugitives
to stop. They were departing this concert quietly
enough. It was Ac who made the irritating noise
—with his authoritative stick. And to no Pur-
pose. The more he rapped the more slowly the
fugitives fled, knowing that they were safe from
interruption by the music. Finally the band
began to play, and the audience was at liberty to
talk without being rapped at.
** * *
Melbourne is just now seeing the last of
“Jack and Jill” at Her Majesty's, and after
Friday night that popular frivol will cease to be
a topical subject of discussion at the domestic tea-
table. The Williamsonian link with long-
departed Christmas is about to be broken. Talk is
of Tittell Brune, who has been sufficiently long
absent from the city to excite interest as to how
she will look when she reappears, and what sort
of play she is going to be seen in. “ The Girl of
the Golden West,” which is new to Melbourne,
will bring Miss Brune back to observation. Also
the vitality and vividness (vide advt.)of that four-
act drama will be illustrated by Kingston and the
co. which has been touring with the Girl in other
parts of the Commonwealth. It seems as well to
emphasise the dramatic character of next Satur-
day’s change of bill, lest the local public should
think of it as a musical comedy, and associate the
heroine with half a dozen previous Girls of very
different tendencies.
MISS ROSEMARY REES,
Who will make her first appearance in Australia
with Allan Hamilton's Dramatic Company, at the
Palace Theatre, Sydney, Saturday, April S, in
“ Queen of the Night.”
At Melbourne King’s they propose to
improve the shining hour —on Saturday night—
■by introducing “The French Spy” to notice.
Meanwhile, Good Mr. Dawes is working out his
■redemption on the convict settlement where the
fern trees are violently green, and the barren
earth is a rather brilliant brown, and the principal
.figure is a beautiful Baker. In “The French
;Spv ” the special engagement of Baker and Miss
Frances Ross will be continued, and Miss Duggan
will make her re-appearance for a few nights.
'These, in an advt.-way of speaking, will be posi-
tively the last opportunities of witnessing Miss
Duggan in one of her favorite characters prior to
her departure for England.
** * *
“ Cinderella ” continues placidly on her
way at Melbourne Royal. The scoring board
registered 99 nights for the Baron’s daughter on
Saturday last, and the management repeated its
announcement that the end of her innings was
not in sight.
** * *
Touching the biographs. At Melbourne
Olympia last Saturday, T. J. West submitted
“ Oliver Cromwell” for inspection and clamorous
approval. The film is tinted and plausible, but
has streaks of mirth. For instance, Cromwell
the frantic Puritan who was supposed to be dressed
like a dirge, wears a mocking smile, and a hat
like a bilious attack, and certain of his followers
exult in raiment that should easily put out the sun.
Also appeared on Saturday Ed. VII. and Wm. il.
fraternising and exchanging hypocrisies at Berlin ;
pictures of Ancient Egypt and the biscuit indus-
try ; and “The Suffragette’s Dream,” an asinine
British phantasy of women in pants. At the
Glaciarium, which is but a “ spruicher s shout
distant, Tait’s three to four minute gallops in-
clude sundry tearful dramettas, all carrying huge
morals. One is “A Touch of Nature,” in which a
mother wears a vacant and unfurnished ex-
pression at the loss of a darling clie-ild. At the
Bijou Theatre, the programme comprises 20 pic-
tures of interest and hilarity. Such items as
“Tomkins Buys a Donkey,” and a passing eat-
wave called “ Your Dog Ate My Lunch, are sin-
cerely silly ; but there is material for thougnt m
“ Burmese Types and Customs,” and especially
in “The Date Industry.” In that picture, the
audience is overjoyed to observe that the ripened
fruit is pressed |into blocks by the nude hoofs of
murky tatterdemalions.
MISS MAUD CHETWYND,
Of Allan Hamilton's Dramatic Company, due at
the Palace Theatre, Sydney, Saturday, April S,
in “ Queen of the Night."
Photo, by Talma, Sydney [?] Melbourne.
At Melbourne Opera House the pleasing
miracles of Chung Ling Soo are coming to pass in
the same order as before, magicians being
methodical persons who work on a system and
are always prepared for what will happen next.
In other respects the boomsonie Rickards enter-
tainment —which, by the way, has an acceptable
“ first part is rather different from last week s
bill. The Wheelers do things on bicycles and
onecycles that would be marvellous if they hadn t
been done by other people, and Cissie Curlette
has changed her three songs. The versatility of
Cissie is considerable. One of her ballads has a
farrago of farmyard imitations for its refrain, and
when Cissie flaps her wings and crows like a bird
she is voted “immense.” Moreover, she assumes
the bonnet and shawl of a bygone age and chants
“ Tol-de-lido ” with humorous solemnity, not to
mention a naughty twinkle in the verses.
Santley, the singer, in his new volume of Keminiscences,
gives Australians a good character (he was here for
nearly 12 months in 1889). “ The friends I made in Aus-
tralia were, with few exceptions, Australians born and
bred ; the acquaintances I made whom I strive to forget
were, without exception, importations. ” But the hotels!
(He hears that they have been improved since.) In Mel-
bourne, his hotel “deserved anathema: sleeping
apartments, bathrooms, sitting-room, kitchen, and
other accommodation (?), all included. In the
culinary department the employees must assuredly
have been supplied by his Satanic Majesty.” In Sydney
“ the house was invested with rats, cockroaches size
I had never seen before, and swarms of mosquitoes.” The
food was “ tough joints or tougher poultry (both badly
cooked), beef fed on the gnarled trunk of the oak, and
fowls fed on pebbles.” And in Brisbane— Merciful
o-oodnessi what an hotel I found. Sydney I reckoned as
bad as might be, but in the lowest depth there was a
lower depth.” Santley did well in all the southern cities,
but a northern tour, as far as Charters Towers, was a
heavy loss ; and as the peppery artist quarrelled with his
manager, clapped him in gaol, and then had to stand an
action for wrongful imprisonment, he left Australia no
richer than he came to it.
Either Wade, of N. S. Wales, has amazing
ideas of the law, or he has a mania for providing
lawyers with fees. He sent three cases to the
Privy Council, the other week. Two of them that
Court promptly tossed back to Wade as not being
worth serious consideration. The other one ar-
rived in a more leisurely way last week, but it
arrived all the same, and in the usual damaged
state. In this last case State Frights also got
badly damaged. Wade’s Government contended
that the Commonwealth had no right to charge
duty on the steel rails imported by the State ; in
other words, that the State has the right to
import what it pleases and drag what it likes
through the Customs free. The High Court sat
on that cheerful contention with all its weight;
and the Privy Council has now refused even to
listen to an appeal.
They do curious things in Freetrade
Britain. Within the last eight months the
Government has authorised the spending, by local
bodies, of £2,708,660 loan money in order to pro-
vide relief work (pauper relief in many cases) for
the unemployed. Yet it refused to use British
instead of Scandinavian granite on the huge naval
harbor works at Rosyth, because the local article
would cost £30,000 more. Of course, it wouldn’t
really cost £30,000 more, for the British quarry-
man pays heavy taxes to the British Government,
while the Scandinavian one doesn t, and in this
way the John Bull treasury would get far more
than £30,000 back out of the local contract. But
even if there was £30,000 at stake it would seem
better to spend that amount on the encourage-
ment of honest toil than £2,708,660 in semi-
pauper relief.
AT POVERTY POINT.
That excited person, Ada Ward, the converted actress,
has again struck this suffering country, with a nine
months’ engagement from the Sal. Army. At the end or
that time the amazing lady says she is going back to the
sta<>'e, which she has so often denounced. She doesn t
want’ to return to the garishness of the footlights
for worldly reasons, hut she desires to labor
among her fellow-professionals arid point out to
them the straight and narrow path. Unfortunately,
there may be a difficulty about finding an engagement,.
Even the ordinary, everyday Ada Ward of old times
wasn’t a star of such magnitude as to be in great demand.
An older Ada, with a reputation as a wild and woolly
preacher, will probably he in less demand. And an Ada
who avowedly intends to speak to the leading lady about
her soul, and to become a nuisance by dropping a word
in season to the trombone man, may be in no demand
at all.
The “ Pixie,” lately on view at St. George’s Hall (Mel-
bourne), is undoubtedly the smallest adult mortal that
Australia has seen—a trifle shorter (25£ir:.) than the
“ General Mite ” of yore, and two or three pounds lighter
than that healthier manikin. Ignoring the showman’s
yarn as to the “ Pixie ” being a middle-aged representa-
tive of a peculiar people, one takes him to be a youthful
freak or shock of somewhere between 15 and 20 years old.
It isn’t evident that he has ever been able to walk a dozen
yards. He can’t walk at all just now. When put on his
feet he leans against his keeper for support, a poor,
wizened piece of humanity whose vitality hardly extends
to the lower half of him. In fact, there’s nothing of the
“ pixie ” about him save his diininutiveness. The small-
est adult person on record —Lucia Zarate came nearer to
one’s idea of a “ pixie,” for, although she weighed less
than 51b., she could hop about like a bird, and was com-
paratively full of animation. But there was no pretence
of mystery re her origin. Her parents were a pair of fat
Mexicans who lived on the fat earnings of their extra-
ordinary offspring.
The alleged Chinese wonder-worker at Melbourne
Opera House produces a plump young woman out of a
revolving glass case that is visible to the audience all the
time. The plump and pleasing one simply materialises,
at first vaguely, then definitely, before the eyes of the
people. “Great Scotland!” ejaculated a bald man in
the D.C. the other night, “ does he get ’em fresh every
evening? ”
“ Funambulo ” : I think Chung Ling Soo is the best
conjurer yet seen in Australia. Has China great
magicians? I do not remember any showing before
whites. C. L. Soo goes back to some old methods
Probably he will return with a whole stage to himself,
and thus have yet more elaborate apparatus. His turn
appears to draw more money than anything since Tich,
and doubtless he is not quite so costly as that dwarf in
the elongated boots. Some of his tricks are not unlike
those of the real Anderson, Wizard of the North, who
began as a street performer. The yarn was that L. L.
Smith’s father, E. T. Smith, as a policeman,
moved Anderson on. Before coming to Australia Ander-
son farewelled at Covent Gardens with two days’ and two
nights’ performances, including himself as Rob Roy,
and a Bal Masque, which ended by the theatre being
burnt down. He had more elaborate apparatus than any
other wizard. It took all day to fix up. The tricks
worked in one with another as an ingenious series. Heller
was of the same school, and took hours to get ready.
However, a new school of conjurers, led by Wiljahba
Frikell, did away with apparatus, and this is the line of
Malini and Golden, in the present day. Leroy, Talma,
and Bosco showed us a return to the elaboration, with
happy'results. Yet Soo is somewhat better. TheMaskelyne
show, as in Australia, made me think of the French
saying that however you vary it, it is the same thing.
Chung Ling Soo apparently does without the mirrors.
My suspicion of them in one trick is probably unfounded.
His stage is just ordinary, with backcloth and wings.
The most startling trick is that of the cauldron. It is
shown to be empty, then placed on a fire, the flames of
which curl up round it. Soo pours in numerous buckets
of water. Then he puts in a lot of dead rabbits. A pipe
shows cold water running' out, and it becomes hot, with
steam. When boiling, Soo takes out a number of live
guinea pigs and live fantail pigeons. Then he moves
away to the wing, as if the trick is finished. Applause.
The most wondrous is to come. Live hens and ducks fly
out of the cauldron. Lastly, a Chinese girl emerges ! My
absurd explanation is that the fire is only a property one,
inasmuch as it does not catch Soo’s clothes. The cauldron
is over a trap door. The bottom is taken out. Soo pours
the buckets of water into a receptacle under the stage.
Cold water and hot water are poured through the pipes.
Somebody hands up the animals and pigeons from be-
neath. When Soo moves away the hens and ducks are
thrown out. Lastly the lady operator comes out herself.
More puzzling is the Revolving Crystal—a big affair, like
a magnified pendant to a chandelier. Itseems to be trans-
parent glass, and is hung from a chain, then whizzed
round. Gradually the form of a girl appears, and at last
she comes out. Well, I say to everybody, “ See Soo.”
Melba undoubtedly should be credited with sentimental
motives for her forthcoming tour of Australia. Measured
by her earning capacity during the same period in Europe,
her long fly around this country will not be profitable.
Nor can she hope to be fully appreciated as a singer by
her own country folk in remote places. Melba’s satis-
faction presumably will be more in showing them the
woman they have heard so much of than in warbling for
their applause and their shekels. Australia has produced
a Queen of Song whom 95 per cent, of the inhabitants
have never seen, and now she is going far out of her way
to let many of them see her whether they hear her or not.
Malicious misrepresentations of the real Melba are
accepted as fact in some of the districts where she will
presently make her appearance, and in revealing her true
personality she will convince a lot of people that a lot of
other people are liars of a very bad description.
The programme of the show that William Moore is
giving at Melbourne Oddfellows’ Hall on the 30th has a
footnote, stating that citizens in evening dress will not
be admitted. Apart from this rather poor Bohemian
joke, the programme is a snappy production, calculated
to excite expectations of smartness in the “ monologue,
duologue, one-act comedy andskit” which William afore-
said has written, and wherein he will take the centre of
the little stage.
Jack Howe, alleged to be Australia’s first clown, died
theotherday at Warwick(Q-), where he had lived for over
50 years. He toured Australia with James Ashton, the
father of the circus business in these parts. Being dis-
covered one day making a new joke, he was warned off
the premises, and settled down to the fiercely exciting
business of town bell-ringer and crier.
“J.”: It is hard luck on Tith., and incidentally on
Sydney 7, that appendicitis felled him at this particular
time. “An Englishman’s Home” is to be staged at
Sydney Royal bn Saturday week, bar accidents. The
chief part—that of Mr. Brown, the dauntless, John Bull-
like old party who gets shot by the invaders for fighting
without a uniform on—would have ideally suited Tith.
As things are Eardley Turner, an excellent handler of
character parts, is to play 7 Brown.
“M.P.”: Wirth Bros.’ elephant herd put in a timely
appearance at Waipawa (Maoriland) t’other week, and
caused no end of excitement. A traction engine had got
bogged in the heavy shingle of the Tula Tuki river,
through the driver missing the lightship, or something,
in the dark stillness of the night. Despite strenuous
efforts, the demented driver couldn’t get a move on.
When the Circus assailed the town, the “man of steam’
approached Geo. Wirth, with the result that the held
was turned out and hitched to the engine. Five ele-
phants dragged in front, and two —Alice and Toby—put
their noddles behind and shoved some. This combined
effort had the desired effect, and, with considerable
trumpeting, the indiarubber bulls heaved the engine out.
Then the driver gave a couple of triumphant whistles,
accompanied by 7 a huge escape of steam, and the elephants
gathered up their skirts and ran like perdition.
“Vulcan”: The fact that Yankee manager Frohmann
has paid handsomely for the American rights of the Bull-
stirring “ Englishman's Home ”’drama shows that it is
something more than a mere mirror wherein John catches
a startled glimpse of his putty 7 pedestal, and that it is ex-
pected to do something on its dramatic merits alone.
According to the London Daily Mail, the account of its
London success resulted in three red-hot cable offers for
the Australian rights, and J. C. Williamson got them. It
is a cold day when J. C. Williamson doesn't get the thing
he has set his heart upon.
“0.K.”: “The Duke’s Motto,” adapted by John
Brougham from “Le Bossu,” by one Paul Fbval, is a
46-year-old drama. It was first produced at the London
Lyceum in 1863 by Charles Feehter, an actor of romantic
hero parts, much adored by women of the period.
Feehter, born in London of an English mother and
begotten by a German father, had been “brought up
in France, and was a well-known French bellowdramatic
actor before he started to be a subject for controversy on
the stage of his native citv. Most women and a few men
swore by Charles Albert Feehter and his broken-Enghsh
accent. Others swore at him. His Hamlet— “To be, or
nottobee, zat is zee question”—was pictorially remark-
able for a long flaxen wig, and his admirers accepted his
performance as a great “ creation ” of the part on account
of the blonde make-up. There was a bitter conflict of
opinion astoFechter’sfitness for nearly every character he
undertook except the Spanish and French ones. As the
hero of Victor Hugo’s “ Ruy Bias,” (translated into
English), and as Don Caesar de Bazan in the old drama of
that name, he made a reputation before he bettered it
with his Henri de Lagardbre in “The Duke’s Motto.”
The play had a long run, and the actor’s name was
thenceforth associated with it. Early 7 in the seventies he
went to America (he came to financial grief there and
died in 1879), but for the next 20 years any mention of
Feehter in cockney suburban circles was the signal for
somebody or other to strike an attitude and say, “ I am
’ere ! ” Now that Julius Knight has revived Lagardhre,
he must feel tempted to try his luck with Ruy Bias and
other of Fechter’s heroes. Why not have a go at Don
Caisar and the twin Corsican Brothers? By the way,
Feehter was the original representative of the Corsican
Brothers in Paris long before he produced an English
version of Dumas pere's story.
“Johannes” : I would be interested to know what the
poison is supposed to be by which Fedora, of Sydney
Criterion, penetrates o’nights to a happier world. We
are given to understand that it is a “ sure thing in the
lethal sense; “it cures with certainty,” says Fedora,
“all ills.” A consideration of it in operation shows that
it is (if one may use the term in this connection) a
comfortable and thoroughly ladylike slayer. It produces
little unpleasantness, seemingly, beyond a “burning-
sensation,’’ which, after all, is a characteristic
of most stomachic troubles, from dyspepsia to the
uneasiness which is caused by aconitine. I am
sure the drug that Fedora carries in her cross
is not aconitine, nor even the less deadly aconite.
Her color and breathing are too good, and she
is too loquacious to the end. Nor does her mode of
death suggest All the accounts of deaths
from strychnine represent the doomed one as emitting a
deafening yell shortly after absorbing the stuff, and then
suffering excruciating agony, and assuming a shape like
the proposed Federal territory. In the notorious Rugeley
case, where Dr. Palmer gave John Parsons Cook strych-
nine, “there set in,” to quote the medical evidence,
“strong convulsions, followed by tetanus.” The un-
happy man’s uncontrollable howls of pain were to be
heard streets away. Fedora doesn’t die by arsenic,
lead, or any poison of that sort. As a matter
of fact, they are impossible for stage purposes.
They are untidy. A drug which produces the
same symptoms that a small boat in a heavy sea does
would not be entertained by a modern star actress for a
moment. The Sydney Cri. poison, whatever its name
may be, is the ideal article for one who has decided that
life is no longer worth living. Speed} 7 in its action,
almost painless, allowing of coherent, sentimental chat to
the last, and so compounded that it kills without detract-
ing for one second from the taker’s picturesqueness of
appearance—it possesses all the virtues that a poison
should. And it is for that reason the more undesirable
for exploitation in public. The advertising of such things
tends to swell the suicide statistics. I would like to see a
sound actor or actress give a conscientious picture of
what really happens to one who takes an irritant poison. It
would be a one-night show only, as C. G. Wade would in-
evitably ban it under one or other of the sections in his
Police Offences Act. But the papers would publish horrible
Zolaesque accounts and illustrations of it, with crosses to
show where the mime howled for the first time, and aster-
isks to indicate where the last awful furniture-smashing
convulsion occurred, and so on ; and for a space, as a direct
result, the names of misguided scoffers of match-heads,
rat-bane, etc., would fade out of the inquests reports.
But, on second thoughts, the actor would have to be a
magician as well as a mummer, for he would not only ie-
quire to howl while he was alive, but he might even need
to swell up and come out in dreadful blue spots after he
was dead. And very few actors know how to swell after
(stage) death.
LADY BUTTERFLY.
[FOR THEBULLETIN.]
Where the stars gaze on us, near
Smoky chimney-tops, a dear
Pagan lodges close to me ;
I am poor and poor is she,
Poor in gauds but rich in schemes,
Woven warp and weft, of dreams
Lighter than a woman’s oath ;
Fate is trifling with us both.
Seeing her none could resist;
Were I truer alchemist,
Ours would be the fairest story
Ever Yc- th conceived in glory,
Sang in wine and writ in tears !
I’d re-coin the squandered years
That, replenished, Youth might spend
Royally unto the end.
All the world slept unaware
She one night lay stunned with care
Scarce a foot away ; yet I
In the dead night heard her cry.
Heard, too, passing brawlers sing
And the frosty pavement ring ;
She, alone with her distress,
Thought the good gods pitiless.
Thus I knew, bewildered, white,
She lay listening through the night
To the footsteps of her fate,
Heavy with the morrow’s weight;
Knew, and nearer to her crept,
Stricken much, so sore she wept,
Heard her tears in anguish fall
With a hot face to the wall.
How she wept, and wept . . . yet though
None else heard I listened ; so,
Arm and cheek pressed to the wall,
Found a meaning to it all. . . .
What should mis’ry do with her ?
Love, the surest comforter,
Should he hers ! . . . But, anyhow,
Pagan, dear, Love shields you now !
That night, when the wind-witch screamed
O’er the roofs, you came and seemed
But a dusty moth . . . yet I
Found a wounded butterfly,
Sheltered ’neath the dripping eaves,
’Mid a riot of brown leaves.
Flung there by a bitter wind ;
Fate too often seems unkind.
Seems unkind... .But is she so ?
You and I, dear Pagan, know,
Though we grope in blackest night,
Sightless, Love contents us quite ;
Sorry, almost, that the sun
Ever dawns, such bliss is won
From the unrelenting, deep
Pit of trouble clasped in sleep.
I am poor and so are you,
Fate is trifling with us two ;
Though we know it will not last
Sweet the spell that Love hath cast ;
By and by you’ll flit.... and I
Mourn you, Lady Butterfly ;
Grieve lest you in future years
Pay for love with bitter tears.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


T £ e Thermos FlasK.
What it is, and why you should buy one.
The THERMOS FLASK is a simple invention which enables hot
liquids to be kept at the same temperature for 24 hours, whilst cool
liquids can be kept cool for days, without application of heat or cold.
It is invaluable for the sick room and nursery, as it permits hot
beverages being available at any hour of day or night without any
trouble.
When driving, you can with this Flask always have your cool or
hot drink ; also being equally useful when cycling, yachting,
picnicking, motoring and all travelling.
Prices : Leather-Covered, to hold 1 Pint, 22/0.
Leather-Covered, to hold 1 Quart, 37/0.
We send these Flasks carriage paid throughout the Common-
wealth, on the understanding that should they not fulfil everything
set down here, they may be returned, and purchase money will be
refunded.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
Sydney.
Gentlemen’s Size.
HOLLINGDALE 8 KESSELL,
Watchmakers—Jewellers—Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Noted for the excellent quality
of their Watches.
OUR SPECIAL
20s. LEVER.
Constructed upon most modern
lines, of best materials, Non-
Magnetic, open crystal glass face,
Keyless, fully jewelled, in hand-
some gun-metal or nickel case.
This Watch is specially designed
to stand hard wear and to keep time in any climate. It Is
“THE BEST” 20s. Watch on the market, and absolutely
reliable. Made in Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s sizes. Posted to
your address for 20s. If upon receipt you are not satisfied,
your money will be returned, Illustrated Catalogue posted
free upon application.
Ladies’ Size.
SOCIETY
EXPECTING TOO MUCH.
LADY : “I want a man to do odd jobs about the
house, do a little bit of gardening, run an
occasional errand, listen attentively to every-
thing I say, never answer back, and ”
APPLICANT (interjecting): “Oh, it’s a 'usband
yer want, madam! ”
“ Melb.” writes :
I have not a word to say against the genial treatment
of Pastor Murdoch by the Governor of Melbourne Gaol.
The only thing to note is that fish is made of one and
fowl of another. A large number of those misguided
persons, the Socialists, were committed to that same gaol
not long ago, for preaching a form of Christianity out of
doors in Prahran. Several ladies were included. Not
the faintest suggestion of sedition or blasphemy was
made against any of the offenders. They did not even
express contempt for the Prahran J’s.P., which showed
great forbearance. Yet they were all treated like felons.
The ladies were put into the criminals’ serge frocks and
sun-bonnets, and plentifully stamped with the broad
arrow. The men were also garbed as criminals.
Both ladies and gentlemen were placed in the
usual cells, each with a bucket. They were fed
on the prison hominy. Now their offence, in the
most serious aspect, was far less heinous than Mr.
Murdoch's. He defied the Supreme Court, and was com-
mitted for contempt of it. Read the scathing remarks
by Justice Hodges on the extreme gravity of Mr. Mur-
doch’s offence. Short of crime, he really could not do
anything worse in the eye of the law. However, it was
the offence of Thomas 5/Becket, the exaltation of the
Church above the State. When the Gorham Case, in
England, decided the supremacy of the State over the
Church, Archdeacon Manning said ‘‘This is no Church
for me,” and he made a bee-line for Rome.
* * * *
Gregory Wade, as N.S.W. Attorney-
General, has won a law case for the State at last.
One McCann had some land up Narrabri way.
He sold out to Stafford in 1898. In 1899 Stafford
resold to Charters. In 1900 the State proposed to
resume the land. The Lands Department was in
an unusual hurry, for in 1903 it had actually got
the deeds signed. Having paid Charters,
“the Crown” went up to Narrabri and
found the original McCann in possession.
Good old Mac remained in possession for
six years, and this year Pa Wade began
an expensive Equity suit to eject him. McCann
appeared to fight the expensive Equity barrister
himself, and explained that in 1898 he sold to
Stafford for £350 cash and two teams of bullocks.
As the bullocks hadn’t turned up, he said he still
owned the land. He admitted that he had exe-
cuted the transfer of the land, but that didn’t give
him his bullocks. The learned Judge explained to
McCann that he should not have given a clear title
under Torrens’ Act unless he had been paid in full.
McCann’s answer was that he hadn’t heard of
Torrens, and didn’t understand transfers ; all he
knew was that he didn’t get his bullocks, and
until his bullocks were produced he would stick
to the property. Finally the Equity
McCann out, and awarded costs of the Equity
barrister against him. So in this manner Wade
and his Crown Law Department have won a case
at last.
* * * *
A rather dull action in S.A. Supreme
Court, brought by a grazier against a shearing
co. which, he said, had undressed his sheep
clumsily, has been brightened up by the produc-
tion in court of a telegram sent by him to the co.
It read : “You have sent only one man who can
shear. The rest are sanguinary butchers.” The
plaintiff told the Court that this was no metaphor,
but (in his opinion) a plain statement of fact; also
that the last word but one of the telegram was
originally much shorter, or more to the point, but
a prim postmaster refused to send it as written.
Concerning another effort in the Common-
wealth Government’s struggle to square the
finances :
Postmaster-General Thomas put a large-sized bomb into
circulation towards the end of last week, when the new
telephone rates were published. Under State manage-
ment-noproper accounts were kept of the service, and
nobody knew exactly what the thing cost; and even now
nobody seems very sure about it. What the heads of the
Department did know was that Australia was getting its
telephone work done for from one-half to one-fourth of
what it cost people in other places, and that some people
were getting 80 or 100 rings a day out of a machine for about
4Jd. a day, and those rings called for the attention of at
least two switch attendants, and sometimes four when
the connection wasn’t direct. Looking at the work
that was done and the mighty little return for it,
and then looking at what other countries charged for
similar services, the Government decided that it was
about time to put things on a business-like footing. And
that is how the bomb arrived. For the future, in the
large cities, the telephone subscriber will pay £4 a year as
a standing charge, or ground rent; then if he makes over
2000 calls in a half-year he will get three calls for a
penny ; if he makes less than 2000 calls, he will get them
for two a penny. So instead of getting as many calls as
he pleased for from £5 to £8 a year, the subscriber wi!/
in future have to part up like this
Calls per Standing Charge for Total
Day. Charge. Calls. Charge.
3 £4 £2 5 7 £6 5 7
5 4 3 16 1 7 16 1
6 4 4 11 3 8 11 3
10 4 7 12 1 11 12 1
15 4 10 7 8 14 7 8
30 4 17 19 9 21 19 9
There is some doubt whether the Department is going to
charge three calls for a penny for all calls when the
number is over 2000 in a half-year, or for only those in
excess of 2000, charging two-a-penny for the first 2QOO. If
it charges three-a-penny supposing you rang up 2001
times, and two-a-penny when you rang up only 1998
times, then the service would cost the man who rang up
1998 times £6 3s. 3d. for a half-year, while it would only
cost the man who rang up 2001 times £4 15s. 7d. So, as
that would be absurd, presumably everybody will pay at
the two-a-penny rate for the first 2000 per half-year. In
any case there is a big jump all round, and there will be
kicking and furious demands to take the thing away.
And the voice of Anti-Sosh will be loud in the land. But
amidst all the row that Anti-Sosh will make it will be
careful not to mention what Private Enterprise cos. of
England and the United States charge for telephone
services.
It is only after a fearful struggle that the
warrior is separated from his cocked hat, his
aiguillettes, and his plumes; and the expression
he wears when the excrescences have been
wrenched from his person is the look a rooster
assumes when his Sunday tail-feathers have been
torn out by a cyclone. The new Commonwealth
regulations aim at making the local parade-
CHRONOLOGICAL.
VIXEN : “ O, she's older than that — you've got to
add her schooldays.”
ANGEL: “I think about three months would
cover them.”
grounder a little less like a Lord Mayor’s Ex-
posure, and a little more like a useful fighting-man;
but it looks as if there is a possibility of the
regulations being ignored by the men whose purses
they are designed to benefit. The trouble is that
the new rules do not go far enough ; they merely
say it is not “compulsory” for any regiment to
provide itself with the ruinously expensive full-
dress. But those who know the military man and
his savage love of pomp predict that the force
will go on sticking the same old feather in its hat,
partly because it doesn’t like to be less gorgeous
than the next apparition, partly because it thinks
the next apparition may look down on it as a low
person who is trying to save money on his kit. If
the regulations are to be worth their frame they
should be observed; the Minister of Defence
might, for their better observance, attack a penalty
of three days in a fowl-house for any man caught
with hen upholstery on his uniform.
OBVIOUS.
LODGER (to tailor's boy): “So your master won't
let you leave it without getting the money , eh !
But surely he knows me?”
BOY: “ Yes, the boss SAID he knew you!”
People rarely get into
gaol m S. Australia now
except by accident.
Within the past few
months nearly every
one of the tramway
offices has been burgled,
but nobody has been
arrested. In one case
the watchman was tied
up to a post, and his
keys were taken. The
detectives gave it up
as a bad job. The next
few nights many other
of the tram offices had
a visit, but still no
arrest was made. Con-
stable Hyde was shot
last Christmas, and the
police have given that
up as a bad job too.
There was a shocking
assault on a young
woman at midday on
the beach between
Glenelg and Henley,
and that has been put
by with the other mys-
teries. A few days ago
a prisoner was being
conveyed by train from
the Adelaide gaol to a
safer country residence.
He was in the custody
of a warder and was
also handcuffed. In
spite of that he jumped
from the train and
escaped, and at time
of writing is still at
large. It isn’t enough
for a man to be hand-
cuffed if yon want the
Adelaide police to cap-
ture him ; you must
leg-rope him as well.
The Commissioner is now
a weak, old man, and his
long connection with the
force seems to have affected
every member of it. The constable in the street
is mostly too tired to tell you the time, and the
coming of the electric cars does not seem to
interest him a bit. Adelaide reckons that this
last is a fatal sign, so something may be done in a
year or two.
“ Old Soldier” writes :
Du Maurier’s play, and some other things, are said to
have put life into the recruiting of Haldane’s Territorials
in the “ Home District,” which means London and the
Thames ; and Haldane is proud to report that one British
insurance co. has declared that it won’t take on any
clerks who don’t join the Territorials —in other words,
the co. has started the compulsory military system which
the Government is too cowardly to attempt. But Terri-
torial fever doesn’t seem to have spread from London to
the country. Latest accounts give the number enlisted as
237,561, or 24 per cent, short of the total strength of
313,314 required, or, as they put it, “ the establishment,”
At the same time, the “ regular army,” which in
time of peace has to go on foreign service to India, South
Africa and Egypt, has been reduced in strength, and the
reduction will fall very heavily on the garrisons of the
oriSy four strong places in England, Sheerness, Chatham,
Portsmouth, and Plymouth. There is a superstition that,
in case of an invasion of the British Islands, the fragment
of the regular army in the country would form the first
line of defence, and give time to collect the Territorials.
That is a delusion. It would be madness to leave the four
naval ports named to the Territorials. Their present
regular g’arrisons are quite insufficient to hold such
extensive works against a strong besieging army.
The four places named would each require
80,000 men to hold them, and if they were not held
the navy would be lost. It would be necessary at the
first threat of serious attack to throw the whole of the
weak Aldershot division into Portsmouth in order, if pos-
sible, to save the dockyard, without which the part of
the navy based on that port must be helpless. Chatham
and Sheerness, though they are separate places, really
form one system, covering the line of the Medway, and
the eastern approach to London. Both have dockyards,
and Chatham contains the great British torpedo factory,
where, by the way, Louis Brennan is perfecting his
mono-rail system at the present moment. The dock
yards and great manufacturing establishments
must be held at all costs, for, without . them,
the country could not renew its armament and
ammunition, so the strong places must be garrisoned by
the best soldiers available. The Territorials, without any
stiffening of regulars, would have to hold the open
country, if they could. It would all depend on the
strength of the invaders. Clearly, it would not need any-
thing like the 200,000 of Roberts’ imagination to make
the attack dangerous, because it would be necessary to
scatter the defenders for the protection of a great many
weak points, and those scattered detachments would be
in danger of being beaten one by one. Even without the
possibility of blundering in high places, Haldane’s Terri-
torials are not promising as a resort in an emergency.
“Melba”: Victorian police records show
a total of 884 offences reported last year, which
on investigation proved to be as mythical as
Britain’s alleged Freetrade policy. The principal
figure in the gallery is as usual the romantic female
who ties herself up to a tree or something, and
accuses the first man who comes along of having
assaulted her. This sort of thing is of almost
daily occurrence, and as nothing is ever done to the
tied female, she goes on her way rejoicing; while
the man, if he is lucky enough to be able to prove
his innocence, has the pleasure of a day or two in
gaol, and the suspicion of an awful offence resting
on him all his life. If the notoriety-craving
female were promptly punished for perjury, this
class of imaginary crime would blow out like a
punctured tyre; but, of course, you can’t expect
the police authorities to propose anything so
drastic as that.
THE HELPLESS ORPHAN LAND!
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
One of the reasons tendered for the absence of rifles and
barrels is the demand for these articles engendered by the
creation at Home of a Territorial force. This means, of
course, that if the Imperial people are busy Australia
must wait, no matter how urgent the need, for not only
rifles, but all other munitions of war.— News Item.
And of course we couldn’t ever make them here?
Surely not!
With tradition would we dare to interfere?
Not a jot!
Everything must be imported,
And be branded, stamped, and sorted,
As we’re frequently exhorted,
Are we not ?
(Who says “ Rot ”?)
We would go, if we tried to make them here,
Straight to pot.
When the rifles are not needed they’ll be there,
Quite a lot!
They’ll be there for everybody, and to spare,
Like as not !
The demand will be exceeded
By supply, when none are needed,
But be seriously impeded
When we’ve not
Got a lot 1
And we’ll have to face the foemen like a bare
Hottentot!
Heroism may be splendid ; few would dare
Say ’tis not;
But a level head is better in a square
Go, and hot!
It would be a horrid schism
To speak ill of heroism ;
Yet this age of realism
Seems to spot
Many a blot
On the daring deeds of heroes, as it were ;
Quite a lot.
And though rifles may be trifles, I’m aware,
To a man
Who believes that Socialism’s in the air—
That we can
Live in peaceful sweet relations
All our days, with other nations —
Still there are considerations
We should scan,
And a man
Would be handier with a rifle, as it were,
Than a fan !
But we shouldn’t try to make a rifle here ;
We have got
Miles and miles of native forest everywhere—
Have we not ?
We have hills of coal and iron,
Which the stranger is admirin’.
But to make a gun for firin’
We can not !
We’re a lot
Of galoots who couldn’t make a rifle here
On the spot.
:n.s.w.
W. T. GOODOR.


A Cold Bath on a Hot Day.
A cold bath on a hot day is refreshing
Every pore of your body is more open in
hot weather and requires more frequent
cleansing than in cold weather. The pores
in hot weather absorb more freely than in
cold weather; it is therefore most unde-
sirable, after taking a morning bath, to
cover the body with underclothing that
has been washed with adulterated common
soap. For comfort, cleanliness and free-
dom from skin disease the clothing worn
next the skin should be washed with a
pure and well-made soap. If Sunlight
Soap be used in the laundry your pores
absorb purity.
Barnet Glass & Co. have made such a decided
improvement in their Flite Golf Balls that they are
going' to knock the imported ball out of sight. They in-
tend guaranteeing every ball for 18 holes against crack-
ing. The guarantee slip is to be placed inside each box.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A Fine Sweater at 6/6.
Positively the finest sweater for holiday, gardening
or sporting wear that has ever been offered at or
near the price. Decidedly of good appearance,
warm and long wearing. Has the popular roll
collar and neat wristlets of pure wool, flawlessly
knitted and very elastic. In new colors, very
dressy and just right for present wear.
Colors: WHITE, HEATHER, NAVY,
SILVER GREY.
Price 6/6 ; posted 6d. extra.
WE SEND OUR CATALOGUE FREE ANYWHERE.
“MEN'S OUTFITTERS,"
309-311 George St., Sydney.
7/
4UM
m
About a deceitful Presbytery
The unco’ guid Presbytery men of South Melbourne
gave a ridiculous exhibition of disingenuousness last
week. They knew that their reverend “ clerk,” brother
P. J. Murdoch, would be asked .to produce in Court
(during the hearing of the Ronald v. Harper alleged
slander case) a copy of a letter written to Robert Harper
bri a certain date, and they knew that brother Murdoch
\ybuld refuse to produce the document because, as be
stated in Court, “ the Presbytery has claimed it to be
privileged.” But those arrogant, authoritative sectarians
didn’t reckon on brother Murdoch being committed for
contempt of Court as the result of his pre-arranged
refusal. Therefore, when Murdoch was formally gaoled,
and everybody could see that the sacred laws of Presby-
terianism didn’t amount to a row of pins, the Presbytery
men held a meeting at which they passed resolutions of a
deceitful character. Firstly, the Presbytery—with a fine
large disregard for grammar —agreed to “ commend their
clerk for refusing to produce one of its documents with-
out its authority ” —as though the question as to how he
was going to act in Court had not been settled beforehand.
Secondly, it was resolved—“ That the Presbytery, having
learned that both parties in the case desire the production
of the minutes and documents in the matter of the Rev.
J. B. Ronald, the clerk be authorised to produce them in
the Supreme Court.” This official attempt to dodge the
fact that these Presbyterians had tried to “bluff” the
Court, and the Court had made them show their hand, was
not so absolutely puerile .as their statement that “ the
members of the Presbytery, in arriving at the above reso-
lutions, by no means wish it to be understood that they
are waiving any rights which they claim to be inherent in
the Presbyterian Court.” In their inability to take a
defeat gracefully all Church authorities are alike. No
Church ever waives its bogus “rights” or admits that it
can do any wrong. Church “ authority ”in conflict with
the Law reminds one always of the clown in the marion-
ette show at Rickards’. Every time he starts to sing his
song he is knocked flat by a kerosene-tin or wooden brick,
and every time he jumps up protesting “ Never touched
me ! ” Finally, the bombardment of missiles gives him
no chance to pop up again, and the curtain falls on the
discomfiture of that poor marionette. But a voice from
behind the curtain cries “ Never touched me ! ” as before.
“ Cecil P.” : To-day I sent a friend a
“book” picture postcard, bearing a Sydney
view. It also bore the words: “Printed partly
in Germany and partly in Great Britain ”??????
Also Damn !!
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
“Isn’t the sea blue to-day!”
“ Yes, it’s shameful the way the color comes out of some of those cheap swimming costumes.”
A difficult point has cropped up over the
Oxford-street resumptions which the Sydney
City Council is going to carry out. This point is
the valuations for compensation. The landlords
are, of course, on velvet. So are the leaseholders,
for every person who holds an unexpired lease has
a valid claim at law. But most of the shop-
keepers are tenants-at-will, liable to go out at a
week’s notice, and some of them have foolishly
paid much money for the goodwill of their busi-
nesses, which, of course, will vanish with their
shops. Some of these have lived as long as 40
years on their present “stands” on a weekly
notice only. The Mayor of Sydney has promised
to deal as liberally as possible with all such eases,
but while the people may be deserving of con-
sideration, the case illustrates why “ the Govern-
ment ”is considered a good mark. Suppose the
rich private landlord, after 40 years’ rack-renting
of a ham and beef person, decided to pull down the
humpy and erect an emporium? Would Ham
and Beef as much as ask for a £5 note ? And, if he
did, what hope would he have of getting it?
“ Phil Court,” in reply :
Premier O. G. Wade supplied the Sydney daily papers
(lf)/3/’09) with another of his so-called “disclaimers of
any intentions in regard to the N.S. W. Chief Justiceship.
Furthermore he “ denied certain rumors categorically.
That is to say, he leaped with immense fury and both feet
on the allegation that he had offered the C.J-ship to
O. E. Pilcher, K.C., and said it was a lie. And then,
with the calm, sure touch of him who recognises that he
is on a safe wicket, he proceeded to tear the injurious
tale to fragments piece by piece. The fact that
makes his performance one ,of purely spectacular
interest is that no one ever said Wade personally
offered the C.J-ship to Pilcher. But the Carru-
thers Government, of which Wade was a member,
did, and Pilcher, with a good deal of justice, believed that
the arrangement would hold with any future Deform
combination. What Wade doesn’t deny is much more
interesting than what he does. For instance, Wade said
in January last that he granted. C.J. Darley’s application
for 12 months leave on full pay as a matter of decency, as
it were. “No greater insult,” he told the S. M. Herald
young man verv loftily indeed, “ could have been hurled
at a true and loyal public servant than by the refusal on
the part of the Government to accede to the request of
the Chief Justice for 12 months’ leave.” If this
meant anything, it meant that O.J. Darley had asked
Wade, of his own accord, for the leave and pay. A
while later the papers stated that Mr. parley's version
of the matter was that Wade talked hiw> into taking 1 the
screw and sticking 1 to the billet; that the thing 1 was dis-
tasteful to him, and that he only did it on the urgent
representations of Wade that this course would be least
hampering to the Government. Wade, in his “ denials
of last Friday, doesn’t challenge that newspaper story.
One possible reason is that the tale is incontrovertible
and supportable by documentary proof. Darley is under-
stood to be so enraged over the sordid business that he
proposes resigning the Chief Justiceship as soon as he
reaches London.
Wade’s fresh disclaimer (19/3/’O9) of any intention to
grab the Chief Justiceship himself next year is as vague
and unsatisfactory as ever, if not more so. He says:
“ To hungry office-seekers, it seems incomprehensible
that any man should be so idiotic as to refuse to grasp
with avidity every opportunity of promotion ; and,
animated by this guiding principle, they are quite pre-
pared to impute improper motives to m 3'self. I already
have made a lengthy statement with regard to this posi-
tion, and if Parliament requires any further information,
it will be supplied, and the Government will have no
difficulty in justifying the position they have taken up.
I may further add that, When the time comes for filling
the vacant position of Chief Justice, the Government
will appoint the gentleman who is best qualified to dis-
charge the duties of the office irrespective of any pon-
sideration other than judicial fitness.”
Not one word of it debars the speaker from discovering
next February that he is “the gentleman who is best
qualified to discharge the duties of the Chief Justice’s
office.” Wade could settle the discussion in one act by
saying, “ I shall not create myself Chief Justice, nor allow
anyone else to create me Chief Justice.” But he is
palpably disinclined to do anything of the sort.
The Australian Star is still urging
prominent lunatics to send in names for the
Federal capital. It has now got thousands on
hand, and hardly one among them that a respect-
able citizen would call his dog by. In one single
day recently there were suggested “Australian
Golden Rock City,” “Capital Hopetoun,” “Cook’s
Victory,” “ Cooktinentralia City” (“Cook tin
entralia” sounds like “Cook’s Innards”), “Daunt-
less City,” “Goddess of Peace,” “King’s Conti-
nental City,” “ Prosperous United Capital City,”
and about 100 other banalities. It is terrible to
contemplate the mental baldness and barrenness
which leads anybody to propose calling a place
“ Prosperous United Capital City ” ! If someone
would only invent a reliable hair-restorer for the
mind or a fertilser for the intellect, some of these
horrors might be averted.
* * * *
Some ancient and interesting Sydney
land titles are being inquired into for the purposes
of the Real Property Act. Mr. Fred Gannon
seeks to bring under the Act over half an acre in
Gannon-street, Tempe, part of 470 acres granted
to Thomas Smyth, Provost Marshal, in the genesis
of last century. Sam Hordern, of the “ Historic
Slope” of Brickfield Hill, wishes to bring under
the Act a piece in King-street, Newtown, part of
240 acres granted to William Bligh, who was
Governor just 100 years ago. And the Lookes, of
Balmain, want to get a bit at Looking-Glass Bay
and Wharf-road, Gladesville, under the Act,
being part of 50 acres granted, 70 years ago, to
John Glade, of Kissing Point. Hence the name
of the place.
STILL HAD A CHANGE.
Rev. SIN-SHIFTER : “My good man, I am afraid
we shall not meet in a better land.”
REGGIE: “Don’t give up, boss! You might get
in somehow.”
Melbourne City Council is experimenting
with the invention of a young Australian—
Edward Ryan, electrical engineer—which pro-
mises to overcome the Gritty City’s dust nuisance.
Ryan’s elixir, a secret liquid largely diluted with
water and sprayed on the street, has the addi-
tional ad vantage of having a rather pleasant per-
fume ; and if Ryan can produce something that
will throttle Melbourne’s dust and its odors in one
act, he will deserve a monument. In fact, he will
deserve something better than a monument—he
will deserve to go on living so that he can be his
own monument.
* * * *
By “ Frank Croson ” :
Judging by the fuss made by press and public in Mel-
bourne last week, one might imagine it was the Founder
of Christianity whom Justice Hodges committed to prison
for contempt instead of Scotchbyterian parson Murdoch,
clerk of the Presbytery of Melbourne South, whatever
that phrase designates. There was much to-do and
plentiful talk of “suffering for conscience sake ” and of
a “ question of religious toleration” and so forth, yet in
reality the matter was no different from an ordinary
contempt of Court, save that the culprit wore a tidy
black suit and a white choker, and, by reason of his
position and education, should have known better.
Murdoch, as Presbytery clerk, was in possession of a copy
of a letter assumed to be relevant to the case before the
Court —a claim by parson and ex-politician J. B. Ronald
against Robert Harper, M.P., for £3OOO damages
for alleged slander —which letter he declined to
produce, on the ground that some precious oath
he had taken to his employers, the Presbytery,
forbade him to divulge its contents. Justice Hodges
calmly and promptly gave him into the custody
of the sheriff till further orders, which meant till
he handed over the letter. He didn’t stay in quod long.
The Presbytery called itself together in a violent hurry,
“ authorised” the production of the blessed missive, and
in 24 hours the martyr was at liberty once more, though
not before Mr. Hodges had delivered himself of a
lengthy oration, impressing on the public at large the
absolute even-handedness of justice and the Law’s dis-
respect for persons and creeds. As a matter of fact,
the Law, the press and the public were showing
themselves respecters of persons, if not of creeds.
Had a trade union secretary declined to produce,
say, a list of objectionable employers or blacklegging
employees, he would have doubtless been gaoled for con-
tempt, but there would have been no long oration or
labored expatiation ; there would have been a short para-
graph, not three or four columns, in the papers, and the
general public would scarcely have rushed the court to
learn what was to happen to the contumacious individual.
For press and public there was the excuse of novelty, but
for Justice Hodges there was none. By his very declara-
tion that he was no respecter of persons he showed that
he was. By giving his reasons why a contemptuous
parson should be treated the same as a contemptuous
publican or porter, Judge Hodges assumed the one to
occupy a more respectable plane than the other ; and that
is an obviously unjust attitude for the Law to assume.
“ Jabez” : Inote that Monsignor O’Haran
gave evidence before the Sydney
City Improvement Committee last
week re the proposed Cathedral-
street viaduct. The idea of the
viaduct gave the Monsignor the
spasms. “It would bury,” he
complained, “the Cathedral it-
self. The whole Roman Catholic
body looked to St. Mary’s as
their mother church, and to St.
Mary’s graunds as national pro-
perty. Their non - Catholic
friends recognised that St.
Mary’s, when completed, would
undoubtedly be the finest
architectural monument in the
City of Sydney,” etc., etc.
Which is all very well ; but
the essential point is that
St. Mary’s is not yet
completed, and there
are no indications
that it is going to be
foran indefinite time
to come. At present
it is, from one as-
pect, a fine archi-
tectural monument;
from another, an
A viaduct
or any other con-
struction that would
screen the wilder-
ness of galvanised
iron that forms the
southern side of St.
Mary’s would be all
to the good. The
Oratory, the huge
R.C. church in the
South Kensington dis-
trict of London, was
for years in the posi-
tion of the Cathe-
dral. The faithful
would not roll up
with funds to com-
plete the dome and
that portion of the
edifice which front-
ed on the Bromp-
ton-road. Along
came the City
Fathers and said
bluntly that the half-
finished Oratory was
a trial to the public
eye, and that it simply
had to be finished
within a given (and
short) time. 1 forget
the alternative, but I
know it was something
dreadful—the pulling down of the entire structure,
or the blotting of it out by means of an im-
mense wall, or something else equally drastic.
Within six months the R.C. community had sub-
scribed sufficient funds to finish the church (Mr|
Dalglish-Bellasis, an Australian, gave £30,W0 off
her own bat), and in an incredibly short time the
iob was completed to the satisfaction of all
parties. Possibly the viaduct idea is encouraged
by the Machiavellian Improvement Committee
with the object of goading dilatory Romans to toe
the financial scratch. Modern civic bodiesdont
allow genuine architectural monuments to be ob-
scured from the public view The tendency is all
the other way. A completed Cathedral would be
the best insurance against the viaduct scheme
which the St. Mary’s authorities dread.
•
When they had time to sit down and
think over it, the Broken Hill miners began
to notice a small weevil or two in their Arbitra-
tion award. Justice Higgins evidently noticed
the weevil himself, but his trouble was that he
wasn’t dealing with all the mines and all the
miners, but with only two mines out of about a
dozen. The other 10 had fixed up an agreement
already. There were weevils in this agreement;
and Justice Higgins was told that, if he made an
award without the same weevils, there would be
certain to be trouble —and most likely there would
have been. The largest worm, and the one that is
going to do most damage, is the contract system.
Justice Higgins wanted to abolisn contracts, but
couldn’t, because they were provided for in the
other agreement; therefore all he could say was
that, “in setting contracts for breaking ore, the
representative of the mining co. and the con-
tractors shall exercise their best judgment so as
to provide that each contractor shall earn 12s. per
shift ” Higgins must have fidgeted when he
wrote that vague, misty remark ; for he knows
that, when things are bad and work is scarce in
an industry which has tremendous ups and downs,
men will throng around the bosses for contracts,
and the tendency will be to cut and cut and cut.
In fact, though a minimum wage is supposed to
be fixed, there isn’t any minimum so far as the
great majority of the miners are concerned ; for
the great majority are on contract.
THE SCHOOL OF ANTISOSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mfibournf ■ Tuesday.—The council of the Victorian
Employers’^ Federation has adopted the proposal to estab-
UsTinTnti Socialistic school for the d.scuss.on vf pro-
posals put forward by the Labor party and the Somaliste.
It was considered that such a school would.be.of grfeat
Si"toeffiU. proposals, .n<l
»' -” h »’ th L,CS- 1
industrial legislation.
He was a small employer, and he swung- his little bag
Of badly-printed foreign books as onward he did drag ;
His hands were rather dirty, and his face required a wash.
I asked, “Where are you going?” and he answered,
“Anti-Sosh ! ”
I seized that small employer, and I begged him to disclose
What he learnt at Anti-Sosh’s. He muttered, “Teacher
knows!
But I can’t understand it, though I goes there day and
night ;
All lessons there shows Labor’s wrong and Capital is
right.
“ 00-o! it is nice to go there ! ’ Then that small
employer cried,
“We prove at school we’re quite correct. (They say we
ain’t, outside 1)
Then we work out that all the laws industrial is bad.
A bonzer school to go to ! ” grinned the small, misguided
lad.
He was a small employer with a satchel full of lies ;
The money-dirt was on his hands, the dust was in his
eyes ;
He capered like a heathen as he told me of the bosh
He stored within his headpiece at the school of Anti-Sosh.
N.S.W.
Foe.
THE BETTER WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No matter what religion you men belong to, you should
attend church. Any religion is better than none. Rev.
Rohan, of Bendigo (Vic.).
All men should have religion now,
The grievous sin is having none.
If you’ve no creed, oh ! make a vow
That ere the night you’ll borrow one.
For though the sects dispute and blame,
They all agree to play the game.
One teaches that the other’s rules
Will send, our souls to boil like shrimps,
The second says the formers’ schools
Are training grounds for Satan’s imps ;
But both the sceptics will condemn,
Who dare renounce the pair of them.
Did priests, disdain the truth to shun,
Of creeds they would declare, my brothers,
That any’s better far than none,
And none is better than the others.
So take a little stick and stone,
And set up churches of your own !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” CAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal Agricultural Societv’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastraer & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold Gold Estates,
bodangora,
N.S.W.
This magnificent Plant has been purchased by us from the Liquidators in the Estate of thesi
JAS. DICK, and comprises practically new complete 40-Head Tubular Frame Stamper Battery otiuuuiu.
Stamps, Compound Surface Condensing Corliss Engine, First Motion Winding Engme, Double 14m.
Cylinders, and Three High-Pressure Cornish Boilers, all by Thompson, of Castlemame. Three large Air
Compressors, Stonebreakers, and enormous lot of miscellaneous Mining Plant. Complete Catalogues in co
of preparation, and will be sent post free on application. CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Machinery Merchants, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ; also Melbourne, Ballara^and^endigm^^
THE WILDCAL
COLUMN
The full accounts of the N.S.W. Miners’ Acci-
dent Relief Fund are not yet published ; but the Board’s
report and a statement of accounts are available. The
latter, however, does not show interest accrued, though
in recent years the amount has totalled something- over
±'2500. Therefore the balance to the credit of the Fund is
not ascertainable. The cash balance in hand is £220,573 ;
add other net balances, and the total is £221,389. Twelve
months ago the corresponding total was £192,798, so
£28,591 has been added to the liquid balances
during the year. The total outgoings for the
year have been £36,195, of which only £1657 has
gone in expenses. On the revenue, therefore, the
expenses charged to the Fund have amounted to £2 11s.
Id. percent. But nothing is charged to the Fund for office
accommodation or for clerical labor. Secretary’s salary,
etc., is apparently paid by the Mines Department. Even
if the Department made a special vote to cover these ex-
penses, it is most desirable that they should be shown in
the accounts, so that the whole cost might be known.
With everything thus added, the total would probably be
under 3£ per cent. —a remarkably low expense rate,
and only possible because it costs nothing to collect
the premiums. The duty is laid upon every mine-
owner employing 15 or more men to deduct 4jd.
per week from the workman’s wages; and between
them, the State and the mine-owners have to make a
similar contribution in equal portions. In return, the
widow of the mine-workman who is killed by accident
gets 10s. per week while she is unmarried, and the children
under 14 get 3s. per week ; in case of disablement, the
battered mine-workman gets 15s. a week, with 3s. per
child under 14. A funeral allowance of £l2 is also paid
when death results from accident. The Fund is the
nearest approach to State life and accident insurance in
existence in Australia; and, in order to show how
cheaply universal workman’s insurance could be managed,
all the expenses ought to be charged up. Until that is
done, it is impossible to use this Fund’s experience to
hang a sermon on.
The funds are all invested in N.S.W. Govern-
ment stock. This investment and the general manage-
ment of the Fund are in the hands of a central Board.
Local administration is in the hands of small committees,
to whom the mineowners pay the workmen’s contribu-
tions ; and these contributions are used to pay the
weekly allowances. Originally these local committees
were unpaid, but they now receive small fees. The
owners’ and the State contributions are paid to
the central Board ; when the workmen’s contri-
butions are not sufficient to meet current claims,
the committees draw on the Board. Last year, as shown
above, the allowances totalled £34,538 ; the receipts from
workmen’s contributions totalled £28,810. In view of
the growth of the funds, another movement has been
started to increase the benefits. Under the Act (for
which two men are mainly responsible—present Post-
master-General Thomas, and J. L. Fegan) a periodical
examination has to be made by an actuary. In 1905 J. B.
Trivett found that an increase of 25 per cent, in the bene-
fits might safely be granted ; and that report was adopted.
Another examination is now about due ; and it may be
accepted as a matter of course that the Fund will not be
tinkered with in any way except upon the recommenda-
tion of the actuary. There certainly has been a large
accumulation of funds ; also, on the other hand, there is
a steady accumulation of widows and permanently dis-
abled miners, from whom, of course, no revenue whatever
is received.
One point might be considered : whether, the
Fund having now been set firmly on its feet, and the
administration perfected, it is not now possible to in-
clude miners who work in even the smallest mines. As a
matter of fact, these shows, being usually hard-up for
money, generally carry on work in a much more danger-
ous way than the big, well-equipped properties; and
the proportion of accidents among the small-show
miners is much greater than among the others. The cost
of administration will undoubtedly be greater ; but the
Fund can stand that now'. With the help of mining
inspectors and wardens’ clerks, who are in touch with
practically every small claim-holder, there should be no
great difficulty in doing the work. An amending Act of
a line or two would no doubt be necessary.
Difficulties have arisen in connection with the
plan proposed for resuming dividends in the Queensland
National Bank at a comparatively early date. At the
last half-yearly meeting the chairman said : “On
Feb. 16, 1905, I stated that after a few more payments
had been made to the Government, we w'ould probably
approach the stockholders w'ith an offer which would
place them on a better footing in respect to the balance
of the ss. written off the original deposits, and which
w'ould also operate to the advantage of the shareholders.
I regret, however, to say that after going fully into the
matter and taking counsel’s opinion, we find that there
are legal difficulties in the way of our doing so that
appear to be insurmountable, and it has, therefore, been
decided to endeavor to repay w'hat is owing to the de-
positors as quickly as possible, by increasing the amount
of the yearly payment whenever the results justify our
doing so. As you are aware, under the terms of our
scheme of arrangement, no dividend can be declared
until the whole of the ss. referred to has been repaid.”
When the Q.N. got on the rocks an arrange-
ment was made with the private depositors by w'hich
they took 15s. in the £ in deposit stock ; the other 55.,
for which they got nothing, w'as to be repaid
out of net profits, and no dividend was to be
paid until the whole debt had been wiped out. Then
came the Act of 1904, making a new arrangement with
the Government as to its debt; and this was among the
provisions that the parties were authorised to agree to
“ Until one-half of the said principal sum of £1,463,661,
with interest, has been paid to the Government, the bank
shall not declare or pay any dividend, and thereafter,
until the whole of the said principal with interest has
been paid, the bank shall not declare or pay any larger
dividend than a dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per
annum.” This did not actually authorise payment of a
dividend when half of the Government debt was repaid.
But it removed an obstacle, and the directors proposed to
get over the other trouble by making a re-arrangement
with those persons who owned the rights to the unpaid
portion of the ss. per share. The plan was referred to at
the first meeting after the new Act was passed : “ After a
few payments have been made to the Government, we
will probably approach the stockholders with an offer
which will have the effect of placing them on a better
footing in respect to the balance of the ss. written off.
This will also operate to the advantage of the share-
holders, as, after half the promissory notes held by the
Government under the new agreement have been met,
we will then be at liberty to resume the payment of divi-
dends.” That plan, however, seems to have broken down ;
there are “ legal difficulties in the way that appear to be
insurmountable.” So the shareholders, it now seems,
will have to wait for dividends until the whole ss. has
been actually paid off. How long that will take there is
no telling. Originally (1897) the debt was £1,038,974 ; it
was £850,974 at December 31 last, so £lBB,OOO, or rather
more than one-sixth, had been paid off in 11 years. But
of that £lBB,OOO no less than £72,000 had been paid in
the past 2J years. The fact, no doubt, is that hitherto,
before the proposed plan was found to be unworkable,
no great rush was made to pay off the ss. ; the directors
relied on making- an arrangement with the stockholders.
But now, as the chairman says, an effort will be made to
clear the £850,974 out of the way ; and no doubt some
profit that was formerly used to write down assets in-
ternally will be applied” to this other purpose, for the
effect will be much the same—it will simply be another
way of writing down assets internally by wiping out a
contingent liability.
* » * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb.,’o3.. 8,78 S 8 p.c. = 5,943 2,845 113,623
Aug.,’o3.. 12,631 10 ~ „ 7,428 5,203 118,826
Feb.,’o4.. 11,646 10 ~ ~ 7,428 4,218 123,044
Aug. ,’04.. 12,635 10 ~ ~ 7,428 5,207 128,251
Feb., ’05.. 12,791 10 ~ „ 7,428 5,363 133,614
Aug.,’os.. 11,532 12 ~ ~ 5,914 2,618 136,232
Premiums on new shares .. 8,508 144,740
Feb.,’o6.. 11,298 12 p.c. = 9,450 971 877 145,617
Aug.,’o6.. 13,511 12 ~ „ 9,450 1000 3,361 148,978
Feb., ’07.. 34,564 12 ~ ~ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug.,’o7.. 17,164 12 ~ „ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 178,806
Feb.,’oB.. 17,120 12 p.c. =11,025 2500 3,595 182,401
Aug. ,’OB.. 16,272 12 ~ ~11,025 2500 2,747 385,148
Feb.,’o9.. 16,142 32 ~ ~11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
This bank has been making remarkably fine profits during
the past few years, and, on the face of things, it isn’t
easy to see how it has been done. Five years ago the dis-
closed profits were at the rate of £1 15s. Bd. per cent, on
the advances ; now they are at the rate of £2 Is. 6d. per
cent. Possibly some internal writing down was still in
progress five years ago ; otherwise the increase seems too
good to be true, and too good to be maintained. The
accounts certainly indicate a steady though small shrink-
age of profits for the past four terms, in spite of the
recent increase of capital and the growth of reserves ;
but the profits are still high compared with what they
were four or five years ago. Calculated in proportion to
capital and reserves, recent profits have been as follows:
Aug., 1905.. £8 7 7 p.c. Aug., 1907 .. £ll 7 3 p.c.
Feb., 1906 .. 717 10 ~ Feb., 1908 .. 10 8 3 „
Aug., 1906.. 9 6 0 „ Aug., 1908.. 9 2 1 „
Feb., 1907 .. 914 10 „ Feb., 1909 .. 819 3,,
As to the reserves, it has to be noted that considerable
additions have come from premium capital. At the end
of 1907 10,000 new shares (£2 10s. paid) were issued at 100
per cent, premium ; and two years previously £B5OB of
capital was got in on the same terms. The 12 per cent,
dividend isn’t, therefore, so oppressive as it might be ; so
far as some at least of the capital is concerned, it really
means only 6 per cent.
Some other details in connection with the Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania follow :
Feb., 1908. Feb., 1909.
Notes and bills .. £64,177 £80,324 Inc. £16,147
Deposits .. .. 1,544,805 1,563,997 Inc. 19,192
Liquid assets .. 490,631 450,068 Dec. 40,563
Advances .. .. 1,451,720 1,531,349 Inc. 79,629
Premises .. .. 37,557 1 39,193 Inc. 1,636
The increase of advances means, no doubt, that things are
not quite as good in Tasmania as they were, owing mainly
to the shrinkage in metal and other prices. But the bank
was working so nearly up to the limit of safety when
things were very good that there is not much
room for larger advances now that there may
be a demand for them. The bank’s liabilities
total £1,644,321, and only 27 per cent, of that- total is in
hand in the shape of liquid assets. This habit the Tas-
manian banks have of working on a narrow margin of
liquid assets partly explains why they make big profits
notwithstanding that they have no large amount of the
public’s money in proportion to their own. In the case
of this bank the proportion of the public’s money is
£4 10s. to every £1 that belongs to the shareholders,
which is a very moderate amount and means much less
risk both for shareholders and depositors than some
banks have to carry. The amounts shown in the first
table as written off have been used to mark down the
book value of premises.
* * * . *
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Build-
ing and Investment Association, Ltd. (Sydney)•
Loss on Loss on
Busi- Proper- Total Written
Dec., ness. ties. Loss. Off, etc. Deficit.
1899 .. £938 £B7B £lBl6 £4190
1900 .. 1890 1854 3744 £75,250 83,154
Reserves.
£103,898 capital written off .. 20,714
Loss on Net
Profit. Properties. Profit.
1901 .. 1597 500 1097 21,811
f 538. 385 1531
1902 ..-! Forfeited share V 21,982
t capital .. .. 18 J
1903 .. 2223 591 1632 23,614
1904 .. 2019 1041 978 2,500 22,092
1905 .. 1217 743 474 22,566
1906 .. 1398 98 1300 447 23,419
1907 .. 1152 291 861 24,280
-iooq i 1660 970 690 247 l 29 615
1908 •• Dividend, 5 per cent. = .. 2108) ~ l ’
Fishing since 1891, and this is the first bite they have had
during all those years ! The trouble was the usual boom-
time load of deposits. The co. had been paying 8 per
cent, divs., and on a paid capital of £123,922 had about
£254,000 of debts, including £132,880 of deposits and
£98,086 of mortgages. Following the slump of proper-
ties, payment of depositors in full was out of the ques-
tion, so an arrangement was made in 1892 to pa,y the de-
positors one-half in cash on maturity of deposits with 6
per cent, interest and one-half in 6 per cent, debentures,
the latter not to exceed £60,000 and to be specially secured
by the co.’s interest in the Glebe leasehold. Of course
the co. couldn’t do it; so in 1897 the Equity Court ordered
a meeting of debenture-holders, and the interest was re-
duced to 3 per cent., with the stipulation that no divi-
dend should be paid till all the debentures were cleared
off. Calls were got in, liabilities were wiped out, and pro-
perties were written down partly out of profits and
partly by reducing capital. By 1896 the paid capital was
£138,920 (30,000 shares of £5 each, with a few shillings
uncalled). In 1900, £3 10s. per share was written off ;
and the capital is now £42,138, in 28,092 shares, all fully
paid—the last payments on the last few shares in arrear
were made during the past year. Also the last of the
debentures were paid off ; so the long-delayed dividend
has come at last —nominally 5 per cent. ; though people
whose shares cost them £5 will probably figure it out
differently. And there have been other big changes
during the year:—
1901. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Capital .. .. £42,083 £42,099 £42,099 £42,138
Debentures .. 51,572 30,019 20,229 Nil
Other debts .. 57,495 48,545 51,748 28,548
Advances.. .. 14,175 13,529 13,517 12,080
Defaulters’ mort-
gages .. .. 23,109 6,700 5,847 4,700
Estates, etc. .. 132,363 103,716 97,287 75,489
Cash, etc. .. 3,449 21,011 22,746 4,349
Thus the total debts have been reduced during the year
by no less than £43,429, partly out of cash in hand, partly
by large sales of city and other property. The chief pro-
perty asset now is the Glebe estate, with a book value of
£44,500. This yields in net rents a shade over 10
per cent. ; but £2OOO, or about 45 per cent, of
the yield, has to be put by for redemption.
The other assets are less remunerative ; and £5OOO is
added to the formal Reserve Fund “ principally to meet
possible losses on realisation of suburban and York’s
Estate lands,” while “ it is advisable to add £1250 to the
Mortgagors’ and Land Purchasers’ Contingent Fund
owing to the continued droughts in the York’s Estate
district and the extended terms upon which the land is
sold.” As these funds constitute about three-fourths of
the reserves, the poor character of the reserves may be
judged. Also, as provision has to be made out of re-
served profits to cover expected losses, it seems that some
of what are called profits are really not profits at all. Yet
the 5 per cent. div. absorbs more than twice as much as
the average annual alleged profit of the past five years ,
so, though the directors are hopeful of continuing to pay
a dividend, it isn’t at all certain that the 5 per cent, can
be maintained.
* * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co. (Ade-
laide) . Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to lie- nal Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £15,953 5 p.c. =£12,500 £3229 £224 £8,465
1900 21,233 5 ~ ~ 12,500 2083 6650 15,115
1901 . 23,468 5 „ „ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
1902 . 22,506 5 „ „ 12,500 1250 8756 31,371
1903.. 13,752 5 ~ ~ 12,500 750 502 31,873
1904.. 12,935 5 ~ ~ 12,500 750 31,558
1905.. 12,913 2£ „ „ 6,250 2750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5“ ~ ~ 12,500 2750 2120 37,591
1907.. 18,172 5 ~ ~ 12,500 2750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 ~ „ 12,500 6103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17,551 5 ~ ~ 12,500 5051 46,045
This eo. issued its first balance-sheet just 20 years ago. It
had been born early in 1888, with a capital of £250,000 and
a mortgage debt of £150,000. Everything was then at
boom values, and goodwill and properties were passed on
to the new co. at extravagant prices. Under somewhat
similar circumstances some years later Tooheys, Ltd., in
Sydney, wrote its capital down from £550,000 to £400,000,
the vendors making special concessions. Nothing of that
sort was done in the S. Australian case ; instead, the
mortgage of £150,000 and a few other debts were con-
verted into 5 p.c. debentures for £200,000, and the co.’s
position was worse than it was in the beginning ; for the
co. has now first to earn £lO,OOO to pay interest on a debt
which in the beginning was represented by nothing more
substantial than boom froth. In the co.’s first year over
£35,000 profit was reported, and a 10 per cent. div. was
declared ; bub 1898 was the last year when anything more
than 5 per cent, was paid. The accounts have never been
satisfactorily presented ; goodwill has always been lumped
up with freeholds, etc. Also when there is a huge amount
of overvalued or paper assets, one needs always to be sus-
picious of even the Profit and Loss account ; for an
attempt may (or, again, may not) be made to
write down the inflated items out of profits. For years
past, in the case of this co., a certain amount has been
charged direct to profit and loss for depreciation ; for
last year it was £4670, but this covers also bad debts.
The amounts shown in the table as written off have been
additional appropriations to write down plant, premises,
etc. The directors are apparently struggling to write off
more than enough to cover ordinary depreciation ; for
when special Licensing Courts abolish pubs wholesale,
great holes have to be filled up in brewery balance-sheets
—holes which are not riddled in any other kind of
concern.
Some further details of the S. Aus. Brewery
follow:
1899. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Debentures .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Other debts .. 35,115 53,500 49,266 36,479
Freeholds, Plant,
Goodwill, etc. .. 439,873 498,639 492,956 485,822
Stock .. .. 22,008 12,015 13,587 13,565
Advances, Cash,
etc 41,179 42,159 61,058 44,438
Gross Profit on
Sales .. .. 24,347 30,706 35,674 28,674
Rents .. .. 12,707 11,717 12,226 13,906
Expenses .. .. 7,132 8,240 8,939 10,359
The investment return is unusually high, figuring on a
5 per cent, dividend basis. The £1 paid shares, selling at
65., return no less than 16§ per cent. Even the £2 fully-
paid shares show nearly 9 per cent. Evidently investors
don’t feel too sure of the 5 per cent. div. A Freehold
Depreciation Fund is now shown for the first time.
Apparently up to now this has been an internal reserve ;
it amounted to £6500 on Feb. 28, and £2301 has now been
appropriated towards it—the whole balance of the year’s
profit after paying the dividend and writing off the usual
amounts for plant depreciation. This fund,” the
directors say, “ is expected to be annually supplemented
from earnings.” No doubt that is where the fear of a re-
duced dividend comes in. For the past year all the surplus
earnings over and above 5 per cent, have been consumed ;
and there may be such a vast depreciation of value that
the directors may want to fill the hole up faster by re-
ducing the div. However, so far as the market is con-
cerned, shares have now been written down respectively
to about 235. and 6s. ; that is to say, £147,500 out of
£250,000 has been written off. The proper course would
no doubt be for the directors to follow suit and also clean
up the balance-sheet, sweeping away the fictitious values,
and writing down capital. But evidently it doesn’t suit
their book. So long as they only pay a 5 per cent, div.,
one sward in the armor of their enemies is blunted, any-
how. To those who hold at present prices, or w'ho buy
now, the question is: “What div. can the co. pay?”
First, the debenture debt has to be taken into account.
Apart from that, they will probably reflect that the
market has done what the directors probably want to do
by degrees, and has written off £147,500 to cover depreci-
ation of values ; so that the dividend can be cut down to
even 3 per cent., and they will still get a very fair return.
Whether any sort of return at all is good enough when
there is as much uncertainty about it as there is in con-
nection with brewery shares (especially in S. Australia,
which has Cold Tea in a bad form) is a matter which a
man can settle for himself only.
» m * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and In-
vestment Co. (Sydney): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1902.. 5913 8p.e.=2972 2911 15,507
June, 1903.. 6048 10 „ „ 3717 2331 17,838
Dec., 1903.. 6484 10 ~ ~3720 2764 20,602
June, 1904.. 5748 10 ~ ~3721 2027 22,629
Dec., 1904.. 5543 10 „ ~3722 250 1571 24,200
June, 1905.. 5606 10 „ ~3723 800 1083 25,283
Dec., 1905.. 4469 10 „ ~3725 94 650 25,933
June, 1906.. 4398 10 ~ ~3726 672 26,605
Dec., 1906.. 3723 10 ~ ~ 3726 -- 26,602
June, 1907.. 3730 10 ~ ~ 3730 26,602
Dec., 1907.. 4568 10 ~ ~3733 835 27,437
June, 1908.. 3938 10 „ ~3734 204 27,641
Dec., 1908.. 4077 10 „ ~3740 337 27,978
This co. makes its best showing when things are not as
good with most other people as they might be. In 1903, a
year of drought and distress, profits totalled £12,532 ;
last year they only got as high as £BOl5. It is not only
that fewer people just now w'ant an uncle ; but with
money plentiful it is easier for those w'ho do want one to
get accommodated, and rates are consequently reduced.
At the end of 1903 the co. had £88,400 out on various
brands of security ; the half-year’s gross interest receipts,
after providing for bad debts, totalled £10,970. For the
past half-year the gross receipts were £8999, after making
the same provision, notwithstanding that the total
advances on Dec. 31 were £93,873. As reserves have
accumulated (over £12,000 has been added in six years),
the co.’s own borrowings have been reduced. Five years
ago £12,363 was owing to depositors ; that item has now
been reduced to £6858, though there is now also a small
overdraft. The balance of the money has gone into in-
creased advances. Presuming that the securities
have been kept well written down (and therein lies most
of the risk from the investors’ point of view), the co., by
reason of its much-strengthened reserves, is in a
better position to reap a harvest from bad times than it
W'as formerly. It started paying a 10 per cent. div. in
1903 ; and even if it only earns 7 per cent, on its money,
what it has put by since the 10 per cent, dividend started
is just about capable of paying a 1 per cent. div. on the
capital. In other words, given equal conditions, it should
be just about as easy for the co. to pay 10 per cent, now
as it w'as to pay 9 per cent. 5£ years ago. A good part of
the gain has, however, been absorbed by an increase in
working expenses : they have moved from £3985 in the
last half of 1903 to £4696 in the past half-year. The paid
capital is £74,806 ; 50,000 shares are fully paid to £l, and
25,000 others are nominally paid to 10s., but in the aggre-
gate all but a few pounds have been actually paid on these
last-issued shares in anticipation of calls for the other 10s.
There are 25,000 unissued shares, and these will probably
be put out very soon.
Weight, Heaton and Co. (Sydney), carriers
and produce-dealers:—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1903 12,926 30 p.c. =10,185 2741 18,413
Tulv 1903 ■/ 19 ~ ~ 3,500 —■ 21101 oq koo
- ’ ( Unexplained additions .. 8000 /
Jan., 1904 2,840 10 p.c. = 3,500 27,863
July, 1904 2,911 10 „ „ 3,500 13,000 14,274
Jan., 1905 5,052 7i ~ ~ 2,625 2427 16,701
July, 1905 6,254 7£ ~ ~ 2,625 3629 20,330
Jan., 1906 6,593 7% ~ ~ 2,625 3968 24,298
July, 1906 6,311 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907 6,275 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2775 29,854
July, 1907 7,955 10 „,, 3,500 4455 34,339
Jail., 1908 8,826 10 ~ ~ 3,500 5326 39,665
July, 1908 8,054 10 ~ ~ 3,500 4,000 554 40,219
Jan., 1909 7,167 10 ~ ~ 3,500 5,000 38,886
This co. formerly carried on three semi-independent
businesses —one in N. S. Wales, the McCulloch Carrying
Co. in Victoria, and the Queensland business. The
capital was £70,000 ; of this, £lO,OOO was used in Queens-
land, and £12,500 in the McCulloch business. Probably
owing to the difficulties of supervision, the Queensland
concern showed very irregular results ; and, a while ago,
it was decided to sell the whole outfit. That has been done,
and the £lO,OOO of capital in cash has now been thrown into
the pool. Apparently, as new branches have been
opened in N.S.W., it is intended to find use for this money
in business extensions in the South ; and the co.’s debts
have also been reduced. Considerable changes therefore
show up in the figures':—
Jan., Jan., Jan., Jan.,
1903. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Cash £33,032 £12,735 £5,351 £23,203
Premises, plant, etc. 15,447 18,676 19,911 15,202
Stock 15,140 32,184 35,505 27,501
Book debts .. .. 55,293 68,550 90,567 60,472
McCulloch Co. .. 22,203 16,478 19,077 21,846
Liabilities .. .. 46,310 46,991 58,997 37,648
Of the half-year’s profit, £5959 comes from the N.S.W.
business and £l2OB from the McCulloch Co. The book
debts, it will be noticed, are very heavy. Presumably it is
to write these down that a Contingency Fund of £5OOO has
been struck out of the reserves, as shown in the first table ;
and a further £3OOO is now transferred to Contingency
Fund. (The £4OOO written off in the previous half-year
was in reduction of the book value of premises and plant.)
Obviously, if bad debts have to be provided for out of
reserves, the amounts shown above as profits are not
true net profits. The business is speculative. In 1903
the profits were very large, because the stocks of fodder
appreciated greatly in price; in 1904 it was the other
way about. With that reservation the business is highly
profitable ; and, though the outlook for profits may be
rather narrower for a while, owing to the establishment
of new branches, the financial position looks better than
it has done for some time.
* * * *
Berbima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.):—
Writ-
Pro- Bonus to ten Re-
fits. Dividends. Suppliers. off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 2460 10 p.c. = 92 12 p.c. = 685 401 3771
1901.. 2370 10 „ ~ 94 15 „ ~ 1010 307 4730
1902.. 3482 10 ~ „ 94 25 ~ ~ 2313 390 5415
1903.. 2609 10 ~ ~ 95 25 ~ ~ 2000 368 5561
1904.. 2898 10 ~ ~ 98 30 „ „ 2525 295 5541
1905.. 4073 10 ~ ~ 98 33J „ ~ 3130 342 6044
1906.. 4929 10 ~ „ 99 35 „ ~ 3862 373 6639
1907.. 4394 10 ~ ~ 99 35 „ ~ 3450 338 7146
1908.. 5967 10 ~ ~ 99 35 „ ~ 4240 320 8454
This is one of two large co-operative produce-distributing
concerns in Sydney ; the other is the Coastal Farmers.
They receive the butter, etc., from the co-operative
factories, and either sell in the Australian market or ship
to Europe, though most of the shipping business is in the
hands of private concerns. The paid capital of this co.
(£986) indicates the small things from which the co-
operative dairying movement sprang in N.S.W. With
such a mite of a capital substantial reserves are called
for, seeing that book debts alone (representing less
perhaps than a month’s supplies to storekeepers, etc.)
amounted on Dec. 31 to £13,549. An excellent feature of
the financing is the substantial amount written off to
cover depreciation. The bonuses are large ; 35 per cent,
of the amount paid by suppliers in commissions is re-
funded. To some extent, of course, these bonuses mean
keeping money from falling into the right-hand pocket in
order to presently drop it into the pocket on the other
side ; and it is quite possible for a co-operative society to
be very well managed and to be giving splendid value to
its suppliers without paying any bonus at all. Thus in
the case of the Bega (N.S.W.) Factory Co., ref erred to last
week, it is claimed that recent profits have been small
simply because, by good management, it has been found
possible to tell almost to a penny what the co. can afford
to pay for supplies ; so suppliers have got full value as
they have gone along, instead of waiting till the end of
the*year to get a surplus in the shape of a bonus. The
co-operative supplier certainly can’t judge absolutely
from the size of the bonus ; yet he can go this far—if he
is getting from the co-operative concern as much as he
could get from another concern, then the bonus repre-
sents his share of profits which wouldn’t come his way at
all if he handed the business over to some concern that
wasn’t co-operative.
The unions at Broken Hill still largely swear by
Tom Mann ; yet if they look back now, and calmly view
the situation, they must see that they got some horribly
bad advice three or four months ago. The trouble was
that the unions’ chief advisers —anyway, the advisers who
made most noise—were men who knew absolutely nothing
about local conditions. It was all very well to talk tre-
mendous polysyllables about coercing the plutocrat.
Their way to coerce the plutocrat was by shutting up his
mine. These new-chum advisers didn’t know that
it often suits an owner to shut up his mine-
suits him so well, in fact, that a provision has
been put into the law compelling him to give regular em-
ployment to a certain number of hands. They didn’t know
that the present is one of the times when it suits the
silver-lead or copper mine owner to shut down if he can
get any sort of an excuse at all. The Broken Hill miners
business, therefore, was not to play into the cos.’ hands
by closing the mines down, but to finesse so as to make
them keep the works open. And that was why they were
so horribly badly advised when they rejected the B. H.
Prop.’s offer to keep going after January 1 at the reduced
rate, the co. paying the difference between the old rate
and the new into a trust fund, pending the award of the
Arbitration Court. Had the ignorant advice of Mann and
the other new-chums not been taken, the men would have
been at work instead of being idle and getting (some of
them) into mischief during the past 10 weeks, and they
would now have had the joy of drawing some backpay,
bringing the wages up to the old scale, as the Court has
awarded.
Unfortunately, they refused to work on those
terms, and have not only lost 10 weeks’ pay, but are also
unable to get back to work. They gave the co. the excuse
it wanted to shut down, and now they can’t get the co.
to open up when they want it to. The Arbitration Court
has given its award ; but, having shut up for 10 weeks,
the co. doesn’t mind keeping things shut up for another
10 or 20—it would much rather leave its lead in the mine
and sell it later on for £lB, than dig it out now and sell it
for £l3 ss. And at the same time it can have its little
dig at Arbitration. The big employers, almost to a man,
hate Arbitration as much as the revolutionary' Socialists
do: so the co. is going to keep its mine shut down
on the pretext that it wants to appeal against the Arbi-
tration proceedings on various technical grounds, lhe
result will be, of course, that by reason of this delay some
thousands of workmen will curse the Arbitration Act a.sa
rotten stick to rest on ; and the Fat employers will enjoy 7
the situation —the more workmen whom they can get to
curse Arbitration the better. But, while they- are cursing
Arbitration, the Broken Hill miners might spare a feu o
their most vehement damns for the asses who, a tew
months ago, fooled them into refusing the B. H. Brop.
offer, and thus led them into a trap which it is migh J
hard to get them out of.


Streng'tH and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
F. H. LLOYD & CO. Ltd.
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers,
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked efiect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and otters—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.* » , *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavv grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. _ these
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4*ft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* _ . 1
James Hardie and Co. carry large and useful
stocks of Dick’s well-known belting; Fibro-Cement _
Asbestos slates, sheets and silos ; Weston centrifugals ,
Fullis’ laundry machinery, gas engines, shafting, pulleys,
caustic soda, soda ash, sodium—lowest prices, West
Circular Quay, Sydney.* 14
* * * ...
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue of
30/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited. “ The Colonial Mutual typifies to a
great extent the Australian spirit, the keynotes of which
are ambition and enterprise. This Society has much
which commends it for acceptance to our country-men,
while its reputation for straightforward dealings largely
explains its success in the other countries in which it
operates.”* * * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packi 0
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydnej,
and at Premantle, W.A. Sole dep6t for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.* * « *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrati 1
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will And them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses .
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydnej ,
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tbnax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed,
use on Broken Hill and other big mines m Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for tb's
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydnej.
•* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipesi may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
. » * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagli-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
, * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Coliison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke fetreet,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ■ hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospectors
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits,
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan s crucibles,
chemicals ; etc.* „
* * *
The Canoblas Shire Council is about to instal
one of the most up-to-date roadmaking equipments yet
introduced into Australia. The plant, which is estimated
to cost something like £l6OO, will consist of an
McLaren Traction Engine, with scarifier and grader, and
anAcme Stone-breaker. The Council expects to cover
the cost of the installation in two seasons. The fact that
this sum can be recovered in so short a time says H
deal for the economy of the machinery, which is wed
known for its efficiency and reliability. The Canoblas
plant is being supplied by Gibson, Battle “d Co.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne.
LOHMANN <a COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES,
SOLE AGENTS for
as purchased by the Govts, of N.8.W., Victoria
ahd Tasmania, and 911 principal mining com
_ „ ta+lnnB contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 13
Wlii lp, the troubles it has are bad enough,
Broken Hill managed to escape last week from a threat-
ened General strike. How near the Barrier was to a repe-
. . c ioQ(i nnlv those in the ‘inner circle of the
There is a militant Socialist party
within the unions, and some sacking at the Junction
North furnished these fireworks with a chance to make a
noTse Their frank idea is that the more commotion and
destruction there is the better, and they wan
the workers to down tools from end to end of the
line There was a lot of talk about the Port
Pirie men being determined not t 0 go baek to work
with any non-unionists, and the Bioken Hill me
were ur<' : ed not to take any notice ot agreements, hut to
follow” the Port Pirie lead. But the cat got out of the
bag at the A.M. A. meeting, held to deal with the June,
tion North dispute. After pmechaimhghtning oratory
had been indulged in, a leading official! to °^ t u ° d been
told the audience some icy truths. He said it had been
the intention of the Pirie men to take a vote on the ques-
tion of working with non-unionists, but the officials knew
that the feeling of the majority was so strong against a
strike on that ground that, rather than let then show
their hands, they decided not to have a ballot. On hear
ing that statement, the war-dancers collapsed, and the
corroboree fell down dead, and the general strike was
“ off.” „ *
* * *
Lloyd’s (N.S.W.) has just got authority to hang
itself up for six months. * *
Lymington Coal Co., Newcastle (N.S.W.),
which has been having trouble owing to the ventilation not
being up to the Mines Department’s requirements, pro-
poses to raise the necessary wind above ground as well as
below by an issue of 10,000 7 per cent, cumulative pret.
shares. The issue is first available to present share-
holders in the proportion of one share to five.
* * * *
Minister of Mines Gregory (W. A.) has caused a
flow of bad language at Coolgardie by giving the Westralia
and East Extension 00., Bonnie Yale, six months spell
from labor conditions. This derelict has been persevered
with for 14 years, and, although sufficient money has been
put into it from time to time to take the shaft-down to
1200 ft. on the underlay and open up some miles ot work-
ings, it has never earned a penny for shareholders, and,
from present appearances, never will. As the co. isn t
bound to keep the mine drained during exemption, and
as it seems to be shirking this precaution against render-
in0 * the workings unsafe, it looks as if the crowd whic 1
owns the property is sick of the whole business, arid
wants to pave the way for the erection of another tomb-
stone. Meanwhile, Bonnie Vale, which got its sustenance
from the mine, is preparing to efface itself.
■Jfr ♦ *
The two or three shillings lately chipped off the
value of Great Boulder (W. A.) shares is due to the some-
what lean appearance of the 2350 ft. level. The 30dvvt.
to 2oz. values opened up at 2200 ft. gave rise to a gamble
on the chance of something similar being met with at
2350 ft., and prices soared accordingly. So far, however,
10 to 12dwt. has been the average assay value of the ore,
and the fact that the lode doesn’t measure nearly so
much around the girth as it does at 2200 ft. hasn t im-
proved matters. Still, according to manager Hamilton,
there is as much gold in sight now- as ever there was, so
that, for the time being, shareholders haven t much to
worry about.
* * * *
Golden Link (W.A.) ought to do better. Re-
ceipts for 14 months ended Sept, last amounted to
£36,466, but as expenditure and depreciation mopped up
£44,931, a book loss of £8465 is shown. The 00. would do
very well if it hadn’t to cart and treat its ore at the Lake
View Consols mill; but as the latter co. has Che Link well
under its thumb, and knows when it has a good thing in
its grasp, there isn’t much chance of things improving
very much. Latterly the Link has been making a small
monthly profit, but by far the biggest cut still goes to the
Lake View. In their report to the Board the general
managers estimate the reserves at 30,000 tons of a gross
average value of 425. per ton ; they opine, however, that
the tonnage partially in sight will give the reserves a big
lift during the current year.
Word comes from London, via the West, that
Hoover and Govett have had a difference with 8., M. and
Oo and are going to set up in business as mine man-
agers. They may have had a row with the firm, but
things are not likely to go beyond that. Govett makes
more money out of stockbroking and directors fees than
he would ever make out of managing mines, while as
regards Hoover, Loring, who bought him out, isn c the
sort to purchase an interest in even a pie-stall without
binding the seller not to start or take a share in a com-
peting stall until Loring is desirous of chucking hot-pie
stalls for something else. #
Hooper and Speak, who took charge of the
Boulder Perseverance last month, have now got the
newly-reconstructed Kalgoorlie Amalgamated in their
stable. Latter property includes the Block 45 (where
telluride was first found, but isn’t found now), the
Croesus (formerly a gold mine, but now out of business),
and other leases which promised well in the early days of
Kalgoorlie, but didn’t come within cooee of expectations.
In addition, the Amalgamated stands a fair chance of
getting within its big area of country both the continua-
tion and underlay of the Golden Link shoot, ana on this
prospect most of its speculative value is based. Whether
things will turn out as expected, and, if so, whether share-
holders will benefit to any extent, is wholly and solely a
matter of conjecture.
* * ■*
Mararoa Co. (W.A.) is forcing things. Last
half-yearly report showed that, after providing for so and
so, and writing down this, that, and the other thing, a
Profit and Loss balance of £0930 remained to carry for-
ward. As usual, some Westralian papers figure on this sum
as if it were actual cash in hand, and are whooping about
the way the co. is getting on. Boiled down, the hnancial
position on December 81 was tms: Cash and debtors
(approximately three-quarters cash and one-quarter
debtors), £2187 ; debts (sundry creditors), £275 , sui-
nlus £191*2. The January and February profits increase
this amount to £5928 ; so, after chipping off £s2oo'for
dividend and dividend tax, the co. has only £6ife left.
This policy of making 1 dividends tread on the heels of pro-
fit will get the co. into trouble. Besides, it looks too
much like a catchy sort of window-dressing.
* * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) is looking much better in depth.
At 700 ft. the lode, which averages somewhere near an
ounce, has been proved for 350 ft., while as far as the drive
has been extended at 800 ft. the ore is worth 15dwt. Un-
fortunately, little information can be got regarding this
mine locally, reports being published in London only. As
a result, shareholders at this end are kept in ignorance of
what is going on ; yet they stand it without a murmur.
On Jan. 31 the Sandstone Development Co.
(W A ) owed £3289, and had £7711 in cash and bullion
and £3593 in book debts. The half-year’s profit and loss
account shows £3367 to the good, after writing off £1563
for development, £512 for depreciation, and £448 for ex-
penses of the reserved-share issue. Still this proht
is a mere matter of book-keeping, seeing that while
£1568 was written off for development, £4893 was actually
spent, the balance being charged up to capital account.
Development, which remains to be written off w 01
future profit, now stands at £14,072. The director ,
having lately issued 33,020 shares (ss. paid), at a
premium of 2s. 3d., now reckon that, with the assistance
of a crushing or two at the State battery, they should b
able to pay for air-compressor, suction gas plant, ana a,
10-head battery, and also proceed with the development
of the stone proved (mainly by boreholes) over the 3m it.
level. It is impossible to say yet what quantity of ore
there is : but there appears to be ample to justify tnis
work, and there is very little doubt now that the Co. gets
the Oroya-Black Range shoot. The trouble is that the
formations in the district are very flat and liable to serious
disturbance.
* * *
Anaconda copper mine, at Murrin (W. A.), was
recently looked at by Sydney mine-engineer Horton on
behalf, it is said, of some Queensland people ; but the
inspection hasn’t led to business. This mine earned good
profits for a time, but twice things have slumped so badly
that the employees have been “ balanced ” for their wages,
and the prospect of getting payable ore at depth is not
exhilarating. *
The end of the Bellevue, Ltd. (W. A. ), can t be
far off. For the 15 months ended June last, the accounts
for which have only just come to light, the: co. earned
£25,892, and spent £44,387, so that it actually handed out
nearly £2 for every £1 worth of gold produced. There is
still a little left in the bank, and, when this is drawn out
anything may happen. Anyway, the chances of a murth
reconstruction being successful look blue, seeing that calls
on the present shares are £7528 in arrear.
* * ■* *
At last Sons of Gwalia Co. is going to open an
Australian share register (at 8., M. and 00. s Melbourne
office), and when things can be fixed up the shares will be
listed on the Australian Exchanges.
. * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) is still groping after riches at
200 ft. with more or less indifferent results. Every time a
good assay is cabled away the shares jump a shilling' or
two, and just as soon as insiders have passed out then
shares they tumble down again. Making all due allow-
ance for the ore in sight, and allowing a good margin tor
speculative value, it is difficult to see even par value (4s.
per share) in the # #
Wandiligong is one of the Bright (Vic.) dredges
that rarely fail to give the postman something to do once
a month. The div. cheques are small, butd^ e "^ bl ®- f
Originally there were only 24 shares of £l5O each, of
which the modest vendors took only four when the co.
was floated in 1905. But there has been a reconstruc-
tion • the original 24 shares were cut up into 3600 of: £l,
and another 2400 were issued, paid to 15s. The divi-
dends to the end of January totalled £i7lo, or £1 ss, Bd.
per share. The past year has been by far the most pro-
lific • ss. came in the first half and 14s. in the second.
The ’spring is due partly to the running of a second
dredge, which has now been paid for; extra-good
ground was also worked part of the time. So far, the
co. has dredged 64 acres (each dredge gets through about
six. acres in a half-year), and 232 acres remain to be
chewed up. . „
* * * *
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), has
got into a nasty corner at last, and no longer is there any
flaunting of its Golden Butterfly luck. The length of
stone in the lease is down to 130 ft., a hard fact which
knocks into foam all the piffle talked about the passing of
the reef to the east. No. 29 level is as poverty-stricken
as a Yarra deadbeat, and the co. has little stone left to
stope overhead. Mistake No. 1 was to declare the last
divf and No. 2 was to get.to work on the Consols shaft
until there was no doubt about having plenty of stone to
call on in the Extended lease. Yields last half-year
were over loz. ; now they are sdwt. As it costs
lOdwt. to work, a Grammar School boy isn t needed
to tell how it is that a reserve of £lO,OOO has got down to
half of that. One shift is to be heeled out, and no one
would be surprised if a further big cut was made in the
staff until, at any rate, No. 29-level is fit to stope. No 30
crosscut has eight weeks to go to reach the reef, this
will prove whether the famous Cohen s shoot has guttered
out between 2800 ft. and 2900 ft. The co. hasn t had a bad
innings, with £785,280 paid in divs. on a capital of
£53 280; but that isn’t much satisfaction to those who
have been inveigled into taking shares during the last
year or two. * * *
Star of the East, Ballarat, is to reconstruct on
a sixpenny issue, and with the bank debt written down
from £lB,OOO to £9OOO. The directors will start with
about £7OO in hand. This won’t last many Sundays when
the cost of pumping is met. Anyway, the legal manager s
salary goes on as formerly. Lucky man .
* * * *
Catherine Reef, Bendigo, plugs away in the
deen ground-at 2200 ft. and 2300 ft.-and, though it can t
pay dividends, it shows the way to a few others in econo-
mical management. The total yield last half-year, in-
cluding pyrites, was only 4dwt. Sgr. per ton ; yet, in
spite of depth, and a deal of exploring work (all charged
to working costs), even that covered expenditure, and
left a bit over : the bank balance was £739 on Sept. 1, and
£1192 on March 1. Apart from the few hundred tons of
lidwt. stuff got out by the tributors, the co. handled
14 039 tons for 27580 z. gold. Things ought to be a trifle
brighter before the year is out, as better stone was passed
through in the winzes between the 2200 ft. and 2300 ft.
levels than thestopes above the 2300 ft. have yet got into.
****..
One of the most interesting features in the dis-
cussion between the metal-buyers and the O.K. Co.
(N. 0.) concerned the monthly production. As mentioned
in a recent par, a good deal depended on this particular
point. Everyone knows now, of course, what could not
be done viz., to maintain a regular output of 150 tons
monthly. To ensure this amount the average recovery
must have been at least 8J per cent., and even then the
working conditions must have been good ; that is to say,
there could not be more than a week of stoppages
in each month. About the middle of 1906 just
before the contract started, the recovery was over 13 per
cent., and it was nearly 10 per cent, at the end of the same
year Those values would provide a fair margin over the
necessary 150 tons. Had the Board carried out its pub-
lished intention of increasing the smelting capacity, the
decreasing grade of the ore should not have prevented the
minimum being forthcoming, as the converter plant. is
capable of handling twice the amount that it has
done. In the argument now concluded, the directors
of the co. have stoutly held that, at the time the
contract was under discussion, they absolutely refused
to guarantee a minimum delivery, knowing that
the mine and plant were incapable of continuing to pro-
duce that amount. Yet they had, very shortly before this
period, spoken confidently of 250 tons, and even 300 tons
a month, but they say they date their conversion to the
lower standard a few weeks after General-Manager Shep-
herd’s arrival at the mine. On the other hand, the plain-
tiffs claim to have shown from certain letters, including
the circular letter inviting tenders, that Shepherd was
even more sanguine than the Board says it was itself,
also that later oil he was under the impression that he
should have been producing 150 tons in terms of the con-
tract, and that he gave the tenderers to understand that
at least 200 tons might be expected. In his evidence he
appeared to be making an effort to reconcile conflicting
estimates ; finally he admitted that some of his figures
were written practically under instructions. His conse-
quent discomfiture under cross-examination commanded
a good deal of sympathy, the feeling being that he was
something of a scapegoat.
Last week Mt. Morgan (Q.) told one of the
thing's that the market would have given more than
eighteenpence to know beforehand, by declaring its divi-
dend as usual. But it will certainly have to dip into
reserves to pay it. And the copper market, instead of
turning up so as to fill up the gap, has taken another
awkward dive. .
* * * *
Brilliant Extended (Charters Towers) is open-
ing its deep levels with fair results. No. 18 has been
driven 86ft. west, with 18in. of mineral stone on the foot-
wall and 3Jft. on the hanging wall. The expressions in
northern reports, “heavy mineral” and fair stone,
have to be taken for what they are worth ; the recent
month’s crushing of 4770 tons for £2 Bs. 3d. per ton, with
a profit of over £4OOO, is the best test of value. An im-
provement was needed, for the Extended recently crushed
many thousands of tons that barely paid expenses.
Deeps, which used to be known as the Deep Levels, also
had a long run of hard luck, so the change for
the better has put a lot of heart into deep level
enthusiasts. Altogether 180 ft. has been driven on the
new reef. The first crushing was worth about £3 and was
payable ; the next, poor ; the latest, 98 tons, averaged
nearly £lO per ton. The last 40ft. of driving followed
payable stone. They don’t talk much about the east-
ward continuation of the reef, because it is poor
that way ; but on the good appearance of the western
face enthusiastic admirers are speculating on the Beeps
reef running right across the Blocks and Freeholds to
Mills United. The United hopes to get this Brilliant leef
in the bore from No. 10 ; but this is a very long shot.
* * * *
Ruby, Charters Towers, surprised the market
with a poor return of £BOO from 320 tons. Some down-
South papers printed “ 32 tons,” which made the return
look like £25 per ton ; but never a word from Charters
Towers to correct that dazzler. The poor yield followed
one of 474 tons for £5324. The punter who, seeing a, low-
priced stock, swallows a hook baited with a rich yield like
this, is pretty sure to get a shock nine times out of ten.
Hopes about the Ruby revived when the deepest level
(No 8) met the faulted reef again, but prospects are erra-
tic, and at 136 ft. east of the underlie there is a hard for-
mation carrying small leaders. They are sloping on 12m.
of fair stone over No. 8 west level. These small streaks
of golden stone often get poorer as they open out. ihe
Ruby, considering its small size, has been a surprisingly
o-ood little show, and has paid over £20,000 in dividends ;
but the high cost of working makes the rich returns every
two or three months horribly deceptive.
* * * *
At G-vmpie (Q.) the East Oriental and Glanmire
is tearing out ioz. crushing stuff from a diorite lode
which lies flat for 100 ft. or so on the bottom break of
the Monkland slates. The formation shows very little
quartz, but pays £2OOO per month in dividends, which is
encouraging for Gympie’s deep eastern ground. The
Oriental Consols, to the south, claims to have the exten-
sion of the same formation 500 ft. from the shaft in the
2077 ft. level. The property should have a good future,
but is rather over-capitalised. At One Mile the No. 2
North Columbia and Smithfield is on dividend stone, and
has lately cut a third reef, the slate being over-
head. Columbia Extended is likewise winning
some heavy gold from the second slate-bed and
has lately managed £2OOO per month in dividends.
No. 3 North Columbia has finished shaft-sinking. The
work proved the second bed of slate to be of excellent
quality, and existing some 290 ft. under the Phoenix slates.
Several reefs have been proved in the property at higher
levels so when they have been opened up dividends should
be forthcoming, as the two previously-mentioned mines
are neighbors. At the Two Mile the Great Northern has
shortened hands, and is wisely concentrating its ener-
gies on sinking the shaft and proving the second bed of
slate, which should be found at between 250 ft. and 300 ft.
below the Phoenix slates. The shaft is now down 680 ft.,
and slates should be cut at about 730 ft. There is also a
chance of another reef in that distance. The results of
this work are of great interest to the held. The Peter
and Paul, and the Homeward Bound and Hibernian, in
the same district, are both meeting with favorable
developments as the shafts go down.
The Yulcan, Australia’s deepest tin mine, at
Irvinebank (N.Q.), continues to do no better. The guile-
less Northerners knew tin mines arid tin markets better
than the Southerners did when, to oblige the latter, they
agreed to cut up the shares and pass a few of them on at
the top of the tin boom. Up to the endi of 1906
record was dazzling—£B77,362 won from the mine, and
£162 030, or about 45 per cent, of the total, paid in divs.
It seemed a shame to let the simple Northerners have a
thing like that to themselves in a little local co. whose
methods every visitor poked fun at. So people down South
relieved these Northern men-and never a dividend has
happened since. In the past two years £56 011 worthi of
tin has come out of the mine; but, though no div..has
been paid in that time, only £4089 remained in the bank
on January 31. Last half-year the profit ran to £2127
less £407 for depreciation. The worst feature of the
business, though, is that the co. hasn’t got any big ore
reserves to draw on in case the market turns in its favor.
At 1220 ft., where most of the recent development has
been done, things have been most unsatisfactory ; and
the 1400 ft. level is now being driven to see if there is any
change for the better at that depth. The co. is in 264,000
shares of 3s. 4d. each, paid to 2s. 2d. ; in the old days,
before the Southerner came in, there were 44,000 shares
of £l, paid to 13s.—the division, of course, was made tor
stock-jobbing purposes. And it wasn’t vain.
Briseis Tin Co. (Tas.) has sent out some prelim-
inary data from which the yield for the year can be made
up. The figures show 1388 tons of stream tin against 1413
tons in 1907. The nakedness of the land is not
disclosed by this return. The co. got 840 tons
from the Brothers No. 1 property’ last year, that
mine is now practically a past number. Briseis
itself is almost on its last legs, and the Kingarooma
lease is no certainty. This leaves the Wallace leases,
Yackandandah (Vic.), as a stand-by-with the risk of
the Sludge Board making things unpleasant. Profits
for the year without depreciation, amortization or taxes,
reached £63,000. Divs. were £60,000, so that there would
not have been much to come and go on had there not
been a fat lump of undivided profits in hand. A fall of
£3O per ton in tin and the expenditure on the Ringarooma
account for the bad change in the eo.’s finances.
* * * *
A Batman’s show is Pioneer tin (Tas.), with its
Money Millers, Harvey Pattersons and Gibbs Brights. It
has a natty blue-blood in Cecil G. Ryan as its manager,
but all this dead weight does not interfere with the flout
and flare of divs. The co. has three powerful sluice-
pumps, but everything is being converted so as to turn it
froni a steam into a hydro-electric proposition. The
scheme mops up £38,000, of which f 26 000 comes from
an addition to capital, leaving the balance to he met out
of profits. So divs. have dropped down to a paltry 6 per
cent. Whereat some of the Patmen want the capital ex-
penditure “ financed.” An eye should be kept on any
move of that kind. Especially as the conversion means
scrapping one lot of appliances to provide another, the
k’rect card is either to call up capital straight away, to
go slow until profits accumulate, or to pay for the work
as done and write the cost off. The co. is handling the
upper drifts in the new paddock, so average tin contents
are low. When the bottom is neared yields will improve,
and if the hydro-electric scheme answers, costs will come
down, though perhaps not so appreciably as some reckon.
The Australian markets are now nibbling at tin
ventures in far-off Siam. The fashion started with Tong-
kah, which a Tasmanian group got hold of through Capt.
“ Teddy ” Miles, who was travelling in those parts. The
small brown comic-opera person knows a lot about tin,
but when Miles made his acquaintance he didn t know
anything at all about dredging; and that is where the
Australian came in. Capt. “ Teddy ” saw coolies wading
out into the shallow harbor, each with a hoe and a basket,
and making a living that way by scraping up the bottom ,
now the co. has two dredges in the harbor and one on
order, and presumably the coolie is out of a yob. In
return for the concession the co. has to do
some harbor improvement, which, it is dr edgfng’
can be done in the course of the diedging.
Kennedy, a Tasmanian, has succeeded Miles as
manager. Young Byron Moore, the mine-engineering
son of Byron of the V.K.C., who was lent by a Gippsland
dredging co. to go up and look around, has also put his
mark on a claim above the Tongkah harbor, known as the
Compound. His crowd—a Melbourne syndicate—has so
far only got an option from the Siamese Government,
and presumably a co. will have to be floated to put up
the purchase money ; the cash-down will run into £12,000.
According to Byron Moore’s borings, there is no doubt
about the richness of the ground. Two things have, how-
ever, to be reckoned with : bores are not, as a, rule, the
most reliable method of testing ground (though they may
be a shade better for tin than for gold) ; also, Siam is a long
way off, and there may be trouble at some time or other
over the titles.
* * • *


701-
Sac Suits
for
50 1-
This offer is for a limited period
only—it is an opportunity which
YOU cannot afford to ignore.
“ TAILORED BY TAILORS ”
throughout in best style from finest
AUSTRALIAN and BRITISH
fabrics.
WRITE NOW for Patterns and
Easy Self-Measurement Forms,
sent everywhere, Post Free.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
There was a young- lady of Nhill
Who eocdaimed, “ Wh.y, there isn’t a pill
That comes near Laxo-Tonic
For anything- chronic.
Since I’ve used them I’ve never been ill ”
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is 6d!*
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
ÜBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
You make preparations for a rainy day;
then why not for a cold or attack of influenza ?
You don’t need to make costly preparations—
merely invest Is. 6d. in a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy,*
EDUCATION BY POST
—The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means, that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
The other day, Beaudesert (Q.) produced a
cedar log valued at £6O. The splinter was 16ft. in
girth and 20ft. in length.
THE TEST.
Wot sort of a cove is that new friend of yours,
Bill ?”
Dunno; ’aren’t been drunk with ’im yet.”
tt MiJky White ” : He speed of bush fires.
Dandalup s statement that, “in green bush,
the flame will hurry along at from half to three-
quarters the rate of the wind ” is a gross reflection
on the north-easterly gales of Gippsland. The
very fiercest bush fires in the big. green, virgin
bush down south seldom travel 'faster than
two miles an hour, and it is a very
knock-kneed, bow-legged, hump-backed north-
easterly that can’t do a mile in four
minutes. In partly-cleared country bush-
nres put up some astounding records, and in
„, i country carrying dry grass it is often a
case of Grod help the poor devil who gets in the
way if there be a heavy wind behind. The
blazing snail” I mentioned (B. 14/l/’O9) tra-
vel ec * through dense forest country carrying a
green undergrowth absolutely impenetrable in
places, Even with a howling hot wind to shove
it along it could do no better than three miles in
wo hours. I was there, and my humpy was in
jeopardy, and I know. I once heard of a blaze
that started at Sydney and spread to Blanky
Corner and the Murray and the Tweed inside 24
hours; but that was the alleged blaze of enthu-
siasm when the Noo South Wade State Frighters
cried Secesh.’ And it flamed only in a vivid
imagination decorated with beer.
“ J.M.Gr.” : The Midland (W.A.)*is the
comic opera Private Enterprise railway of Aus-
tralia. Apparently the engines have mostly been
rescued from a scrap-heap, and the carriages
badly want fumigating. They look as though
tney had been chopped into shape with a broad
axe. At the refreshment stations there is generally
enough tucker for six, and if seven passengers
come along somebody goes short. Most of the
stan: wear a uniform of dungaree pants, any sort
ot a hat, and no socks. They (the staff) are
mostly imported, and look it. At one stopping
place 1 saw an old codger with his coat split up
the back, and a slush lamp in his hand, peering
under the carriage seats. Thought it was a sun-
downer looking for a lost swag. Turned out to be
an official looking for passage-workers. A stack
or firewood is the only thing that indicates most
or the stations. Watheroo, the principal stop-
ping place, has a platform, but not big enough for
-Dealun and Joe Cook to fix up a coalition on In
one respect the directors are quite up to date. At
fast annual meeting of the co. they submitted a
proposal to raise their own salaries.
66* 9 *
Peter Pan ” writes, entirely on his own
responsibility:—
“the southern route is chosen for the railway to Wes-
™(, the contractors will strike something exceptional
Woo Jh’ natives. Along the west coast of
fc>outh Aus. to and beyond the Gawler Ranges, the Fow-
lersßay natives stolidly watch the encroaching march of
tlon, A a * nd A heir sen t‘nients towards it are not
friendly. A few towns scattered along the coast are
mostly the resting places of King Billy and his gin, and to
fnrep 6 f 7 t. reache ry the white man has to use
iorce. To show fear is to court death.
At S o’clock every evening the natives have to clear out
of the towns to their camps. This is necessary to save
the white man from himself. When both are stupefied
with pinky, a conflict of races would be a sanguinary
business. kven in the towns the white settlers are out-
aWv”tured Y l° t 0 one .' • So a P° we rful gentleman, gener-
£ t ? lb 'i eep u er ’ hnnsrs a stockwhip into play, and
literally hounds the recalcitrant back to camp.
.hivery household has its nigger on practically the same
plan as the old American slavery,: but black brother
of these parts is incurably lazy. Pubs buried in the wil-
derness have about 20 sooty retainers, and their payment
!. S J n °n ty c 7 sumed in “pinky,” obtained by the black
casuafly picking up a bottle in the yard or some other
place. The stuff supplied is, luckily, half water. Eun»-’s
price, however, isn’t reduced on this account. b
•~, whites are nominally denied access to the abori-
fhe P? ’ b f Ut tbe half ' caste children who knock about
the settlements show how rigorously the law is carried
out. Among the hundreds of native children scarcely a
fliTbVo r d e ei Ul l;^ oded - T v he reason for the scarcity of
full-blooded children can be found in the terrible race-
suicide which the aboriginals are practising. When 18
!ht!t° n aSe the warriors are alleged to be rendered
phjsically incapable. The ceremony is said to be per-
formed in the heart of tbe bush, and has never been wit-
nessed by white men. The blacks come from all over the
ranges, and for a white to be found within miles of the
corroboree is extremely unhealthy. When the big event
bands U of mn be "'If 0 ' 6 !’ the blaL ' ks lea '’c towns in
bands of 100, under the command of “drivers.” The
t-hmfwh th 6 n nV n mbl / nude > and the cavalcade moves
through the bush with two at the head, two on each side
7, t *° at n the r , ear ‘ Tho divers are fully painted and
made tn W l th Ra , U , dy featde r s - The appearance of a nigger
made to resemble a bird is weird. The whole comoan v
gradually loses its garments ; but beyond that, except for
k !'°."'i ed ” e -7, th , e re ? ult - n 0 white 111 an has ever pene-
° r lf be baS ’ bC baS never come back to tell the
Boswell •' In compliance with
Janors J request, I have reconsidered the
laughing Johnny but only to place him on a
higher pedestal. He is perhaps the only bird in
the wide world who will deliberately attack and
slaughter venomous reptiles, and then laugh im-
moderately at the joke. Surely he is not only
boss, but; sole director of that branch of the
Ornithological Butchering Company. His versa-
tility is immense. He will charge to the surface
ot a stream and yank out the small fish that un-
warily approach. Though not a bully among the
feathered tribe, he nevertheless takes his part
valiantly when attacked, and fears no foe. I can-
not imagine lnm eating carrion in any shape or
tor , m - tße prefers something fresh and juicy,
and, 1 believe, invariably whacks the entrde
against something hard to make sure that life lias
departed, afterwards swallowing with a gobbling
motion. An eater of carrion does not bother his
dead about the thumping before taking Even
, Janor admits that my boss bird put up a good
fight with the shrike he mentions. And the
shrike was nesting, muJ probably endowed for the
time with the same Dutch courage that carries
the magpie through at a similar moment, just as
strong drink often makes temporary heroes of
otherwise retiring men. That shrike mav also
have been a very Johnson among shrikes, and his
opponent an inferior kind of Burns in his own
clan. Johnny is bandy-legged and a slow flier
but he is quick enough when hostilities are on the
bdl of fare, or when he wishes to change position
right about face on a branch. One roundabout
jump is sufficient to land him facing east where
he was taking western bearings a moment before
Ho, I cannot have him libelled in any way, having
the same reverence for the droll cuss that the
Egyptian has for the stork.
LOTHARIO.
JERRY : “ Wot’s up, Peter? Cops after yer?"
PETER (hoarsely): Worse ’am that—the woman I wronged.”
“ Cicfc ” : Be the Aus. native and his
rain-foretelling. “Malacoota” (B. 4/3/’O9) chat-
ters on the unreliability of the nig. as a weather
prophet. Certainly “ Mala’s ” remarks are anent
the black of the arid districts of this continent,
and that black may be different from the coastal
black, though I don’t know why he should be.
Yet for a certainty, on the South Coast (N.S. W.),
prior to any races, picnics, etc., every soul in-
terested in the coming bit of joy appeals to King
Billy, or Bungy Dan, for his views on the rainfall,
and he hits it on the head 99 times per cent.
Have often queried Brother Soot, and always
got the same reply, to the effect that he didn’t
know whether it was the wind, or the moon, or
just the ordinary aspect of things ; but he felt it
inside, and he knew damn well it would rain, orit
wouldn’t, just according to the feeling he pos-
sessed. Moreover, his prophecy was handed over
immediately on request and without a moment’s
deliberation.
“ Spring I attribute much of the bush’s
“weird expectancy,” which various Abo.-writers
have commented on, to the daily papers’ serial
yarns. I was once working for a farmer who
owned a lot of cows and daughters. He employed
me mainly that X could go over the ranges
at night, to the railway station, for the
Evening Bloodstain or Evkn’oose. In-
cidentally, I had a steady job during the
day wiping up the tears of the several
female members of the family, who wept
dismally and alone in odd corners of the
farm. Sometimes they would all burst
out together at the dinner-table, the
mother giving them a lead, and the flood
of tears that didn’t fall into the soup (be-
cause there was no soup) was astounding.
The old man would first curse, and threaten
not to let the damn “ tale ” into the house
again. Then Tilly, aged 30, would wail,
“But, oh father ! poor Angelina is in the
hands of that wicked man ! ” Father would
then subside and sob gently into his beard,
for lie recollected that Angelina at latest
advices was on the brink of ruin. All
work was more or less neglected during the
long, weary months that tale crawled
through the Evening Bloodstain. The
poor girls would sit silent and expectant all
the afternoon, waiting and waiting, and
gazing vacantly at the track across the
ranges which I followed on my way back
from the railway station. I had to read
aloud each instalment, because they all
wanted to hear and weep and wail to-
gether. When I read of Angelina’s death
they all sneaked off to bed, tearless and
strained-faced, and soon the house resounded
with wild moans and heart-rending sobs. I
was glad that Angelina was definitely dead.
If she hadn’t been, I believe the whole farm and
the hired man would have gone ratty.
Donald. Mackay, who put in nearly the
whole of the last six months of 1908 ex-
ploring in Papua, has returned to N.S.W.
In spite of many difficulties his party—-
which consisted of A. E. Pratt, surveyor,
of Melbourne; Ichorne, a bird collector; Little,
of Papua; and himself—went further in-
land than Parare, the furthest point attained
by Governor Macgregor’s expedition, and prac-
tically reached the source of the Purari
River. Mackay says that he saw no indi-
cations of gold in the country he travelled
through ; that Papua in general is not as un-
healthy as is mostly alleged, and that the
bravery of the Papuan is overrated —in fact, he
runs away when a shot is tired over his head.
“Cliff Side”: “Billy T.” (B. 25/2/’O9)
seems to think 432 snakes a good catch for a
month’s work. But in the Crookweli (N.S.W.)
district a man would hardly make tucker at that
rate. This summer has been a poor one for
snakes, the cool spells having interfered with the
industry. But in January a man out Grabben
Cullen way did fairly well. Not with a rod and
line, mark you. That method would be far too
slow for him. His system was to wire net (small
mesh) about ten square yards, and run a fifty-
yard race into the pen, which was built usually at
the end of a gully. A sharp little fox terrier was
then sent into the scrub to “ sool ” the vermin
out, and the result was amazing. X happened on
the scene one morning just as the stream of rep-
tiles black, brown, and tiger—had reached the
race. The way that living flood of wriggling
awfulness streamed into the pen was enough to
drive a man from drink for ever. I had an old
fencer with me (an intermittent drunk, I regret
to say), and after a gasp of frenzied astonishment
he wheeled his horse and galloped for Crookweli,
where he hunted up the nearest parson and swore
off everything for life. I waited to see the catch
bagged, counted up to 9861, and then got tired.
The Grabben Gullen man sends them to the Crook-
well freezing works. When frozen stiff, and
polished, they make splendid walking sticks.
COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
LADY : “ I want a clean man to help the cook
and do odd jobs. Did you give satisfaction
in your last situation?”
THE APPLICANT: “Every satisfaction, mum —I
killed ten plague rats a day.”
FROM A MAORILAND NO-LICENSE COASTAL TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a very mournful lay—
Indeed, it is a lay that may
Strike desolation o’er the earth
(I otfer it for what it’s worth).
We’ve closed our pub—the shutters are
E’en now put up before the bar,
And that is why I sing this lay :
We’ve closed our only pub to-day.
No more we’ll pass the idle hours
Beneath a beer’s persuasive powers ;
Or gossip on our neighbors’ fads,
On bonnie lassies, or on lads.
No more the jovial laugh will ring
Upon the air ; life’s lostits sting.
And all because, in mournful way,
We’ve closed our only pub to-day.
No more on chilly winter nights
We’ll see the gleaming bar-room lights;
Jfo longer; by the cheery fire
Will we in our wet clothes perspire.
We’ll have to stay out in the rain,
And, maybe, camp within the drain,
And get our boots all white with clay,
Because we’ve closed our pub to-day.
The bushies no more now will come
To argue o’er a friendly rum ;
The drover, I can stake my life,
Will never search here for a wife ;
The swaggies, though they hump a load,
Will stumble sadly down the road ;
The fishermen will never stay. . . .
Because our pub has closed to-day.
The township will deserted be
Ere passes by weeks two or three,
And deadly dull all things will grow—
(E’en now they’re sometimes very slow).
The girls will never now be wed—
They’ll be as good as maidens dead;
The children will forget to play,
Through closing of our pub to-day.
And I, who take my little drop
(And own a store), must shut up shop,
Because no one will come to buy
The latest style of hat and tie ;
All will be poor as some church mouse.
It ain’t: “No luck’s about the house,”
But worse: “No luck’s about the Bay.”
We’ve closed our only pub to-day.
MAORILAND.
TE AROHA.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming; Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
The most distressing' feature of modern life is
the appalling death-rate among infants, which in a
great majority of the cases, is directly traceable to the
ignorance of parents. The Australian infant fares better
than his brother in most countries ; but, notwithstanding,
he dies at a rate that is horrifying. It must not be
imagined for one moment that ignorance means neglect,
careless treatment, or cruelty in any form—quite the
reverse. More Australian children are killed by mistaken
kindness than anything else. Over-feeding, over-clothing,
the use of the wrong food, the careful exclusion of life-
giving fresh air that baby may not catch cold—these are
the chief things that sweep away thousands of little Aus-
tralians. Bearing children is a delicate art, and one that
requires some knowledge. To bring Baby up as he ought
to be brought up, read the “ Feeding and Management of
Australian Infants,” in the Australian Household Medical
Library, written by Dr. P. Muskett, and published by the
Bulletin Newspaper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, post
free for £3.*
WE BUY DIAMONDS.
"We want to buy Diamonds or other of the Precious Gems
From deceased estates;
From those wanting to realise.
WE ONLY BUY UNSET GEMS. If the Gems are in Settings, we will take
them out and return the settings.
We pay Cash for all purchases.
We desire large or small lots.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“Dandalup”: Re originality in pub
nomenclature (B. 25/2/’09)). The most original,
and yet fitting, title I have ever struck is the
“ Shadow of Death ” Hotel. This hotel is one of
the best known on the Murchison Goldfields
(W.A.). Its name does not belie it, for it stands
in a district where the real Shadow is very much
in evidence. Another appropriately-named pub
is the “Eagle on the Hill,” at Mount Lofty, in
South Australia. When I last visited it I noticed,
in a cage on one end of the front verandah, an
enormous, wise-looking, bald-headed, frowsy, old
eagle. This bird winked his other optic know-
ingly at Bung whenever a prospective customer
hove in sight. He was a wise bird, that eagle,
and looked like a Hebrew fantod with wings.
Talking of pub nomenclature, there should be a
law to prohibit Bungs from christening their
drinkeries with inappropriate names. Fancy
calling a place the “ Dead Dog,” when there isn’t
a deceased canine for 50 miles around; or the
“ Peace and Plenty ” in a district where the
drought fiend has been sitting heavily on the col-
lective chest for years. The most originally-
named pub I’ve seen lately is the “ Rising Sun,”
in Lilly Buck-street, Melbourne. It’s a sign of
the times. Banzai!
STRICTLY IMPARTIAL.
THE CHAIRMAN : “ Well, boys, I ' opes that you'll
give the gents a fair and himpartial ’earin'.
Fair doos to all is my motto. I will now
arsk the Labor candidate to address the
meetin’, but I’m damned if I like his politics."
“ Cicfc ” : Killed a iarge, pale-brown
Snake recently. The post-rnorteni disclosed that
he was (1) Very defunct; (2) marvellously thih ; (3)
exceedingly mangled ; (4) a trifle dusty ; and (5)
highly verminous. This last trait was the one
that strtlck me. In all my varied relations with
the ophidian, never till then had I descried a
parasite aboard him; In the Case under disbussibn
the insect; an extremely minute crawler, was
present in multitudes and sWarmed beneath about
98 per cent, of the reptile’s scales. It tvas Of a
tint precisely similar to that of its host, and ex-
tremely energetic. I ascribe the venofnous one’s
poverty-stricken condition tb the attentions of its
lodger. And small wonder is it that he was of a
leanness to be pondered Over; fbr the hhfortunate
brute COuld have been
Conveying no less than
a sft. itch o’er the
Country, and with
nary a scratch-
ing implement
aboard.
AN IDYLL.
“ Don’t let m’ feet touch the ground.
Oh, waltz me aroun’ agin, Willie. Aroun’ (hie),
arourn' (hie), around.”
“ Kaitangata Ika ” : Re the proposed
shark fishery. I could give the promoters of the
company a few useful points. Meanwhile, I have
never seen in print anything to come near what I
saw in fact one Saturday in Auckland harbor. I
belonged to a crew that was famous for winning
yacht and open boat races, and for fishing. Our
plan, when sharks came about and scared the
schnapper, was to throw out a shark
hook and haul in the other lines. The
result would usually be a small shark,
say 6ft., and after hauling him up to
the gunnel, and welting him insensible
with blows of the tiller on his snout, it
usually fell to my lot to take two half-
hitches round his tail and tether him to
the shroud, leaving him hanging, three
parts in the water, head down. Then
I would rip him up with my sheath
knife, and give a couple of slashes to
the liver. This liberated the oil and
tainted the water for yards around.
The oil is rank, and we rarely had
to wait long for the monster we
guessed was about. His nibs (who
was often 16ft. and over) would circle
round and round the boat, his ravenous
hunger and craving for his nephew’s
liver drawing him nearer at each turn.
At length he’d reach the first bit of
floating liver tossed out to tempt him,
and then he’d snatch two or three
more. Finally the brute would come
close alongside and go for his tethered
relative. On the day I speak of,
the 16-footer had just got the whole
head into his jaws when Jones drove
the harpoon home and I slung over
the oil-drum buoy. The mad struggles
of the harpooned monster soon scared
other sharks away, and we fished suc-
cessfully for an hour. Then we decided
to go after the buoy and secure our
prize; but first I completed the dis-
embowelling of the lure, and cast the
empty remains loose. Imagine our
surprise and horror when the disem-
bowelled six-footer began, the moment
he was free in his natural element, to
ravenously try to till the aching void
in his midship section by devouring his own
internal fittings as they floated on the wave.
As every bit he ate went straight through and
adrift again, the grizzly horror was kept busy
till out of a sort of fear our skipper hopped into
the dinghy and cut him into short sections for
other fish to prey upon.
“Silas”: 1 defy aboriginal authors to
produce a more confirmed teetotaller than Tommy
Sock lobally known as “ TotnmyhaWk ”
bachelot selector Of Wagtail district (Vic.);
Tommy, like most tabid anti’s, was otlce a dissi-
pator himself. He drank exuberantly at every
arid was known to keep museums of
fantods and other wnisky ffeaks ih his fruit house;
Thert, after a bad burst id Which he saw rabbits as
big as COws, ahd Was chased by them into a bush-
fire and had the trotisers burnt off him, Hock re-
pented at leisure iil hospital, and came out with a
ttew kind Of fantod. He had teetotaller’s horrors—
the horror of full bottles and 40-gallon barrels and
Wayside drinking places. He was now ah
abandoned Rechabite, and refused not only
to taste, touch or handle, but even to
see Of smell. The smell of stagnant beer
had Upon him the effect the aroma
Of the bull camel is said to have
Upon the common horse—it filled
him with a kind of mortal terror,
dilated his eyes, bristled his hair,
and started him running in seven
directions, bumping against trees
and fences in his blind, lub-
berly hurry to get beyond the
infected zone. Tommy
Hock’s terror was actual
beerphobia; the sight of a
beer bottle would turn him
deadly pale, and set his
knees knocking, and he
would walk a mile out of
his way to avoid passing
a pub. Even a second-
hand cork was more
obnoxious to him than
a black snake. Natur-
ally, Hock’s weakness
was a source of some
entertainment to his
friends and neighbors.
One morning three gay
splitters spilt a bottle of beer
over his hut and its contents,
and then hung round to watch
developments. They saw Tommy
enter, saw him dash out again and run 50
yards like an absent-minded beggar who has
wandered into the den of a fasting lion. At a
safe distance Hock turned and watched the hut,
as if expecting a procession of his old, familiar
devils. He did not venture near again while the
watchers remained, but next day it was known
at Wagtail that Tommy Hock had burnt his hut
and all its contents, and was lodging temporarily
in a hollow tree.
■* * * *
“Cict” : He the propagation of eels (B.
4/3/’O9). “ Agricola ” worrieth regarding the plan
the eel follows when desiring an increase in the
birth-rate. Now, whether the eel-ess propagates
’em, or merely lays ’em, and then refers ’em to
the incubator, I cannot tell; but I know that
i “ Agricola” is out a chain or more when he says
I that the eelsters are never unearthed excepting
j where there is communication with the sea. On
' the N.S.W. South Coast, the spawn of the eel,
a couple or three inches long, is quite common
miles from the ocean, away in creeklets which
empty their surplus fluids nowhere in particular,
but just merely die out or dry out; and also in
lagoons which have no more connection with the
briny than Aristotle had with the Prohibition
vote. Also as to eelsters being embedded in the
mud at the two or three-inch term of their life, I
opine the one that “Agric.” found in that mess
was a poor, sick mite that he had thoughtlessly
stepped upon and forced below the surface. An
eel three inches long is a bird of much wriggle-
someness, and is certainly not out for hibernation,
but chiefly hankereth for diet.
“Piccaninny’': “Crow” (B. 18/2/’O9)
says black cockatoos only come together in flocks
at the approach of rain, and quotes authorities to
back him up. It may be a way black cockatoos
have in Gippsland ; but is isn’t a way they have
up here in Georgetown (N.Q.). For the last 12
months I have watched these birds, having nothing
much else to watch, and have never seen them
except in flocks; yet this year rain has been as
scarce in Georgetown as it is in Gehenna. But,
then, Georgetown has a way of its own; even
when you wake up in the morning and find the
lamp-glass full to the top of rain-ants, it isn’t safe
to guess that there is going to be any moisture
except at the pub. “ Crow,” by the way, has
made a good attempt at spelling the black cocka-
too’s cry—“ Clayo, clayo ! ” —only he omitted the
sneeze in the middle of the word. The black
cockatoo always sneezes, and it never carries a
handkerchief.
THE CAMEL DRIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through the Desert, Wan
With the North Wind’s breath,
Tight lipped, Abdul Khan
Tempts the sands of Death,
Driving camels corded to the caravan.
Dust and heat and flies
Blister flesh with seams,
In the dancing skies
Bold a mirage gleams ;
Abdul scents fresh water blown from Paradise,
Leather skinned, he sets-
Swart face, travel smeared ;
Grips his amulets —
By the Prophet’s Beard !
A sapphire shining mosqUe, domed, With min&rcts.
Spread the gorgeous feast.
Pill t.hfe boWls with wine,
Hooshtah ! patient beast,
Onward to the shrine
Where the houris gather, garland of the East'
Hark ! The bulbul sings
Prom the pepul tree
Of enchanted things
When the soul breaks free.
Black tents, desert driven, fold their weary wings.
There strut peacocks bright,
Persian roses bloom ;
Basins, marble-white,
Shimmer through the gloom.
0 Imtiaz Mahal, Garden of Delight 1
Abdul strains to hear
Heavy anklets clink,
Silken forms appear
At the Hamman brink.
Unveiled women beckon. Abdul draweth near.
And his hot eyes trace—
Coiled, like basilisks,
Round the jewelled base—
Soft-limbed odalisques.
Sweet rosewater fountains cool his burning face.
Allah judges best.
Pains are eased with balms.
After sunset, rest;
In the desert, palms.
Good will follow evil. Abdul’s soul is bleat.
Soft the camels stand.
Crows flop greedily
On the drought-parched land,
Watching from the sky
An Afghan, soul-released, silent . . in the sand.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.
WE OF THE NEVER-NEVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yous th’ blokes from Never-Never, from that God-forsaken
land ,
Were they live on allygaters stewed wiv spinifex an’
sand —
Were they want no fire fer cookin’, but just stick it in
th’ sun ?
Put it there, me noble battler, if it weighs a blushin’ ton.
’Cos fer w’y ? Ain’t we yer brothers ! Though we live so
far apart,
You in huts an’ we in ’ouses, yet we are the same at ’art.
Though we’d sooner face a long ’un than the Spirit of the
Bush,
Yet we all are pals together in th’ Never-Never push.
Do we ever pay our tucker w’en we’re spongin’ on our
folks?
Do we ever buy a pipe-full we can cadge from other blokes ?
Do we ever spend our money w’ile there’s someone else
ter shout,
Or part up at the theayter if we can “sneak ” wivout?
No dashed fear—we’re on th’ never, an’ it is an all-right
lurk,
Sittin’ on th’ corner kerbstone, livin’ on th’ fools that
work.
Fattened up on full an’ plenty, got by someone else’s
hand—
My oath, there’s a fascination in the Never-Never Land.
VICTORIA.
KABAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in ; and no MS. will be
returned Unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A.H.B. : Commonplace ideas* that fracture no
rule of prosody and are beautifully “typed.” If only
you would lend many better poets your typewriter 1,...
Batch: “Discontent” is rather cheap philosophising’
J. McO.: “Slum” had hold of the hair of acceptance;
but the tuft broke loose at thelast moment....Farnham i
The Unification people know all that quite as well as
either you or Robert Stout. Therefore, they don’t pro-
pose merely Unification : what they do propose is Unifi-
cation and Reconstruction. Even R. Stout admits that
reconstruction is necessary ; but he is mighty careful nbt
to say how he can bring it about without Unification to
start with Con Drew : A mere echo of numerous old
jingles Toolooa: None of them hit the mark with
anything noticeable in the way of a thud....J.H.M.:
Yes, the other paper stole it. That particular London
rag steals all its verse that is worth reading, and acknow-
ledges nothing. Regret the old Bulletin you inquire
for is unavailable. Will use a par or two.,,,Tan
Sara: “Reminiscence of the Pacific” has hardly
enough story in it. Merely the pretty, unevent-
ful tale of the white man and the brown girl..,.
Uckle : Told with spirit, but not worth telling at a 11.,..
A. Nelson : You have humor, but your touch is too
clumsy as yet.... Lyn: Too much frame for so small a
picture.. ..Horace C.: No skill so far; but you’ve plenty
of time before you W.S. : It has all been frequently
said before —and better... .Sandlark: The subject is
obviously beyond y0u.. ..F.L.5. : “On the Beach ” is a
haggard and purposeless mass of drivel.. ..Toby (West-
port, M.L.) : The man who sends along about the oldest and
best-known joke in creation as original, and asks payment
for it, has the hide of a rhinoceros Verax : Your yarn
might be all right if any human being could read it,
but no human being could.. ..Ernest C. : “Ocean”
missed the mark by about the width of two-and-six-
pence E.K.: “Looking Forward” is good verse, but
it doesn’t seem to be about anything in particular,...
Roslyn: “Memory” prettily enough versified; but
thousands of other girls have been apostrophised in much
the same way XYZ. : The “ Ballad” carries allitera-
tion to the point at which it becomes an offence. And
the form anyway doesn’t suit the subject.. ..F.G.C. : We
diagnose “ Symptoms ” to be reft from the repertoire of
a music-hall comic man The Wasp: A right dramatic
outburst is “ At the Risk of His Life ” :
Susy: We don’t criticise first attempts of that kind ; we
just curse them.... Yalpoora : In the sacred cause of
truth we stand one verse of it:
Dependence on a cSnine pet
Would never office bring:;
So George he did a tiger get,
Then leadership did sling.
E.M.D.: Some good ideas in “ Midas,” but generally
too obscure Sam Spry : “ Ballad of the Pear” missed.
The forced rhyming of it was mainly responsible C.
Clermont: You’ve got a good gift for rhyme. Some of
the batch returned ; others held for further considera-
tion. .. .Mentone : You show your hand too plainly
Ash le B. : Humorous ; but might be taken for a
sectarian slur.... .L.J.K. : Requires a crisper touch.
W.J.S. : Funny enough, but it has no central
idea. Even nonsense, to be readable, must have what
the astronomers call a “plane of final reference.”....
Arthur R.: That kind of thing has been so often done
that it requires now the hand of genius X.X.X.: All
true enough, but the clumsy style damns it.... A.R.: We
didn’t think anything could be worse than the first item
—until we read the second! Ivor G.: Lifeless style,
and too much preliminary.. ..R.8.8.: Pretty, but rather
trivial Arthur E.: They have an original flavor, but
they are not well enough done... .E. G. Mac : Reads like
reality, but is quite out of our line D.C.: The inten-
tions are good, but the verse is three different kinds of
horrible C. 8.: Many thanks for cuttings S.H.W.:
Regret we haven’t time to copy out other people’s poems
and post them to inquiring friends. Our regular work
keeps us quite busy enough.. ..Kaban : One verse from
“ The Exile
Yudnamutana! Paratoo!
Willalpannina fair,
Where groves of golden wattles grew
To scent the vernal air.
Collarenabri! Murmungee !
„ Wind-swept Coongulmerang !
Korweinguboora ! Terrapee!
Gum-shaded Guntawang !
It’s more like a geography-lesson than poetry....
Twin Deveney : “ Farmin’ in the Desert ” amounts, in a
literary sense, to the unprofitable old exercise of plough-
ing the sands. The poet’s gift is not yours Broe:
Don’t know the poem, “ A Lady’s Broken Hack,” which
begins :
The rebel made for the stony range.
Where the plain and the scrub land meet.
It is a brand of poem which we are wont to avoid
A. 8.: Another instance of good patriotic sentiment
wedded to evil poetical habits.... Alex, Y.: Goodish idea.
The daily-paperese style of it was responsible for its incin-
eration.. . .Evan West: The woman, wan and slim and pale,
who comes between at the altar rail, and there like an
anguished spectre stands, with haggard face and out-
stretched hands, is, versically, in her 92nd incarnation.
Give the dreary female a rest Beachcomber: Your
spelling is more awful than your fiscalism. A sample :
“ Protection, means robbery by law to fill the pokets of
a few on the swet and expance of others and monopolise
the priviliged industrie in the hands of a few." And you
expect us to print four pages of illiterate hogwash of that
sort!. ... A.V.V.: Advocate another holiday—a national
holiday ! Heaven forbid !
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.P. : The sketch is as poor as Job, and the joke about
24- years older W.H.F.: Has nothing at all to recom-
mend it.. . .Goldsmith : All badly out of drawing...
L.H.S. : The drawing doesn’t get there, and the gag is
only a slight variation of a recent Bulletin joke
Brad : Lunatic Asylum joke travels on the lines of so
many other asylum jokes F.N. : None of them climbs
to acceptance level. Pictures ordinary ; jokes ditto
Henry C.: No good D.A. : Picture of no account;
and that drunk who had fallen into the horse-trough, and
who bade the policeman save the women and children
first because he could swim, is too old a drunk to bear
further illustration.
While in charge of a warder
A prisoner named Ryan
Jumped from a train window
On the Adelaide line. ,
Though the train, sped at full speed
Through the woodland gloom,
The desperate man escaped
An appalling doom.
The stern gaol warder,
Though not easily bluffed,
Failed to think how he’s prisoner
Had escaped handcuffed.


j
hr) 111 (-<?£« I
come into -force
di^cb.t'd (
CotK*d s ,
"bo/ Sf>un ;
flumes , dre s$
\&i< £'«.!“
y~^V_
$ £#■<>£*. V,
J>|%.£we ln }
It" S®
to St'isd'e. lo
”J?e, dcf > a«<ltw+' oh
Federal c
-for \ Sll&Ve op
KcvcviuC /^~~'\r /
Ge« e r*J^/'
d /sJ //
tasted <>\ &JI £)&ys
sVj©t»M one
Union °\ it" !
" The Vit
Are def>M+dct'i» 1^
"the me reading imj’ort-
o(- imitation
-tweedy. i^ad"
COhritrlP Id fl"ce. jU
-f'exKmp
Woolen ni&d.e
in countvy "
V X . - -
decl&n*-^
Cond u'nd.e,*' I
wl>icS cVi'Hcd fov'K.
<i> £*f>ort'ed
be -|ur nibbed "Jo
-|ffe lrr,|»eriaj
>
befot-e. "rfie
mead - vvi il
be 4fc4 j
'iv.*© .. J
£\n^n4.
Ted •/ .’— * l_oo K out- eniWr&y^cj’fool
f?fcV A\«rdoct] vfk,<j m £idfcl -frll
'tl'vie I>e cei'-f’V'n docM^en't^
old stepf^er:—
Off- wiifi €w J s<\>uf on. :
IFfems |or your Wftfr^J
Civ|ntil [who^7(!) . >0
yminci to lezs/c trK Country I .—.
' Oil *H> "ooe.l, tf)
Ihn jDcrse Koot£d| 1
T)L \Yte .
fr'SMrof
yv^Mr^ock
(owfovw&tioiAs ’ - Ive refuyi . v
’. - " O %c |v« "to
yoi\ < So tvCCftr J Ih^lyj
A LOOK ROUND.


yf 7/}lf of
fpOST
ffyf C///ff <w
C///1/?sf~
fi)7i t''i > /
,v/« .„srt - y -?.,-• rr\'- • ■'^/'/yl
#*#. *»~f% y'T'
t&xaj.-"
A £ 'Os'J f''/ ■
SSp%SW\, •'’T*3>
■
S ll ■*< %’ *« i**l *» > 1
.
■
<■ Az
1 f . 2 > '
| " ' '
" 7/Y£- iFr ftr 'ft /<
CARTOONLETS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WHEN vou polish your
boots with CHERRY
BLOSSOM you can
point with pride to the result.
It gives a shine that reflects
credit on you, for it cannot be
excelled. Yet it’s wonderfully
economical. Tins—Black or
Tan—are sold at 3d. and 6d.
each, and they are larger than
any others sold at the same
price.
Sample a tin this week.
Write us if your storekeeper does not stock it.
1
Stomach
Troubles
The peculiar soothing effect of Angier’s
Emulsion upon the mucous membrane
of the digestive organs and its power
to arrest fermentation and check
bacterial growth make
it invaluable in the
treatment of stomach
and bowel disorders.
It is prescribed by the
medical profession for
chronic indigestion,
stomach and intestinal
catarrh, nervous dys-
pepsia, etc. It has cured
many obscure cases
after other remedies
had failed. For free
sample send4d.postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
MIS
Ihnat
Idiii
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St., Sydney^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The negro convict King continues his
extravagant and crazy career at Pentridge (Vic.).
After being released from “ solitary,” by Pre-
mier Murray’s order, he started roaring
worse than Bent in his worst days, and
turned the big gaol into a Bedlam.
Visiting-magistrate Cole proposed
to suppress him with two weeks’
solitary, so the next night King
made a bonfire of his bedding
and furniture, and was well on
the way to suffocation when
an interfering warder burst
in the barricaded door and
dragged him out. Pentridge
is very weary of King, and
anybody with a feasible plan
for squelching him would be
welcomed. Possibly that
friend of the brown and
black men, Spruce Myth,
might be induced to call and
try the effect of elocution on
him.
It is now said that the unsatisfactory
O’Callaglian, Chief Commissioner of Victorian
Police, will not arrive at retiring age before next
year, and, meanwhile, two members of the Vic-
torian Ministry are pressing for as much reform
of the Police administration as might easily result
if O’Callaghan were replaced by a policeman of
better quality. Unfortunately, Premier Murray
inclines to the present Chief Commissioner, who
was one time in authority at Warrnambool. He
doesn’t take off his hat to O’Callaghan as readily
as ex-Premier Peacock and the unspeakable Bent
did, but he doesn’t want to seem unfriendly to
that disrespected person. In fact, the shifting of
O’Callaghan is one of the many political duties
which John Murray will be careful to abstain from.
Judge Johnston lately presided at Mel-
bourne General Sessions without either horsehair
or a black nightgown—dressed, in fact, like any
other sane person. Having explained that he did
so on account of the heat, he invited counsel to
follow suit, which Crown Prosecutor Finlayson
did, though Purves, K.C., and his junior declined.
When a lawyer refuses to take off his millinery
there is always a suspicion that he knows he would
look absurdly unimportant without it.
As showing the natural yearning of the
Australian bush-bard for an audience, observe
F. W. Ducker, poet and grazier of Bayswater
(Vic.), who is get-
ting himself a re-
putation as a per-
sistent litigant, and
who always states
his case in blank
verse. Ducker had
another case on, the
other day, and the
papers published his
pleadings in verse
form. Apparently
the hard of Bays-
water is one of the
great army of the
rejected, and failing
to get his poems
published any other
way, takes them to
court rather than
have them blush un-
seen and waste their
sweetness on the desert
air, just as the poet Cole, of Melbourne Book
Arcade, used to paint his poems up on the walls
of his building in Gin. letters. The Geelong
lawyers find that poetry pays in Australia—
Docker’s poetry, that is.
Cardinal Moran completed his quarter
century of residence in Sydney on Sunday. He
had hut two predecessors as R. C. Archbishop of
Sydney—Dr. Polding and Roger Bede Vaughan.
Dr. Polding died at the age of 84 years, and Dr.
Vaughan passed out suddenly at the age of 49
while on a visit to relations in England. Dr. Moran
is in his 79th year.
Admiral Bosanquet, the new Governor of
S. Aus., is to he sworn in at the Adelaide Town
Hall next Monday (March 29). Adelaide is in a
frightful state of agitation over the new official
rubber-stamp’s name. The proper way to say it
is supposed to be Bosanket; but it is also being
called Bosankey, Bossanky, and Boose’n’quit.
Adelaide has had Grey, Robinson, Buxton,
Hunte, Way, and other Governors, whose names
pronounced themselves, and the new experience of
having a puzzle at Government House is getting
on its nerves.
William Lyndhursfc Vardy, who may be
considered the father of the Sydney police-court
Bar, died on Friday in Sydney Hospital, aged 66
years. He originally emigrated to South Aus-
tralia, and was a member of the Bar of that State,
but came to Sydney over 30 years ago, and did the
usual, “I appear for the accused, your Worship,”
at the police courts. He was somewhat eccentric,
and his gyrations caused some disputes with
brother practitioners and the Bench. He married
many years ago a daughter of Mr. J. T. Harcourt,
of the Cremorne private lunatic asylum, Mel-
bourne.
“R.8.W.” : Both “ Scrap ” (B. 28/l/’O9)
and “ Mamoose ” (4/3/’O9) reckon they have met
the most versatile hotelkeeper. Not so, how-
ever. John Ross, of Howes Creek (which is
about 140 miles from Melbourne), beats their
nominees out of sight. He is (1) storekeeper (he
owns three large stores); (2) baker ; (3) butcher ;
(4) blacksmith; (5) publican; (6) grazier;
(7) dairy farmer ; (8) market gardener ; (9) car-
rier (he has seven waggons and 60 horses always
going); (10) engine-driver; (11) packer; (12)
mine-owner; (13) mine manager ; (14) battery-
owner ; (15) chaff-cutter proprietor; (16) land-
lord (three tenants on holdings of from 300 to 500
acres each); (17) contractor ; (18) stock-dealer ;
(19) postmaster; (20) newsagent; (21) life and
fire insurance agent; and (22) runs a cricket club.
NOTHING HUMOROUS ABOUT IT.
Mr. Fisher : I did not go so far as that. lam not
committed to a non-borrowing policy. For instance, in
the case of a threatened invasion we would have to begin
putting our house in order at once.
Mr. Murray : But is not that a case for the establish-
ment of a navy ?
Mr. Fisher : This is not a joke.
Mr. Murray : It won’t be if the invasion comes.
Mr. Fisher: Every gentleman in an important position
knows it is not a joke.
S. A. REGISTER.
Australia (unarmed) will discover when the real
thing turns up that it's NO joke.
Major Smeaton—better known in Adelaide
as the MaeSmeaton —is, nowadays, the favorite
tip for the vacant S.A. Agent-Generalship. He
is an architect, a teetotaller, an anti-gambler and
a Labor member ; and sits for the same district in
the Assembly as Premier Price.
“Loco”: The exit of the boolnnaking
Leviathan from life’s racecourse will no doubt
recall memories of that gentleman’s dealings with
Benson, the “Jubilee Plunger,” what time the
latter plunged in Melbourne. He of the quarter
of a million practically lived at Joe’s hospitable
domicile during his sojourn, and many were the
all-night sittings around the baize, and profuse
were the cheques that wended their way into the
Leviathan’s capacious bag. At the close of one
night’s seance, Benson wrote, in Thompson’s
favor, a cheque for the mere trifle of £25,000.
And the seances were many.
STILL JUMPING FOR THE PRIME
MINISTERSHIP, AND STILL COMING
A CROPPER.
The will of Mrs. Henrietta Russell, of
Wool 1 all ra (Sydney), has been probated at
£47,190. Mrs. Russell belonged to cine of the
oldest Sydney families—one which acknowledged
the “Australian Rothschild,” Samuel Terry, as
its head. The lady was an aunt of the popular
Tom Lawry, of Kirribilli Point, who died less than
two years ago in the prime of life (he was only
42). Tom left a big estate to three female rela-
tives and a lady friend, who all died within 12
months of Tom. Mrs. Russell was among those
w'hom Tom Lawry’s legacy killed.
THE DIVINE RIGHT VERSUS THE
DIRTY LEFT.
KAISER BIEL (to Jeffries): “ Look here, Jeff, it
has come to this. If YOU won't tackle John-
son, T[?]ll have to !”
Parson Worrall, of Bendigo (Vic.), still
rages at great length about the retail sin of gold-
stealing as done by miners in the bowels of the
earth. But, though he has been a long time on
the subject, not a soul has heard Worrall dis-
course, however briefly, about the wholesale sin
of gold-stealing on the Stock Exchange. There-
fore many decent, sensible people have acquired
a profound contempt for Worrall, and regard him
as a time-server and a fraud and a whited
sepulchre and a truckler and such-like.
“ Bill ” Long, ex-M.L.C., ex-racing
magnate (he owned Grand Elaneur and many
another good horse), and well-known Sydney
clubman, left Australia for good last week on the
Moldavia. Twenty years ago he was one of the
richest men in N.S.W. His city property alone
brought him in something like £30,000 a year. It
would seem hard to dissipate a fortune like that
without the help of a horde of houris and high-
living males such as this continent does not own.
Yet William did it. His racing cost him little.
He understood the game, and had a fair measure
of luck. The deadly old practice of advancing
cash to his pals was mainly responsible for his
losses. Years ago, when “ Bill ” Long was a blithe
young millionaire, with never a care in the world
beyond the tiresome grind of having to write out
cheques when he wanted money, an Australian
bachelor friend lay dying in Dublin. He sent for
Long, and said that he was leaving him his fortune
—a matter of £30,000. Long said : “I don’t want
it; leave it to Sparke”—a mutual friend of theirs.
Which the other did. Sparke, who died recently,
turned that legacy into close on a million sterling ;
and he left a generous annuity to the man who
had been partly instrumental in founding his
fortune. Long’s private racecourse and stud farm—
at Chipping Norton, near Liverpool (N.S.W.)—are
now owned by Colin Smith (a brother of the lady
who is to wed A.-D.-C. Wilson), and Tusculum, his
old home in Macleay-street, has long been over-
built by a dense cloud of semi-detached villas.
“ A Man Who Knew Him ” sends this :
The career of a brilliant Australian was closed in sad
circumstances early last week, when the body of Norman
John Gough, lately lecturer in French at Sydney Uni-
versity, was found on the bank of Lane Cove River. He
was barely 30 years of age. His health had been affected
for some three years or more, but his friends had hoped
to see him resume work with the opening of the University
this month. In sheer brilliancy Norman Gough was second
to no graduate who has left the walls of Sydney University.
His French descent went back to one of the emigre
families that quitted France during the Revolution.
He was educated at King’s School, and entered the
N.S.W. Public Service. While a clerk in the Mint, he
attended evening lectures, and a few years later gained
his degree, and was appointed to the Modern Literature
Department. His activity was remarkable. His talent as
an amateur actor, displayed with the Sydney Comedy
Club and the Muffs, to say nothing of his gifts as a play-
wright, would have won him success had he chosen the
stage as a profession. A one-act play from his pen, pro-
duced here in 1902, was praised, but it gave only a
glimpse of what he could do. His literary work was
equally distinguished. As a lecturer he was as far removed
from the dry-as-dust pedagogic type as can be imagined.
With his classes he was extremely popular, and his wide
range of interests led him to mix more than did the average
professor in student affairs. Personally he was charming,
if a trifle bewildering, and had hosts of friends. His
mother, who died some years ago, was a prominent figure
in the local French colony.
Grace Watson recently asked the Fre-
mantle (W.A.) Anti-Sosh women to be shocked,
or some such past participle, because, so she
alleged, some Labor members of Parliament had
taken up land. “ This,” said Grace triumphantly,
“plainly proves that Labor members recognise
that they can’t possibly put their platform of land
nationalisation into practice.” Does it prove
that ? Presumably then, because Grace (no
doubt) is making the best of things as she finds
them during her temporary stay on earth, she
isn’t making any effort at all to get to Heaven
later on. Grace is sure that it is quite absurd to
try to get to Heaven. Also, Grace is sure there
isn’t any Heaven—Heaven is only a “ wild Social-
istic dream.”
Victoria’s detective force—which presum-
ably detects more law-breakers than it captures—
is relieved for quite a long time of the active ser-
vices of Wren’s friend, Macnanamanamny. That
much-advertised officer (whose name, however, is
always misspelt in the advts.) has gone to Britain
or somewhere for the purpose of taking an extra-
dited person in charge, a job which any policeman
of less gigantic intellect might as easily have
undertaken. Premier Murray is said to have
given his personal approval to the arrangement
of a long holiday for “Mac” at the Government’s
expense, but he forgot to suggest that O’Callaghan
should accompany his brilliant subordinate. The
two of them together might have chanced to dis-
cover the murderer of Mr. Bauer, the Melbourne
diamond merchant, a criminal who was said to
have got away to Europe.
TO A DEPARTING GOVERNOR
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir Harry Rawson has begun a round of farewell
functions. —News item.
A little while, my venerable salt,
And you’ll be on your way
To colder climes. Doubtless you sometimes halt
And think about your stay ;
And of the time when you’ll be less exalt-
Ed than you are to-day.
Another week or two and you will not
Be earning 14 quid
Per diem :—that most enviable lot
Will be another’s. ’Mid
Your new surroundings you will brood, I wot,
On the years when you did.
In London, or wherever you abide,
You will not live rent free ;
No special trains across the country side
Will whirl you without fee.
You’ll have to take a ticket when you ride,
And pay for it, like me.
Assuming that you wish to while away
A boresome hour or more
At circus, concert, flickergraph or play,
A person at the door
Will thrust his hand out, clamorous for pay ;
It was not so of yore.
Unpleasantnesses these ? Admitted. Yet
The compensating joys
Are such that I, for one, am fain to bet
You’ll keep your equipoise.
Less hard, red coin and perquisites you'll get;
Also less cheers and noise.
But, on the other hand, you will be free
To say the thing you think ;
You won’t perennially need to be
Strangling your tenets. Ink
You may employ in otherwise than he
Who’s a mere Bond or Link.
You will not have to hearken to the wail
Of Mister Wade in re
His wrongs ; henceforth his lamentable tale
Of grief and woe will he
Sobbed to another. You’ll he out of hail
Of his Black Misery.
In future you won’t need to make a speech
When you go out to dine ;
Your fellow-feeders won’t vie, each with each,
Over the nuts and wine,
To grovel publicly within your reach ;
(This painful lack of spine
Only appears when Governors are there,
In justice let me note).
Further that dreadful soul-depressing blare,
The tune you know by rote,
Which for six years has haunted you, will spare
You on your home-bound boat.
And ever after, till the day you die,
The moment that this Pest
Orchestral starts you will be free to fly :
You may bolt East, or West,
Or North, or South ; however hurriedly
You go, none will protest.
Folks say that ex-Vice-Regal figures grow
Sad, when they leave behind
The pomp they have been used to. They allow
The change appears unkind
To one-time Govs.—yet Harry R., somehow,
I think you will not mind.
N.S.TV.
10-2-4.
THE ORIGINAL AND THE UNORIGINAL COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adelaide, Thursday.—At the annual meeting' of the
Women’s Branch of the Australasian National League, in
the Town-hall to-day, Mr. Joseph Cook, leader of the
Opposition, said Mr. Deakin’s picture of the three elevens
in the Federal political field was a fallacious misrepre-
sentation of the whole situation. He preferred to liken
the position to a ship, or boat, with all the crew down on
one side. It would be impossible to get the vessel on an
even keel by standing in the centre. If it were done the
people would all be slipping down to the lower side,
where the bulk was. To get the craft on an even keel it
would be necessary that a considerable portion of the
crew should get right on the other side. Then the ship
of State would be brought to an even keel and enabled to
go on its political course with perfect safety.— Daily
paper.
The original Cook—
Captain Cook,
Of whom
I presume
You have read in some book,
Was a sailor of worth
Who roamed over the earth —
Or the sea—in the good ship Endeavor ;
And you quite understand,
He discovered this land
(An original exploit and clever).
This political Cook —
Joseph Cook !
Who stews,
As they cruise
Where the sea-serpents look
At the quarrelling crew,
Has found nothing that’s new,
And he hasn’t said anything clever :
(A remarkable fact
Which is also exact
And unlike the Cook of the Endeavor.)
Here’s a problem to cook !
Captain Cook !
Now, say
He and J.
Had been sent out to look
For this continent vast,
Who’d have found it at last—
The political Cook or that Other ?
(Just imagine the breeze
Wafting Cooks o’er the seas
And two ships driving on thro’ the smother !)
It would irritate Cook,
Could he look
At Joe,
Who don’t know
How to manage a hook-
Er of State ; for Joe talks
Like the skipper who walks
On his clean quarter-deck in the twilight ;
When, as all will allow,
He can’t tell the bow
From the mast or the engine-room skylight.
If the Devil sends Cooks,
Some are Cooks
Of two
That he drew
From the stock of his books,
And sent here, one was classed
As A 1; but the last —
The political Cook—is a spoiler !
He can only make hash,
And ’twould be very rash
To hand him the helm or the boiler.
N.S.W.
MARK PLIMSOLL.


A
/, >.'• •
: :
ISMliii
I i
fcp ySssg
%
m.
m
:: :A:
:
g ■' '
V 5
'
1
-
' :<■ i
I
■ .
■
• m
S'-’*.-
sate:
S""H*pp
illil
'
THE QUEEN SMOKES IT.
VENUS—The Queen of Tobaccos. Supreme in purity
and quality. Sold in Cut Double Flaße in 2oz. Tins


BROUGHT TO BAY
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
employed , 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable everywhere.*
Reduction of Stock SALE
PRIOR TO REMOVAL TO
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Waiter Bradley & Co.
are now disposing of their
Magnificent Stock Furniture,
Well-Made Upholstered Goods,
Water Colors, Bronzes, China,
Statuary and Art Treasures.
BARGAIN PRICES TO CLEAR.
CAREFULLY PACKED FOR COUNTRY.
David Jones, Ltd., Autumn and Winter cata-
logue is a big book of 120 closely illustrated and descrip-
tive pages. The whole drapery world is seen here
through the medium of printer’s ink. There are practi-
cal frocks, dainty underclothing, children’s needs, practi-
cal millinery at moderate prices. Laces, belts, hosiery,
gloves, drapery for the housewife, and all those 100 and
one items that go to make up the stock of a soft goods
house. The book is excellently printed and gives one the
best possible idea of the goods illustrated. It will be sent
post free on request.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Nearly all cough medicines that are offered
for sale simply control the cough’—that is all.
There is nothing healing about them. This is
where they differ so greatly from Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. When the mucous lining of the
throat becomes congested, when the lining mem-
brane of the bronchial tube is inflamed, or when
the most delicate tissues of the lungs become
affected, then Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
shows itself superior to all other medicines, be-
cause of its healing and strengthening properties.
Its power to control congestion and inflammation
puts it in a different list from any other cough
medicine. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy soothes,
heals and strengthens. The cough disappears, for
the cause has been removed.*
(ATISI
THE H
4.
Is Always Dangerous on
This Account.
♦
A Cure in Sydney by the
Wonderful Power of the
Tonic Treatment.
The most dangerous tendency of rheumatism
is to attack the heart. The 'nest known Aus-
tralian medical writer on the subject says that no
disease is responsible for so much heart trouble as
rheumatic fever. The longer one has the com-
plaint the greater is the danger, therefore rheu-
matism should be driven out of the system with-
out delay. It can’t be rubbed out. Rubbing
may ease the pain ; it’s nonsense to expect rubbing
to cure : the trouble isn’t on the surface, it’s in the
blood. The Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills way is to
make the blood strong and healthy, therefore the
whole system strong and healthy. That’s
common-sense to cure rheumatism.
Mrs. Mary Horner, 15 Harrington Street,
Sydney, cured her rheumatism in this common-
sense way. She says :
“I used to be very much troubled with rheu-
matics. It was in both feet, about the ankles. They
puffed up just as if I had dropsy. The pains
would be acute, and sometimes both feet would
be affected at once. I’d be quite distracted with
the pains that shot through me, just like red-hot
burning knife-stabs. I’d often wake up in the
mornings and hardly be able to get about the
house except by hobbling ; then perhaps the pains
would go as quickly as they came. One day one
foot would be bad, and the next day the pains might
come on in the other. The ankles would be red
and inflamed and I couldn’t put on my boots. I
had to wear slippers. I was afraid for anyone to
come near me. My ankles were stiff and cramped
and the pains wonld often dart right up the calves
of my legs. The least change of weather and I’d
feel it. I had been ailing on and off for some
time before my daughter got me to take Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. The first box did me a
trifle of good. Gradually the pains eased off, the
attacks didn’t come on so often, and when they
did they were much less severe. The red inflamed
look left my ankles and they got more supple so
that I was able to walk quite easily instead of
dragging along in pain. I mostly took the pills
at night time, as they suited me better this way.
I was very much easier and better with the third
box. Hardly any signs of rheumatism were left,
but I kept on and took three more boxes, and these
drove them away for good and all.”
Insist on g'etting Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They are sold by most chemists and storekeepers,
or if not locally obtainable will be sent direct by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney, for 2s. 9d. per box; six boxes 15s. 3d.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
u
>Wls
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE JAR.
It would have been awk-
ward, no doubt, for Mr. Jus-
tice Higgins to have fixed a
scale of waves lower than
that which, he found, “ are
being actually paid by nine of the principal mines in
Broken Hill.” But are the wheels of legitimate industry
to be stopped by legal process because something jars on
our sense of proportion ?—Daily Paper.
THE LAW : "Here, stop that! There's something
about you two which jars upon my sense of
proportion.”
t Ex-Governor Harry Rawson, at Sydney
University, last week :
Australians hardly realised the magnificent heritage
they had. He believed that, in 50 years’time Australia
would be one of the first countries in the world. But
they must be prepared to defend it.
Even British naval men are coming round to the
view that it is time Australia dropped paying
others to defend it, and took on the job itself.
The enthusiasm of Federal Minister Mahon
for his Yassberra Parliamentary picnic must be
an affliction to himself and his friends. Even
with the promise of free fodder and drink, the
response has been discouraging. Several M’s.P.
promised to lend their presence, which was as
much as they could spare; but most of them
didn t turn up. So far as is known, only Carts
and Alligator Johnsing, M’s.H.R., of the first
batch of campers, put in an appearance, and they
had to endure each other for days. But that
hasn.t damped the fury of Mahon. Being de-
termined to obtain the presence of anybody at any
°i. ,S^j^SO as i sn ’f his cost—he has invited
the different State Premiers to the camp. And if
they decline to attend his resources are by no
means exhausted. Apart from the State Parlia-
ments, there are hundreds of deadbeats and
Domain dossers, untouched, as it were.
The sins of those Commonwealth Trea-
surers who listened to the buzz of the Insects,
and voluntarily handed over unnecessary millions
to the State Treasurers, are coming home to roost.
Ihey couldn’t hand over the millions without
starving their own services ; and now the Postal
Commission isfinding out some of the results. A fter
a witness had given evidence before it the other
day, the Commission poked its own nose into the
room at the Sydney G.P.O. where the letter-
carriers work, and found men, dirt, letters, and
fleas jumbled up in a cavern that didn’t look as
though it had had a cleaning for 10 years. The
place was horribly crowded even without the
dirt and the insects, and the sanitary conveniences
were shocking—and all because, to oblige the
Wades and Twaddells and Evanses and Newton
Moores, the Commonwealth had even cut down
the soap and scrubbing-brush allowances.
It was said, the other day, that the
N.S.W. Judicial Bench is a model in the matter
of propriety to the other Benches of Australia.
Australian Judges of to-day are, taking them in a
body, superior in external decencies to those who
have “ gone before.” The levering up in external
decencies has been general over the continent.
In the late skirmishing over the appointment of a
N.S. W. Chief Justice, it was alleged against one
possible person that he “ smelled of liquor,” and
against another that he swore. Even the tailor-
ing of some was brought to the front. And fifty
years ago nobody cared what a N.S.W. Judge
smelled of; also, it is alleged that the whole
Bench swore.
“ Schnapper ” writes : '
The Commonwealth trawler Endeavour has returned
from its trial cruise with a good catch of fish, and, accord-
ing to Fishing Director Dannevig, there are good prospects
for the future. But, as the Endeavour is a Federal enter-
prise, it is assumed that it would be a shattering blow to
the rights of N.S.W. if the fish brought to Sydney
were sold to N.S.W. citizens. The competition
with Private Enterprise, which would result in
cheap fish for Sydney, is reckoned unfair, un-
British, and the Lord knows what besides, because
the Federal, and not the State, Parliament built the
trawler. So the fish caught must be given to the hos-
pitals, exported beyond the seas, or thrown away. How
the Commonwealth can get back its money under these
circumstances is a mystery. It is also a pitv that Wade’s
pride stands between the people of N.S.W. and cheap
fish. A solution might be arrived at by the Sydney
people, in their capacity as Federal electors, insisting on
getting the trawler’s fish cheap, but buying it in such a
manner as to keep the deed a dark secret from themselves
as State electors. This should assuage their outraged
State Frights feelings and give them the fish at the same
time.
The London Standard recently mentioned
that the British War Office had placed a large
order for tinned meat with Armour and Co.,
Chicago. Commenting on the fact, the Standard
added :
The present contract is said to he rendered necessary
by the inability of colonial packers to supply the demand
of the War Office, both, as regards quantity and, quality.
So far as quality is concerned there was a book
called “The Jungle ” published, if The
Bulletin’s memory is correct, a year
or two ago, which contained some re-
marks on the Chicago meat-packers. And
it happens that the real reason, now
admitted, for the non-acceptance of the
Australian tenders was that none were
sent in, because of a clause in the condi-
tions requiring the contractor, at the end
of 12 months, to take back all unused
meat, and replace it with fresh ! Armour
and Co. do this, and there is a loud
silence as to what becomes of the ancient
meat. Perhaps it is simply kept a few
months and then re-sold to the British
War Office as good, fresh cow. Anyhow.
Australians and Maorilanders drew the
line at these proposed strange dealings
in left-off ox-flesh, and no business was
done.
N.S.W. has now, it is to be hoped, heard
the last of the famous Carruthers-Wade wire-
netting steal. When Carruthers started his
insane baby insurrection by sending his police to
attack the Federal Customs premises and seize
certain goods which hadn’t paid duty, the imme-
diate result was that N.S.W. was fined £5, and
some severe remarks were made about the igno-
rance of its legal advisers. A foolish and infuri-
ated State Government then carried its case, and
exposed its ignorance, to the British Privy Coun-
cil, and last week that body also threw it out on
its ear. It is really up to N.S.W. to get a Pre-
mier who won’t spend quite so much of his time
on his ear amid the shrieks of a ribald populace.
The thing isn’t good for the Ma State’s dignity.
From an anti-State Fright Federalist :
Last week the president and secretary of Sydnev Trades
Council wired to Home Minister Mahon, protesting indig-
nantly against the printing of the Shipping and Trade and
Customs returns being taken from Sydney and transferred
to Melbourne. A Sydney firm had been'doing this work
for £760 155., and the Victorian State Printer, using
Federal type, machinery, and employees, tendered for it
at £634 10s., thereby giving the Labor Government a
chance to save £126 55., and encourage State enterprise
at the same time. Seeing that (1) the persons now doing
the work in Melbourne are paying standard wages ; 12)
it doesn’t matter to any good Australian whether the
work is done in Sydney or Melbourne ; and (3) the Labor
party believes in State employment in preference to that
of Private Enterprise, it is up to the Sydney Trades Coun-
cil to explain its ridiculous action. Or is the Svdney
Trades Council just a joint in the tail of the State Fright
and parish pump dog?
Greater Sydney grows very, very slowly.
Camperdown has been taken in because Camper-
down was bankrupt, and was glad to run for any
port; but the Kedfern aldermen have decided,
by seven votes to two, that they won’t sacrifice
their poor little scrap of dignity ; and no other
municipality seems to be even thinking about the
matter.
WHEN THINGS GET SERIOUS.
Vic. : “If you want funds, why don’t you tax
the free lodger? ”
HER CHARGE D’AFFAIRES (as he collars her
earrings, watch and chain, locket, etc.):
“ Wot? Insult the gentleman by arskin’ ’im
to pay for ’is keep ? Not while you’ve got
anythink to pop ! ”
During the past fortnight two monster
cargoes of steel rails have arrived in N. S. Wales.
During the same fortnight coal-miners and coal-
owners have been wailing long and loudly about
the depression in the coal trade. Both parties
might cease their lamentations for five minutes
and sit down and calculate how many tons of local
coal the local manufacture of those two cargoes of
steel rails would have required. The result might
be forwarded to Joe Cook, Dr. Liddell, Bowden
and Fuller, the Foreign-traders who represent
the coal districts of New South Wales.
The S. M. Herald is nowadays capable of
making quite a valuable discovery—as, for
instance, that rain is w'et, and that, quite contrary
to the pictures “printed in England,” it is
summer-time in Australia at Christmas. Dis-
cussing the appointment of an Australian to the
chair of Veterinary Science at Sydney University,
it declared last week :—•
Facts borrowed from text-books, written to meet the
conditions of other countries, are not a good foundation
for Australian teaching.
Yet all these years the Herald has been nosing
among the old English text-books on Politics and
Defence, etc., and forcing Freetrade down Aus-
tralia’s throat because England had swallowed
the substance. And now, when it isn’t on its
guard, and is only thinking of glanders and
footrot and things like that, it blurts out the
obvious truth regarding things in general.
Vic. Minister for Lands McKenzie is leav-
ing his spoor on the map of Victoria, and that is
all he is leaving. He has been rushing about the
country at a great rate, and, though courteously
informative upon the greenness of the grass and
such passionate matters, practical information
about land settlement can’t be got out of him with
dynamite. The daily papers are convinced that
McKenzie has been terribly busy, and they shove
his colorless doings into half a column or more
of space. Meanw'hile items like this follow him
about: —
Charlton, Sunday.
The exodus of farmers from this district continues.
The high prices obtainable for land are tempting many to
realise, and obtain much cheaper land in New South
Wales. The most serious aspect of the matter is that
the land is getting into the hands of adjoining land-
holders.
Now, if items like that don’t make McKenzie feel
like a dog with a tin tied to its tail, then he is
what this paper always thought he was. Even if
they do he will still be what this paper always
thought he was.
THE FINANCIAL PROBLEM.
THE STATE FRIGHTS: “ Buildin’ them railways
is all very nice, but my back-gate wants
painting, and the kitchen window wants a
pane of glass, and lots of other things; an’
what I want to know is, where’s the money
coming from ?"
“G.W.M.”—hys playnt :
He trucks. I am interested in a flour mill on the
N.S. W. Western line. Last year, when stock trucks were
short, Mr. Johnson took to using - the ordinary open
trucks (“D" trucks I think they call them) for trans-
porting sheep. Now, consider the following propositions
in their order :
(1) Once sheep have occupied a truck, all
the perfurnesof Araby will not sweeten
that truck again. It retains for
ever an odor like to that of
a dead octopus, even when it has
been properly scrubbed and
cleaned.
(2) Mr. Johnson’s trucks were
not properly scrubbed and
cleaned.
(3) The identical trucks,
or some of them, were after-
wards supplied to us for
trucking flour.
(4) Flour is a commodity
that absorbs with gusto
any odor that may hap-
pen to be lurking in its
vicinity.
And other things be-
sides odors lurked in
those trucks. But lam
not going to pursue the
subject any further —I
have been too well
brought up. If I had
not been, I would have
substituted another
word for “ odor ” where-
soever the same occurs
in this paragraph. And
I would have supplied a
. more detailed description
of the interiors of those trucks. But I distinctly remem-
ber feeling very grateful at the time that I was in a posi-
tion to purchase flour locally, before it had passed through
Mr. Johnson’s hands.
Captain Cresswell, the Commonwealth’s
naval director, has issued a cold and reserved sort
of report about Jervis Bay, the proposed Federal
seaport. He says that it is suitable “in certain
respects.” There are just three serious draw-
backs about Jervis Bay: (1) It is doubtful
whether the Federal Government can hold it. as
it is only 87 miles from Sydney, and the 100-miles-
limit-from-Sydney clause may get in the way ;
(2) it isn’t very defensible, the strips of land
which divide it from the ocean being so narrow
that it could easily be shelled from the open sea ;
and (3) if a Federal port is established there it
must, in time, intercept all the southern export
trade which now comes to Sydney, and when the
Sydney traders realise this their row will blow the
roof off the Town Hall.
FALSE FRIENDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr. Mahon) is making:
desperate efforts to make his camp at the proposed
Federal capital site a success. So far the members of the
Federal Parliament have not shown any great desire to
spend the two or three days said to be necessary for them
to obtain a general idea of the area, and the Minister is
seeking to fill up the vacant chairs round the camp mess-
table by asking the Premiers of the different States
to visit the place. So far Mr. Mahon has met with
•ittle success with his invitations. —Sydney Telegraph,
17IS I’o9.
They will not come.
No ; though they’re fed, dragged free both ways
And sheltered from the torrid rays
That beat on Yassberra these days
For nothing, still their hungry craze
For the site they’ve proclaimed the best
Fails utterly to stand the test
Of two days’ visit there. They rest—
These fervent ones—elsewhere, with zest.
Each stays at home.
In vain Yass peers,
As ev’ry train steams into it,
For Morris Hughes, that blithesome wit,
Who vowed he simply longed to sit
And vegetate in Yass. A fit
And proper place he reckoned Yass
To dwell in once. (How men’s views pass
Or change !) Now when some silly ass
Says, “ Won’t you join our camping class?”
Hughes simply jeers. .
Reid, M.H.R.
(Who, when his work in court grew slack,
Habitually hurried back
To Melbourne), once displayed no lack
Of love for Yass. He used to rack
His brains for specious arguments
On its behalf, and tear to rents
All other claims. Yet in the tents—
He’s not among the residents.
Reid is afar.
It is Cook’s whim
To shun Yass, too. Cook once was fain
To put upon an equal plane
Yass and Elysium. Again
And yet again he spoke with pain
Of those dull-witted clods who spurned
This charming spot. He simply burned,
He said, to live there. He’s returned
From Queensland- —but he will be durned
If Yass sees him.
A low, sad moan
Ascends from Yass to Bungendore
These days ; the angered natives pour
Reproach on statesmen whom of yore
They loved—aye, almost worshipped—for
They' feel their site has dropped from grace.
The M.P.’s turned from it his face—
The present chance he won’t embrace.
He treats Yass as a useful place
To leave alone.
N.S.W.
J.D.


vf^ lTEAr °iVce
BUCKLEYS
Autumn d?Winter*
FASHION BOOK*
£ General Catalogue
Just" Published. W.-4*
(Posted tree on Application
The Smevrlreat Publication
in AustPdvlisc
//eery ///us/ra/ioi? has jbean specially prepared
&gr/i/ej a /'rue represen/a/Jon o/ our s/oc/rs.
NO home: complete without one
BUCKLEY t- NUNN L T ?
VICTORIA HOUSE
MELBOURNE
Is Yotir Moustache a Failure ?
Because it won’t grow then you can improve and make it grow
right away. It’s the easiest thing in the world a little
CAPILLARINE
rubbed on the lip before retiring each night will soon give you
a long thick moustache that will remain with you permanently.
CRRIfi & SITKEH, 654 <s«orge St., Sydney
Established 25 Tears.
Price 10/0,
TO ANY PART OF
THE WORLD.
THE'lifi
HEAR
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
DBDIQN.
MmLL,
F 3ST
ROVM;:
g FORD I
. CARS.
OUR CARS
ARE the Chieftains of the Six
Greatest Motor Engineering
Nations.
OUR ACCESSORIES
Include only the Best of Everything.
We mail all Country Orders by quick
return.
OUR REPAIRS si
Are honest, good and reliable. Expert
Management, Men and Machinery.
We make Gear Wheels on premises.
LET 05
KANO YOU
CATALOC.
MOTORING
INDUSTRY.
106 RUSSELL ST MELBOURNE.T—
-2 9^-2
3 030 .
SMOKE
REFEREE tobacco
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
"Start the New Yew Well -
Make Up Your Mind to Begin NOW to
Improve Yourself —TO EARN MORE.
We can train you, so as to enable you to greatly improve
your position, if you desire to do so.
Stott’s Correspondence CeUS?
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EXAMINATIONS ! EXAMINATIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS -
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
JVW&HBED
If ORAM) PMX
AT THE
FRANCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION


TA C^
f/ 1900
Charles
HeidsiecK’s
v Champagne. /
REIMS.
FOR
MRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “SILVASHEEN” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
#§m
& A
kM
r*
vl
CSfcs
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
You can smell a cup of
Robur so soon as it is brought
into the room—it hasn’t a
scenty smell—its aroma is
full, soft, rich —just the kind
that makes you feel you would
like to sip it.
Tea-tasters and Analysis
will tell you that it is
impossible to get purer tea
than Robur—and you couldn’t
have better proof of its
goodness than that they use
it in their own homes —could
you ?
I use it exclusively in
my home, and have done
so for a long time.
C. R. BLACKETT, E.C.S.,
late Government Analyst.
The No. 1 Grade is
beautiful tea.
QUALITY,
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 23, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
She was a hat-developer. There are no longer
any milliners; they are developers. Well, she
had recently arrived in Sydney from foreign
capitals, and the creation she was offering to a
wealthy client—there are no longer any customers,
only clients—was a felt hat with a single quill
thrust through its crown.
Client (much surprised): “ But what a price ! Seven
guineas! What for?”
Developer : “ For the style, madam. You won’t see a
duplicate of this in Sydney.”
Client: “ Where’s the style? And anyone, anyone at
all, could copy it. Just a quill! Absolutely nothing else
on it 1 ’’
Developer : “ The style is in the way the quill is put
in, madam. I don’t think there is anyone here capable
of copying it exactly.”
Client (looking dazed): “ There are two holes in the
felt, and the quill is put in slanting-. But perhaps it is a
valuable quill.” (Looks at it closely'.) “ Why, it is no
different from a turkey' quill.”
Developer (calmly) : “ It is a pheasant quill.”
Client: “Well, that’s not valuable. It must be the
felt .vou are charging for. It is a good felt, but Mrs.
Paralysis has one just like it which she bought for twenty-
five shillings.”
Developer (in the voice of the hypnotiser): “It is
a good felt, madam, but I assure you it is the style that
makes it seem expensive. It is the quill that gives it the
cachet. Notice how the brown of the quill with its
cross bars of lighter color contrasts with the mole shade of
the felt.”
Client : “ Yes, I notice. But that quill would contrast
just as well with anything else. It is so-so—common-
place. So —unstriking. All my friends can make a close
guess at the price of a hat, and they would not credit me
with wearing a seven-guinea one if I took this. Twenty-
five shillings for the felt, and sixpence for the quill.
Developer: “I must he quite honest with you,
madam. Anyone who buys this hat pays for its styde,
not for the materials. It could not, of course, be worn
by every lady’. Its styde would dominate her unless she
herself were very stylish already'.”
Client (weakening) : “ Let me tr.v it on again. Yes,
the color is good, but ”- '
Developer: “The style is best,. Now stand between
these two mirrors, and you will confess that you never
saw a quill put in quite that way before.”
Client (limply) : “ But%n.yone can wear a quill.”
Developer (smiling indulgently): “Yes, but how i
There are quills—millions of them—but only' one quill put
in h.v an artist, and this is it.”
Client (getting mushy'): “ I wish I knew what to do.”
Developer (without haste and without rest): “Now,
as I look at y-ou from any point of view—back, front, pro-
file—l can see fresh style in that hat. I did not know'
that a mere quill could be quite so chic. The hat looks
nothing off compared with its look on you. Of course,
half the credit is due to your wearing of it. The price is
most reasonable.”
Client: “Oh!”
Developer.: “If you could see yourself as I see you
now' you would admit it.”
Client : “ Suppose the quill gets a knock ”
Developer: “That would destroy the balance, and it
would become a commonplace hat. No one but the
designer could put the quill back to that wonderful
angle.”
Client (looking like one in a sleep walk): “Do you
think I ought to dress.my hair fuller?”
Developer: “Oh, no. Not with that hat, certainly.
Any other hat you might. But more fulness would take
attention off the slope of the quill.”
A long, long pause.
Client (feebly): “You might let me have it this
afternoon.”
When Mayoress Taylor “delivered the goods”
to Excellencette Rawson on Friday, she did so
with a capital little speech in which this sentence
was embedded :
We are gratified to know that it is your intention to
revisit Australia, and we venture to hope that on your
return with his Excellency' you may permanently make
your home among a people who love .vou both so well.
The ears of the assemblage were laid back and they
—the women, not the ears—turned towards each
other and.said, “Oh, my ! ” or “ Won’t it be lovely
if she does! ” or “How nice !” Miss Rawson in her
reply made no reference to Mrs. Taylor’s
inferential prophecy. But N.S.W. would be
flattered to distraction if the much-liked Rawsons
returned to take root here. They wouldn’t have
the salary, of course, but also they wouldn’t have
the hen-show openings, the charity-ball inflictions,
and the front chairs at the dismal concerts. There
are compensations in losing your lien on the
National Anthem. And young Wyatt Rawson
looks just the build to go on the land.
“The goods,” as I mentioned last fortnight, are
beautifully-mounted diamond ornaments—neck-
lace, earrings, bracelet, and marquise ring, with
a supplementary gift, a miniature portrait of the
late Lady Rawson, painted by Miss Laycock.
“From the Women of New South Wales ’’ is the
inscription on the morocco-bound prison of the
jewels
The Excellencette’s speech of thanks was a
pretty and most suitable thing in the way of
acknowledgment, and when the giving and taking
were over, the five hundred or so huge-hatted
givers followed the bejewelled young party into
the Hall, where she had speech with all, and
where tea flowed. And Mr. Forster Taylor stood
guard over the diamonds, murmuring “ Don’t
touch ! ” to curious persons.
What will Excellency Rawson’s digestive appa-
ratus be like by Wednesday next, when he quits
these shores? Every day he is officially lunched
or dined, and last night the Union Club gave him
the Pure Merino banquet on a grand scale. On
St. Patrick’s evening the officer commanding
and officers of the 2nd A.1.R., of which
his Ex. is Hon. Colonel, fed him at
Victoria Barracks. Everyone knows what a
good Irish accent Major Ramaciotti, the officer
commanding, possesses, and he made the speech
of the evening with his possession. The bit of
green baby-ribbon on his breast helped the illu-
sion that he was a descendant of the canonised
Snake-Chaser. But it was really the understudy
of his long-service medal.
Miss Rawson lea:ves for England on Wednesday,
and Captain Wilson boards the Malwa en route
for the same place on Friday. Miss Rawson
intends, according to present advices, to settle
down to the humdrum existence of the retired
naval man’s daughter, and Captain Wilson is to
marry and rejoin his regiment. It seems a
tragic example of economic waste. For six
years these two intelligent young people have
been training themselves assiduously in the arts
of diplomacy. It is doubtful if any king or queen
now in business would have anything to teach
either of them in the way of tact, restraint,
punctuality, cheerfulness in trying situations, and
graveyard solemnity in ludicrous ones. Modern
society willingly pays big money to its rulers,
but it asks unusual qualities in return. Ap-
peal Court Judges, Archbishops, Chief Rabbis
and the like may get annoyed in public
with impunity; not so royalties or Presidents.
If they do they break one of the first rules of the
game. A Cabinet Minister is not debarred from
smiling if after a banquet a suburban mayor (say),
as a result of too persistent consideration of the
interior of the cup which cheers and then inebri-
ates, becomes entangled as to his feet and wilts
upon a waiter’s bosom. This is where he differs
from royalty and its republican equivalent, which
must view such incidents with an aspect
of stony incomprehension. Miss Rawson and
Captain Wilson have mastered the tricks
that many Guelphs and Hohenzollerns have put
in years vainly trying to acquire. And now they
are dropping into private life and their know-
ledge is so much lumber. It is going to be of no
more value in their new spheres than expertness at
Bridge to a Laplander, or goloshes to an inhabi-
tant of Yass-Canberra. If the Cold Land authori-
ties knew their business they would find
responsible and lucrative billets somewhere for
these diplomatic people. Their kind is too rare
to be let run to waste.
The last theatre-appearance of the Rawsons was
made on Saturday night, when He, She, and
Mrs. Miller decorated the front d.c. seats at
“Havana.” Five or six well-tailored young
men enlarged the party. One of the group
was a Narcissus-like youth, named Potter, an
English twig from the tree of Potter—he of the
Birt, Potter and Hughes Federal-line people in
London.
The widow of George McCulloch, the Brokenhil-
lionaire, has recently married in Aberdeen a fairlv-
well-known artist, J. Coutts Michie. The lady’s
late husband had a mania for picture buying. He
is said to have spent £BOO,OOO or so on his collection.
Herkomer’s banking account was greatly aug-
mented by the Australian-won gold.
Do you remember the Sydneysider (by adop-
tion), Goring Thomas, who went hence some
seven years ago? He played about with the
artists and musicians of this State, and there were
always reports about that he was going to be a high-
salaried aide-de-camp to this or that Governor.
(I believe aides don’t get any wages.) Well,
Goring Thomas has written me a letter. (His
writing reminds me of what Manager Ramaciotti
said of Ola Humphrey’s scrawl—“ She takes a
chicken’s foot, dips all the toes in ink, and, whilst
the letter is still wet, sits on it.”) • The G.T.
letter is to say that the writer’s book, “Mrs.
Grammercy Park,” is to be out this Spring.
John Lane publishes the bantling. The writer
proceeds: “I see a good many Australians.
Jimmy Allison is advertising manager of the
Times, and he has got Mozar in the Times
office. Beattie is in India with Hugh Ward.”
The Mozar mentioned may be the Ernest boy who
was one of the delectable six in the original cast of
“ Florodora.”
Mr. “ Wally ” Marks, whose predominant pas-
sion is yachting, is on his way back to this Harbor,
where he can ride his hobby all he knows. It is
only the Harbor and the craft he happens to be
racing or chasing that interest him, though his
address is somewhere on the non-fluid part of the
State. His wife, one of our best-lookers, also
returns. So many husbands return without their
mates, and so many wives hustle hither without
their matrimonial encumbrances, that it is quite a
fair thing to mention that the brace come back
together.
Mrs. Mann, of Rand wick (who, with her son
and unmarried daughter, exits by the Asturias),
has kindly sent me five guineas—two for the
Child Study Association and three for the Hospice
of the Sacred Heart.
A son of the beknighted Edward Wittenoom
of Westralia is to marry Miss Bessie Sboll, of
Perth, in the same roomy State. Both families
are well furnished with banking accounts and
stations, and the bridegroom-elect is said to run
the tract known as Muralgarra station.
Amongst the departers by the Armand Behic
on Monday was Mr. E. Owen Cox, managing
director of the Federal-Houlder-Shire line of
steamers. His visit to old cold worlds will be as
flying as he can make it without an aeroplane,
Mr. Baxter Bruce, who goes hence by the
Malwa on Wednesday, had a dinner given him at
Paris House, and, to make it as complimentary
as a Scot would wish, pipers marched around the
dining table skirling their bagpipes. That was
Scottish enough, Scot knows ! But the dishes
of haggis were reverently placed on the table,
each surmounted by a German flag. Everything
helps to advertise “The Englishman’s Home”
scare.
“The Royal Divorce” is as good a draw as
“East Lynne.” It drew a huge feminine
audience on Saturday to weep over the
shunted Empress, and to gaze on Miss
Day’s gowns. “Josephine” Day had had
only four rehearsals, and, by all the laws of
everything, should have been falling over herself
and her lines. But she did not misdo either, and
wore her salmon pink Empire gown, and her
royal purple Empire robe of velvet, and her white
spotted ninon over white satin, and the rest of her
voluminous imperial wardrobe in a manner that
showed Napoleon that he was losing a better-
dressed Empress than he was finding.
I have suspected for years that the actor’s life
is not the long round of drudgery, diversified by
drink, that he tries to make out. Now I know it.
Yesterday, The Constellation, a monthly maga-
zine, written and set by J.C.W.’s Star Dramatic
Co., came my way. The editor is Aubrey Malla-
lieu; the sub. and cartoonist, Tith. junior. It
contains an editorial, special articles, full-page
cartoon, verse, interviews, and about 78 other
features. Speaking as one with some slight know-
ledgeof the newspaper game, Ishould judgethatthe
production occupied several strong men abodt three
weeks. What a blistering comment on the mum-
mer’s favorite allegation that when he is not in a
bar he is locked away in his study (or hash-house
bedroom, as the case may be) worrying out fresh
methods of interpreting Bill of Avon. The Con-
stellation gives the show away. If the pro-
moters don’t want the profesh inundated with
chronic ease-lovers they will call in as many copies
of the periodica] as possible, print no more, and
deny strenuously that it ever existed.
Mrs. Paderewski’s obituary ought to be written
with a hen’s quill. We always hear of her
through poultry notes. The latest is that she
desired to buy some Cochin birds at the Boston
Poultry Show, and was willing to pay any price
for them. But the special birds had been already
sold for a thousand dollars each, and the consort
of his Highness of the Hair and Hands had to go
Cochinless away.
The much-travelled Harry Rickards family go
hence by the Asturias presently. Miss Madge
Rickards, on her arrival in London, will be mar-
ried to Mr. Harwood, a comic-opera star.
Talking of comic-opera lights reminds me that
pretty Betty Olds’s prospective partner in the “ O
Perfect Love” duet is front-named Ered (not
Cecil) McQuade.
Mr. Edwin Geach abandons his state of single
wickedness next month in favor of double blessed-
ness. Mr. Geoff Hill, secretary of the Public
Service Association, will stand by him on the
great occasion with the smelling salts and the ring.
This gentleman has evidently acquired the best-
man habit quite virulently. He saw Mr. Claude
McKay through the junction ceremony so effici-
ently that Mr. Geach has been looking out for a
like job for him ever since. Now he gives it
personally.
Miss Ola Humphrey has “flatted ” at the Albany,
in Macquarie-street. Her.suite has a fine view of
over the way. That is a way that goes clear over
the Harbor to the South Head lighthouse,
Manly, and Watson’s Bay. The C. E. Waters
—they of the motor cars, motor launches,
and Asiatic trade connections—own the flat,
which is furnished with all the luxuries that can
be looked for in an affluent person’s eyrie. The
Willie Kellys had the lair until recently, when
they gat themselves a whole house and garden of
their own, with a dog-kennel at one side and a
fowlhouse at the other. Ola J. is studying “An
Englishman’s Home,” in which the co. will
appear next Saturday week. According to “ Our
Own Correspondent ” from London, the play’s
the thing. There’s no star role in it for man or
maid. An old man has the limelight, and him
Mr. Eardley Turner, from the Julius K. Co., will
do Brown. But one can’t realise Ola as a Miss
Brown.
J.O.W. must have been rushed with offers to
do a play on similar lines, but dealing with an inva-
sion of Australia. I know only about 19 persons in
Sydney, and some 11 of this number have told me
in accents of scorn that as soon as that cable
announcing the phenomenal success of “An
Englishman’s Home” appeared, they wrote to Wil-
liamson, offering to do him a similar “awakener.”
Evidently he was not to be done, hence the scorn
of the playwrights who didn’t get the job. Even
supposing that the local article might catch on, it
might not be literary morality to lay larcenous
hands on another man’s idea.
Following,beautiful bit of word-painting is from
a country paper description of a wedding
The bride, as she entered the church, looked superbly
serene in her etherealised gown of pearl white satin
meteor. It was constructed on the Empire lines, which
suit her graceful form beautifully. The corsage was
cleverly cut to show a yoke of Limerick lace, framed by
the same lace artistically draped, looped up, and caught
with bridal bells strung together with a silver cord. The
three-quarter draped sleeves were insertioned with lace,
and caught at the elbow with silver tassels. The skirt had
a stole panel front, which was braided in silver tissue —
shamrocks, true lovers’ knots, lilies and leaves, forming
the design. A great cachet was imparted to the braiding
through the diversity of its meanderings, by the softly
gleaming pearls of various sizes, which lent their splendor
to the silvery way. Around the hem, the' same design
was skilfully arranged to give the effect of a pretty
irregular outline. From the waist-line, at back, an
Empire girdle was swathed to left side, -where it was
finished off with true lovers’ knots of silver, and enriched'
by silver tassels. On her head she wore a wreath of
orange blossoms, surmounted by an exquisite Limerick
lace veil, which fell in soft folds almost on the train of
her gown, etc., etc.
That worthy charity, St. Vincent’s Hospital,
will make its annual ball appeal to you on
Wednesday, April 14, at the Town Hall. There
is a lot of the wisdom of the boa-constrictor (the
boa is both long and wise) in the committees that
foregather year by year to roll this institution’s
ball. They always strike some novel and com-
pelling form of attraction, and they always get
the leaders of the nation on to the dais. April’s
ball will be an operatic frisk, and the Governor-
General and Countess DudlSy will be present.
Mrs. Allen Taylor is president, there is a strong
committee, Mrs. O’Gorman Hughes and Miss
Egan are hon. treasurers, and Mrs. Barton, Mrs.
Macneill Simpson and Miss Glasheen are hon.
secs.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“ Skeeter ” : “ Edyson ” (B. 4/3/’O9), com-
menting on the fact that the European woman
who adopts the Chow adopts also the facial
characteristics of the Yellow Peril, is unfor-
tunately right. Down in the remnants of what
was the Chinese camp at Ballarat, and also at
Maryborough (Vic.), one can see European women
who seem to have acquired the high cheek hemes
and slant eyes of their heathen —er —husbands.
Moreover, they certainly adopt the Chow charac-
teristic of living inside flattened-out kerosene
tins and hessian, variegated with wooden slabs.
Of the real Chow lady there is very little
remaining, and she is only seen in her glory
what time the Chow brigade makes an effort
in the noble cause of “Chality.” The glory is
departed from the Chow camp, and it is now only
a region of sordid rags and surreptitious opium.
But the Joss house is there, and the dragon ; and
on the Chow New Year’s Day the camp bursts
forth in decadent silk and the Chinese equivalent
for rouge and pearl powder, and beams on the
white devils for a time. After which it goes
back to its rags and smells, and other things.
Plea of a fairly habitual drunk in a Mel-
bourne suburban Court the other morning : “My
missus is a Rechabite. She was always nagging
at me to join one o’ them teetotal lodges, your
Worship, and it drove me to drink.”
The ice-cream that cools the interior of
the small boy is a fearful mixture of wild animals
and mush. Two Italians were prosecuted last
week in Perth for selling the coldness in an insani-
tary condition ; the Government bacteriological
expert, who examined two samples, gave evidence
that the first contain! .i 13,000,000 beasts to the
cubic centimetre, and the other 15,000.000. The
small boy who blews his pennies at Angelo’s
cart can and does absorb a good deal of awfulness
with impunity ; but there is a limit to the capa-
city of everything, and the W.A. small boy has
done nobly in holding Angelo’s menagerie without
exploding.
“Lamb-Chop One ” writes :
The award of the Wages Board under the N.S.W. In-
dustrial Disputes Act has increased wages, limited hours,
and generally improved the conditions of the young
female persons engaged in hotels and restaurants ; and the
case called for it. Hebe’s wages have been fixed at 255.
Hebe is generally credited by the Cold Tea reformers
with earning the wages of sin, and it would seem that
the wages aren’t excessive. Phyllis, who dispenses
tea in the restaurants, gets only 15s. —perhaps
because Phyllis can get more sustenance out
of the cold remains than Hebe does out of the
bottle. Phyllis can’t expect more in tips than her
sister at the bar, and on the wages comparison Hebe is
the better off. Her hours are 58 per week, compared
with 63 for Phyllis; and, altogether, officialdom has
looked kindlier on the beer-engineeress than on the
“ lamb-chop one ” young lad}'. Yet even for her the new
conditions are not gaudy, and there is a dark suspicion
that the old ones must have been fairly dreadful.


■•V.-v ■ *
WllHflffi
;
©
IB
in
m
■
il
l f
i * '/••;* ,n-
-4 - •• i; A,-4'v-t
ft': *> v-.* ‘ j V
-/ -»;C ,
:V‘
/ ;3
H
■I
*■6
'
V
Bfi
IT
f
r
n
II
f
a
if 1
■-'■■■
T 5
*
a
-
.*■
m
5®
**•
■■■
i
4so&' -
m
>
IfEMP’S PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
BLACK,
RED and
BLUE.
IS NOT AN OIL, AND WILL
NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
CASES containing two 4-gallon Tins,
4s. Gallon ; or eight 1-gallon Tins,
4s. 6d. Gallon.
AGENTS IN MELBOURNE (Dalgety <Eb Co. Ltd.)
t» » SYDNEY (E. Rich ffl, Co. Ltd.)
*» •> ADELAIDE CD. (Q> J. Fowler Ltd.)
** » KINGSTON, S.A.. (Dalgety QSu Co. Ltd.)
.» BRISBANE (E. RicH (&, Co. Ltd.)
AGENTS IN ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.)
~ TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety GO, Co. Ltd.)
„ FREMANTLE (Dalgety- (S 3, Co. Ltd.)
>• .. HOBART (Wm. Crosby (Q> Co.)
.. 9. LAUNCESTON (W. X. 801 l & Co. Ltd.).


The children’s pet name for Faliere’s
Phosphatine Food. They like it, and it
is good for them—the best food. It forms
bone, muscle and brain. It makes good
teeth, and is in every way the perfect
food for infants and children. Free
sample from Joubert & Joubert, 552
Flinders Street, Melbourne; Claude
Healy & Co.. 63 Pitt Street, Sydney ; or
D. & J. Fowler, Ltd., Adelaide.
FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food „
IN SILK, QUALITY COUNTS MOST.
C MBROIDERY WORK on which one spends per-
haps months of leisure, requires that the very
choicest silk obtainable be used in its execution.
Otherwise the effect is spoilt by the impossibility of
catching- the exact tints of Nature.
CARLSON CURRIER
SEWING and
EMBROIDERY
SILKS
are the World’s Standard -and sold in fast colors
ranging from the most delicate to the richest shades
Let us send you a FREE copy of our Booklet, “ Art
Needlework,” giving many useful Hints on Embroid-
ery and giving beautiful reproductions of examples
worked with Carlson Currier Silks. In return all we
ask is the name of the Draper you buy from.
Leading- Stores Everywhere sell
CARLSON CURRIER SILKS.
Carlson Currier Co.,
The Block, Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
<4
m
AN
m
5S
Bushman's)
TYRES
Hard Riding on Rough
Bush Tracks.
HARD TO PUNCTURE,
and HARD TO WEAR OUT
Obtainable through any Oycle Agent, but
you must specify •• Bushman’s." Mads In 2
sisos : 28in. x I*ln. and 28ln. x Ijln. Sample
section Posted on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER 00.
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane, Cbrisfcborch, N.Z.
.*! ,s rv
&
M
WJ
nwnii
w
& fm-
X:
Hoods
Represent the Highest Quality
of material and workmanship in
Golf, Tennis, and Bat
Handle Grips,
Golf Bails,
Football and Punching
Ball Bladders,
Rubber Soles, Waders,
etc-
Obtainable all Leading Sports Depots.
Accept only “ Dunlop Brand.”
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
The best iVthe country-
side, i*/ faitb.”
'Sold l>y all /Grocers in Red, Blue, and Green Packets.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Mklbourne, March 22, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrik, —
Victoria’s “chinny” Excellency of yore—Sir
George Sydenham Clarke —is having a sad and
anxious time as Governor of Bombay, where
the “ unrest ” is. His wife died three months ago,
and now daughter Violet has passed away also.
Meningitis was the cause of death. When she was
in Melbourne with her parents, Violet dreamed of a
songbird career, and was sent to Paris to get her
voice polished by Marchesi, after which the cable —
which, to be sure, is an unblushing fibber as
regards Governors’ daughters—stated that Miss
had made a triumphant first appearance in
London. The musical “career” of the young
lady, whatever it may have promised to be, was
knocked on the head when she was carried off to
assist her ill-fated mater in entertaining the white
and black notables of Bombay. Sir George
Clarke must sigh every time he thinks of Mel-
bourne and the easy three years the family spent
there.
Captain Stuart, aide to AVay, of S’Australia,
who came to Melbourne to nelp put Carmichael
wise as to his business as Grand Master of the
Masons, has been speaking of the simplicity of
the Dudley mknagc at Marble Hill. Dudley
wastes no ceremony with his gentleman-helps.
There is sweet familiarity in their pet names.
One is known about the house as “ Mick ” ;
another as “Sandy.” I’ve forgotten the tag of
the third, but it is probably Algernon or Wilfred.
Lemmone and aide Southwell move round
town enveloped in wide smiles, for the Melba
boom is healthy and is growing lustily. They
both wear “Melba” done in diamonds in their
scarf-pins. The gauds were provided, or pre-
sented, by the songstress herself.
Melba can scarcely have a valet, but she has a
butler —a grim, vigilant, black-clothed being, who
is in evidence at every concert, and has a sys-
tematic way of carting off the superfluous vege-
table heaved at his employer. The Melba entour-
age is small and concise. It includes Secretary
Agnes Murphy, Under-Secretary Amie Moore,
Bari tone Ranalow, with his Irish smile and pretty
wife; also the grim buried-looking butler, and
Fifi, the French maid.
Melba was sad. It’s hard to tell why, with a
brilliant house throwing enthusiasm at her feet
and breaking its joint and several neck to cast
golden guineas at her manager. Nevertheless, a
touch of “ temperament ” threw the whole of
Saturday’s programme into a minor wailing key
and invoked a farewell song for each encore, with
a final passionate outburst in Tosti’s “Good-bye.”
The Dudleys came in one big family party—
Himself all smiles, and the little Countess trailing
a gown of Brussels lace and a royal purple cloak.
Pearls w’ere the only jewels. Pearls in her hair
and dripping from her ears and throttling her in
thick gleaming ropes like the Lorelei. Lord
Dicky was in attendance, and sat in adoration at
Melba’s shoes. Aide Hore-Ruthven brought his
pretty dark-eyed wife in black and diamonds.
The two daughters Dudley were dressed in
blue pale blue simplicity of soft silk.
They were a frock-ful lesson to the local
girleen—not a jewel or a bangle or a
ring, and no other extra furbelows—just a soft,
pretty silk. The Countess is evidently
not anxious to keep the daughters young as a
background to herself. The eldest girl since
her illness has appeared with her black hair
“up” and hear simple dresses “down” in the
most approved grown-up way, though the young
lady can scarcely be more than sixteen. The
younger one, vviio still has her brown curls
m a ribbon, is developing a fascinating beauty.
She is like her Dudley grandmother, who was a
far-famed gem of loveliness in her day and genera-
tion.
Melba blazed in a “new’’color which is like
the heart of a rock melon, and added to the glory
of the silk was gold-meshed net that turned the
dress into a study for a tropical sunset. Topazes,
those golden stones, gleamed in her hair from
a diamond setting. It was like a bush fire.
All Toorak took its turn in the audience —a house
that showed bare shoulders right back to under
the gallery. Brighton, that cautious suburb that
wants the worth of its hoarded money, was
bitten by the boom, and collected in mul-
titudes. But there was no Bent. Bent has
disappeared from popularity in these few short
weeks—disappeared as completely as if his
rotundity had never rolled. All the ultra-musical
hung their long hair in rapt attention. Scharf and
his wife were there ; also the Peterson duo ; Vio-
linist North’s dainty, fair girl-wife; and Mrs.
Emery Gould, who is growing a Venetian tint in
the top storey instead of grey. It is certainly
effective, and her years make no lines on
her smooth face. Medico Hamilton Russell
kept up his music-haunting reputation, and
Dr. Davenport brought his pretty daugh-
ter. Mrs. Vivian Parker came with hubby,
and wore an amazing string of coral with
a Dolly Varden frock. Someone in the balcony
wore hideous, shiny blue gloves and a blissful
smile. The combination hung over the ledge all
the concert. A frantic management had adver-
tised that every possible seat was taken ; never-
theless, the crowd of enthusiasts outside the Town
Hall clamoring for entrance ran into hundreds.
They got quite savage, and blackguarded the
management for “not having a larger hall.”
Melba has a cute way of carrying small rosy-
posy bouquets that are avowedly “Early Vic-
torian,” but wnich can be bought every summer
by Algie for his Angelina on the Manly wharf—
close tucked white or colored flowers with a stiff
fern brim and a frilly paper calyx beyond that.
Among the vegetables handed up was an
amazing willow tree—evidently pulled up by the
roots from Yarra bank. Melba looked at the
forest aghast, and Professor Hall came to the
rescue as Boy.
On Tuesday (before this paper goes to press)
Melba is to break up Lilydale (the paradise of the
cows and fern glades) into a wild and chaotic
shout of enthusiasm. Already the school child-
ren are rehearsing an “ode,” and practising a
rose-strewing march. The local band is blow-
ing itself hoarse to do justice to her arri-
val, and the youth of the township con-
template a torchlight procession. Most of
the happenings are fated to take place without
the Queen of Song, as her time is pretty well
catalogued. The little Countess, Lady Dudley,
goes with Melba on a special train, which (in
spite of frantic appeals to the god of the railway)
is timed to arrive no sooner than eight o’clock.
Melba goes right on to the concert-platform, so
to speak—and after the show the special rushes
back soon after 10. Supper is to be on board
the train-de-luxe, and the lady will be safely
tucked in bed about 11. She is a lark, and
has the early bed and early rising habit. Late
suppers and those sort of excitements are not on
her programme when she has her voice-flute to
consider.
Sweet Nell Stewart has been battling against a
tornado of welcome. A Williamson tea at the
Grand was fixed for last Friday, but was post-
posed by telephone in kindness to the visitors, as
the weather was busy doing a fair imitation of a
waterspout dancing with a whirlwind. The
actual affair takes place after this letter goes to
post, so you’ll hear about it later. Nell looks
sweet and pale, and still keeps up her nineteenth
birthday.
Emmeline Orford, the cheeky little Third Lady
of the Hook panto, company, writes amusing
letters to the Melbourne dailies nowadays. The
mummer got news that a legacy was coming her
way, and then her hopes were dashed when
another claimant to the lucre arose to contest the
matter. Missie asks the papers to spread broad-
cast the fact that so far she has not received a
penny, and that she “cannot at present follow
the magnificent example of Mrs. Melba in
recognising the charities.” Emmeline is making
a fairly big advt. out of the fact that “ she might
if she could,” but probably won’t.
Will Moore, playwriter and journalist, is pro-
ducing four plays—pieces small and cute, with
local backgrounds. The Oddfellows’ Hall, which
was the old Turn Yerein, will lend a faint flavor
of departed saurkraut to the performance, which
happens on Tuesday, March 30.
The descriptions of that artistic Loving Cup,
which Hardy Brothers, of Sydney, manufactured
for presentation to Excellency Rawson, have
aroused much interest in this city. Novelty in
drinking cups of any kind is rare. The world
seemed to have lost its versatility in that respect,
and the designers of the presentation have opened
up a new field for exploitation among people
whose chief business in life is to give away
things in which one mixes punch, or claret cup,
and other elegant but unsatisfying compounds.
The style of cup which suggested an egg shell
with one end chopped off and the remainder sup-
ported by stags, or girls with limited supplies of
drapery, or fern fronds, had become a weariness.
The Celtic cult comes as an inspiration, and
already this capital is threatened with a deluge of
ancient British designs. Where do the makers
get them from ? *
Arrivals by the Bremen from Sydney are loud
in their eulogies of the artistic send-off the big
liner received in the Harbor City. The agents,
whose name is something like Lohmann & Co.,
had presented each departing passenger with a
gay ribbon, one end of which was left in the hands
of a friend on the wharf, and the other held by the
person on board. As the huge mass of steel and
paint drew away, the ribbons unrolled, till over a
distance of 30yds. was a waving, trembling mass
of many gorgeous colors. And when they broke
the effect was that of a multitude of brightly-
tinted butterflies suddenly let loose.
St. Patrick and his ilk were pretty considerably
under notice last Wednesday, but the circum-
stance which impressed me most was not the saint
himself, nor the snake which he drove out of Ire-
land, but something which happened in the pro-
cession. As the show passed the post office the
leading band was that of the Scottish Hielanders,
in full kilts, piping for all they were worth, “ The
Wearin’ o’ the Green ” !
The Melbourne School of Art commences life
as a vigorous youngster. Three well-known Mel-
bourne artists are its guardians—Leslie Wilkie,
the clever portrait painter; Hal Waugh, who
gets most recognition for his animal paintings—
particularly his horses; and Will Longstaff, a
good all-round personage who has imbibed some
talent with his cousinship to The Longstaff. The
trio have ferreted out a studio with a light
that is the envy of fellow artists. It was
once the billiard-room of the Old Exchange
Buildings. It is large and useful, and within
touch of all the by-ways and short cuts and
public-houses of the central city. An effective
attachment is the Babette outdoor school for
week-end sketching, a house and farm at Eltham
in the region where the suburbs end and the
country begins, along the tree-shaded beauty parts
of the much-maligned Yarra. Pupils are to be
encouraged to paint from the model, but timorous
beginners have copies of old Masters to imitate.
It is a good, healthy start, and the Enterprise in-
cludes classes for illustrators and draughtsmen as
well as for painters.
Norman Lockhart, that debonair “eligible”
who is secretary to the Navigation Board in Syd-
ney, is about Melbourne, quite life size. He has
haunted the Melba concerts, and his radiance
causes flutters in the heart of the adjacent girl.
A returned wanderer who visited Mrs.-one-
time Maesmore-Morris raves of the lady’s
domestic felicity. She is married to a big, rugged
man—a gentleman .farmer —and the two are
tucked happily away on their agricultural allot-
ment miles from anywhere or anybody. She calls
hubby “Brute,” and idealises her simple life.
Her friend says she never regrets the pomps of
mummer life nor the fact that she passed by the
pampered nephew of a multi-millionaire as a
matrimonial catch, and chose love and compara-
tive poverty in a farmhouse. The beauty lady
has lost none of her looks, and her dimples are
more entrancing than ever.
The very youthful daughter of a business man,
who held the limelight for a period as fiancie to a
well-preserved ancient of theatrical bent, has
made moves toward the stage since that interest-
ing pose was shattered. The young lady had a
speaking part with a Bill Anderson show at the
King’s, and is now wallowing in the full glory of
stage-struck amateurishness, and rousing the envy
of girl friends.
Summer gadders to the Apple Isle are telling a
story of the guileless Hobart maiden and the
guileful Melbourne youth. The youth, something
of a writer and much of a “sport,” had just
reached his gilded majority, and hied Hobart-
wards to get rid of some superfluous coin. He is
extremely generous, sometimes foolish, and a per-
fect acrobat in the gentle art of tumbling in and
out of love. At this stage the maiden arrived.
She was pretty, and was waiting for a tram when
he saw her. Remarking gaily that she was “Just
the juicy pong,” or something equally classic, he
promptly took the diamond pin out of his tie and
handed it to her. The lady glared at him,
screamed “How dare you, sir!” and with ele-
vated nose went her indignant way. But she
carefully grabbed the pin before she went!
Clarence Newell, who “made good” in Aus-
tralia as a pianist in two Dolores tours, has been
writing to a Melbourne pal. “There’s a lot
doing in N’York this winter,” he yarns. “The
opera is a corker. Two big houses—Man-
hattan and Metropolitan—and each has two
complete sets of orchestra, chorus, and con-
ductors —one for German, the other for
Italian and French productions. That’s more
style than ever before. By the way, New York
and Paris both get their premiere of ‘ Zaza ’ this
fall, and little old San Francisco had hers four
years ago. S. F. also discovered Tetrazzini at
that same time. Melbourne had ‘Fedora’ five
years before New York.” He mentions Adela
Verne, the pianist, who thumped amazing sound
out of Australian pianos. The young amazon
made a great hit in America.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The Excellency-Generals left for Melbourne on Monday,
and officialdom came out and mingled with the decora-
tions and said, “Come and play cricket with us again
soon!” The Lieut.-Gov. and Mrs. Way were at the
station to do the final honors and hand over the parting
posy, and those who saw it done included Speaker
Jenkin Coles, the Bishop Thomases, the Mayoral folk,
the Ministry and its wife, and the Commissioners of the
Red Tape and Sealing Wax Departments. Lord Dicky
Nevill strode energetically about, marshalling his flock,
and seeing that none of tiie children were mislaid. But,
alas ! while watching the children, he overlooked Lady
Dudley’s pet white Aberdeen terrier. There was a wild
hunt through the train, followed by a telegram to Police
Commissioner Madley, and finally the little white beastie
was found and packed off to Melbourne by the next day’s
express, with a special valet to do his hair and sing him
to sleep.
Their Exes, showered down gifts on this side ; Giffen
and other members of the vice-regal eleven came in for
nice little souvenirs.
The Melbourne-to-Adelaide motoring record, which
Bertie Barr Smith and H. M. Aunger have had so carefully
wrapped up in cotton-wool for the last month or two, has
been smashed into smithereens, and a brand-new one is
now reclining in the pockets of Reedbeds White and F. C.
Custance. This pair skimmed between Melbourne and
this metropolis in 20 hours and six minutes. They pulled
up in front of the G.P.O. at 5.30 on Wednesday evening,
with still two hours to spare ; and, after five men and a
dog, who were supporting the edifice at the moment,
had informally handed them the record on a lordly dish,
Messrs. Barr Smith and Aunger came forth and said,
“Good shot! Pleased you beat us,” and other polite
things ; and the Automobile Club assembled and told the
world it was a' jolly good fellow. Meanwhile, that record
leads a precarious existence. Two Melbourne motorists
are thirsting for its blood, and Mr. Barr Smith has
announced his intention of knocking out its innocent
young life at an early date.
Cattle Monarch Sidney Kidman is once more back in
the land of his kine and coin. He and a portion of his
family drifted home in the Asturias, with (speaking
roughly) 5409 tons 4cwt. of baggage. Crowded up some-
where in the same craft came the Forwoods, of Forwood,
Down and Co., and Australia’s sweet Nell Stewart was
also a passenger.
Adelaide has been playing with its new toy all the
week. It thinks it is the best toy it has ever struck, and
rides backwards and forwards in it all day long. The par-
ticular part of the new innovation that has dazed Ade-
laide is the spic-and-spanness of the conductors. There
is even a rule that they must shave and use soap every
morning. On the old horse cars the conductors were
mostly grimy ; and one here and there wore a twisted
loam-colored handkerchief around his neck, and some-
times he just wore the loam without the handkerchief.
They hadn’t gone on the land ; the land had gone on
them. But already there is war with the Trust on sundry
points. It has been decided that there shall be no Sun-
day morning cars, and at once the whole population has
been seized with an uncontrollable desire to go to church.
The Trust is having- deputations and abuse flung at its
head with much violence, and is generally wishing either
it or some other people were dead. Also, every square
inch or so of suburb that hasn’t a car within stone’s-throw
is holding a fury meeting, and things in general are in a
state of bubble.
Austral-English wine-merchant Burgoyne and bis son
have been at the South Australian for a few days. On
Thursday they fled Bullwards in the Moldavia. The same
craft carried a contingent of South Australians. Mrs.
McFarlane, of Wellington Lodge, and her unmarried son
and daughter are off on an indefinite jaunt. Also Dr.
and Mrs. Melville Jay and Dr. H. M. Jay departed to have
a glance at Europe, the two medicos having been asked
to look in at Buda-Pesth and tell a conference there how
we cut out the appendix in South Oss. Mrs. Toms and
her daughter, the John Tassies, and a brace of Water-
house damsels, also the Napier Birkses, were likewise on
board.
Gwen Chaplin and Jessie Redpath, two Adelaide
maids who have been getting foreign voice culchaw,
will sing to us in the Town Hall on March 27. Miss Chap-
lin’s voice is a fine contralto ; she was a Bach Society
singer who took a scholarship from that body to Europe.
Adelaide has heard neither of the maidens since their
return last year.
Clytie Hine, a sweet soprano, is off early next month
for voice culture in the Fog Country.
Premier Price is back from Port Victor, but he is being
kept very quiet, and vengeance is threatened by the doc-
tors if anyone dares approach him on business bent.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.


Amusements.
■j" OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
ADA OSOSSLEY,
AND HER MAGNIFICENT COMPANY will give
TWO FAREWELL CONCERTS,
SATURDAY and MONDAY NEXT,
and at BRISBANE, APRIL 3 and 5.
Popular Programme. Popular Prices—ss., 35,, 2s.
Plans now open at Paling’s. 3s. and 2s. Tickets may be
had at Paling’s, and Searls, the Florists.
H. BRACY, Manager.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemmone).
TASMANIA—APRIL 2 to APRIL 9,
Commencing at LAUNCESTON, APRIL 5.
NEW ZEALAND—APRIL 12 to MAY 24,
Commencing at INVERCARGILL, April 13.
NEW SOUTH WALES-
Commencing at SYDNEY, JUNE 1.
QUEENSLAND-
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 26.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST NIGHTS OP
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in—
IT AVA M A A NEW MUSICAL PLAY, and
Xl.fi. V X-IXY JX, LONDON GAIETY SUCCESS.
MERRY MUSICAL MAGNIFICENT.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Production of THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
TO-NIGHT at 8 O’CLOCK.
The Great Spectacular Napoleonic Play,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as NAPOLEON.
Miss BEATRICE DAY as JOSEPHINE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Me.ynell & Gunn Season.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
Farewell Nights in Australia of MISS McINTOSH.
NIGHTLY RECURRENCE of BRILLIANT TRIUMPHS.
HAROOURT BEATTY and MADGE McINTOSH
in Goldsmith’s Famous Classic Comedy,
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.
MISS MCINTOSH’S “GOOD BYE’’—CAMILLE,
and SPECIAL PROGRAMMES.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plans at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
SATURDAY, APRIL 3.
ALLAN HAMILTON’S Dramatic Company.
First Production in Australia of an Entirely New
Sensational Romantic Drama,
QUEEN OE THE NIGHT.
Popular Prices —35., 25., Is.
Box Plans at Elvy’s NEXT MONDAY, MARCH 29.
H E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
JHE QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
Amusements
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. G. W. HUNTER and MADAME DESIREE.
MR. TOM WOOTTWELL. THE TWO BELLS.
The THREE DONNELLEYS. Mr. CHARLES FANING.
The TWO PRICES. Mr. FRANK YORKE.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES —35., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician.
(Simply Indescribable.)
CISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
THE LATONAS, Vaudeville Favorites.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “ The
Power of the Idol.”
Plan at Allan’s. ft3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 27,
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF
MISS TITTELL BJEITJNE
THE GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A STIRRING AND GREAT ATTRACTION.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, FRIDAY, MARCH 26,
Last 2 Nights of FOR THE TERM of his NATURAL LIFE
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 27,
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, in
THE FRENCH SPY.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
-j-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
100th Performance and the End not in sight.
MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays
J. 4. N.TAIT’S
. _ ■
PICTURES
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
I R T H’ S OLYMPIC
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THB §fL, L .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worth}’ of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Leg-a.l Notice.
KE EDWARD LEWIS, deceased, formerly
of Cwmbran. Monmouthshire, England.
The Representatives of the above, who died in
December* 1895, in Sydney, are requested to
communicate with HORNBY and BAKER
JONES, Solicitors, Newport, Mon., England.
“SILVERDEP” Silver-
Plating Powder
gives a lasting
and beautiful
Silver plate to
anv article which it is used on.
pT CONTAINS NO MERCURY. A boon to thrifty
housewives. If unable to obtain locally, send direct
to Wholesale Distributors—
Messrs. BONO & ROBERTS,
Price Is., Post Free. 102 Market Street, Sydney.
BILLIARDS LTD.
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
25 Full-Size
AlcocK Tables.
Several Private Rooms, luxuriously furnished,
each fitted with One Table—as well as
the Public Halls.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SANDISON, formerly on West
Coast of Tasmania, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
D. EMONSON,
Ruby Vale, Anakie, Queensland.
Missing: Friends.
WANTED address of HARRY HIGGIN-
BOTHAM, late of Portobello, Scotland.
Inquirer : T. GALLAGHER, 70 Seagate,
Dundee, Scotland; or c/o LIPTON’S LTD.,
Dundee, Scotland.
THE. . .
POPULAR
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading- Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
PRICE. LIST. Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
VIRGINIAN.
No. 100’s. 50’s.
17 6/6 3/6
20’s. 10’s.
1/6 -/9
No. 517 .. 25/- per Tin of 500.
Nos. 14, 16, 18, in Packets 10 for 1/■
ASV, in Packets, 10 for 6d.
A Grain Drill
for a
has been secured by Mr. L. Harrison, of Pannoomilloo,
Vic., who has won the FIRST PRIZE in our Special Drill Offer,
viz.: an 11, 13, or 15 Coulter, Hoe, or Disc Deering " or
" McCormick” Grain and Fertilizer Drill, delivered ABSOLUTELY
FREE to his nearest Railway Station.
Mr. Harrison, who bought his Drill seventeen years ago, sowed with
it 9360 acres.
The remaining prizes of nine of the above Drills at the below prices
were won by the undermentioned farmers: —
2nd, Mr. J. E. Lloyd, of Wagga, N.S.W., £lO 9000 acres ,
3rd, Messrs. Anderson Bros., of Pannoomilloo, Vic., £15...7140 ~
4th, Mr. G. R. Peters, of Freeling, S.A., £2O 6600 ~
sth, Mr. J. E. Neldner, of Freeling, S.A., £25 6320 „
6th, Mr. C. Robertson, of Maroona, Vic., £26 6028 „
7th, Mr. C. Quast, of Rhine Villa, S.A, £27 6000 ~
Bth, Mr. J. J. McNickle, of Wagga, N.S.W., £2B 5858 „
9th, Mr. T. H. Culley, of Aldinga, £29 5668 „
10th, Mr. J. B. E. Wake, of Elbow Hill, S.A, £3O 5600 „
On the 15th inst. we notified the above winners of their success, and
that we were awaiting their orders re kinds and sizes of Drills, and
shipment of same.
£fs&~The exceptional interest taken by farmers in the above competition
has led to our deciding upon a similar
• Special Binder Offer
open to owners of ALL MAKES of Binders, and which is as follows: —
To the owners of the 10 Binders having cut the greatest acreage of
crop as reported to us up to June 30th, 1909, and in the order of their
respective acreage so reported.
Ist, A New, Latest Pattern, 6 feet “Peering” or
“McCormick ” Reaper and Binder ABSOLUTEL Y FREE
and FREIGHT PREPAID to Customer’s Railway Station.
2nd, A New Binder for £lO
3rd, „ „ „ „ £l5
4th, „ „ „ „ £2O
sth, „ ~ ~ ~ £25
sth, „ „ „ „ £26
Delivery Free on
board Trucks
or Steamer at any
city named below.
Terms —Prompt
Cash at time of
shipment.
' 7th, A New Binder for £27
Bth, „ „ „ „ £2B
9th, „ „ „ „ £29
10 th, „ ~ „ £3O
In order to protect other correspondents, winners will be required to
reasonably verify their claims re acreage cut.
We will not be liable for errors in distribution of Binders under this offer.
Every farmer who writes us re above will be mailed by July 31st,
1909, a full list of all awards hereunder, giving names and P. O.
addresses of winners.
Should two or more competitors tie for any of above prizes the reply
FIRST RECEIVED by us will win.
Winners can have Binders shipped any time after September 15th,
1909.
IMPORTANT—When writing us re this subject, cut out this
advertisement, attach it to your letter, and address our Branch House in
the State in which you live.
Nine Farmers are certain to get Brand New, Fully
Guaranteed Binders at previously unheard of prices.
One will get his for a POSTAGE STAMP.
Will it be YOU? B -
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; 17 Bank Street, Adelaide; 75 York Street, Launceston.
\ (-263) A
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of" Aerated Waters and Cordials.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
SOME STRIKING
NEW RECORDS
Included in the new lists of records are
some stirring' speeches by William H.
Taft, the new President of the U.S.A.
There are extracts from a dozen of his
most important utterances, many of
which will- be extremely interesting to
Australians.
Of “ The Bight of Labor ” Mr. Taft
speaks convincingly in favor of labor
unions, and his words will find an echo
in-the heart of every laborite.
Hear the speech yourself at the
nearest dealers. We will send his address
on request.
FOR THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, NeuralgT, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
By
Appointment
THE
TYRE
THAT
SCOOPED
THE
POOL
To H.M.
The King.
-TYRES
Sole Australian Agents :
BARNET GLASS Rubber Go., Ltd.,
Founders of the All-Rubber Goods Industry
in Australia.
234 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
226 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
10 M’Henry Street.
ADELAIDE.
Also Perth, Hobart
and Brisbane.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, (id. The Bulletin Office.
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO.,
(AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Any of these Good Watches will be sent Free and Safe by Registered Post on receipt of Cash with Order.
The “Princess” Watch, 18ct. Gold
Hunting Oases, £5 10s. Open Face
style, £4 10s.
The 14ct. Gold-filled Elgin Lever,
worth half-a-dozen cheap Gold
Watches, £5.
The Waltham Lever Watch, 10ct.,
£5 ; 14ct., £6 ; 18ct., £7.
Special Values these.
m
j ■
The Waltham Lever, lOct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £8 10s. ; 14ct. Gold, £lu ios.
The "Nonpareil” Cut Hunter, 18ct.
Gold Cases and Gold Dial, £8 10s.
The Waltham Out Hunting- Lever,
18ct. Gold Cases, £l3 10s.
The “ Nonpareil,” Gold Dial and
ISct. Gold Case, £6 10s.
Full Hunters, £7 10s.
The Waltham Hunting Lever, 18ct.
Gold Cases, £l4 10s.
Special Adjusted 18ct. Waltham
Lever, £2l.
“ Nicole Nielsen " English Lever, 18ct.
Gold Oases, Engraved or Plain, £35.
This is from Andrew Carnegie’s reminiscences
in a recent Century Magazine
When Mr. Blaine was with us in 1888, he attended a
dinner at which Mr. Chamberlain was present, and the
tariff question naturally came up. Mr. Chamberlain re-
marked that “Carnegie was a good fellow, but still he
didn’t see why the United States should present him with
28dol. per ton Protection on his steel rails.”
Mr. Blaine replied : “ We don’t look at it in quite that
way. Before we put on that tariff we had to pay you
lOOdol. per ton for steel rails. Just before we sailed, our
Board bought a large amount from Carnegie, and he
charged us only 30dol. I guess if we hadn’t put on that
tariff you would still be charging us lOOdol.”
Sir Charles Tennant, President of the Scotland Steel
Co., exclaimed, “Yes; lOOdol. per ton. We all held to
that price, and could get it to-day if Carnegie and others
hadn’t interfered.”
Before the tariff the U.S. was at the mercy of the
British steel manufacturers, just as Australia is
now at the mercy of the Standard Oil Trust in
regard to its kerosene supplies. According to the
Foreign Trade person, the U.S. iron duties should
have “ raised prices to the consumer ; ” but they
didn’t —they lowered prices from lOOdol. to 30dol.
per ton for steel rails, and at the same time built up
an industry that is worth millions of dollars a year
to the U.S. It is a little bit of history which Aus-
tralian M’s.H.R. should paste in their watch
cases for reference when the oil duties come up
for consideration again.
♦
A furious ex-Canadian writes :
I gather that that glorified politician whom some Aus-
tralian papers persistently butter up as “ a splendid
statesman of the Empire’’—Wilfred Laurier, Prime
Minister of Canada—has just achieved a, master-stroke in
statecraft. Some time back the Canadian woollen manu-
facturers, who have a little patriotism and the ambition
to see their countrymen dressed in “ clobber ” they
needn’t be ashamed of when they go out to dinner,
found that, under the Dominion’s new preference-to-
Britain arrangement, the making of good stuff was a
losing proposition. They wanted to manufacture good
stuff, and were trying to do it, but British “ woollens,”
which were mostly cotton and other cheap tack, were
coming in under the preferential tariff, and the locally-
made, genuine woollen hadn’t a show.
The manufacturers interviewed Laurier, and asked for
a tariff that would at least give the Canadian industry a
fighting chance ; and thereupon Laurier exhibited his
Imperial “ statesmanship.” He said he couldn’t think of
interfering with the British “ shoddy’’-builder by means
of revised duties, but he could give the manufacturers
the benefit of some advice from the profundity of his
statesmanlike intellect. And he did. His advice was :
“Go home and build shoddy, too ; then you needn’t fear
British shoddy competition.” Consider the patriotism,
the absolute and brilliant genius burning in that advice,
and then hats off to Laurier, the statesman! “Make
rubbish and sell it as the real stuff ; become commercial
frauds and humbugs, and you’ll be all right ! ”
But the manufacturers didn’t take Laurier’s advice ;
they went on trying to be honest and turn out an honest
article, to make their country a place that needn’t be
ashamed of its woollen industry ; and the British shoddy
kept on swamping them down, until the swamping pro-
cess seems nearly complete. At all events, I read the
other day that one big firm, which had achieved note as
the producer of good stuff, and which had fought a long
and bitter rear-guard action with the British fakir, had
gone under. Other firms will, doubtless, go too ; but
these foolish manufacturers may thank themselves for the
catastrophe, of course. They wouldn’t take “ statesman ”
Laurikr’s advice ; see the result. Long live Laurier !
These are far-away happenings, I know ; but I am
moved to fire them at Australians because it seems to me
that Laurier’s advice is virtually the same advice as that
poured out by Foreign-traders and Fiscal-sinkers here.
“Tariff be blowed ; make rubbish, and defy competition.”
And it appears to me that either Australians will have to
be content to make rubbish —with all that rubbish-making
implies in the way of sweating, long hours, etc.—or else
boost the Australian Lauriers and all their works into
the Pacific Ocean. Certainly Australians can’t make good
I stuff and be Foreign-traders and Fiscal-sinkers, too.
Canada is proving that.
A queer phenomenon is the sturdiness with
which the Freetrader who advocates Protection
insists that the thing he advocates isn’t really
Protection, but Freetrade. A late cable message
provided this example :
Earl Carrington, President of the Board of Agricul-
ture, stated in the House of Lords yesterday that the
Government, recognising that the hop industry was in a
critical position, was prepared to reintroduce the Hop
Bill. This in no wise touched Protection.
The Hop Bill was designed to prohibit what are
known as hop substitutes in the making of beer,
and thus force British brewers to patronise British
hop-growers. Both Liberal and Tory Freetraders
agreed in opposing the measure a year ago on the
ground that it was “ rank Protection,” and, as
such, was calculated to bring a blight on the
thing it was intended to help. So the Bill was
dropped. Since then, foreign hop substitutes,
mostly from America, have been pouring into
England, and Kent’s one-time great industry has
been nearly killed. Now the Hop Bill is resur-
rected, and, in consequence, at least one of
Britain’s wilting industries may be expected to
look up shortly. But it is sheer foolishness to
talk of a measure of the kind as being other than
Protection. If the Hop Bill isn’t Protection,
then Australia’s 32| per cent, duty on “ machines
and machinery n.e.i.” is pure Freetrade, and the
“ blanky ” of the “push ” is really a Te Deum.
“ Berkeley ” tells about a suicide :
He was leaning’ against the bar at an angle of about 45
degrees, and for the greater part of the evening had been
communing earnestly"with a disreputable-looking fly.
“ Whash use ! ” he demanded suddenly. “ Tell me
whash it goo’ for?”
He thumped the bar vigorously, and so greatly per-
turbed the fly that it threatened to drown itself in one of
the wandering streamlets of beer, and in its excitement
got lost in a bank of cigar ash.
“ I beg your pardon? ” queried the barmaid pleasantly.
But he was in no mood to take her into his confidence,
and snubbed her promptly.
“Min’ your own business. Please min’ y’r own busi-
ness ! ”
He continued to meditate, muttering darkly the while.
Meanwhile the fly had found its way out of the ash, and
was surreptitiously cleaning its nose and dusting its be-
draggled wings.
He leaned forward and addressed the insect seriously.
“ Tell me whash use ’f livin’ ? Dam’ Deakin ! Dam’
Fishish ! Whash country coinin’to? ”
Two large tears rolled down his cheeks and mingled
with the beer on the counter.
“ Labor all on shrike. Tom Bent—hie—dead. Prenner-
gash dead. Why should—hie —I live ? ”
The fl.v was tired of the argument, and endeavored to
escape, but he struck it a foul blow with his hat in the
region of the solar plexus, and its ghost left for the Flies’
He sighed—a deep, fat sigh ; dried his eyes on his
sleeve ; then put on his hat very soberly, with the bow
placed carefully to the front, and passed out into the
night determined to leave this vale of tears, dead flies,
and Socialists.
He wended a circuitous course to the river. Crossing
Princes Bridge two policemen piloted him off the tram-
track, but in no way altered his resolve. He eluded
them, and scaled the parapet. For a moment he hesi-
tated, and balanced on top to place his watch and chain
in his trousers pocket.
As he touched the water he lost consciousness.
Some hours after, a porter extricated him from a drink-
ing fountain inside the railway fence, and spoke harshly
to him because of his inability to produce a train ticket.
With dignity—albeit sadly—he went through the gates
with the water dripping from his imported trousers. He
was very cold—in places—and very sorry for himself. So
he bought a large lobster for sixpence, and took it home
in a cab.
I forgot to mention that the fly was quite dead, which
I suppose is the point of this story.


AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
It is very difficult to tell you all about the Australian
Household Medical Library. Five minutes’ inspection of
the volumes will give you a better idea of their usefulness
than fifty pages of exhaustive description.
We can’t expeeft you to come here and look at the books,
and we can’t afford to send them to you for inspection ;
But we are so confident in their value that if any
purchaser, after ten days’ possession of them, feels that he
can do without them, he can send them back at our
expense and we will return the money.
Send for them Now.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
IN THE BUSH THESE BOORS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MUCH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
To the Manager,
THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical
Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
“The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide,” 2 Vo Is.
(2nd Edition)
“ The Attainment of Health ; and Treatment by Diet ”
(2nd Edition)
“ The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants
39 (7th Edition)
Postage
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings , for which you undertake to forward the
above works complete, carefully packed, and post free. I am, yours etc.,
£4 10
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name.
A ddress


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL*
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
; Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., xos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
POMEROY
Liquid Powder
Tones down any undue redness and
renders flushing of the face less notice-
able. Is a great protection to the com-
plexion especially when motoring, yacht-
ing, golfing, etc. Made in five shades :—•
Flesh Pink, Pale Pink, Rachel, Pale
Rachel and White.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores; or
direct from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old
Bond Street, London, England.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
lt is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
> against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
>Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
A GREAT CORRECTIVE, NOT A
CURE-ALL.
We do not claim that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a cure-all, but as a corrective for all com-
n»
DIRECTIONS
iNKHANROOT
PIUS
plaints arising from dis-
orders of the blood, the
stomach, liver and kid-
neys they are unexcelled.
As, however, nine out of
every ten ailments are due
to these causes, Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
fill a want in every house-
hold. Indeed, they are a
household necessity, as
effective with the strong as
with the most delicate,
and compounded to meet
the requirements of every
age —from infancy to
advanced life.
“For some years,” says
Mrs. «T. Rogers, Macauley
Street, Albury, “I suf-
fered with severe head-
aches, and I obtained no
permanent relief until I
used Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, which a lady strongly recommended
to me for all general ailments. They did me a
deal of good, and ever since I have always kept a
bottle in the house. On the first indication of any
indisposition I take a pill or two, with eminently
satisfactory results. My family always use them,
and in consequence enjoy good health. I can con-
scientiously recommend them, as I am always
doing, to all women for general ailments.”
ZEENA DARE
PUZZLE
MATCH BOX.
The Very Latest Novelty Out.
Made of Nickel Silver.
Handy Size for the Vest Pocket.
OMLY 1/6 EACH, Post Free.
.
These are quite the
latest; Match Boxes
out from London,
where they are all the
rage. They are nicely
finished in Nickel
Silver, and, on one
side, neatly let in is
a beautiful colored
photo, of the popular
actress, ZEENA DARE, and on the other side
PHYLLIS DARE. Besides this, there is a
puzzle to open it, it being impossible for anyone
not in the know to take the matches out. You, of
course, can open it quite easily after reading the
printed directions which accompany each one.
Price only 1/6 each., post free.
A. J. SMITH 8 CO., 14 Hunter St., Sydney
SELECT STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FQTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery od Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Noble did not always believe in the policy of the
team selecting its own captain, as might have been inferred
from his recent remarks at Paddington. On one occasion
the Paddington First XI. elected Alec Bannerman skipper
by something like eight to three, Noble being the de-
feated candidate. Somebody called a meeting of the
club to deal with the matter, and at that meeting Noble
spoke strongly on the iniquity of the team electing the
captain. The team represented the club, and it was only
right that the club should appoint the captain. Carried
away by Noble’s eloquence on the subject, the club upset
the selection of the XI., and in the fresh election Mr.
Noble was chosen captain, not by the votes of the team,
hut by those of the crowd of sleeping members and
by the members of the second grade who had
no practical interest in the captaincy of the first XI.
The Australian XI. represents the Board of Control, and
on Noble’s own original argument the Board should select
the captain—which it did. Unfortunately, the man
seleoted was Noble himself, and the Board’s team is thus
represented by a man who is actually hostile to the Board.
* * * *
W. P. McElhone has resigned the secretaryship
of the Cricket Board of Control, worse luck ; but will linger
for a while as a member of the Board. The Players have
been brought to reason, and order has been restored, and
Fighting Mac hands in his resignation with the remark,
“Lord, now lettesc Thou Thy servant depart in peace !”
• * * »
Three members of the Australian XI. were
accompanied by their wives. Since the time of Braund
(who was said to bowl “Novars”) and the alleged foot-
tapping under the table it has been regarded as wise
policy for players to take their own wives, to keep them
from trying - to take other fellows’. In fact, the day is not
far distant when it will be necessary to have a wife of
your own to secure a place in the team, the lady being
not necessarily for publication, but as a guarantee of good
faith.
* » * *
Melbourne Pennant cricket on Saturday was a
dull and indifferent business. The only team to bat with
anything like ardor was Fitzroy against East Melbourne,
and after all it didn’t give E.M. any Fitz to speak of. It only
patted up a moderate total of 206, to which East has in
part replied with one for 37. The extreme diffidence of
Richmond led it to total 158 against Carlton, which team
has commenced an earnest response with two for 88. P’ran,
which is running neck-and-neck with East Melbourne
for the premiership, demolished North Melbourne for 167,
and has begun to consume its deficit with no wickets for
44. The trouble between St. Kilda and Northcote had
specks of cheerfulness in it. Northcote, showing little
patches of brightness during the afternoon, induced 154
all out to appear on the board, while St. Kilda added a
further splash of liveliness by piling up 78 without
the loss of any timber. The between
Collingwood and South Melbourne looked more like
a burial service. ’Wood despondently slapped up 136,
but Stoush Melbourne could only manage a sepulchral
sort of .gasp in response. Seemingly in some pain, it
made 45 and left seven dead on the field.
Cricket in Sydney on Saturday last was not
wildly exhilarating. In fact, everybody is dead tired of
the game, and the competition is as good as won, any-
how. Glebe is leading with 18 points, while Waverley,
the nearest rival, is far away in the rear with only 12.
Paddington is nine, University eight, and so on along the
line of procession to where Gordon is 14 below nothing.
» * * ■»
At Rosehill Trial Stakes (N.S.W.) on Saturday,
29 horses started, and the often-prophesied smash eventu-
ated at last. At the turn, one of the best-fancied nags, All
Blue, ridden by T. Clayton, who was associated with the
majority of Poseidon’s triumphs, also with some of
Tartan’s, fell, and Linaria (W. Bradshaw), Orthos (W. H.
Smith), Drvite (J. Lightfoot), Replica (R. Walker), Zaph
(O. Luckey), Horrocks (F. Hickey), Arilian (A. Scowen),
Diatase (J. E. Pike), Mine d’Or (M. Doyle), Criss Cross
(E. Tanko), and Danilo (R. Abbott) toppled over
him in a mixed-up mass of man and brute from
which it looked impossible for half the former to
emerge alive. Jockeys were extricated one after the
ocher—limp, bleeding, and apparently lifeless in most
instances. Though all suffered more or less severely,
Clayton was discovered to have experienced the greatest
damage ; he had a compound fracture of the pelvis, a
scalp gash sin. long, three ribs on the right side broken,
and many minor injuries. As The Bulletin goes to press
Claycon’s case is grave, hut medical men are hopeful re-
garding a recovery. The aptly named Luckey, though in a
bad position, got off with a fractured wrist. Scowen
and Doyle had broken collar-bones. Tanko had
his shoulder muscles violently wrenched, and lay
unconscious through concussion of the brain, and
Bradshaw had a badly-bruised leg and got a
severe shaking. The troubles of others were trifling.
Clayton was operated upon almost immediately by Drs.
Kearney and Stuart McKay at Parramatta Hospital, and *
Dr. Kearney thinks the patient has a fairly good chance
of being as well as ever three or four months hence. Vet.-
surgeon Mr. W. Miller examined All Blue before shooting
him, and reached the conclusion that the horse put a
shoulder out while galloping. Significant that All Blue
was “13” in the book. The only other nag injured
(Orthos) limped in very lame. The accident recalled
Caulfield’s big disaster of 24 years ago, when 16 of the 41
starters in Grace Darling’s Cup came down, and crack
lightweight jockey Donald Nicholson was killed ; also
another less serious accident on the same course, in the
same race, in 1898.
* * * *
Possibly, after Saturday’s accident at Rosehill,
which, though serious enough, might easily haveheen very
much worse, the N.S.W. Legislature may fix a maximum
for “fields” on the State’s several courses, according to
space available. Meanwhile the A.J.C. may, in the in-
terests of man, if not of horse, withdraw that rule which
prohibits races being run in divisions, so that clubs may
regulate matters themselves, and not, as now, be com-
pelled to send all starters in one bunch, whether they
number two or 100.
* » * •
The influence of the sweep. In Rosehill Cup
(N.S.W.)on day of race (Saturday) the numbers of 48 (out
of about 60) horses fell with a clatter from the frame as the
end of scratchingtimeapproached, owingtotheanticipated
“ bit to nothing ” not having arrived. It was only in
keeping that the unthought-of Footpad should win from
Thrust and Trajectory. But Thrust’s and Trajectory’s
connections protested on the ground of interference—
the former against Footpad, and the latter against
Thrust. Thrust was awarded the money, despite that he
also had sinned in the race at least twice. The committee
dismissed Trajectory’s kick. Triers among the dozen
starters were plainly very few, and the Cup consequently
helped to make one of the worst days punters have ex-
perienced for a long time.
Poseidon, it has been determined, shall notrace
again. He goes to the stud with a remarkable record.
He won once at two years of age. The next season saw
him gather 11 of 14 races contested, including the A.J.C.
Derby and St. Leger and Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
At four years seven out of 12 events in which he took part
fell to him, among them the Caulfield Cup. His bag
totals 19 wins for 33 starts.
* * * *
Aura, dam of Auraria, Aurum, Auriferous,
Aurous, Golden Slipper, and others, died the other day at
the age of 23, and Australian turfdom saw the last of a
stud-book top-notcher. At yearling sales Aura brought
200 g -s., and, further on, she found a home at Sc. Albans,
the master of which place paid 500 gs. for her. Nine years
back Aura became the property of the late Mr. G. G.
Stead at a cost of 500g5., and at the recent sale of that
gentleman’s stud she realised 150 gs.
Kirkharn, bred at the place of the same name
(near Camden, N.S.W.), which, as the late Hon. Jas.
White’s property, was the first Australian horse to figure
in an English Derby, died in Ireland recently. Kirkham
started thrice down under without success, but at the
stud he got the 1905 Grand National ’Chase winner,
Kirkland, and several other horses that have been success-
ful on British racecourses.
The trainer of Maltine reckons that the mare
couldn’t have been beaten for the Newmarket Handicap
had the race been on the last day of the Y.R.C. Autumn
Meeting instead of the first. Maltine ran three times at
the meeting, and her two victories indicated that her
defeat in the first instance was due to the want of one
more gallop. Without doubt the daughter of Malster is a
good mare who should stay two miles if trained for long
journeys. Knowing nothing of her flying - capabilities,
one would pick the big - -barrelled mare for a Cup rather
than a Doncaster Handicap chance. And over any dis-
tance she would, be backed to carry weight, though, to be
sure, it is notso much the sturdy frame as the easy action
of a racer that counts in a weight-carrying test;
Last year’s figures as to jumping-races (only) in
France : In 44 days’ sport on the leading course, Auteuil,
nearly £3,000,000 went through the pari mutuel (as the
French call their totalisator); .the most was £140,000 in
a day. ’The commission retained by the club or by the
Government, for the practical encouragement of horse-
breeding, averaged about £2600 each day. Owners got
the benefit in increased stakes—as they do wherever
the “ tote ”is established. The same thing was going on,
on a smaller scale, all over France ; consequently there
were in 1908 (jumping-races only) 119 French owners who
won over £4OO, 55 who won over £lOOO, and 15 who won
£4OOO or more.
>r * * •
Some of the Ballarat punters had a melancholy
experience in connection with the Ballhausen Handicap
on the second day of their “Cup” meeting. Lady Hova
was made a red-hot favorite (5 to 4 on) for this event, on
the strength of her having won the Cup on the previous
day. In the Cup race Lady Hova started slowly, but
came to the front before a mile had been covered, and
ran away with the race in the final pair of furlongs.
Pretty Peg, in receipt of 101 b. from the winner, never
showed near the front at any part of the journey. Lady
Hova runs in the colors of E. FI. Lenny (an associate of
John Wren, the theatrical partner of Rupert Clarke), and
Bob Lewis, the head jockey and deputy-trainer for the
stable, had the mount on the winner. Pretty Peg, who
ran so ingloriously in the Cup, is Rupert Clarke’s
horse. Now, in the Ballhausen Handicap aforesaid
Pretty Peg received 281 b. from Lady Hova, but althoug-h
Rupert Clarke’s mare was meeting Lenny’s mare on 181 b.
better terms than before, she had no considerable chance
on their Cup “form.” Nevertheless she was backed
down to 3to l, and she ran accordingly. At half a mile
she was ten lengths ahead of the field, and the race was
practically over. Ladj' Hova, with Lewis up as before,
never emerged from the ruck until pursuit was hopeless,
and was finally beaten by about five lengths. Which
remarkable “ reversal of form” was naturally discussed
by punters in the light of the fact that Rupert Clarke’s
mare won the race, beating the red-hot favorite, who was
ridden bv the Rupert Clarke stable jockey, and owned by
Rupert Clarke’s partner’s old colleague, Lenny.
« * »
Lawn tennis in Adelaide, though more popular
than ever, is not of the highest class just now, and Vic-
toria, taking over a strong inter-State six—Brookes,
Dunlop, R. Heath, Tatchell, and the two Barnards—gave
S.A. a bad beating, by IS to three. The only real feather
in S.A.’s cap was a win by Taylor and the veteran Bowen
against Brookes and Barnard (C. N.).
Maoriland Sports Federation has blown to
pieces with a roar of imprecation. This body originally
consisted of 11 associations ; but ructions arose, and the
other day the thing burst asunder ; the fragments which
travelled farthest being the Rugby Union. Lawn Tennis
Association, League of Wheelmen, and the Football Asso-
ciation. Now that the Federation, which has at least
,kept some sort of order among the turbulent factions, is
destroyed, and a state of sporting anarchy rages, people
are beginning to wonder what is going to happen. Cer-
tain sporting bodies have held parley, and agreed to
recognise one another’s disqualifications, and to decline
absolutely to recognise the other fellow’s disqualifica-
tions, and thing's have gone to Sheol generally.
Rugby football will rear its head in Melbourne
the. coming season, no less than six clubs having been
formed and secured playing grounds. Likely that a
N.S.W. team will invade the Cabbage Garden to give the
movement a lift.
While Joe Ward, of Maoriland, was rushing
round in a state of perspiration offering Dreadnoughts to
Britain, his Rugby Union was heatedly discussing a propo-
sal to “ cut the painter ” from the English Rugby Union.
The proposal was defeated by 35 to 17 on the understand-
ing that the English Union should be given the opportunity
of agreeing to a long list of alterations in the rules. If the
English Union agrees to the alterations—which it won’t—-
well arid good. If the English Union won’t, then the
Maorilanders will try to organise an Australasian Rugby
Union. And, after all, that is by far the best idea.
Sydney’s “ Soccer ” and Australian footballers
are already in the field, doing practice matches, which
means that the summer is dying- fast. So far the Rugby
crowd has not stirred in its little shell ; and the League is
too busy cleaning up to think of practice. At that
famous meeting sundry people were charged straight out
with having issued a faked balance-sheet and failed to
account for the whole of the receipts. At the time it was
felt that there must be about six libel actions to clear
sundry characters ; but up to date not one writ is known
to have been served. The history of the League is one of
the most amazing chapters in the history of N.S.W. sport.
Jewish blood asserts itself even in chess-play-
ing. In the recent international chess tournament at- Sc.
Petersburg one Rubenstein tied with Lasker, the cham-
pion, for first place, and divided first and second prizes
with him. All these fanciful German names—Ruben-
stein, Goldstein, Rosenfeld, Rosenthal, etc. —are certain
evidence of the bearer’s Jewish origin. Of old the foreign
Jew’ who wished to settle in a German town had to take
a German name and an oath of Christianity. The silly
old burgomaster formally christened him with a flowery
or glittering cognomen—“ Field of Roses,” “Valley of
Roses,” “ltubystone,” “ Mountain of Gold,” or what not.
One knows a Rosenberg to be descended from Moses,
even as one suspects a Howard of belonging to the rather
ancient family of Biigg.
The Melbourne to Adelaide motor record of
22hr. 24min., made by Barr Smith and Aungerin a6O-h.p.
Napier, has not stood long. Last week, White and
Custance (also of Adelaide) cut it down to 20hr.-6min. —-
about 29J miles an hour for the 597 miles. Their car was
a 35-h.p. Talbot, and it managed to skim over the sand-
hills near the border which twice stopped the heavier car ;
also it met no fog (which bothered the Smith-Aunger
partnership a lot), and one bad puncture from an old
horseshoe nail was the only' mishap. Except for the sandy-
stretch, White and Custance reckon the road from Mel-
bourne to Geelong the worst they struck! A Moffat-
James partnership means to have a cut at the record
almost at once, running the reverse way (eastward), and,
contrary to all custom, taking the Coorong stretch at
night. The idea is that you have to go slow about there
any'way, and that with daydight at both ends the main
roads can be used to the car’s utmost speed. James was
with Kellow on the Melbourne to Sydney record run.
Harry James, of the Dunlop Rubber Co., last
week completed the marking and placarding of the route
for the Dunlop Military’ Despatch Relay ride from
Adelaide to Sydney'. The enthusiasm of riders was some-
what embarrassing. Two sturdy'wheelers rode 80 miles
on their machines to personally importune James to give
them a section ; and, having said their say', they mounted
their rusty old weapons and started light-heartedly' on
the return 80 miles. James felt that such enthusiasm
should not be damped, and promptly broke up a section
to give them a run. The sunburned motorist is wildly
enthusiastic about organising the country cyclists for
defence purposes. He believes that at a very small ex-
pense it would be possible to organise a fighting body of
cyclists several thousands strong—men who, knowing the
country thoroughly’, and being tough through constant
practice and mobile by reason of their bikes, would be fit
to worry the throat of the best force that an invader
could land in the country'. It is a great idea, and when
Australia gets properly going with its defence scheme it
might remember James’ proposal, and utilise the services
of these thousands of hard, healthy bike enthusiasts.
The Dunlop chauffeurs’ competition has been
postponed for six months, and will now commence on
September 1, instead of April, as originally intended, and
conclude on February’ 28, 1910. There will be no altera-
tion in the rules governing the contest, but the Dunlop
Co. has found it necessary to take more time over the
working out of the details, which are, in the nature of
things, immensely complicated.
♦ ■* * 4.
There was a sound of revelry at Carabella on
Saturday afternoon, when the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron held its final display of the season. A minia-
ture regatta provided an interesting and picturesque
sight, and some excitement was introduced by a second
ladies’ race. Curiously enough, the second race resulted
in a victory for Nanoya, steered by' Mrs. Marshall, which
finished first in the previous race, but was disqualified for
sailing the wrong course.
A man who calls his boat Ben-my-chree, after
Hall Caine’s unpleasant .yarn, hardly deserves to win, and
up till Saturday' the curse of the name seemed to stick to
the Sydney craft of that ilk. But repeated defeats had
lengthened the handicap somewhat, and on Saturday the
boat with the title of ill-omen romped home in the second
heat of the Flying Squadron’s handicap, and then came
away in the final and scooped the double event. If ever a
victory was earned it was that of Saturday. The handling
of the boat was superb, the working of the canvas excel-
lent, and the judgment displayed of the highest order.
* * * *
It was at New York on May 31, 1902, that
Arthur F. Duffey, the blown-out Yankee amateur, first
covered the 100yds. in 9 3-ssec. This record was largely
doubted, but as it was officially certified, it stood. On
June 23, 1906, at Spokane, Washington (U.S.A.), Dan
Kelly equalled Duffey’s time. Postle, the Australian pro-
fessional flyer, declared that it was humanly impossible
to reduce this time, but at the Stadium, Johannesburg
(S’Afric.t), R. E. Walker is credited with having twice
traversed the distance in 9 2-ssec. On the same occasion,
this remarkable runner ran the 120yds. in 11 2-ssec. The
previous best was lljsec., which was made by several
runners, and for the first time by George Seward in Eng--
land away back in 1847. It is evident that Walker is a
rusher altogether out of the crack class and well in front
of the phenomenals. His style is remarkable. He starts
with a wild bound, which is followed by a succession of
kangaroo-like hops, and then he develops a quick loping
sty'le in which the speed gradually increases for the final
sprint. Postle’s reply to this was that he would race
Walker for £2OOO aside —and blow the 9 2-ssec.
There was nothing portentous in Melbourne’s
swimming the day before last Sabbath ; but sundry beau-
teous nymphs held a carnival at Sandringham, under the
auspices of the local Ladies’ Club. The chief item of the
afternoon’s excitement was the 90yds. Championship, won
by a blessed damozel named Daphne King. There were
some other items, including a Balloon Race and Musical
Saucers, and also a mysterious event entitled the
“ Medium Form Race.” Several lovely creatures entered
for this event; hut their form was very far from medium
—it was plump and hearty.
ff * * *
The novel spectacle of no less than six crews
competing for the annual eight-oared championship of
Victoria might have been witnessed on the Lower Yarra
last Saturday. In previous years there had never been
more than four entrants, and usually only a trio.
The course was from midway in Coode’s Canal up stream
to a point opposite the steam crane below Queen’s
Bridge—a distance of 2J miles. Punctually the six crews—
Albert Park, Mercantile, Banks, Yarra Yarra, Nagambie
and Footscray City—lined up and got away to an excel-
lent start. From the commencement Albert Park pushed
its nose to the front, and, as the race proceeded, the
proboscis grew more and more protuberant, until at the
winning-post it was entirely in view, as it were, with half
a length of water between it and the feature belonging
to Footscray City. Nagambie, after rowing- a fine race,
was half a length behind ’Scray ; Mercantile was fourth ;
Yarra Yarra fifth ; and Banks, wallowing in the wash of
the others, was dead last. The time, 14min. 3sec., was
nothing very powerful.
With the prospects of securing a Jeffries-John-
son scrap daily growing more hazy, Melbourne promoters
are trying to snare Haekenschmidt and Gotch to wrestle
during Cup week. This affair is understood to be de-
finitely arranged at a cost of about £lO,OOO to the syndi-
cate. The Burns-Johnson scrap produced an uproar, but
it was a mere whisper to the howl that is likely to
arise when these two get to work. Of all the brutal dis-
plaj's on earth an “all in” wrestling match is about the
worst. And judging by his performance against Hacky
in America, Frank Gotch has no false pride or modesty
about him ; but gets right down to bedrock if the referee
allows him. If the match does come off, the chances are
that Haekenschmidt will win on a foul, as Gotch will have
to unlearn his Yankee style. The Yanks allow things in
wrestling—with foreigners—that would secure a lynching
if practised by one Yankee against another.
* * * *
We hear no more, of late, about a meeting of
Johnson and Tahmy Burns in London. Nor is it likely to
happen. Burns stock was at a discount in the Big Smoke
even whilst he held the champion title. He refused to
fight the black man at the National Sporting Club for a
£2500 purse. It was proposed that they should have a
gate-money fight at the Olympia, a building bigger than
Sydney Stadium, but Burns wasn’t taking any sporting
risks. He wanted to be guaranteed a big sum for his
championship rights, and nobody would run the show on
his terms. Now that the rights are Johnson’s, there is
no chance of even a moderately big guarantee for the man
who couldn’t bustle him in Sydney, and though the nigger
would doubtless be willing to fight him for 75 per cent, of
the gate —25 per cent, to go to the loser—Burns isn’t
game to buy another defeat at the price.
Bob Fraser, an effective Melbourne middle-
weight, had a shot recently at Joe Lee, a S’African who
scales only lOst. 121 b., but is as high as a telegraph post,
and quite as wiry. Fraser is an elusive and serpentine
person, trusting much to his nimble heels and a good deal
to a destructive left swipe. It was this ruinous punch
that destroyed Bill Lang’s handsome Greek profile, and
gave him a nose like an exploded creed. Lee, with the
barrel of a starved eel, looked easy goods for Robert, but
appearances are deceitful, and the lath from S’Africa put
up a long, lean, writhing fight. In the fifth round he had
Fraser down, feeling as if he had broken his pledge, but
the gong offered sweet respite. In the 15th whirl Fraser
swung in a right that might have permanently'prostrated
a working bullock. Lee lay' and thought it over seriously
for the usual term, and then arose and bogged in once
more. He lived out the twentieth round, and Fraser
scored a decision on points.
A death, the other day, recalls a curious
coincidence. Captain Pain was the first commo-
dore of the Howard Smith Co.’s fleet. When
Pain left, Joy followed. But Joy died first. Pain
lasted till a week or so ago.
“0.K.” writes:—
Is there a stack of evidence in support of the allegation
that the late Joe Thompson once worked for his living by
pushing fish around Melbourne on a barrow? One can’t
imagine Joseph as a simple toiler. And some historians
declare that he never came to Melbourne from the gold-
fields until he bad a bit of money' to gamble with, and a
mob of companions to assist him in holding his own.
There are tales of Joe Thompson (nie Solomons) cutting
an inglorious figure in the prize-ring, and creating a bad
odor in various “ fishy ” transactions ; but the yarn of
his having hawked flathead around the streets is new to
me. He made a book and “welshed,” it is said, before
he got into a position to live upon a reputation for being
a “ straight ” payer. And even then he had a reputation
for “ taking-down mugs with the broads." In short, he
was always open to improve his income by card sharping.
His colleagues at the card table were regarded with sus-
picion at the time, and, in one notable instance, the sus-
picion has not been outlived.


fU/GELMANN’S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
©
ffi
©
©
“Beauty’s
l Aid."
FREE
SAMPLE
gent o n
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the “SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
4349 Central.
29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE ,
48 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
SA-VO-LA'
THE SURE CURE FOR SKIN INJURIES.
'••■a
a’sukV: tijniVfici:
w
F
1
• V "
/?;
%
.'.V'/// 1
////
/;///>
9v
.S&-
O.Vm
•2Sr
V AV<
Ac.- :
3$
•SA-VO-LA’ in a few words is best described
as “the Greatest Skin Healer of the Century.”
All medical experts declare the great skin salve, SA-VO-LA to be the most
reliable of skin doctors, and invaluable to all persons in every grade of life
wherever accidents may happen. It is a disinfectant, antidote to blood poison,
and a skin-healer combined. It prevents blood poison arising from sores,
wounds, cuts, abrasions, etc., by reducing heat and inflammation and leaving
the injured parts soft, sweet, and cool. Workers in factories, warehouses,
or on farms, cattle-sheds, sheep-stations, mining camps or shearing sheds,
should have SA-VO-LA always handy, because it heals magically.
SA-YO-LA IS THE POCKET SKIN DOCTOR FOR ALL SKIN ILLS.
SA-VO-LA is a sure cure for cuts, sores (chronic or acute), barcoo, rash, itch, burns, scalds, festers,
chilblains, sun-burns, pimples, eczema, skin-cracks, whitlow, scalp sores in children, ulcers, piles,
muscular rheumatism, lumbago, boils, nerve pains, chapped hands, etc.
For Piles it is a most remarkable cure, and, when applied to the part, should be slightly heated to
reduce the balm to a liquid, then saturate a piece of cotton wool, or some other soft material, ana
apply. Stubborn cases have been cured in this way.
SA-VO-LA may be obtained of all chemists and grocers, price 1/6 the pot, or 3/6 large size,
containing four times the quantity. If not supplied locally, send direct for a pot, post free on
receipt of price.
The ‘Ray’ Chemical Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney, n.s. w.
* ■ vvVVvVV
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from —
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
TO**
AFT-R
B F FOR E
WHY STAY THIN ?
There is now no reason why every man or woman should not
acquire or regain a PERFECT FIGURE. If you want to
add flesh, he made plump and rosy, gain weight, strength,
and beauty, send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of the
“MIRAOULA” NERVE FOOD and FLESH DEVELOPER.
This newly-discovered HERBAL SPECIFIC is a vitalizing
AGENT and FLESH BUILDER. It will soon put your
NERVES RIGHT, tone up your DIGESTIVE ORGANS,
and make you STRONG, HEALTHY, and VIGOROUS,
with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all SCRAGGINESS.
Try it—it will cost you nothing. Call or write for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and FREE BEAUTY BOOKLET.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Department A. 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Send for our 1909 CATALOGUE.
Mention this paper when writing:.
The Smile of Satisfaction
is good to see, and its always on the face of
the man astride a popular
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE.
We put into it the finest of imported parts,
fit it with first-class tyres, and guarantee for
a year for £ll.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-buildin
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ANDREW McGEE “
AUTO-STROP SAFETY RAZOR.
is a boon to the man who dreads shaving. It glides over
the face easily—doesn’t pull, and always gives a cleaner
and closer shave. It’s always ready for use-strops
itself and is easily kept clean. The outfit consists of
Triple Silver-Plated Safety Razor, one dozen Auto-Strop
Certified Blades, one Certified Horse-hide Strop, in
Handsome Leather Case, 25/- post free. Extra Blades
3/- a dozen.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagh St. (corner Hunter St.). saloon opkn all pay Wednesdays.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, to WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14.
£4500 PRIZES £4500.
1100 HORSES. 1000 CATTLE.
GRAND JUMPING CONTESTS,
SPLENDID TROTTING EVENTS,
MACHINERY IN
MOTION.
SPECTACULAR PARADES.
MA NUFACTURES.
Admission Is., Children 6d.
3 Castlerkagh Street, Sydney.
Excursion Fares
FROM ALL PARTS.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
A PRACTICAL
MEDICAL BATTERY
The peculiar forces within us require aid
and assistance to strengthen and revital-
ise them.
Electricity is the great helper.
JERDAN’S “ HOME ” BATTERY—
so practical, efficacious and reliable —is
invaluable in a home for all complaints,
such as Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.
The working and mechanism is ex-
tremely simple. It can be suited to the
wants of both adults and children.
PRICE 35/-. KU.
Write for FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
JORDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &, Jordan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Price 10/6,
Post Free
Anywhere in
Australasia .
A RAZOR YOU CAN RELY ON.
It always gives a clean shave and always leaves a velvet chin
that’s the PLUM Razor. Made in the good old English method
of gorging steel, it’s silver steel blade keeps a splendid edge
ALWAYS. We guarantee and keep ic in working order for two
years free of charge.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Aitken, 654- George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.


TH
OST.
A. SAUI7DERS.
Souvenir EMU EGG, Hand-carved, Pure Silver
plated Mounts, Ebonised Wood Base. Height
10J inches. 20/-
Other Styles 10/0. 15/6. 30/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A Handsome Piece of A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER is
Always Acceptable, and it is the most Permanently
Useful and Satisfactory Gift you can make.
The following give a hint of the values we
offer. Rich, tasteful, and substantial, they
ably represent our high quality at economy
prices.
Your selection will be carefully packed to
ensure safe delivery, and sent carriage free
to any address in Australasia. Write for
our 304-page Illustrated Catalogue.
FLOWER VASE, Pure
Silver-plated, detachable
Tube, Gilt Lined, 6in
hi S h - 5/6-
Other Styles, 4/6, 7/6,
10/6.
TOAST RACK, < Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand-
somely Embossed Base.
nfl , £2/-/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
aaai
Haim
Ejaafl
m
unsn
em
aau
I
BREAKFAST CRUET,
3-Bottle, Fine Cut
Crystal Glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated.
12/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
15/, 17/6.
BISCUIT
Handsomely
Size, llin x
A. SAUNDERS.
BOX, Self-acting Lid, Pure Silver-plated,
Embossed and Fluted, Oval or Round.
9in.
Other
£3/-/-
Styles, £4/4/,
£5 j 5.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed. £2/-/-
Plam, 35/. Other Styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
£4/4/-
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, comprising
Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers. £4/4/. Made expressly for
us by James Dixon and Sons.
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/ £l5, £2O, to £5O.
i 8)
IS
BOS
A. SAUNDERS.
PIOKLE JAR, Fine Cut Crys-
tal Glass, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame,
25 /-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/, 17/6.
BREAD or CAKE
Silver,
Other Styles, 4/6,
SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Ivory Handle, 9in long.
7/6
6/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Gilt Lined, “Water Lily” Design.
£2/-/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
FERN POT, Pure
plated, Richly Fluted
bossed. Size, 4in.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/C,
Silver-
and Em-
-12/6, 15/.
SALT-POURER, Pure
Silver-mounted, Fine
Out Crystal Glass.
3/6
Other Styles, 5/6,
6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
'•'"■'inn.
H
in
8 /’■>
fes ■•
M
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE, FRUIT, or CHEESE DISH, with SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Base, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass Dish.
25/.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Pure
Silver-plated, Gilt Lined,
Weighted Base. Height,
6in, 4/6 ; 6£in, 5/6; 7in,
6/6; 7£in, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and SIFTER, Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Fluted, Gilt Lined.
Other Styles, lu/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt, Richly
Fluted.
2g/.
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Ml
mpiiiiniji
ii
”
an
PRESENTATION FRUIT and FLOWER EPERGNE
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Richly Orna- ’
mented Base, Fine ( ut Crystal Glass.
Height, 21in.
£,3/-/-
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5, to £l5.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRE
Fine Out Crystal Glass Bottles,
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality.
£3/-/-
Other Styles, 30/ 35/, 40/, 50',
ET, G-Bottlc,
Pure Silver-
-60/, 70/, 80/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle
Embossed, Finest Sheffield Steel Blade. '
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Richly
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE MUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Gilt Lined.
15/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6,
10/.
Tximztm rmTtwrtttf 11 it r,t irr
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Stag Design, Pure Silver-plated,
25/-
Handsomely Engraved, Fine Cut Crystal Glass
Bottle. Size, 9in x 6in.
Other Styles, 35/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, Ruby or Light Green Glass
Dish.
207-
Other Styles, 10/6, 13/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, Hand-engraved Lid and Base, Crystal Glass
Dish.
9/6
A 1 Quality, 10/6.
r
x -
gEz.
A. SAUNDERS.
“GONDOLIER” PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver Frame, Milled Glass Disli
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
SALT - SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal
Glass Base.
3/6
Salt-pourer to Match,
3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Carlton China Base.
207-
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6,
10/6, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,1
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W,


KODAK
wmm
m*
“Don’t buy any ‘ just-as-
good ’ Him / insist that you
got the Kodak—the finest
film of all.”
The KodaK N. C. Film
For more than twenty-two years the Kodak Company have been
manufacturing Photographic Film, and all the time they have
been improving the product. To perfect equipment and years of
experience the Kodak Film makers have the added advantage of
access to the formulae of the chemists who make the best dry
plates in the world. Kodak Film has, therefore, in it the com-
bined knowledge of the most expert plate makers, and the most
talented film makers.
Don’t be put off with any substitute by dealers who are
anxious for extra profit— at your expense. Look for the word
Kodak on the spool, and Kodak and N.C. on the box. Only
film bearing this trade mark is genuine.
The No. 3 Folding' Kodak
This is of such small compass that it can be carried in the pocket,
and yet it takes pictures x inches. It is fitted with a rapid
rectilinear lens, and the reliable F.P.K. automatic shutter, which
works with either bulb or finger release.
The camera is made of aluminium, covered with a fine black
seal grain leather, and beautifully finished in every detail. With
this Kodak you can make 12 exposures without reloading, and its
weight is but 23 ounces.
The price is £3/12/6 —postage in the State 1/3 extra;
inter-State, 2/2.
All Kodak supplies are now sold at English list prices.
Ask us for the new Catalogue, which gives full details.
Baßer & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
375 & 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “ THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
RESTORE YOUR LIVER TO
HEALTHY ACTION.
THE ORCANIG CLEANSER.
THE LADDER
OF DISEASE
REMOVED
BY KUTNOW
HEADACHE
LANGUOR
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
LIVER-
TORPOR
KIDNEY-
DISEASE
Do you sometimes suffer from
Headache and occasionally feel
depressed ? Perhaps you sleep
badly, or on rising in the
morning still feel unrefreshed,
languid, and tired. Your
appetite may not be so good
as usual, and you may feel
the symptoms of Indigestion.
If so, you require a dose of
Kutnow’s Powder. This world-
renowned remedy removes
Biliousness and Headache,
makes you at once bright,
cheerful and energetic. It goes
down to the root of the trouble
and eradicates from the system
all the poisonous products which
accumulate therein. Kutnow’s
Powder is the perfect remedy
for permanently removing Con-
stipation and its attendant
evils. It cleanses the kidneys,
eliminates uric acid, and is a
preventive of Bright’s Disease.
Kutnow’s Powder not only
restores the liver, but all the
great organs of the body to
healthy activity.
JL,,:
m
w
r
lt
KUTNOYTS ■
Improved E ftcrvescent CarISBAO
POWDER*
If
m
Hirschcnsprung or Deer Leap
l d
London
41, FARRINGDONROAD E.C.t f
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.. -I- L
m
<—«
A Well-known Actor writes:
“The Hut, Weymouth, May 23, 1908.
“ Sirs, —I have but recently returned from a tour
in the States, and feel that I must write and tell
you how your Kutnow’s Powder has been of service
to me. In the life of an actor, one is accustomed to
different food and strange climatical conditions.
All this tends to affect the liver, and it is a usual
occurrence to rise in the morning with a headache,
feeling more weary than the night before. A dose
of Kutnow’s relieved me of this trouble like light-
ning. There are so many spurious medicines on the
market that I think it is only fair that a thoroughly
genuine article should be given the notice it deserves.
“HUGH LESLIE DOBREE.”
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all
conscientious Chemists throughout the World. See
that the fac-simile signature ‘*S. KlltnOW & Co.,
Ld.,” and the registered trade mark, 11 HirSChßtl-
SpriMg 01" Deer Leap/’ are on the carton and
bottle. You then
Get Genuine Kutnow's Powder,
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


FINNEY’S
Quaint Furniture.
Did you ever see a
Hat-Stand more quaint
than this one ? It is
six feet high, and costs
£l/17/6 in Silky Oak.
We have just pub=
lished a book of
Quaint Furniture—the
kind we won the
Franco-British Gold
Medal with. May we
send you a copy of
the catalogue ?
You’ll be delighted
with the photographs
of our Australian-made
Furniture.
Your address ?
FINNEY,
ISLES
% CO., LIMITED,
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
The Brisbane Mail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
story now is history, yet all men may
not know,
How O’Brien met his fate last Easter week;
Of his bet with Driver Doolan, and his wild and
fearful “ go ”
When he raced the midnight train to Muddy
Creek.
But they’ll tell it down the ages in the pubs of
Swigansoak,
Whilst the stranger wipes a moist and ashen
cheek ;
The tale of how O’Brien the Australian record
broke
As he raced the Brisbane mail to Muddy
Creek.
O’Brien owned a dairy farm, and many head of
kine,
A prosperous man and well content was he ;
His Herefords and Alderneys, and eke his Berk-
shire swine.
They were the best in all the North countree ;
But last year he came to Brisbane to view the
Easter Show,
And spent a somewhat wild, hilarious week ;
And, alas ! he caught the fever that each motor
fiend must know,
And brought back a pufSng car to Muddy Creek.
It was a thing of wonder to the simple-minded
folk,
That resided on those verdant river flats ;
And as it pranced and snorted down the road
through Swigansoak,
They cried, “ Here comes some dommed aristo-
crats ;
But when they saw O’Brien sitting proudly at the
wheel,
And Casey as the “ chaffer” by his side,
A cheer that split the welkin and made all the
gumtrees reel
Went echoing o’er the country far and wide.
It was a dream of beauty bright, with panels done
in green,
And red morocco cushions placed within ;
And silver-plated lever things, and pedals in
between,
And a “ tooter ’’ that kicked up an awful din.
So they crow’ded round in numbers whilst its
merits they discussed,
Inspecting every axle, crank and hub ;
And they finished up the evening in a great and
glorious “ bust ”
With O’Brien and his “ chaffer” at the pub.
It was there that driver Doolan, from his engine
hot and dry,
Ran across to get his customary beer,
And saw O’Brien mounting with a wild and wobbly
eye,
To his seat upon the motor standing near.
And, being hare-brained Irishmen, they there and
then agreed,
Whilst the light of battle flamed in each man’s
cheek,
To give O’Brien’s motor-car a test for strength
and speed
In a race for fifty pounds to Muddy Creek.
Then the engine gave a whistle and the motor
tooted loud
(On the train the news had very quickly spread).
And the betting grew quite furious ’midst the
sports among the crowd,
As the guard cried shrill and loudly “Right
ahead ! ”
Then Doolan pulled his throttle wide, O’Brien set
his teeth,
And motor-car and mail dashed on their way,
Till the ground looked like a ribbon as it hurtled
underneath,
And the pub-lights faded in the distance grey.
For forty miles the road and rail ran onwards
side by side,
To the level crossing known as Native Dog;
And then the road branched westwards in a semi-
circle wide,
Till it joined the rail again at Hollow Log.
Thence climbing up a range of hills, by sinuous
curves to crawl.
Through sandstone ridges bare, and grey, and
bleak.
And sloping in a long incline (’twas ninety miles
in all),
The railway petered out at Muddy Creek.
“I must beat him at the crossing, I must hold
him at the hill,”
Yelled O’Brien in the frightened Casey’s ear;
“I will make the pace a cracker, I will make the
pace to kill! ”
And he gave a wild, inebriated cheer ;
And the racing pistons chorussed in a strange
crescendo scream,
As the motor chased the tail-lights of the mail,
And from Doolan’s throbbing Baldwin came the
answering roar of steam,
As she leapt and bounded down the ringing rail.
“ I am gaining,” cried O’Brien, as the miles were
flung behind,
Whilst Casey mumbled prayers out by the score ;
And their eyes were seared and blinded by the
rushing of the wind,
And their ears were numbed and deafened by its
roar.
And the motor’s gleaming headlights flung fan-
tastic shafts of light,
As she rocked and bumped upon her mad career ;
Like a green malignant monster she went rushing
down the night,
And from the flying mail there came a cheer.
As they neared the level crossing they crept bit
by bit ahead,
And O’Brien swore a deep and mighty oath ;
“I will pass in front of Doolan if they leave us
there for dead ;
Now Casey, say a prayer, lad, for us both.”
And the engine towered above them as they leapt
across the track.
And the passengers looked out and held their
breath ;
And Casey sobbed and whimpered, as he cowered,
looking back,
“ O’Brien, ye are driving to your death.”
“It was neck or nothing, Casey, and they missed
us bv an inch,”
Said O’Brien with a laugh of horrid glee;
“ They will pull us back in no time, they will beat
us up the ‘ pinch,’
But down to Muddy Creek I’ll let ’em see !.”
And they charged upon the hillside with the mail
train in the lead,
As they swung and skidded madly round the
curves;
And although the rising gradient brought a some-
what slackened speed,
The turns upset poor Casey’s shattered nerves.
When they topped the sandstone ridges they could
see the mail below.
Like a fiery serpent rushing through the mist;
“Now, hould yer breath, Mick Casey, I’m about
to let her go,”
In Michael’s ear the wild O’Brien hissed.
Then all the heavens began to spin, the moon was
ribbed with black,
The madly waltzing stars played hide and seek,
As the landscape rushed to meet them up the
smoothly-sloping track,
And the motor split the air for Muddy Creek.
The settlers, wakened from their sleep, to window
and to door
Expectant sprang to meet a blizzard’s force,
As the mail train and the motor car with rush,
and whir, and roar,
Sped past them like two comets on their course.
HIS PROPER SPHERE.
ISAACSTEIN : “ Yeth, I've made me leedle pile in the bithnith, and now I m off to der oldt
country to pecorne vot nudure intenlii me to be—an English coundry shentleman.”
O’Brien now was picking up, there wasn’t any
doubt,
Each mile he closed the gap a little more,
And from the sports aboard the train went up a
mighty shout,
“ O’Brien wins ! ” —“ O’Brien six to four ! ”
Now all ye winged gods of speed confound Mul-
laney’s bull
That strayed upon the road that April night !
In a second, ere O’Brien on his steering-wheel
could pull,
The motor-fiend was on him in its might:
A tangled mass of legs and arms, of hoofs and
horns and wheels,
A sheet of flame—then silence and a groan—
And Doolan on the midnight mail adown the
shining steels,
Went flying on to Muddy Creek—alone.
Mike Casey lived to tell the tale, a maimed and
broken wreck
(They found him still alive in sorry plight).
Of how they broke the record, and O’Brien broke
his neck,
When they raced the midnight mail that fearful
night.
And engine-driver Doolan and the farmers down
the line
Aver, with bated breath and pallid cheek,
A phantom motor oft is seen, when nights are
clear and fine,
Still rushing down the road to Muddy Creek.
N.s.w.
HORACE HALLORAN.
Arthur Baptist Noel, who is retiring from
the Queensland District Court Bench, is" about
the most sudden Judge Australia has ever had.
He was.no more than 28 when he climbed up to
the only place in the world where the jokes are
always good ; he had only been two years in
practice when the Judgeship happened to him (it
was a sort of hereditary job); and he hasn’t
finished his 54th year before he gets his old-age
pension.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 20, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The holland covers in the Chelmsford residence
will be removed from the Chippendale on Satur-
day of this week, when the vice-regal lady, along
with the infants, governess, and Miss Hart, will
arrive in town. Her Ex. will attend the annual
church-going of the Mothers’ Union on Thursday,
and she is booked for the Pure Milk Institute
meeting on Friday. The institute, whose busi-
ness is to give the little Bananalander a better
chance of keeping alive, will be in full working
order in a few weeks now.
The pallid Governor leaves by the Aldenham
for Papua, where he will take a glance at the
morose nigger and the administration of him, just
in case the billet of G.-G. should ever come his
way.
Two weddings without undue fuss and frill
have eventuated this week. Miss Girlie Hunter
(she who carried off a valuable prize for point lace
at the recent Women’s Exhibition) stood up in a
blue crdpe-de-chine gown on Thursday evening,
and undertook to keep the buttons sewn on for
Victor Campbell, eldest son of the late Minister
for Railways. Pa is at present a very sick man,
hence the quiet knot-tying at hospitable Stanley
Hall.
The other life sentence was pronounced upon
Mr. Lloyd Price, associate to the newly-appointed
Justice Shand. His fellow-conspirator was Miss
Sai Gregory, the pretty daughter of the ex-
Government Printer.
Among the Queensland girleens to quit the
bachelor state at an early date is Miss Edith
Fraser, whose wedding with Mr. J. F. Helton
Daniellwill take place in the middle of April. The
bridegroom hails from the Mebourne office of the
Atlas Assurance Co. ; and the bride’s mother, our
most consistent and successful inter-State croquet
player, will linger in the South after the event
with designs on the inter-State hoop-and-mallet
crown of glory.
The air is thick with coffee-cream, and you step
along from bun to bun these days. Mrs. Moran
has been passed round all the week at farewell
teas until she doesn’t know whether she is a cash-
on-delivery parcel or a plate of sandwiches.
The insatiables have now fallen upon the Slade
ladies, and are hurrying them on to gas-
tronomic destruction. They escape by the next
Orient boat.
Someone got upon the lee-side of the weather
clerk before St. Patrick’s festival arrived, and
turned a night of storm and slush into the
most beautiful day imaginable. So the banners,
had their usual trip to the Exhibition grounds,
and 10 out of every 11 persons you met on that
beat were draped in shamrocks—and a few other
things. In the afternoon all the Very Best People
pulled the tissue paper from their directoire gown,
and went to Ascot. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson (still 18
or thereabouts) did the going gracefully in a grey-
and-white be-laced robe, the simplicity of which
was like unto the mind of Charles IV. of
Prance. Her rose-decked hat topped the best-
frocked woman on view. A blue directoire robe
of electric shade and a blue hat and newly-arrived
engagement ring suited bonnie Winnie Hicks to a
hair’s breadth; but another lately-returned
blossom spoiled an otherwise smart blue-and-
cream effect with a, trail of pink ribbon round her
neck. Mrs. Lukin collected the tea-cake for
tailor-mades in a grey confection topped by an
emerald bonnet. There was a striped satin gown
which harmonised well with brown ; and a pretty
fluffer in Wedgwood blue, with a hat adorned
with lilies of the valley, was just the most awful
success.
The new People’s Progressive League, which
Kidston has engineered as a means of welding
the old Philp crowd and the Kidston turncoats,
has hired gorgeous offices in Brisbane ; and now,
upon a whole range of windows, a gold crown is
emblazoned—the brand of the new ass. All this
gorgeosity has arrived at the same moment as the
new Queensland l'dfynyof a couple of millions. It
recalls old times when Queensland splashed bor-
rowed gilt in wild profusion—and then, when the
bills started to come in, sat down in the ashes for
15 long, weary years, and told the baker to call
only every other day and the butcher twice a
week.
The rink still whirls merrily. To date, one cut
face, two or three broken wings, one ankle in
plaster, and a variety of concrete rash are the sum
total of hurts. Still, the careful management has
put up a notice to the effect that patrons mu6t
carry their necks in their own hands, so to speak.
A fortnight ago I told you of a high-up officer
of a State Department who was rewarded for his
enthusiasm in the cause of Australia’s Defence
with three months’ suspension and other injuries
—which was merely a rather worse case than
usual of the troubles of State servants who want
to serve the Commonwealth. Following upon
that paragraph certain pressmen were told off to
make inquiries. Naturally they asked for the
evidence, but were informed that the only man
who could give that is the suspended official. Andl
the suspended official won’t, because, according to-
the instructions, for him to hand the documents,
to the press would mean dismissal. So the public
is to be balked of an opportunity to judge
by official papers of what on the surface
looks like a bad case of petty State inter-
ference and nastiness towards the Commonwealth.
The real trouble began last Easter, when the
suspended one was refused leave to attend the
annual naval camp. This he reported, as a matter
of course, to the newly-arrived Commandant
Richardson, who, being pitifully short of officers,
made a direct appeal to the Minister, without the
officer’s knowledge. The Minister granted the
leave. Certain permanent heads of the Depart-
ment, who had previously blocked the leave,
were thus hurt in their dignity ; and then began
a campaign to show “which was master
here”—the State or the Commonwealth. Minister
Denham has now a chance to show that he has a.
soul above such pettiness, even if his permanent
heads haven’t.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The Cold-tea doctrine doesn’t cut much
ice in the North. Arm in arm with Bung it
went to the polling booth at Cairns the other day
to vote against any more pub-licenses in Nos. 1
and 2 divisions ; but when the figures were made
up it was found that the unholy alliance had been
beaten by five to one.
Queensland, which received a bad smack
in the face the last time it turned up at the pawn-
shop, looked in again on Cohen last week; and
the other cheek got it this time. The Govern-
ment asked for £2,000,000, and all it was offered
was £320,000. Of course, it will get the
rest, because the loan was underwritten;
that is to say, for a stiff bonus on top of
the ordinary commission a number of brokers
and speculators agreed to advance the money
at once, relying on being able to pass the
baby to the public gradually and by degrees.
Practically Queensland says to the underwriters—
“ I can’t squeeze more than £1 out of Ikey to-day;
but as I’ve got a chance of a steady job I might
get him to spring another £1 next week.” Then
the underwriter offers him 19s. on the strength of
his expectations, and the shiftless old loafer gives
another lOU (payable by his children) for another
£l, and the thing is over—until the first bill for
the interest comes in.
Particulars of the will of the late Williami
Collins, of Nindooinbah, show what a mighty
land-grabber he was. Besides owning Nindooin-
bah. which spreads over nearly 14,000 acres, he
held, in conjunction with his brothers, P. M. and
J. G. Collins, Coorabulka, Mount Merlin, Chats-
worth and Noranside stations, in the Gregory
district; Westgrove and Gwambegwine, in the
Leichhardt district; Babiloora and Carnarvon, in
the Warrego district ; and Devoncourt, in the
Burke district. He also owned a twelfth share in
the North Australian Pastoral Co., which holds
Inkerman and Woodstock stations (Q.), and
Alexandria station, in the Northern Territory ; a
ninth share in the properties of Collins, White
and Co., who hold Eulolo, Beaudesert and Glen-
ormiston stations ; and a sixth share in the firm
of Collins and Brown, which holds Durham
Downs, in the Roma district. Collins’ grass
would have carpeted a fair-sized empire.


THE CALL OF ABRAM.
And the Lord said to Abram : “ Go forth out of
thy country, and from thy kindred, and out of thy
father's house, and come unto the land which I
shall show thee. And 1 will make of thee a great
nation, and I will bless thee and magnify thy
name. ...”
And Abram went out as the Lord had com-
manded him, and Lot went with him. . . . They
went out to go into the Land of Canaan.
And when they were come into it, Abram passed
through the country into the place of Sichem, as far
as the noble vale. . . .
And the Lord said to Abram: “Lift up thy
eyes, and look from the place wherein thou now art,
t<o the north and to the south, to the east and to the
west. All the land which thou seest I will give to
thee and to thy seed for ever.
“And I will maLc thy seed as the dust of the
earth ; if any man be able to number the dust of the
•earth, he shall be able to number thy seed also.
“ Arise, and walk through the land in the length
and in the breadth thereof; for I will give it to
thee."-
HOLT WRIT.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XII.
THE ROMANCE OF PASTORAL SETTLEMENT.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
The great “ treks,” which have occurred in many
countries, and of which one of the first recorded
instances is that of Abram and Lot, quoted above,
have not been without their analogues in the his-
tory of Australian development. Men who were
pasturing their flocks and herds in vast open spaces
of country, through which they could practically
wander at will, would
if their own pastures be-
came exhausted, look for
better country beyond,
as Abram and Lot were
mysteriously directed to
do. And when the
“moving out” process
had been accomplished,
the increase of the herds
and the flocks made
further daring experi-
ments in “ overlanding ”
necessary in order to get
the cattle to market. To
this day these big move-
ments go on. Within the
last two years a mob of
3000 cattle was overland-
ed from Wave Hill, a
station away in the west
of Northern Territory,
across the continent,
through Queensland, into
N.S.W., and after being
fattened at Buchanan’s
Killarney station, Narra-
bri, were trucked to the
Sydney market. The
diary of the leader of
this great expedition
ought to have been well
worth publishing, if he
had kept one.
It is much in fashion
nowadays to abuse the
“ squatter,” or, rather,
the institution of “squat-
terdom,” which became
connected later on with
dummying and evasion
of law's, as in the early
use of the term it was
applied to thieves who
“ squatted ” near the sta-
tions of genuine pioneers
and plundered them of
their cattle, which were
stolen, the brands changed or “faked,” and the
animals driven off and sold. Doubtless fortunes
were made this way in Queensland, as elsewhere.
As with all early settlement in a country of vast
distances, there was some lawlessness. Certainly
Queensland had less of this than the Mother
State, N.S.W., as the former sprang into exist-
ence with all the settled organisation of Govern-
ment, which had been built up in the latter before
the separation took place and Queensland was
granted self-government. From the first there
never was anything resembling what is known
in the United States as “ Lynch ” law except, it
must be confessed, towards the aborigines. Be-
tween savage and pioneer a state of war to the
knife existed almost from the first.
PATRICK LESLIE,
with his brother, took up land on the Darling
Downs, and overlanded there from N.S. W. in
the tracks of Allan Cunningham.
Reproduced from the PICTURESQUE ATLAS .
But the debt which civilisation owes to the
pioneer squatters of Queensland can never be re-
paid. It may be that most of them were richly
rewarded, so far as material success is concerned ;
for they reaped a golden harvest. Butin “blazing
the track” they overcame difficulties which, under
the circumstances of their time, would have ap-
peared insurmountable to all but men of lion
hearts. The historians, in recording their work,
too, never fail to allot their due meed of praise to
the convict adventurers who joined in these ex-
ploits, and without whose loyal co-operation the
opening of the magnificent territory of Queens-
land might have been delayed 50 years.
When the supreme Australian writer of
romance or the great poet, comes along, he will
find his kingdom in the splendid epic theme of the
pioneering days. Victor Hugo never had more
picturesque material; he never had such romantic
surroundings as the theatre for the superhuman
penance and devotion of a JeanValjean. (By
the way, a fine bit of work has just come under
my observation in Mrs. iEneas Gunn’s romance,
“We of the Never Never.” There one reads the
romance of to-day—the adventurers’ work which
is going on to-day in picturesque Northern Terri-
tory, of a piece with that in Queensland.) Our
early adventurers had the perils and the horror
of an unknown bush, infested by savage and
hostile tribes, with whom theft and murder were
instinctive in the everyday life of a predatory
race, distinguished by a fine physique but of low
intelligence. Mr. Meston, the foremost authority
upon the Queensland aborigines, makes out
an unanswerable case for the physical
beauty and fearless bearing of the coastal
natives ; but as to their treatment of the pioneers
the evidence is decidedly against them in the
bulk, while individuals of the race are entitled to
honorable acquittal. Indeed, those who have
read the dreadful account of the disastrous
Kennedy Expedition must agree with Mr. Meston
when he says: “No man in Australian his-
tory is more deserving of a national monument
than the blackfellow ‘ Jacky,’ who saved Carron
and Goddard, of Kennedy’s party, in 1848, and
accomplished feats of heroism and endurance
rarely, if ever, paralleled in exploration.”
Then the pioneers, hampered by their stock,
sheep, cattle, horses, and household, had to push
their way through unknown forests, across diffi-
cult mountains ; and had to gain their experience
and bushmanship by the greatest hardships.
Their faith was sublime. I always like to read
LEICHHARDT S MARKED TREE.
A land-mark of exploration—the word carved on
the trunk is DIG.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
the story of the scientific predecessor of so many
Abrams and Lots in Queensland —Allan Cunning-
ham, botanist, explorer, man of indomitable
courage—pushing his way through unknown
forests, crossing unmapped rivers, scaling rugged
mountains, pushing through from the Hunter
River, in N.S.W., with six men and 11 horses,
through the Liverpool Plains and the Peel River
to the Darling Downs—l like to think of him,
absorbed in his botanical and scientific as well as
his exploration work, pulling out his bag of peach-
stones, and from time to time, in the wild forest
country or on the fertile plains, planting a tree.
Cunningham, sanguine though he was, could
never have dreamed that the tree which his
courage had planted would grow to such dimen-
sions. The peach-stones sown by him have germi-
nated and have borne strange fruit. As the
dragon’s teeth, in the story of Jason and the
Argonauts, when sown, sprang up into armed
men, so Cunningham’s peach-stones have sprung
up into.magnificent pastures, with flocks and
herds ; into splendid towns, such as Toowoomba,
Warwick, Dalby and Stanthorpe ; into smiling
wheat fields ; into landscapes whereon the forest
has been toned down to the cleared pasture land,
the vineyard and the farm, while the “ symphony
of growth” is still audible, and thousands are
preparing to make homes where hundreds are
now. Where Cunningham heard nothing but the
whispering of leaves in the forests, or the tinkling
of the rivulets, to-day may be heard the lowing of
thousands of cattle, the bleating of millions of
sheep, the sound of the farm cart or the hay
waggon, the crunch of the traction engine, the
scream of the railway whistle (even the “honk”
of the motor-car), and the low. symphonic mur-
mur of human affairs. We must, in time, asso-
ciate the planting of those peach-stones with the
sublime symbolism of a nation’s planting, germi-
nation, and growth; and when Cunningham’s
statue comes to be hewn by the Queensland
sculptor of the future in Queensland marble, to be
placed on a fine pedestal of native stone, I suggest
that this symbolism be embodied in the design,
and that the explorer be carved in the attitude of
planting a peach-stone.
Cunningham’s exploit opened the country for
the Abrams and Lots. Says Russell in “ The
Genesis of Queensland The circumstances
of the times were combining in 1840 to compel the
squatters in the Northern District [of N. S. W.] into
some more genial climate. The cold winters were
said to be a great drawback to thorough success
in sheep-breeding and fine wool growing. Some
who had bought stations there were already
seeking, and at times finding, purchasers for what
dissatisfied themselves.” They had carte blanche
VIRGIN SCRUB, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
to roam over the whole vast continent-all they
required, no matter what amount of land they
took up and held, was a license, for which they
paid £lO annually. Patrick Leslie was the
first squatter pioneer to turn the scientific
discoveries of Cunningham to commercial
advantage. Thirteen years after
returned, Leslie and his brothers overlanded their
flocks and herds, their menservants (there is no
account of any maidservants), their oxen, etc.
Here is a picturesque detail of their party : “ We
were accompanied by two men (“ we” means Dr.
John Dobie, and Walter and Patrick Leslie) ; a
convict named Peter Murphy, alias Duff, per
Countess of Harcourt, 1827 (convict ship), from
Dublin, who was a “lifer,” and assigned to me
on the 9th December, 1838. I mention these
particulars, as the man was about the best-
plucked fellow I ever came across in my life, and
as good a servant as master ever had.”
Crawford was the other man. Allan Cunning-
ham offered his map, but Admiral King had mis-
laid it. However, the Admiral was able to give
them the position of Ben Lomond in New England,
N. S. W., and with Peter Mu rphy Patrick Leslie left
the others and struck out for the new country.
The others followed with the stock, drays, etc.
These consisted of “4000 breeding ewes in lamb,
100 ewe hoggets, 1000 wedder hoggets, 100 rams,
and 500 wedders three and four years old. We
had two teams of bullocks, 24 in all, and two
drays, a team of horses and a dray, and 10 saddle-
horses.” The staff consisted of “22 men, all
ticket-of-leave or convicts, as good and game a
lot of men as ever existed, and who never occa-
sioned us a moment’s trouble ; worth any 40 men
I. have ever seen since/’
These were the men who opened up that fat
district, the Darling Downs. Their exploits were
imitated by the Bells and Moffats—the former
Australian born, and, like the first crop of Aus-
tralians, daring and skilful bushmen ; the latter
of English yeoman stock. Then there were the
Archers, a fine family, which has done good service
to the State, not only as pioneers, but in the
political life, and one brother as Agent-General of
the State in London. And the Jardines, whose
romantic journey to Cape York country makes
us wonder what our novelists are doing in neglect-
ing Such fine material. Also, in remembering the
leaders of these enterprises, upon which the future
development of Queensland was based, we must
not forget" the obscure followers, who shared the
brunt of that great battle with the unknown
forest. Some of these, as shown in Leslie’s
account, were convicts; and many, in the heroic
circumstances in which they were placed, showed
that they were worthy to rise*-
“ On stepping stones
Of their dead selves to higher things.”
Of these, Leslie’s tribute to Peter Murphy,
“alias- Duff,” will stand as an epitaph—“the
best-plucked fellow I ever came across in my
life, and as good a servant as master ever had.”
Their courage and love of liberty is commemorated
in the number of those who escaped from penal
DR. LUDWIG LEICHHARDT,
the famous martyr to Australian exploration,
whose last known mark was found on a tree in
Queensland. His last expedition never returned,
and no trace of them has been found.
Reproduced from the PICTURESQUE ATLAS .
bondage and started to “ make their way over-
land to China ” —ignorant of geography (not then
the geography it is to-day), but full of hope and
daring, ready to face the unknown track. Many
of these were afterwards found among the tribes
of blacks, and were of great assistance to the
pioneers.
But the greatest tribute of all must be paid to
the pioneer women —the wives and mothers of the
early settlers. California was a country which
presented the same difficulties as Queensland to
the pioneer. To-day in California there is a
movement to raise a splendid monument to “ The
Pioneer Mother.” This is part of a scheme to
erect three statue groups in different cities of the
United States—“ The Colonial Mother,” in
Boston; “The Immigrant Mother,” in New
York; and “The Pioneer Mother,” in San
Francisco. Says the San Francisco Call :
“The statues will tell of that highest and
holiest of human emotions : that of love for
and belief in the mothers who braved the
awful terrors of war, of long and stormy
voyages and of Indian massacres on the
plains, in order that the integrity of the home
founded in a new land might be preserved,
and their children reared in safety within the
sanctity of its walls.”
ALLAN CUNNINGHAM,
botanist and explorer, who opened up to civilisation
the Darling Downs, Queensland, one of the richest
pieces of territory in the known world.
Reproduced from the PICTURESQUE ATLAS .
The design of the “ Pioneer Mother ” will be “the
noble figure of a woman, dauntless and capable,
with her children gathered at her feet.”
Ad mitting all the sacrifice of the pioneer mothers
of California, Queensland could furnish as fine a
roll of names of the pioneer mothers, and wives,
whose sacrifices made the colony and the future
State what it is.
As Essex Evans has sung :
In the slab, zinc-roofed homestead of some lately-taken
run,
In the tent beside the banlrment of a railway just begun,
In the huts on new selections, in the camps of men’s
unrest,
On the frontiers of the nation, live the Women of the
West.
For them no trumpet sounds the call, no poet plies his
arts ;
They only hear the beating of their gallant, loving hearts,
But'they have sung with silent lives the songs all songs
above —
The holiness of sacrifice, the dignity of love.
And we have hearts to do and dare, and yet, o’er all the
rest,
The hearts that made the nation were the Women of the
West.
The daughters of those pioneer women
are still carrying on the traditions of their
mothers : going out into the waste places, and
civilising them, bringing into the develop-
ment of the country the influences of home and the
refinements that only a woman’s hand can bring
to the roughest slab hut roofed with bark,
which will soon (under their influence) have
its geraniums and roses, sweet pea and vines. In
time the Queenslanders will raise a monument to
their pioneers. To-day they are too absorbed in
the tremendous work of developing the material
resources of their marvellous country—what a
task for a handful of people !—to think of resting
from their labors even to bear witness to the
greatness of past work. They, too, are pioneers;
but they have organisation and co-ordination of
services; and the resources of civilisation,
machinery, ships, and railways are their servants,
so that, as they move onward to conquer fresh
country for settlement and civilisation, they move
from prepared bases, with railways behind them,
and with the field mapped, surveyed and classi-
fied. It is to a participation in this great work
that the men from abroad are being invited, to
take their share in the later work of pioneering
—with the better prospects of wealth and advance-
ment which offer themselves to-day.
Note. —The writer is still anxious to get photographs of
Queensland bush scenery, cattle camps, flocks of sheep,
mobs of horses, prize cattle, sheep or horses, strange
scenery, farms, stations, houses, huts, and any distinctive
features of Australian pastoral and agricultural life or
coastal life — pearling, or biche-de-nier fishing, etc.
Photos, of fine trees especially ivelcome. The pictures,
where suitable, will be reproduced with acknowldgcmcnt.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £]6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mkmiourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hkad Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
I’olicies Issued 111,527—Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |jorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
S u ppress Usury.
fflontdepieteO.»lii|.Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt : lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
♦
♦ ♦
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known British Towns, and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £8 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, stamped fully jewelled, as a FREE
Gift. (Silver Watches are presented to Gents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., 19 Crosvenor Buildings, Steei-
house Lane, Birmingham, England. The winner
is required to purchase a Chain from us to wear
with Watch. The name of this paper must be
mentioned. Prize-winners of last competition
were : Miss S. Stubing, Yabmana, Franklin
Harbour, Cornell, S. Australia ; Mr. W. J. C.
Witmitz, View Farm, Robe, S. Australia.
neat and
STRONG.
TO
MEND
BELTS and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prong’s.
Of all Ironmongets or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter box G.P.O.
»oj>B. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. Hng.
Brice List on
application.
Shipping.
Nord
D eutscher
Lloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE,
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of tyes Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000 000
Uncalled Capital £500’,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS on Austl 'alia, New Zea-
Uimrid land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 8.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
May 12.
PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ITork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Daigety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
R. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
X
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are : —(l) Freeholds (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (G) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT,
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
-*■ situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
•d *v
‘uqog 39
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES.
J x 2f inch.
x 3J inch.
4£ x Si (J-plate).
6J x 4f (Opiate).
If x 4i inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD,,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking- with Taylor *
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), pose free. f E
Hotels, &c.
LAUGHTER IS BETTER THAN MEDICINE.
FUNNY STORIES. —NOS. 1 & 3 COMBINED.
A good hearty laugh will do you more good than any
doctor’s prescription. Here we offer you 100 and more
good laughs in the shape of Funny Stories, Jokelets,
Conundrums, by all the popu-
lar favorites including Harry
Phydora, Will Whitburn,
Fred Graham, Bert Bailey,
Little Tich, James Beil,
Charles Sweet, etc.; laugh-
able Irish stories, Tunny Jew
yarns, sweetheart jokes, toasts
for all sorts of occasions,
comic recitations, negro
stories, comic doctor’s pre-
scriptions, funeral stories,
school yarns, lawyer yarns,
after-dinner speeches, end-
man’s jokes—Bo pages just
crammed with good things.
For a small price you can ob-
tain enough material to amuse
yourself and friends for many
an evening ; if you want to put on a minstrel or vaude-
ville show you will find here an abundance of good
material. All the stories and jokes are sure fire hits. They
have all been tried and proved by leading performers at
the various theatres. You cannot afford to be without
this book. Don’t forget the title —FUNNY STORIES,
Nos. 1& 3 COMBINED. Every bookseller and newsagent
in Australia has it in stock, if yours has sold out send us
Is. 2d. in stamps, when we will post the book direct to you.
ALLAN & 00., 276-278 Collins Btreet, MELBOURNE.
PRICE
tom
Funny Stories
Jokes
HUMfIHCUS Rlv ITATIONS
SCRfAHINCM'iNQIOGUtS
Wmm
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 860 Central, 300 City.
v IMS
saSga>i£ is
fllsTi'll# 55:1 I* I'ilffip’
r'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
OERALDTON (VV.A.)
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, March 27,
► connecting at Fremantle
with S.S. Koombana for
all North-western Ports.
.S.S. Wollowra, March 27.
S.S. Gabo, April 3.
_ ** est " n,i Cheapest Ho ate to Gold/ieHts.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first 1 ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
__ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
PROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
AL3ANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 27.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR,
DAY, April 3.
KANOWNA, noon, SATURDAY,
April 17.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 27.
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 3.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Poll particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
tST ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
;
UNIO.I STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.
Federal«Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
11.900 Tons. B. Coull, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 3rd April
„ „ „ SYDNEY - 9th April
„ „ ~ HOBART - 15th Am-il
„ „ MELBOURNE - 19th April
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 24th April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
PARES— Saloon. Third Class.
L?VEIU’OOL d f £4<J 10s - £l3 13s - £is 15s - £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Sydnev ;
BRITISH INDIA & Q.A. CO., Ltd., Brisbane:
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Go. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
“ DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Way back Book you are bound to read, Is


“Hi<*h Press”: The five companies are
ateadily adding to their fleets, the latest arrival
being the Melbourne S. S. Co. s Kapunda. I
notice when one of our big cos. sends to the Fog
Land for a new liner it sometimes sends a skipper
to navigate the purchase to Australia. Ihe trip
is a nice holiday for the selected man, and, besides
the co. saves something in pilotage, as the old
skipper, of course, has his ticket. But it never
strikes the co. to send its younger men—such as
chief engineer, or, indeed, any sort of engineer
to help in the navigation. The Kapunda, f rm-
stance, dumps eight new engineers into the already
overcrowded local profession. 1 his sort of thing
suits the owners’ views. For the newcomers
either join the union or they don t. (generally
they do, for the Marine Engineers’ Association is
very powerful, and the profession is extremely
clannish. To be outside is generally taken to
mean that you can’t get in. So every new boat
adds its quota to the union ranks, and the owners
hope that these new men, with their English and
Scottish reverence for their betters and their in-
herited awe of authority, will in time be numerous
enough to tone down the uppish ideas of the Aus-
tralians. Meanwhile, that 25 or more per cent,
duty on imported ships is a long time coming.
Translated French Novels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2id
0. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Crana, Monte Carlo.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham <& Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
94 KING STREET , SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
94 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
"* " post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Every
ULRequisit^
ce-Lis'i i/iiy
. Price-List 1 i n V-L^sg^jg? s^
J.OCOTT.364BOURKE Sr, Melbourne
Trout
.Perch
Cod
. Sea
Bream
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SUHGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1586.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS I
Messrs. Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared bv I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Patronage.
Under Vice-Regal
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Oastlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
viviilMUmial
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE.
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES -ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
TERMS ARRANGED.
SMALL DEPOSIT. BALANCE WEEKLY.
TjVVERY Description of Business for Sale. Partner-
-*- i ships Arranged. Genuine Businesses and
Partnerships Wanted. Loans Negotiated. Farms,
eta., for Sale.
WRIGHT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
<3smjßsmssmi
BIRDS
Custard.
Bird’s
Custard with Sruii
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
cither hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
/
tF
■<*>
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us 111. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr.MgLAUGHLIN S electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worhs wHile you. sleep* and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co. f
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1
TTTP A ’P’MTP'Q bronchitis
UiJ AltiN £I IJ CURE.
The Famous Remedy for
Couerhs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become°chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


Patient’s Arms and Hands in Fearful
State—Burning and Itching were
Unbearable—No Rest NightorDay
—Five Months of Intense Torture.
HOPELESS CASE OF
ECZEMA SOON CURED
“Six months ago I used some green
dye, and I think some of it must have
got into a small cut
on my right hand.
Soon I began to suf-
fer intense pain, first
in my right arm and
then in my left. I
tried several reme-
dies, which only
aggravated the
arms, until I decided
to consult a doctor.
He said I was suf-
fering from eczema
following poisoning. By this time the
arms were swollen and in a fearful
state; in fact, so bad that I was ren-
dered almost helpless. Needless to say,
I obtained no. rest night or day. The
burning and itching were unbearable.
I followed the doctor’s directions, but
obtained only temporary relief, and the
eruption extended from both shoulders
to the finger-tips. I felt quite hopeless,
and regarded everything with very
little faith. However, acting on the
doctor’s advice, I started using the
Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Ointment and
Cuticura Resolvent Pills. lam pleased
to say instant beneficial results were
forthcoming, and with a continued use
of the Cuticura Remedies I was free
from the intense pain after five months
of torture. Mrs. Florence Whitting-
ham, 75, Oakfield Terrace, Cattedown
Rd., Plymouth, Devon, Nov. 13, 1907."
The agonizing itching and burning
cf the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and _ crusting of scalp, as ,in scalled
head; the facial disfigurement, as in acne
—-all demand remedies of extraordinary
virtues to successfully cope with them.
That Cuticura Soap, Ointment and Pills
are such stands proven by testimonials
of. remarkable cures when many rem-
edies and even physicians have failed.
One set is often sufficient to cure.
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura B ook on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Principal depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris. 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns <fc
Co., Sydney; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town,
etc.; Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; U.S. A.. Potter
Crug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
kTV
yyvj
X
X
THE
NANO
PIANO.
SWEET in tone, - perfect
in touch, possessing all
the delightful singing and
playing qualities of the highest
grade instruments, our little
NANON stands alone for
excellent value at a moderate
price.
Extended Terms Arranged.
*
Old Instruments Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:
Nicholson & Co. Ltd..
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY,
BAD NIGHT?
BAD LIVER?
INDIGESTION?
CONSTIPATION?
“LAXATINE,” that most generous purifier of the
system, provides the REMEDY. Great relief follows,
and the system is drained of its banked-up poisons.
LAXATINE is eaten like a lolly, and is pleasant to take,
LAXATINE is obtainable at all Chemists ; price Is. per
bottle. Insist upon having LAXATINE.
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boat,
22 6
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/6.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe- j
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to J
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
SALT
SEE
HOW
Agents—Harrison & Attwood , Sydney .
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
WOMEN
SUFFER. MORE
THAN MEN.
Corpulence and Obesity H
inflict more hardship on H
women than on men. Ex- H
cess fat takes away aE|
woman’s loveliness—gives H
her an ugly, ungainly ap- m
pearance, impedes her M
gait, interferes with her maternal in- E!
stincts, injures her general health, and H
makes life a burden.
FATCURE,
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable. It is non-poisonous and harm-
less. The fat when reduced does not return.
“ Fatcure ” is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe
and harmless treatment for Obesity. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, CASTLEREACH ST., SYDNEY. [32
PATLNTJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
£lOOO
IN PRIZES.
Work of Art, |
VALUE
{sool
FIRST
GREAT
PRIZE,
Work of Art,
VALUE
£5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for TWO.
Note.— The Committee, having paid full value
for the work of art, is prepared to find a
Purchaser for same at the advertised amount if
the winner so desires, also for the Second and
Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO.
THIRD: Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
Oldest
and Most
Popular
Great Art Union
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all
charges. A list of winning numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed en-
velope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your local agent, or send Postal Note,
P. 0.0., or Stamps, with exchange added, direct
to the representative, Australian Buildings, 49
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at once for tickets,
and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
22 for £l, 11 for 10s., •
or Is. each.
ALL DIRECT APPLICATIONS MUST REACH MELBOURNE
BEFORE THE DATE OF DRAWING, 10th MAY, 1909.
Be sure and try your Luck.
Send TO-DAY, before you forget!
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Australian Buildings,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness. >
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co;,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
2
r ™, L -
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage, is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
i
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“ MONTSERRAT ” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine “MONTSERRAT
ON THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
“ Dandalup The sprightly little Gadfly, of Adelaide,
fluttered to its last long resting-place the other day. It
was founded by three energetic journalists—Beaumont
Smith, A. E. Martin, and C. J. Dennis. Dennis was its
first editor. He retired some 12 months ago, when Martin
took charge of the ailing weekly. Smith forsook the
paths of active journalism to become Anderson’s private
secretary. The Gadfly’s last heroic effort was made on
behalf of Myles Flynn, and it managed, after severe
battling, to persuade Parliament to appoint a commission
to inquire into the case of that long-sentence person.
Out of the speck of ashes which was the ’Fly has arisen
the Evening Post, a very healthy infant, to say the least
of it. Martin edits the new hair-raiser, with Miss Alice
Grant Rosman as assistant,
* * * *
“ The Philistine ” : London Times complains that most
of the Australian representatives at the Imperial Press
Conference will be newspaper proprietors and managers.
Well, why not? What is press opinion in Australia?
Who forms it? Almost universally, proprietors and man-
agers. Editors and writers express, but, except in the
rarest cases, do not form, opinion. The Sydney Daily
Telegraph of February 22, for instance, in a lead-
ing article on “Indignant Natives,” declares—“ To
Victorian egotism the recognition of Sydney’s existence at
all is an insult.” Now, the editor and others of the staff
have been on Victorian and Brisbane papers that used
very much the same.sort of language about Sydney. Aus-
tralian daily paper opinions are really proprietors’
opinions—-or the opinions of the people whom the pro-
prietors want to please—and if there is to be a con-
ference, who have a better title to speak than these
proprietors ? Perhaps the conference may do them some
good ; and I don’t know any section of Australian news-
paperdom that has greater need to run that risk when
the risk is available.
Intermittent talk goes on about founding a new
morning paper in Perth (W.A.). It seems that the
Westralian squattocracy isn’t by any means satisfied
with the treatment received from the West Australian,
and desires to start a rag conducted in its own interests ;
and it anticipates that £20,000 will be made available for
the purpose. At this stage The Bulletin begins to think
more kindly of the West Australian. A paper that can
offend the squattocracy has a healthy streak about it
somewhere.
* * * *
“ Milky White ” : A hawker happened along the other
day and sold me a couple of books. His eye caught a pile
of ancient Bulletins, and. he tried strenuously to buy
’em. Said they were always marketable—off the main
roads particularly. I asked him what Australian books
sold best. “Steele Rudd’s”.was on his lips before I had
finished the question ; then “ While the Billy Boils” and
“Joe Wilson and His Mates.” Over a glass of home-
made hop-beer he reminisced. “ You remember that
yarn about the dog and the cartridge? People are
always asking me about that. Ohaps comedown to my
camp and pitch it to me often as one of their own
genuwme experiences. I turned it up and read it to one
cow-puncher one night, just after he’d given me three-
quarters of an hour of it and sworn, absolutely, that it
was his own, his very own. ‘Who’s that book by?’ he
asked. ‘ Henry Lawson,’ I replied. ‘ Well, if I can find
out his address, I’ll write an’ tell him he’s a blanky thief.
Wot right has he to pitch my yarn an’ publish it as his
own?’ You can’t beat the bush for good, strong,
strenuous liars,” said the hawker.
AN APPEAL TO “MR. JAMES.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australians believe too much in the superiority of
things English. The glamor of far-off London is too often
an illusion that leads you into blunders. You confuse
yourself into believing that everything is good thatcomes
from this side. . . . Fame is a fallacy. Australians have
made of British fame a fetich, and in more than one case,
at this moment, they are vainly worshipping fictitious
nothingness.—S. M. Herald’s special London correspon-
dent.
Help ! Murder ! Sacrilege and treason !
Return, return, O Mister James !
Some dreadful person for some reason
Is getting up to fearful games :
Come back ! Your paper is imperilled—
They’re printing true things in the 'Erald !
O Mister James, our hearts bleed for you.
To think that this dire thing should be !
Not three weeks since the steamer bore you,
Smooth, happy, trustful, from the Quay,
Strong in the thought you left behind
A daily guide to all mankind.
You sailed away in peace, reposing
High confidence in all your staff.
Perchance this moment you are dozing
And dreaming of the Telegraph,
And pondering, “ Our hold’s a strong one;
A stern chase is a very long one ! ”
Or, in a deck-chair ruminating,
You idly watch the steamer’s wash,
In Christian spirit speculating-,
“ How goes the cause of Anti-Sosh ? ”
You smile —“ They’ll follow my instructions”—
Could you but see, there ivould be ructions!
Oil, for some strange, hypnotic power,
My poor, deluded Mister Janies,
Where by in this portentous hour
We might apprise you of their games !
You, even you, would grow despondent
To read your “ Special Correspondent.”
Not mincing words, in manner drastic
His sacrilegious screeds appear ;
Appallingly iconoclastic,
He smashes all you hold most dear.
And your old motto—“ Praise the alien,”
He is rewriting—“ Think Australian ! ”
N.S.W.
ALPHONSE PARBLEU.
A SONG OF SUMMER NIGHTS.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
I sat, a bottle of beer beside, and read The Bulletin
Last night, and gosh ! the japes were good and the
wheezes soaked right in.
Yes, I thought a lot of The Bulletin and the things I saw
in it,
And life was red and warm and gay as I resolved to sit
A good, long time by the beer-spring there, and to laugh
at the wit of him
Who writes The Bulletin . . . and to fill my glass up to
the brim.
The world goes round with a roar and bang, and I am
aboard—what-ho !
And when I sit, as I do to-night, with a bunch of beers
a-row,
It certainly seems all right to grab at the pleasure that is
to hand
And listen—hear that! —to the'evensong of our dear, old
native land ;
To take along, as we go ahead, night-riding through the
stars,
Three bottles of beer and The Bulletin and a box of fair
cigars.
O, life is short and the world is wide, and, as the sparks
fly up,
Poor man is doomed, before he’s dead, the cup of woe to
sup ;
And I hear that life sometimes is blue—and times, they
say, it’s grey ; ’ 3
But I like to look at things in my own rose-tinted cheer-
ful way.
I like to sit, with The Bulletin, by four beer-comrades
true,
And make four dead marines of them before the night is
through.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTT.


G. Reid’s idea is not to resume land for settlement
at prices which increase with every resumption,
but to value the whole State now, and pay for
future resumptions at present prices. No doubt
even that would be better than the scheme which
Bent followed disastrously in Victoria, and which
Wade is adopting with equal disaster in N. S.
Wales. But where’s the sense of laying hold of
the Ricid idea when there’s another avail-
able which will have exactly the same effect,
and other good effects into the bargain ?
Reid’s plan wouldn’t bring in a penn’orth
of revenue. The graduated land-tax would,
on the other hand, bring in some hundreds
of thousands ; and if those hundreds of thousands
are not got in from the big landlord they will have
to be got from somebody else who can’t so well
afford to pay them. In fact, there isn’t anybody
Who could possibly afford to pay them as weli,
because it isn’t proposed to take from the landlord
anything that he has earned or created for himself,
but merely to recdver for the people a trifle of the
value which the people themselves have created.
Further, Reid’s plan wouldn’t do a thing to
prevent or hinder the accumulation of big estates ;
for the man who held a million acres wouldn’t
have his acre of land valued at a farthing less than
the man who only owned a hundred acres. There-
fore, to put a previous question over again,
where’s the sense in G. Reid taking a train that
only runs to Maedonaldtown when on the other
side of the platform there’s a train which runs to
Burwood, the station G. Reid usually wants to
pull up at ?
From the evidence in the just-concluded
Stirling-Northland case :
Counsel: Could you'not have applied for advice to any
lady friend ?—Mrs. Stirling : There are no ladies in
London in the month of August.
It revives the aged problem : “ What is a lady.?”
There are six million people in London. A few of
, them—perhaps £th per cent., which is equal to 2s.
did. in the £loo—go during August to the Scotch
t°r Yorkshire grouse-moors, or to Homburg or
wherever else Ed. VII. may be, or to the Swiss
lEngadme, or to some Continental bathing resort.
'The rest stay behind. Mrs. Stirling’s remark was
as foolish as though a Sydney dame in her position
had said that there were no honest folk in the neigh-
borhood of the harbor owing to the Bong Bong races
i being on. Yet it appealed to the lady’s auditors
as such a self-obvious, stale old platitude that it
didn’t even provoke “ laughter in court.” One of
'the peculiar things about the Londoner is that
most of him and her really believes this society
fiction of their city being bereft during August of
the miserably small fraction of decent people it
owns. Well-born folk who could not afford to
leave London in August have been known to live,
troglodyte-like, in cellars all through that stuffy
month as the only means of preserving their
characters.
Ring's Norton
cartridges
In Miniature Rifle Range Shooting "S
you’ll have no fouled rifles or cartridge
troubles if you use these cartridges.
They are sold by all Ammu-
nition vendors—long and
short Rifle and hollow point
Sporting bullets—either with
black or smokeless powder.
Agents
COLONIAL
ammunition
co.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
o*o.'
3t
BRITISH MAZE
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Fret, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Stamp for Illustrated Lilts or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
■ PILLS H
V HE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying:
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Kail-fax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Made in
England
Underwear
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
L & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO..
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
MARK
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise S Joke Novelties.
C 9
The
“ Oval
Puzzle
Match Box,
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatly made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
'upon asking for a match, are handed this tricky
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
’Quite easy to open when you are in the know. Full
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Joker’s Indiarubber Snake,
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 1/3 post free anywhere.
THE MAGIC NOSE BALL.
Very novel and surprising-. You squeeze the ball,
and out flies the nose in a most amusing manner.
On releasing the pressure the nose at once dis-
appears. One of the most comical novelties to be
found in our varied stock, and affords no end of
amusement for old and young. Price 1/-, or post
free anywhere for 1/2.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Ha3 r market Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
nM — of ON TNE NOP!
p RICE 2 @
Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
y • •• 5
i r “•t
‘.'•iVjS
fil
n:
.y
&
ÜBIQUITOUS
/ AND
UNIFORM-'
IF YOU WERE
A CROESUS
with all the wealth of the world
behind you, you could not purchase
a whisky of a more delicate flavour
or greater purity than
o
o
the whisky which has been aptly
described as unique, übiquitous, and
uniform. The whole production of
the oldest, farthest north Distillery in
Scotland is reserved to maintain the
superior qualities of 0.0. (Old Orkney),
and as the proprietors of this distillery
always hold a io years’ supply in their
own bonded store, you can always rely
on getting 0.0. with just the same
delightful flavour and exquisite aroma,
no matter in what part of the world
you may be.
If you have any difficulty in
obtaining 0.0. please write
direct to the distillery giving
name of your usual store.
j. & j. McConnell, Ltd.
Stromness Distillery,
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND
P.C.B.
DONTLOOK OLD
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
25?
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
( PLAS MON
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALVE ENORMOUSLY”
lancet. ~ *
is**
COCOA
?v
/O TIMES MOPE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
m
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant:
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltdo» and Bridge & Loftus streets, SYDNEY.
*
#
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
tShe LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod .
I
The Reliable Rod is made of
Rest Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14®
CANT
B
BEAT
No. 2 B.W.C.
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
4in., 7/6 ea. ; sin., 9/6 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving?*, new 100 S edition, 2s Gd posted. Mkrrik
Eva i, and, Od. How to Gbt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop llandyhook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Gd. Aust.Miners’ GuiDF.(siinple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest. Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Gd.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Od. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 hinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handyboo:;, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How MoDouoal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is (id. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Ciiidk,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb M anhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others,'all at 2s fid each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The 'Va 1 backs, Is 2d.
All these prices Post P dd.
No Matter what Cook you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into pr.ying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IL®~ Kstablished 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old ISijhii Sonus, Is 3d Dost. _ Hr. Milford’s Mib-
wii'B’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2a 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloq Dancing Made Hast, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret H istory Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, la
posted. All About Incubators, la 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire's Romances,
2s. Ingeusoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers andS’ugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. N m&vousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s _ Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and !
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moure’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages; cloth
bound, 10s (i<l posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is (id posted. Tiik Aoe of Reason, by R&iao,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
REFERENDUM
UnanimousEkction
of the
Celebrated
5*
TfiePremierPipe
of the World
Obtainable from a II Tobacconists
(Drawn from photo)
“The ehampion”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years, '
Absolutely FREE!!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
II “Champion” Phonographs
'Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WK MAKE. A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send ope of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with everv'machine we giveaway. We invite.all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. G.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwardsof Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
M British Hiistralasian
A Weekly Journal for Au3traliaii3, written
and published by Australians in London.
P**irp> firl POST F « HE > £1 P er y ear -
» 1 It/L UU« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austhalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
| Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. • Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214. George Stieet, Sydney.
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
'ists, storekeepers, and by E. l>. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street. >ydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars by poet,
18.4 d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray
ASTHMfICURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervnusConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT * Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So/d bv all ChnrMs.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


33
Worker s Friend.
66
Fall Causes Nasty Wound—
ZAM-BUK Promptly Heals.
U reliable efficacy* wide utility, and small cost here are three of
V/ the many qualities which go to recommend as ideal
healer to be kept handy in the homes
of wdrking=men for the prompt treat=
ment of the bumps and bruises of the
children, the painful knocks, burns,
and scalds of the housewife, and the
cuts, sprains, and lacerations of
the breadwinner himself.
No home, and especially those
Of Working-men, should be with-
out a pot of Zam-Buk,” says
Mr, Gh Ritchie, of O’Sullivan
Street, Wood End Pocket, Ips-
wich, Q. “My occupation of
pipe-fixing necessitates climbing
ladders, and recently I had a nasty fall
through the ladder slipping from beneath,
resulting in a wound about two inches
long on my leg. It became swollen and
was very painful, but knowing already the value of Zam-Buk, as soon
as I arrived home I bathed my leg and applied the balm, and the
very next morning the pain had all gone, and in a little while the
swelling went down and the wound disappeared. I was soon at work
again, which, for a man of nry age, sixty-four, is very gratifying,
and shows how quickly and well Zam-Buk did its work. This is not the
only occasion on which I have successfully used Zam-Buk Balm. My boys
always use it when footballing, and also for any injuries sustained during
their work at the railway workshops. There is
no doubt Zam-Buk is the working-man’s
friend.”
hi -I
ft
W
99
1/6 and 3/6
per pot, of
all Chem-
ists and
Stores.
Hoiucti cases prove that Zam-Buk
is without equal for Cuts, Burns, Bruises,
Scalds, Eczema, Piles, Bad Leg’s, Ringworm,
Sprains, Pimples, Sore Feet, and all symptoms of irritation
and inflammation of the skin.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Pipes O’ Pan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THROUGH the tree-tops, in the shade
Glows the green along the glade
Where are gathered youth and maid—
Milking-maid and countryman ;
Still they dance the old-time reel—
Dainty toe and clumsy heel—
But no longer upward pea).
Pipes o’ Pan !
Never more those airs shall float
Out and up ; the reedy note
From the god that’s half a gnat—
Com pound Puck and Caliban—
By the haunted river shore,
Where the naiads peeped of yore,
Shall the shepherd hear no more—
Pipes o’ Pan,
Pipes o’ Pan ! Their music stirred
Shepherdess and oxenherd,
Fluting, like some hiddeh bird.
Whereabout sweet Echo rah;
Ever, as the airs they played.
Feet went dancing down the glade
To the music that they made,
Pipes o’ Pan,
When the herdsman to the brink
Drives the cattle down to drink
Never do the witch-fires wink,
Though the mystic woods he scan;
Why no more by hill and mead
Shrills the music of the reed—
Are they lost in very deed,
Pipes o’ Pah ?
Here the fairies held their sway ;
Here the dryads woke to play ;
Here Romance long ruled the day—
Lore of simpler maid and man,
Shall no melody awake
In the hills or by the brake—
Have they ceased sweet souhds to make.
Pipes o’ Pan ?
Pipes o’ Pah ! Across the streams
Trills the music of our dreams,
Mingled with white Dian’s beams
Since of old, when Love began.
Wake once more within the mead
Cadence of idyllic reed,
And again sweet Fancy lead,
Pipes o’ Pan !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Deadhead’s Epic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Mushy came to Deadhead he was
drunk. Anyone familiar with Deadhead
will say that he was to be envied. Any-
one acquainted with Mushy will certainly remark
that liquor and that scion of a famous race were
old, old friends. Sometimes, when satiated with
waipiro and noble aspirations, Mushy w'ould boast
that his progenitors had been worshippers at the
bowl of Bacchus since prehistoric times. He
looked it. Whether his ancestors were sober citi-
zens in palaeolithic days, or whether they had en-
gendered the genealogical thirst in the Garden of
Eden was a theme upon which Deadhead became
contentious. Not contentious in a gentlemanly,
logical way, but vociferously controversial ; so
that on one occasion the accordion in the Bethel
across the road, in its endeavor to drown the voices
of the “ damned,” burst, and blew the whiskers
off the face of its player, a wild-eyed hairy man
named Bludd. In the ensuing stampede, the ten
occupants of the Bethel attempted the feat of pass-
ing through the doorway simultaneously, an at-
tempt which was loudly applauded by the Pagans
supporting Neligan’s store, but which ended
disastrously for the stampeders. They jammed, a
weltering, fighting heap, with Bludd, quite cer-
tain that the Devil had impounded his beauty,
howling like a hundred Ngatiawa braves dancing,
a haka for pennies, in the rear. You will per-
ceive that Mushy was the cause of some ferment
in Deadhead.
jDeadhead is not famous for its scenery, its
sanatoria, or its industrial progress. A stranger,
possessing the poetical temperament and an in-
ordinate desire to sell brummy watches, after
spending two days in the township, described it
asW Old Nick s dust-heap.” He didn’t really call
it “ dust-heap.” Neither did he sell any doubt-
ful chronometers. There are few watches in
Deadhead, and they are only worn at funerals.
All true Deadheads note the progress of the years
by assuming a shrewd expression and gazing at
the sun. Some of the more expert can guess
within four hours of the correct time. The sun is
Deadhead ? s principal feature. It arrives earlier,
leaves later, and puts in better work there than
anywhere else on earth. This is an irrefutable
fact, despite geographical position and the theories
of ill-balanced scientists. Apart from the sun and
his cousin, the red dust, the township comprises
two or three shops, a couple of pubs, several
houses, and a Maori pah. The pah is a little
wgy off and lends color to the atmosphere. Dead-
head is supposed to scorn work, but some of the
inhabitants keep cows, and the cows produce
milk. Young children, who should be at school,
are kept for the purpose of extracting the fluid
from the cows.
Mushy was an insignificant rat of a man. A
pvitty-colored face, centred by a purple protube-
rance, and flanked by whiskers coarse and un-
trained, gave him the appearance of the perennial
musical tramp of vaudeville. A pair of project-
ing eyes, seemingly stuck on by a subordinate
after the boss designer of curios had finished his
jol), added to the grotesquery. Owing, perhaps,
tq the bibulous habits'of his forebears, annexed to
hip own ..beer practices, there was a mushiness
about his voice which accounted for the pet name
bijstowed by Deadhead’s chief jester. There
wtre other features about Mushy, but they were
neither beautiful nor gentlemanly.
He ay<r,ived -one wpj .afternoon, when the rain
had CohVeried the winding toad which leads to
Napier arid Ngapiihi itito a channel of ankle-deep
hiud. It Was the custom for Deadhead’s leading
townsmen to await the arrival of the coach on the
verandah of Bundle’s Bluelire Hotel, where they
leaned against anything solid; and gazed glOUhiil.V
at the landscape. MuShy descended Ifttni the
coach, and fell pCOhe On the load: Dirty Percy:
to vvhoiii twenty years’ experience of various con-
ditions Of passengers had given a tolerance of
human weaknesses; assisted his fare to assume
the perpendicular, handed a tin tfUnk to
the hotel slushy, and drove off to the post office
Where sUch as Were hot bf the waited.
Mushy, emerging temporarily from a mental fbg,
announced his name and social position in a thick
btit determined voice: Mad he intimated that the
end of all things Was imminent, and followed up
his declaration by dissipating into air, Deadhead
could not have been more shaken: Hands were
Withdrawn from inside trouser waistbands, backs
Which for years had helped to keep buildings in a
Vertical position were straightened, and eyes,
rounded and looking like a constellation pf full
hioons, gazed awfully at the phenomenon: Dead-
head Was Winded: And the Cause Of Meadhead’S
imbecility Was the name Claimed by the shabby
person swaying drunkenly in frbnt of the Bluefire
Hotel: It was not a common name like Jones
or Robinson, but whereVer Britohs gathered
together and talked politics and read newspapers,
it was as well khown as those homely appella-
tions: For the bearers of that name had, since
the days of Alfred the Cakeburner, been doing
those things Which meti term great deeds, and, as
is only proper, had acquired many acres of Eng-
land's best, as well as titles, strange and rare.
For these gewgaws Mushy cared nothing, but
in the family thirst, as described by himself, he
had a large and abounding pride. By some process
of telepathy Bendle became Cognisant of the pertur-
bation on his verandah consequent upon the
arrival of a segment of Britain’s nobility, Leaving
Straw’berfy in the bail, and the bucket of milk just
Where she could plant her one available hoof in
it, he came shambling Up to the hotel, his beard
bristling and his great hands working spasmodi-
cally. Mushy lay under the water trough sing-
ing a feculent song. Bendle, an imprecation for
Deadhead’s inadequacy on his lips, gathered the
Stranger in his arms and bore him off. Dead-
head’s breath came back with a gulp, and the
township talked.
For many months after that damp day Mushy
was an object of interest to Deadhead. As a
curiosity he ranked higher than Halley’s bull,
which had killed its man, and the brass cannon
with which Deadhead had been purchased from
the Maoris —-the pakehas had spiked the gun and
the Maoris had no ammunition, but the brown men
were well pleased with the bargain. But it was
not merely as a curiosity that Mushy interested the
towmship. The truth was that Deadhead, indi-
vidually and collectively, believed in blood stock.
“Thoroughbreds is the thing,” said “Dad”
Carter, who had once owned the wreck of a foun-
dered racehorse. “ Get ther breedin’, an’ yer
won t go wrong.” In which statement Dead-
head, whose experience of thoroughbreds
was less extensive than the speaker’s, had
implicit confidence. Deadhead had got its
thoroughbred, and it hoped that time or “Dad”
Carter would show’ to what use the desideratum
should be put. Till then Mushy must be w'ell
treated. Mushy’s idea of good treatment was to
be kept in a chronic state of booziness. To drink
was his one object in life —at other people’s ex-
pense preferably, but if this was impossible he
imbibed alone. He had mislaid the meaning of
noblesse oblige and did not seem likely to
recover it during his stay in Deadhead. Once a
month he called at the post office and received his
remittance. For the following fourteen days he
would be insultingly crapulent, interspersing his
offensiveness with brief periods of oozy geniality,
when Bendle’s customers were regaled with
stories, grave and gay, of a decadent nobility.
When the remittance was exhausted, Mushy
became a borrower. He never repaid. Perhaps
Deadhead was recompensed by the thrill of
pleasure which lending sixpence to the son of a
titled statesman gives ; but more likely the citizens
lent in the hope that blood will tell.
For a week Deadhead had been filled with
smoke, carrying the acrid smell of green bush
burning. By day the sun was a blood-red ball,
and at night the flamboyant sky in the south be-
tokened the -destruction of much vegetation and
many homes. Half-a-mile to the southward the
Waipawa River, with its two-mile width of
shingle bed, safeguarded Deadhead. One by one
the settlers from across the river, accompanied by
their families and portable belongings, drifted
into the township. Smoke-begrimed faces and
singed clothing showed that in some cases the
elements had met bitter resistance, and once a
man who had seen the fruits of his labor devastated
in a few minutes was brought in raving of a world
on fire, in which the Devil and his legions danced
a perpetual haka. Most of the refugees were
grimly placid. They had felled the bush, and
cleared.the undergrowth, and planted crops. Then
came the fire to lick the earth dry. When the
fire was tired of its wantoning, they would go out
and plant more grain and build new homes. This
spirit is common to the bush workers of Maoriland.
The last man to come in was Alf Tullett. He
peered through the smoke at the group on
Bendle’s verandah, the gouts of blood which his
big mare sobbed on to the roadway testifying to
a race with the relentless foe, and asked, a note of
fear in his voice, for Harry Dunn. Dunn was a
newly-married man, a town failure trying to win
a living from the bush. His place was further
away than Tullett’s, and he was not in Deadhead.
In Bendle’s private bar, reclining on the faded
plush couch, was Mushy, apparently the only per-
son in the place not interested in bush fires. Save
for him the room was empty, the barman having
deserted his post to join the crowd outside.
Mushy was almost sober. Through the open
door drifted parts of the desultory conversation,
lies about former fires, narrations of heroic deeds,
gloomy predictions respecting the extent of the
present burning. Mushy dozed. The thud of
unshod hoofs on dust awakened him. He heard
the sobbing of Tullett’s mare and her rider’s tense
query, followed by sounds of consternation, and
the even, unimpassioned swearing of a strong man
(Continued on next iiage.)


KIDNEYS NEVER REST.
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest, they keep on with their great work of filtering out uric acid and kidney
poisons day after day, night after night, as long as we live. And so important is their work that, even though they get only
a little behind, no part of the system is free from danger; the back aches, the limbs drag, the eyelids seem like lead there
are dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinary troubles. The sufferer is moody, despondent, and irritable.
This is how the fatal Bright’s disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are special kidney help, all their healing
power goes to the kidneys, and they have no action on the bowels. Doan’s Pills correct urinary disorders, gravel, bladder
troubles —cure backache, rheumatism, dropsy, and every kidney complaint give tone to the whole system, and make you
feel brighter, healthier, and happier.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
WAVERLEY.
Mrs. F. May, 48 Newland-Street, VVaver-
ley, Sydney, says “ I have read the
testimony which I gave eight years ago,
stating my good opinion of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and I can truthfully
say that every word is correct, and I have
still the same good opinion of this remedy.
I had contracted a severe chill across the
loins, and for a couple of years suffered with
lumbago-like pains in the small of my back.
I also had a touch of rheumatism. But
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and
I am still quite free of every symptom of
kidney complaint. I have recommended this
great kidney remedy to numbers of suffer-
ers, and they all endorse my good opinion
of it.”
DOWLINQ j
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling-street,
Sydney, says “My mother suffered with
severe pains across the back and in her legs.
For six months she was very bad, and some
days would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did her no
good. We saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised, and thought we would get
some and give them a trial. After taking
the first half box, we knew they were good,
for she felt a little better, and from that on
the improvement was marked, and eight
boxes completed her cure. She is now
splendid, and can get about easily. It is
twelve months since her cure, and during that
time she has not needed to take a single pill.
We feel sure that she is cured for good.”
Eor sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., Pitt Street, Sydney.
ee 'Evenj
Picture
Tells co
Story ”
ffn i t/
Yr
m
\
£
%
i r
I
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILL
unbalanced. Mushy was wide awake now. For
one who seldom left the purlieus of Bendle’s pub
he had a good knowledge of the country environ-
ing Deadhead, and he realised what a tenuous
chance of returning had anyone who was bold
enough to attempt to succor Dunn. Perhaps the
gallantry of all those dead and gone forefathers
lying dormant in Mushy was stirred, and, gain-
ing strength with movement, refused to be quiet-
ened ; or perhaps it was merely some sense of
what was owing to Deadhead which actuated
him. He levered himself to a sitting position,
staggered against the bar, where two flies played
hide-and-seek round a half-empty glass, and
poured out some whisky ; adding, as an after-
thought, a thimbleful of water. Outside the
group was silent, expectant. It was the psycho-
logical moment when somebody would announce
himself as an almost certain sacrifice in the cause
of humanity, and the air was heavy with possi-
bilities. Mushy, holding his glass aloft, smiled
in the manner of the heroes of melodrama, then
drank his own good health in one gulp.
Deadhead was surprised, but proud. Each one
of them felt that Mushy’s heroism would vindi-
cate Deadhead’s faith in pedigree—would, in fact,
reflect a glory upon Deadhead as patron of a
blue-blooded hero. Something of the same feel-
ing must he experienced by missionaries when a
hardened cannibal, branded by the world as in-
corrigible, suddenly reforms, and expresses will-
ingness to hand round the plate in chapel.
There was a big crowd in the main street, a
crowd with a lump in its throat, and rather husky
as to voice, when Mushy, mounted on Bendle’s
grey and leading the two best horses in the dis-
trict, rode away to bring in Dunn. Some of the
more enthusiastic rode as far as the river with
him. “Dad” Carter delivered a highly-embel-
lished speech having for its refrain “ Blood will
tell,” after which he repaired to the Bluefire and
got joyfully but decorously drunk. “Dad” felt
that he deserved it. At the river the escort shook
hands with Mushy, and cheered him as he disap-
peared across the shingle in the smoke.
That was the last seen of Deadhead’s noble-
man. Surely a more graceful exit than his first
appearance portended.
Two days later Dunn and his wife turned up at
Ngapuhi, having spent a bad time in the bush.
Dunn was unreasonable enough to call the Dead-
heads “ a litter of spineless curs,” but he was
half-cooked at the time and very thirsty.
Some months later Bendle, on a holiday trip to
Wellington, discovered his grey in an auction
yard at Woodville. The other two horses were
also in the district. No one could say who had
first brought them there, though one purchaser
had a hazy recollection of a small, blue-nosed
person boasting sandy whiskers and a well-grown
thirst. About the same time the secretary
of a titled statesman wrote to the Deadhead
Citizens’ Committee, saying that, whilst his em-
ployer was fully appreciative of the heroism of a
certain late citizen of Deadhead, his lordship could
not, much as he would like to, claim relationship,
as he was a bachelor, and his nearest relative was
a forty-second cousin named Brown.
MAORI MAC.
The Kind Australian Chow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE vain imaginings of him that pounds the
pulpit-front,
The flowery speech of those that limn for
us the heathen-hunt,
The voice that sends the mission-miss to seek an
alien land
With tears and prayer—and only one hat-box in
either hand ;
The eager, steaming breath of him that groans at
Sunday-schools
And begs small kids to hoard their cash, like easy
little fools,
To teach far Chows the way to Heaven—and to
Australia, too !
Ob, listen to these sounds, and sack the Chow
that works for you !
The Chow, upon his smellful shores, unkind, un-
cultured, wild,
With awful joy has slaughtered scores of mission-
women mild ;
And still the martyr-maid sets out for China,
weeping, pale,
But proud to think she’s “doing things”—she’d
sooner die than fail !
The Chow upon his own far shores goes raging
here and there,
With red lust flaring in his eye and pig’s-grease in
his hair
And all these truths are pulpited ; but out here
—why, of course
The Chow’s a gentleman ; he’s famed for kindness
to his horse !
It is admitted—loudly, too, when plates are pass-
ing round—
That there are really very few exceptions to be
found
To this old rule of sin and gore in China, mystic,
far,
Where dog-ragout is frequent and the furious
heathen are.
But our good, kind Australian Chows (as all
church-people know)
Are savages no more ; they’ve been “ converted”
long ago !
Ah, they're not heathen, these dear Chows who’ve
come to spend their days
With us—they’re Christian gentlemen, and full of
gracious ways !
Observe the fish with pallid eyes that sounds its
odor-flute
Outside the kitchen door—it hums on beds of
fragrant j ute.
While bland and quite polite the Chow flim-flams
the slushy-maid
Who chyacks him, and stammers, fascinated, half
afraid !
Kind is the Chow, with gifts of potted g.nger
once a year,
Swimming in Chinese soup, to show that Christ-
mastide is here.
The Chow’s all right ! There is no pressing need
for mission-work
Among the kind Chow-gentlemen that dwell in
Little Bourke !
VI CTO hi A.
FRANK HENTY.
The Metamorphosis of Graham
Sidley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SEE that man there?” remarked my
Bohemian friend with the long hair and
the frayed velvet jacket. “The fat man
with the beard and leggings. He called himself
an artist once. Graham Sidley s his name. You
may have heard of him. Looks more like a
farmer? Well, that’s just what he is, and a
prosperous one at that. Some men have all the
luck. Time was when he didn’t know a cow from
a bullock. Now he’d give Noah points on zoology.
“ This was the way of it. Sidley used to share
a studio with me. Landscape was his lay.
Horrible, crude work he did, too. Didn’t sell a
canvas in a twelvemonth. Always on his uppers.
I was connecting with a bare living on poster
work at the time. Sidley used to scoff at it.
‘ Prostituting your talents ’ was a favorite ex-
pression of his. Said he lived and worked for his
Art. That’s the sort of prig he was. Meantime
he lived on me and my degrading commercial
work.
“ I was getting just about full of him when he
received word that a relative of his had snuffed
it, and left him some sort of property in the bush.
Sidley was no end excited. Nothing would do for
him but that he drag me off to examine it. For
peace sake, I went. It was the poorest sort of
inheritance you could imagine. A few acres and
a half of poor, rock-strewn country and the pro-
verbial cow, which in this case was an orphan bull
calf. There was a three-roomed shanty on the
place. A dilapidated cowshed, heaps of burrs,
and quantities of sand completed the picture.
“ ‘ What in the name of all that’s hopeless am I
to do with it ? ’ wailed Sidley.
“ ‘ Do with it what you’ve been doing with me,’
I told him.
“ ‘ What’s that ? ’ he queried.
“ ‘ Live on it,’ I said.
“He took my advice, and I returned to town
alone.
“ About a month or so later I had a letter from
him.
“‘Behold me,’ he wrote, in his stilted style,
‘ living close to Nature on my estate. I am devot-
ing my art to animal painting. Nero —the bull
calf—is my model. I have made a close study of
him. I have just completed a canvas of him as
“The King of the Herd,” and have sent it down
to Hammond’s for exhibit. I want you to have a
look at it and give me your candid criticism. I
have marked it 200 guineas. Advise me if you
think that’s enough. It is quite the best thing
I’ve done. I have thoroughly caught the setting,
the technique ’ and so on ad nauseam.
“Well, I went round and had a screw at it.
liotten ! If it’d been a bit more out of drawing
it’d ha’ been fit for the Academy here. That’s the
worst I can say for it. ‘King of the Herd,’
bedamned ! It looked more like a stuffed bull-calf
waiting for the return of the Prodigal. I wrote
and expressed my opinions pretty freely. Sidley
didn’t half like it. I didn’t hear from him again.
“ The next I did hear was from Hindley Blake,
who’d been sketching up the mountains and had
run across him.
“Sidley had been painting the beast, which by
now was about full-grown, as the golden calf being
worshipped by the Israelites or something. The
brute took a sudden dislike to Sidley and his work
(pretty discerning animal it must have been), and
managed to break loose from its moorings and
proceeded to deal it out to Sidley and his canvas.
“ That settled Sidley. He found animal paint-
ing too strenuous for his constitution. Landseer
lost a competitor. Sidley sold the beast to a
neighbor who’d been after it. Fine animal it
must have been. He got £l5 for it.
“ I doubt if he’d ever had so much money in his
life before.' That was the beginning of the end,
or rather, in his case, the beginning of the begin-
ning. For, though he was a despicable artist, he
seems to have made a fairly successful farmer.
Lots o’ the present-day painters would possibly
make good farmers.
“Fifteen quid for a cow, and he couldn’t get
fifteen bob for his pictures ! Sidley nursed his
fifteen quid and the germ of an idea.
“He did what he had never done before. He
put in some hard thinking. He began to take an
interest in the neighboring cockies. He chummed
up with the manager of the butter factory. He
read the agricultural papers. Book canvassers
with any volume on Cow found him easy. He
began to work. He did better —he never touched
a brush.
“He began slowly to absorb the surrounding
atmosphere.
“He lived, talked, ate, dreamt —Cow. He
came down from the clouds to cows. The edu-
cated man has always a bit the best of the other
fellow. Sidley studied the science of manures.
There’s something humorously pathetic in the
would-be artist mixing manures. Maybe he
stirred the mess with a mahl stick.
“ He raised money, Lor’ knows where, or how,
and waded right in. Of course he made a
horrible mess of things at first. That’s only
natural. He must have had some sort of grit,
though. He’d set his teeth on the cow idea, and
he clung on. He played the game for keeps.
One night he built a bonfire of his canvases at
the back of the cowshed—a burnt offering to his
new master, Cow. The second sensible act of his
life was when he married the daughter of a
neighboring cocky. It was cheaper than paying
wages, and she knew her business through an’
through.
“He took up more land, and she showed him
how to stock it, and sweat the hired man, and all
the other intricacies of the great cow game. He
never looked back. Milks 150 cows, they say.
Owns half the shares in the local butter factory.
“Look at him now—only look at him. Why,
he looks like a damn sleepy bullock himself. That’s
the man who used to say I was prostituting my
talents on poster work. Lived for Art’s sake once.
Gee ! but it makes me loathe the taste of roast
beef when I think of him. No, he doesn’t know
me now. He’s down here for the sheep sales.
He’ll be a squatter in a few years. He’ll be in
Parliament a bit later. And, so help me, but it’s
only a matter of time before he comes out as a
patron of the Arts.
“It makes me want to drive a milk cart. My
oath !”
ALF BHASCH.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
s* i'
r.ir k V «■
y/,.-
A Grateful Mother Writes:
u My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But ho,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.’ 1
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla —not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
D« you auffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T ben send tor paruculars
oi our perfectfitLng
Automatic Air cushion appliance
The Best Rupture Applianc- of the Century
Two Day* Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St., Melbourne,Vic
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
1 COPAIBA.
j Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
m
Each
48 hours. mm
bears the name
Wearne 8 Breaks pear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
iwmanmm
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroy* all files and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groce a and
Hardware
Dealers,
among whom are
Sydney— Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St.; F. H. Paulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St, ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St.; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldlieim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoo & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., O.S.A
t*.
Y. J. Daley's'“ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; hound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever.
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and Is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
7d/d mm
WATER
TANK
it
DUMMY
reservoir
FILTERED 01
CJ GRATES
- .5
«!
RECEPTACLE
ID ml WATER
\ouncr
Williams' Patent OIL FILTER.
MBstMDtiaaMHMMH .wu ihhiiihi mi iiimmiii I
Description :
The large vessel is the filtering cylinder ; into the bottom division
the oil is poured through the funnel. The top vessel is a water tank
of exactly the same.capacity as the bottom one, and connected by
a pipe. The pressure of the water forces the oil through the filtering
medium into the reservoir above, whence it is drawn off quite clean.
PRICE £5 Sydney or Melbourne,
Sent on approval. If unsatisfactory return it at our expense.
Five Gallons of Dirty Oil can be made quite clean and fit
for use in Six Minutes.
N. GUTfiRIDGE Ltd.,
263 George St, Sydney ; 486 Collins St., Melbourne,
Sole Licensees and Manufacturers for Australia.
so
o
kjlj
uj
SO
a
b |
£ o
A 3 NOW
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GRAD IS TESTED SEEDS
A into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSIC AD INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
w.e will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously' easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
vv-
v
SO
f
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N.S.W.
You will look like yourself again
when you get rid of that muddy complexion, when the whites of your eyes
lose that yellowish tinge, when a touch of Nature's carmine tints your cheeks,
when your step is firm and your general appearance suggests that you are not
troubled with ** nerves," when you are able to take a ten-mile walk or tackle an
extra turn of hard work without undue fatigue, when you enjoy your food and
suffer no uneasy sensations
after taking
your meals, when you sleep soundly and look life gladly in the face, ready to
encounter its inevitable difficulties, your mind free from gloomy forebodings.
And all this will happen directly you start taking Beecham's Pills, To be
in health your liver must be doing its work thoroughly, your stomach free from
dyspeptic weakness, your blood flowing pure and life-giving through your veins.
These essential conditions to physical well-being are undoubtedly to be secured
by an intelligent use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St, Helens, Lancashire,
Sold everywhere in boxes, price (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
77 r .
■‘-'A
'; ■
Zs:
M
<:■
mw
ms
*?■
■:
•mM
m
mm
An Unsolicited Testimonial
Satisfaction on Both Sides.
“Willotia,” Menindie, N.S.W.,
March 4, 1909.
Messrs. The Steel Wings Windmill Co., Ltd.,
Bay Road, North Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
The windmill bought from you
has been erected over one year and has
given great satisfaction. It runs on a light
wind and adjusts itself to a heavy wind,
and pumps more water per day than any
other mill on the place.
I strongly recommend your mill to brother
Farmers and Pastoralists who may be
wanting a first-class mill, suitable for bleak
and exposed situations where most other
mills would be blown down, as the “ Steel
Wings” will stand the storm.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) G. BENNETT.
Niianng hhl
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McOrae, and “Splash.”
Fonvarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
JtlU George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stool f in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring'this business
**■ to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. ..£5160
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. .. .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRI DGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Pair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
ny address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
m
r Men
w omen Jk
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be gent FREE to all men suffering- from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
. ——... , , ~ - tralia, for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 600
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. 2fo similar booh has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address:—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., House, " 251 EUzabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Australian Packings.
p
Co
'V.'.'A
H*.
*fri
At our own factory we produce
many high-grade varieties of
engine packing's and jointings.
They are made of the finest
materials by the most up-to-date
processes. You will fin'd that they
"ill give the best of service and
be decidedly economical. For the
convenience of buyers, we issue a
Special Catalogue, No. 13, which
you can have on request.
Ask for it, and for samples of
any line in which you are in-
terested. Amongst the goods
we make are included Packings,
Jointings, Insertions and Asbestos
goods.
IRIAU RUBBER CO,, LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T. K. STEANES,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
Quotations given for
the Installation of Complete Electrical Equipments .
Large Stocks of Dynamos, Motors and Electrical Accessories kept in Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
E$ ET I TI BV| tr*
DEL Lh I I ■
THE oß'onal and
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADb.
•ir,
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James HarcSle & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBLE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCE AIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR S CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office : E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
SOLICITED.
PRICE
;' t<r :
♦ OF
7d.
—N.S.W.,
other
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
f&T/
■-ns
w.y
o
r
H. P. GREGORY & GO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydr ey,
have just opened up and invite inspection of
The American Tool Works Co.’s Lathes,
Milwaukee Universal Milling Machines,
Smith and Mills Shapers, Radial and
Upright Drills, etc.—all Most Modern
Type of Machine Tools.
Write for Illustrations and Prices.
The KING REVOLVING ORE SCREEN
A Perfect Sizer of Great Capacity.
Three Products in One Operation.
Substantially constructed, no wearing parts except screen
doth, which is quickly replaced . Will not dog .
SOLE MANUFACTURERS- SEND FOR BULLETIN*
N. GUTH RIDGE LTD.
253 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St., Bfelboume.
