

The Whisky for Men of Taste.
R. G. WATKINS «SE> 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. ri
ķ
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
See Wild Cat Column.
Bent
AND
m
Melbourn
aaCoBArtT.
fjadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—
Take it back,
1 must have
HUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand
9
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS.
Don’t
Miss Henderson’s
Honey Kisses.
ifayA ( OP ALL \
Vsweet SHOPS./
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE,
If it isn’t ELECTRIC, it isn’t MODERN !
if it is anything YOU want in modern Electrical Accessories, such as Accumulators, Dry Cells, etc., and it isn’t here-
Accumulators repaired by experts. Any information in regard to Electrical matters furnished gratuitously.
The India-rubber, Gutta-percha & Telegraph Works Co., ltd,
-it isn’t anywhere.
Inquiries solicited.
279 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
I
YA
ITC1
ĸ
is the Queen of all Cocow
I*°K
Aroma,5trer\g tK Puri t}C
Comfort and durability
are the chief merits of
' - 1 , v> \ . •
MALTHOID ROOFING.
HTlxiitAxnd
Once put on, MALTHO
requires practically no more
►ID
attention for years.
'
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a> Macdonald,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Hercules” Refrigerating Machine,
SEE3i
m
*5
WORTHINGTON
sduund
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK. Send foe. Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Australian Representatives, 32 834 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE S WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
One Star ®. Three Star
BRANDY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA WATER is a perfect
Table Water.
8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
VoL 30.— N0. 1537.]
[Thursday, July 29, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF THE WEEK,
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO., PROP., LTD.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Funny Side of Golf: Sketches from Punch. 6s, post 6d
Maske : Scotch and Irish Terriers, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Rose : The Precious Metals, Silver and Platinum, 7s p. 8d
Collins : Steam Turbines, 5s 6d* postage 4d. ’ ’ r '
Davison : Arts Connected with Building, 5s 6d, post 6d
Dewar and Finn : Making of Species, illus., 9s,’post 8d.'
Laggard : Sweet Isabel of Narragoon, cloth 3s 6d p 6d'
NOW READY.
A Four-Inch Driver : The Chauffeur’s Companion, 2s 6d,
p. 4(i. Hewlett, Maurice : Artemision, 4s, .postage 4d!
“Pink Un ” Holiday Annual, 1909, Is 3d, postage 4d.
Douglas, Janies: Adventures in London, cloth 3s 6d
postage 8d.
Coburn : Swine in America : A Text Book for the Breeder
Feeder and Student, illus., 12s posted.
ADAM LINDSAY GORDON’S VERSES,
SEA SPRAY AND SMOKE DRIFT, with an introduc-
tion by Walter Murdoch, paper wrapper Is, post 3d.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
■I «F" AIM IDEAL REMEDY
' 'fsll‘«'»>u» v —°'
' X 'v Ci * Jl!“ M / 1' 1 1 AL CMS nt*U7« •
N^tegS
-£? > - vi, - <&
SOLD ONLV IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Ctfids, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Tiie Lancet says : “ Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interefere With the Digestion ; on the contrary', they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/0 in Stamps
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY; LTD., « york street, Sydney.
The RED PAGE
Since the above (not previously pub-
lished) article was written, much has
been done in Celtic literature. Half
a dozen hands have been at work
upon the sorrows of Deirdre, and
Lady Gregory has re-arranged in excel-
lent English the whole legend ot the Sons
of IJsna. Nevertheless, the statement of
Daley, whose Celtic spirit permanently
enriched Australian literature, remains
true in substance. No poet of Erin has
yet lifted any of her beautiful legends
into the region of great poetry. The
present Irish literary movement ik princi-
pally W. B. Yeats. Some of his early
lyrics seem to us as durable as those of
Burns; but he is not a great poet like
Burns, and his lyrical impulse has van-
ished. A good many other writers
grouped around him have produced inter-
esting poetry, but there is no sign of a
great poet amongst them.
One obstacle that this movement has
met is the indifference of the great body of
the people to artistic work. " Their repre-
sentative newspapers demand that poetry
should prove something or abuse some-
body. They would re-write Kipling’s
“ Conundrum of the Workshops ” and
make the Devil say: “ft is pretty,
mt does it bite?” Long ago, Yeats,
iii lamenting the Irish appreciation
of the worst of Carleton's stories,
and the neglect of his best, said
that “the zealous public loves vehe J
ment assertion better than quiet beauty,
and partisan caricature better than a
revelation of reality and peace.” Prob-
ably the multitude in other countries is
ust as bad. Yeats returns to the charge
n an essay on Poetry and Ireland, printed,
with a lecture by the late Lionel Johnson
on the same subject, at the Cuala Press,
Dundrum.
Yeats begins by explaining how much
he owed to the patriot John O’Leary,
whose precepts were—that a man was
not to lie or even to give up his
dignity on any patriotic plea, that a man
must not cry in public to save, a nation,
nor forget justice in the passion of con-
troversy, Yeats then establishes certain
axioms:
Three types of men have made all beauti-
ful things. Aristocracies have made beauti-
ful manners, because their place in the world
puts them above the fear of life ; and tne
countrymen have made beautiful stories and
beliefs, because they have nothing to lose,
and so do not fear ; and the artists have
made all the rest, because Providence has
filled them with recklessness. All these look
backward to a long tradition; for, being
without fear, they have held to whatever
pleased them.
In life courtesy and self-possession, and in
the arts style. . . . Though a writer who has
to withdraw so much of his thought out of
his life that he may learn his craft, may find
many his betters in daily courtesy, he should
never be without style, which is but high
breeding in words and in argument.
He goes on to tell how he and the school
of writers to which he belonged criticised
Irish literature from the standpoint of
style, and set Mangan and Ferguson above
Davis :
Our attacks, mine especially, on verse,
which owed its position to its moral or poli-
tical worth, roused a resentment which even
I find it hard to imagine to-day, and our
verse was attacked in return, and not for any-
thing peculiar to ourselves, but for all that
it had in common with the accepted poetry
of the world, and most of all for its lack of
rhetoric, its refusal to preach a doctrine or
to consider the seeming necessities of a
cause.
Lionel Johnson’s lecture makes out the
same case for art in a direct and per-
suasive fashion. He is careful to distin-
guish between patriotic poetry such as
Milton’s and Wotdsfvorth’s sonnets, not
one of which would send a soldier on to
death or victory, and the simple rousing
songs which would. The simple songs
have their va.ue, and for immediate
purposes it is often immense ; but they
are not, therefore, the greater poetry.
W hilst the peasant poetry, the folk songs,
of most countries are beautiful and artisti-
cally excellent, the more purely political verse,
the verse expressing national sentiments of
hope or fear, defiance or doubt, are always
inferior to the folk songs, and are often
abominable. If there be a worse poem than
Gol Suee the Queen I do not know it.
He turns to the attacks upon pofetry
such as that of Yeats, and claims
that the poet must be free to build the
lofty rhyme without regard for purpose.
Inspiration comes Its it lists, and if it
does not produce weapons for the cause,
it may produce something even more im-
portant.
It is ungenerous and unjust when a writer
does his best in his own way to say that this
is hot the immortal work which Ireland
wants. We do not reproach a buttercup for
not being a rose. I am inclined to think
that a nation does not produce its greatest
art in times of storm and stress, but at and
after the period of triumph, when-the nation
is exulting in its strength and glory, with a
sense of new youth and health and joy.
Melancholy, and sorrow, and the cry of pain,
it has been said by some, are more poetical
than serenity and ardor. For my own part,
I do not believe it. . . There is room for all :
that is the sum and substance of what I
have tried to say ; that, and let us bear with
ail, encourage all, and do our best to believe
in all.
—— ♦
The annual opportunity of the Victorian
lady and gentleman amateur arises at Bal-
larat in October. For eighteen mortal years
the National Eisteddfod (under Royal pat-
ronage) lias let loose a great blast of brazen
music, “ vocal and instrumental pieces,”
recitations, amateur essays.and -poems ; and
this year £3.400 is offered in prizes to induce
a more terrific outburst. Think of the- suf-
fering in thousands of Victorian homes while
Maud and little Willie are practising their
“pieces” during the next few months!
£4l 10s. of the prize money goes in the en-
couragement of “literature.” The gifted lady
or gentleman who explains gracefully “ Why
the British Fleet is Concentrated in the
North Sea instead of the Mediterranean ”
stands a chance of getting £3, £l, or a cer-
tificate. The writer of a chippy criticism of
“Milton the Poet, his Life and Works,”
runs the same risk. It would probably be
too uneisteddfodish to give prizes for such
subjects as “ Why the Australian Fleet is not
Concentrated in Port Phillip instead of the
clouds,” or “Reid the Poet, his Life
and Works.” Anyhow, the young blades
will do no harm in sharpening them-
selves on Milton, and “young gentle-
men under 21 ” have a chance of earn-
ing £2 with an essay on “Australian
Legislation as Influencing other Countries ”
—as the programme elegantly puts it.
Essays on “Occupations for Women and
their Rewards ” are for ladies only. Profes-
sionals are barred all through the list—ex-
cept on the slide trombone and a few other
things ; but we notice that one subject, the
Short Story, is “open to those under 21
years of age.!’ However, as. the three best
of those will only get £l, IBs. and a piece of
paper, the generous admission of the common
herd will not be availed of largely. There
would be a fine opening for Bxdletin writers
in connection with “The Influence of Re-
vivals on the Christian Church” ; but press-
men are excluded, with clergymen. The
subject of the special prize essay is “ How to
people Australia.” Well, that’s dead easy :
a plain answer could be given on a postcard
by any pressman. However, a selection of
the ladies’ and gentlemen’s replies should be
worth printing.
TO IRELAND
IN THE COMING TIMES.
Know, that I would accounted he
True brother of that company,
Who sang to sweeten Ireland’s wrong,
Ballad and story, rann and song ;
Nor be I any less of them,
Because the red-rose-bordered hem
Of her, whose history began
Before God made the angelic clan,
Trails all about the written page ;
For in the world’s first blossoming age
The light fall of her flying feet
Made Ireland’s'lieart begin to beat;
And still the starry candles flare
To help her light foot here and there ;
And still the thoughts of Ireland brood
Upon her holy quietude.
Nor may I less be counted one
With Davis, Mangan, Ferguson,
Because to him, who ponders well,
My rhymes more than their rhyming tell
Of the dim wisdoms, old and deep,
That God gives unto man in sleep.
For the elemental beings go
About my table to and fro.
In flood and tire and clay and wind,
They huddle from man’s pondering mind ;
Yet he who treads in austere ways
May surely meet their ancient gaze.
Man ever journeys on with them
After the red-rose-bordered hern.
Ah, faeries, dancing under the moon,
A Druid land, a Druid tune !
While still I may, I write for you
The love I lived, the dream I knew.
From our birthday, until we die,
Is but the winking of an eye ;
And we, our singing and our love,
The mariners of night above,
And all the wizard things that go
About my table, to and fro, j
Are passing on to where may be,
In truth’s consuming ecstasy,
No place for love and dream at all;
For God goes by with white foot-fall.
I cast mv heart into my rhymes,
That you, in the dim coming times,
May know how my heart went with them
After the red-rose-bordered hem.
W. B. YE ATS ("Poems").
The Celt in Literature
ONE of the most curious things in
the history of Literature'’ls that
the Gelt’icliace-fprob&.biy the mosf
poetic hnd emotional of races—-is the least
literarily articulate. Its writers of any
rank may almost be counted on the
fingers of one hand. , And not one of
them is what may be called really great.
In making this assertion I, of course,
except Meredith—the authors’ author as
Shelley is the poets’ poet. Meredith is a
Welshman, and therefore a Celt. And
he has the gift of being articulate even
(at times) beyond the verge .of inere
mortal utterance. But what a wealth of
expression, what an Oriental opulence, of
speaking ideas* he possesses ! He can not
only picture for you his thought, but can
also make you see the shadow of his
thought, and even the shadow of that
shadpw, when he is so minded. He is
the archetypal—because he has had no
truly adequate predecessor—articulate
Celt.
it?
Since the days of Gerald Griffin, and
Banim, and Carleton, Ireland has pro-
duced few, if any, writers of magnitude
who have made their own country and
its legends and its people the theme of
their prose or verse. Yet there is no
land under the sun that is richer in
romantic material than the Green Isle.
The story of Diarmid and the wife of
Fionn is in many respects similar to
that of Launcelot and Guinevere. Both
legends were Celtic, and the British one
is probably a variant of the other, which
is the more ancient and much finer of the
two. [But we must go to theNibelungen
Lied to find anything—l am, of course,
leaving out of consideration the Greek
tragedies—to compare with the fateful
Story of the Three Sons of Usna. Yet
through all the centuries—nearly nine-
teen, according to the tale—which have
passed by since Deirdre cried to her hus-
band as they drew near the palace of her
father, after long absence :
O Naesi, I see o’er Ernau Green a eloud of
blood-tinged red,”
no poet has arisen in Erin to make this
noble legend the subject of an Irish Iliad.
I have hunted rabbits on the slopes of
the Bath that once was Ernan Green,
and have gathered hazel-nuts in the fossi
which in the dim past ages surrounded
the palace of the Fate-stricken King
Conor. And in company with another
juvenile antiquarian one Master
Richard McGlosie—l have exploded a
tin of blasting powder abstracted from a
neighboring quarry, under a stone that,
according to tradition, blocked up the
entrance to the interior of the Rath.
The stone is still there, as far as I know
all but a small piece of it that struck
me under the eye, and left a mark that
has remained.
lhe glory of Ernan Green has long
departed, and generations ago Lowland
Scottish settlers carried away the Druidi-
cal stones that crowned the Rath to set
them up as gate-posts to their barnyards,
and to build them into the walls of their
pigsties and byres. But Ernanian legend
still survives imperishably.
The Story of the Children of Lir, and
the lovely legend of Blanaid the Beautiful
also live in a tranced twilight, waiting
for the Epic singer who, like another
Orpheus, will lead them once more to the
glad light of day, and clothe them in the
rich raiment of his verse. If that singer
ever arrives, and is an Irish Celt, he will
be the first of his kind that his race has
produced.
For the fact can hardly be denied that
the Celt—whether Erse, or Gaelic, or
Cymric—is not a largely important factor
in the world’s literature. He is not,
taking him at his best, a great creative
genius. His race has never brought
forth a great poet, philosopher, or
statesman, or scientist, or general, or
musical composer. The Gael of the
Scottish Highlands produced one poet,
and no more ; the name of him, “ Mac-
pherson,” the title of his works, “The
Poems of Ossian.” I remember the
time when I thought these gloomily
grandiose forgeries the finest poetry that
had ever been written. And I admit
without shame that I have still a lurking
‘regard for some of them. But they are
a, poor contribution to literature to come
Representatively from the darkly-imagin-
ative Gael. Wales has (always except-
ing the magnificent Meredith, who, by
the way, has done very little on Welsh sub-
jects) no first-flight writers of her own
to show in any department of literature.
I suppose that, judging by his name,
Professor Owen was of Welsh extraction.
If so, he is an exception to the general
rule. Otherwise the Cymric must fall
back on the half-mythical authors of the
Triads, the Bard Aucnrin, and the other
bards who cursed King Edward as
Shimei cursed David. And Ireland?
Well, Ireland is in somewhat better case
—yet not so much better as to justify ari
inordinate amount of boasting by the
Irish Celt. Moore she has, of course,
and rejoices in her ownership of him
almost as frequently, if not quite so en-
thusiastically, as Scotland—Highland
and Lowland alike, though he was a
Lowlander pure and simple—rejoices in
her Robert Burns. But Moore has in
him little of the dark Celtic mysticism.
Mangan, who came afterwards, had it in
full measure, and is therefore the most
truly representative Irish-Celtic poet. Yet
Mangan could never have written a great
poem, though he wrote many memorable
ones. And with him the list of Irish-
Celtic poets of any note practically closes.
W. B. Yeats, who is a comparatively late
comer, has some of the poetic glamor of
the Celtic spirit.
\t>
The Celt has, as the saying goes, the
defects of his qualities. His imagination
is master of his reason. And that imagi-
nation is weird and mystical and mourn-
ful. He walks in shadow on the border-
land between two worlds, and hears the
wailing of the ghosts by the stream
Cocytus. Celtic songs and Celtic airs are
almost always sad, with the tender sad-
ness of- dying day. Take, for instance,
that beautiful and haunting air, “The
Coolin.” It touches the heart of the
listener like the spirit-hand of a dead
love touching our forehead in dreams.
This very spirituality of feeling pre-
vents the Celt from doing anything
massive or enduring in Literature. For
Literature has her feet firmly planted on
this solid earth, though her shining hair
may stream on the wind that blows
between the worlds. Lust of the eye and
pride of Life are hers, and her loins are
girded with strength. She laughs in the
sunlight, and rejoices amongst the wine
and the roses, the pomegranates and
passion-flowers of Life.
Nevertheless, although the Celt is not
a great vital power in Literature, the
tender and subtle and darkly-delicate
Celtic spirit is the very soul of the soul
of Literature. It, cannot exist as a
separate entity, but like a melodious
minor chord runs through the written
thought of every land in which Celtic
writers have set up their tents for a tem-
porary halt on their journey to the Land
East of the Sun and West of the Moon.
VICTOR J. DALEEY (1898).


jL
a
t
The Wagga Saddle, Plated Tree, Hogskin Seat,
Knee and Thigh Pads, complete with Girths,
Stirrup Leathers and Irons, 67/6.
With Strapped Kneepad, 70/*
top Quality at Bottom Price
is the Golden Rule at the
New Palace Emporium.
rag \i .1
No. 357. —The Clarendon Gentlemen’s Dressing
Case, superior fittings and finish, 50/-, 55/-
Other designs, containing all the necessary Toilet
requisites, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
to 105/-
SAVINGS for
SELECTORS and SQUATTERS
PER MEDIUM OF
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Park or Exercise Saddle, Plated Tree,
Bag Seat, Knee and Thigh Pads, 45/-
Ditto, Hog Seat, Bag Knee and Thigh Pads,
47/6 and 50/-
Ditto, Hog Seat, Knee and Thigh Pads,
Girths, Leathers and Irons, 55/-, oU/-
The A. H. S. Briar Pipe
First Quality Briar,
Vulcanite Mouthpiece,
2/0 POST
/ 0 FREE
IQ
Sterling Silver Band.
Push Stem, any Shape,
POST
FREE
2/8
Order by
Number.
SEND FOR TOBACCO PRICE LIST,
POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
THE SPORTSMAN’S KNIFE.
Geo. Wostenholm’s “ 1.X.L.” Sportsman s Knife (as
illustrated). Designed specially for Bush Use and made of
the finest Steel, that has earned for the 1.X.8. Brand a
reputation for excellence. The Sportsman consists of two
blades, saw, picker and tweezers, gimlet, hole-punch, cork-
screw and fleam. 6fin. long, Sin. blades. Good staghorn
handle. Price 6/6 ; by post, 6/9.
n °- ™ ,*?SKthSs S 3
'can 1« easily re.no.ed, thus permitting the Wg to
be used as an ordinary travelling bag. Details of the
number and qualitv of the fittings of any oi the
bags quoted will be sent on application. Price, 63/-,
75/. 84/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
ST/CK//Y
m
TfllL'HG
(A®
'V/v
Kaleski’s Sheath Knife, designed for the man on
the land. The blade is First Quality Steel, and
the unique shape gives the user a more powerful
stroke than can be obtained with other sheath
1 l£Z • Vwr 1 /9.
TERMS:
SPOT CASH.
inc/f/r/G
tSUOD/fiG
Kaleski’s Patent Knife is an
SSSiSK = JfrftSK
T.eneth of knife when open, , y v
The Stock Saddle, Hogskin Seat Knee and
Thigh Pads, Galvanised Steel-plated lree,
complete with .Girths, Leathers and Irons,
55/- and 60/-
No 377.— Gladstone Bags, in serviceable shades of Nut and
' Chocolate, Nickel Spring Top Locks, Straps all round, collap-
sible sides, centre division with pocket, etc.
Quality AX— Cowhide and Roan, strong frame, Nickel Shoes
and Slides—
Size 18in. 20in. 22m 24in.
Price 13/6 15/- 16/6 /
Quality BX—All Cowhide, well lined—
Size 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in.
Price 16/6 18/6 21/- 22/6
26in.
19/6
26in.
25/-
V.nJi
The Dreadnought Saddle pjj complete
Hogskin Seat, Knee and lhigli ram,
with Girths, Leathers and Irons, 82/6.
anthonyliordern & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium>
BricKfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Aiild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape «■ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
V"> posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain EJomf. Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pajfes, 400 colored plates
and engraving-s, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
ok Nature, the orilv genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
[How to Mesmerjse, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/..
AND AlirY BOOK
' YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING tricks.
0 i t>
✓v
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i lij*
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
jaltogeth er.
Complete,
with full in-
structions;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(]) The Liehtnino-
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d
posted 8d. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere 4/-’
Above prices include postage to. any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201b Bourke St., Melbourne
“ REFEREE
TOBACCO,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., • Brisbane.
1. RICH ARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. L. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
k
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
dinneford's 1
MAGNESIA
ķ
By Appointment to
His Majesty the King.
BOV R I L
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
That is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage so
and n \W? lg 3 f °° d ’ W , h y Coo , ks find 11 50 useful, why Doctors
and Nurses recommend it, why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,’
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and '
Residents in Tropical Climates.
stages of a a.sease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventea 1 serious iUnelf
C AJJTlON.—Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked RAW 9 'rimr-p
otherwise you have the sineerest form of fIattery—IMITATION 7I7 SALT '
Prepared only by J. O.BNO. Ltd., FRUIT SALT’ WORKS
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent. KS Londoll -
- by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Climate Healthy Dehahcful^Te ' T^ unst of Queensland,
with its “fetfS“ rb ‘
elsewhS o “taTitmUa 13^ 7 ““ obKlined 0,1 Better Terms than
Corn*, of Ou«« a„d Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane r~ .
Sydney BrancU Office at 116 Pitt Street-Hon. W. C. H.CCS, Loca, Di ZTJ
k
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance
King, 4 sets
Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
J Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS-ALL PRICES ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE
Sole Agents, ALLAN ff CO.. P ly. Ltd.. 276-8 Collin, St.. Melb.. Bendigo, Geelong.
i
UNSHRINKABLE
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: J. & R. WORLEY & CO. and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
& ja Y'^
s^RINKA®^
An Overtaxed System
Extreme Nervousness Completely Cured.
An epoch-making achievement is here dealt
with by Mr. Michael Somers, of 47 Camden
Street, Newtown, who speaks of final success
being inevitable in similar cases if like measures
are adopted. His narrative takes the following
• sitting, down writing a letter one day
in .Brisbane, feeling as well as a man could wish to
be, when I suddenly was seized with a dreadful
sensation, and collapsed. Previous to this I had
been leading a very strenuous life/working at top
pressure, and, presumably, I had overdone it.
lhe strongest systems will break down when
taxed too much, as I have learned to my cost.”
“ What happened,” asked our representative
when you were thus attacked? ”
The case looked to be such a serious one that
1 was taken to a hospital in an ambulance, and
there I received the very best attention they
could devote to me. Medicine was ordered, and
everything done they could think of. In all my
travels, and I have journeyed about a good deal,
1 have never met a similar case to my own. It
certainly puzzled the doctors at the institution
for they could not make head nor tail of the cause
of my affliction.”
V, an you describe to me the feelings you had
Mr. Somers?”
“ Constantly recurring feelings of faintness were
as troublesome as anything—such horrible sensa-
tions as would make a man think'he was going off
at any moment, and, besides, I was afflicted with
the most extreme nervousness it had ever been i
my misfortune to come into contact with. When
everybody else was in bed, comfortably asleep
was the time that my nerve troubles assumed the
greatest dimensions, and I would have given all I
possessed in the world to have been able to doze
off and get rid, for a while, of the harassing
thoughts that disturbed my mind. I could think
of nothing pleasant; every idea that came was
created in an atmosphere of adversity. I felt that
1 was hemmed in by hardships and trials of all
kinds, and I think I was, too. Perhaps I was on
the point of falling asleep when, with a little
convulsive jump, I’d start up again. It was a
feeling as if my heart had momentarily stopped
and there I’d be dreading the same thing
happening again, for fear of what might follow
1 hat s the wretched way most nights went by, so
imagine my despondent, worn-out condition
during the day. Suffocating feelings badly affected
my chest, and with difficulty I succeeded in
getting my breath. Meanwhile, the sudde■>
jumping sensations in the heart’s region con-
tinued, accompanied with a terrible faintness, which
made me often think that my time had come, and
that I surely was going to die. Sometimes a
reeling came as if I were actually dead in parts—
a horrible kind of numbness, it was—in the
stomach, chin, and back of the neck, and again
and again I was seized with the terrible conviction
that I was going to drop dead. I was really
afraid to fall asleep incase one of these seizures
| , come on, and I would never wake up again.
Uh . how awful it was. The extreme weakness
and constant twitching of my nerves could not be
checked by anything the doctors prescribed for
me, and I had long since despaired of ever being
about in the world again, when I started, through
reading a testimonial in the paper, taking the
medicine called Clements Tonic.”
“And can you conscientiously state that
Clements Tonic made you as sound as you are
now . queried the writer, looking at Mr. Somers
in amazement.
I can, indeed ; though it may seem incredible ;
but my wife and son here can vouch for what I
say being the gospel truth. The symptoms I have
described did not leave me for a long, long time,
and then only through the wonderful agency of
Clements Tonic. That is the truth, as God is my
judge. It seems like a dream to look back upon
—the hospital, the doctors, the numerous medicines
that did not apply to me at all beneficially, the
fainting bouts, the feelings of paralysis in parts of
my body, the unhappy frame of mind I was in,
the .sleepless nights, the twitching of mv every
nerve, the awful heart affections, and the intense
feebleness withal—yes, it seems like a hideous
dream that has passed and gone, for which I have
nothing in the world to thank but Clements
lonic; so please publish the facts as you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
• FCFAEL SOMERS, of 47 Camden Street, Newtown,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
ana is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
oy Clements Tonic, and also contains, my full permission
to publish in any waj" my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown this twenty-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
eight, before me,
JAS. J. THOMSON, J.P.


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you willbe so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
friends all about it.
WWij
f
W 7
Aliens
%xnr Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U S. A.
ķ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
money in full refunded witlv ut qiv stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowes.. manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODEi.S
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
andallJates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any nort in the -world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE ASEMTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for freea.Pt catalogues
and our * pecwl offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
j of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street. Sydney.
James Connors, Pennant
Hills, N.S.W., aged 14, had
become very thin and pale,
and was troubled with a
severe cough
His mother writes (August
1908) that „
“After taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion for a short time he began
steadily to improve. He looked
much brighter, his appetite
was better, and he had gained
about 7 pounds in weight,: in
addition to which the cough
had almost gone. Now he is
quite well and strong, and in
better health than ever before.”
This sort of recovery has
convinced multitudes of pa-
rents of the superiority of
Scott’s
Emulsion
whose purity and strength pro-
vide a cure when everything
else and every other emulsion
prove insufficient. Every atom
of SCOTT’S digests and lit
grows so upon the palate that
young people come to regard
it not as a medicine but jas
a treat.
Of all
chemists
and
dealers
in
medicines.
ĸ
The mark
by which
you
pick out
your
cure !
IaiiUHQSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE—
of “Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE EOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
healthful. economical. convenient.
BICKFORD 'S Essence of Coffee,
<< O XJVL JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE IDEAL FOOD
fop children from birth is ,
Hortick’s Malted Milk |
It contains all the necessary constituents '
m their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste. \
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in ,
selling Honlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch. .
No confuston arises when you order HoPlick’S* as only one kina is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quiredin the preparation of Horiick’s as in other foods water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough, Bucks, England-
;
w
Flat-Chested
Women
Cannot Appear to
the Best Advantage.
Every woman iaentitled-to
have a full, rounded bosom
with pleasing curves and
figure. Don’t Stay Thin.
K ,1
m
[4
DR. FALLIERE’S
“Flesh-Food”
puts on flesh at the rate of five pounds a
week, and rapidly develops the bust to nor-
mal. Your measurements increase rapidly,
and the improvement is lasting. This treat-
ment is positively harmless. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial and full particulars.
Fatliere “ F!esh-Food ” Co.
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlkreagii St.,
SYDNEY,
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
’ ( ' ***>'
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATEN7J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established IS/7.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
licrmanently the very .worst cases of EralepsX. when #
every other remedy.had failed. I’ngliHhT’nces 4/6 and 1 T/*
Thousands of Testitaonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS !
Messrs. Sayei>B, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney..
Prenared b' I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chetr.ist
? 25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
A
POLICY" foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
k
TALKS OM RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prop.- W. J. Pierce.
Something- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address — PIERCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(W hen writing mention this paper)
>When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre- 1
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
> 20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
> against infectious diseases.
) Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
>Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
DON’T I OOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
i
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Eottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
ķ
& Sohn,
A.G.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
ĸ
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES.
i x 2| inch.
ih x 3| inch.
4 x 3i (J-plate).
6£ x 4 (i-plate).
l| x 4j inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
f Sole-Australasian Agents r
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
383 GEORGE STREET, SYCN2Y.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ’
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post tree. ( i
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dinners of All Saints.
I saw a holy bishop eating pork,
Begaitered, aproned, smug, and very fat;
Around him, with religious knife and fork,
His sleek archdeacons sat.
I Brave trenchermen were these, who earned their
fare
By looking meek and saying easy things,
High-set above a world of carle and care.
With hopes of sprouting wings.
They gorged and guzzled, while the aged jest
Waked slow paunch-shaking laughter round
the board,
Yet was their sacred mirth restricted lest
The joyous Devil scored.
I thought of other times and other men,
And wondered what the link ’twixt these and
those;
Of Daniel nursing in the lions’ den,
His vast and holy nose.
Of Paul, who shore the ancient William goat,
And wove the spacious tehts of hair for hire,
Who sparely dined, the while fat fools he smote
With Apostolic fire.
j Of John the Baptist, girt with camel’s locks,
Chasing green locusts where grim deserts frown.
Sucking wild honey, captured from the rocks,
That ran his whiskers down.
I thought of Jonah in the sickened whale,
Of Francis of Assisi eating peas,
Of all the scourged ascetics loan and pale,
And wondered much at these.
’Twas clear they had not wholly learned thei
trade,
Mere tyros these at saintship, lost and dead,
Their thin and hungry halos pale and fade
Where modern saints are fed.
Bring the meek mutton from the fields of green,
Let the vast rounds from mighty' beeves b
riven,
That in this vale of sorrows may be seen
Hints of a bishop’s heaven.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
The Melbourne ’Bus.
0, cool is the wind in ray whiskers, now, as I
mount (we’re off !) and ride!
I ride in my colors of grey and drab on my old
’bus, true and tried ;
I ride apace for the post afar where the dear old
ladies stand,
Each o’ them humping a bag o’ food and a basket
in either hand.
Yes, life is bright as I mount my ’bus, and we
start with a flourish—thus !
0, I’m all right as I proudly ride on the back of
my bounding ’bus.
0, my beautiful ’bus was born long since—she was
born in the year nought one,
And proud was the grand old.’bus-wright then to
see how the job was done.
No more bone-shakers builds he now, for he’s
passed out long and long,
Though his ’bus still goes on the broad, white road
that leads to Dandenong ;
She never has gone that far, so far (she’ll never go
there at all !);
She stops instead at the big arc-light where the
fat old females call.
The ’bus goes up to the cross-road, east, and back
to the cross-road, west,
(I tell you straight, I don’t quite know which pub
I love the best).
The dust rolls high on the broad white road
beneath our great, fat wheels,
Or the mud is grey on the broad grey road, and
the stout nearsider feels
His careful way down the greasy steep or climbs
up the greasy hill,
And the old ark rolls like a rolling bark, and the
“ fares ” are feeling ill.
Now, you may think that the ’busman’s lot is not
too cheerful—well,
It’s fine to be outside when you think o’ the
things the shop coves sell
To the fat old women who ride with me. Just see
our cargo—Ah-h-h
Three swags o’ meat, and a baby-farm, and a pug
dog with his “ ma ” !
0, it may be cold and stormy too when you’re
’busback-riding—but
There’s twelve fat females packed inside and
they've got the windows shut !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
The Unshrived Dead.
“ Why is the sea so wild to-night ?
And why are the skies so black ?
What soul flew from that meteor light
In chase of the wild wind’s track ?”
“Ah ! Cover your head, cover your head !
What do we know of the sudden dead ? ”
“ But cannot you hear the sand and rain,
And the cry of that lost lone bird ?
From the desolate hills it screams again—
Air! Burely you must have heard.”
“Ah ! Cover your head, cover your head !
God in His mercy keep the dead ! ”
“Why have the white gulls left the shore ?
And what are those wings that beat ?
Mother, they sound beside the door.”
“ Draw close beneath the sheet.
Ah ! Cover your head, cover your head !
Whisper a prayer for the unshrived dead ! ”
N.S.W.
CARO.


THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty Hy your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.*
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Under Vice-Reg'al
k
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Biiakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE Bf AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
BILLIARDS LIMITED.
TEL. 1338
CITY.
PERPETUAL tournaments for bona fide amateurs.
ALL COMPETITORS TO BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OP COMPANY.
Prizes ever}' fortnight, or as soon after as any Competition is won.
BILLIARDS : Break of 50, or biggest over 50 .. .. Grder valnp n 9
wnmnrß „ Bre £ k ?L 51 ’ 0I : est ov er 51, off red ball .. ‘' " o?der’ value £3 3s‘
SNOOKER . Break of 30, or biggest over 30 ‘ ‘ , r ’ , ue *" ® B *
PYRAMIDS : Break of 8 or over . [[ Order, value £2 2s.
Fuil Particulars from HARRY GRAY, Manager, 630 George Street.
&
PRIZES Value £1750
N IN THE ■ « W W
8-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £lOO ;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorkiiousr, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding' stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney, Eight-Hour Committee.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... 6<i
Packet of Ten 5d
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
m
ROOF
suss
S 3
For full particulars,
write
E. RICH 8 C
•9
SYDNEY 8 BRISBANE
A RU6EROID
FLAT ROOF
gives you an
extra floor
without extra
cost.


The Bulletin
Registered at' the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1537.
THURSDAY, JULY 29, 1909.
Price, 6d.
THE ARRIVAL OF KITCHENER.
The British Warrior: “Well, here I am, ready to inspect your troops. Bring them out."
Inefficient Minister of Defence: “That’s him.”
British Warrior: “!!!!!--!-? * * *-!-!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
I'er Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ..’ OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tint Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
t« he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
/nsufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, WOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
ore observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Cotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Halborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 441 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 29, 1909.
THE TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY,
ALSO THE PROPOSED DEVIATION
TO THE EAST, AND THE STRANGE
CONSEQUENCES THEREOF.
Australia is such a very large country that few
people have really taken a bird’s eye view of its
distances and other geographical features. The
discussion over the Northern Territory transfer
and the proposed transcontinental railway, and
the various proposed railway routes, should be a
liberal education in this matter. The question of
the track which the Port Darwin line is to take
looks a fairly simple matter, but after much study
of mileages it proves really very complicated. A
comparatively small deviation may make one port
or several ports, and may partially unmake
another port or half a dozen other ports. It may
shift trade from the eastern coasts to those of the
south and north, or rice versa ; and it may annex,
for all trade purposes, great areas of one State
to another State. For there are trade sheds just as
there are watersheds, and there is a certain point
where, natural impediments being removed, the
bale of wool ceases to flow east and starts to flow
west, or ceases to flow west and starts to flow east,
or diverges north or south, just as water does.
Australian trade has never yet found its real
direction through lack of sufficient means of
transit. When the near port can only be reached
by camel pad while the far one can be attained by
railway, natural tendencies are out of the calcu-
lation.
* * * *
The north-to-south transcontinental railway is
co start from Port Darwin. That much is agreed,
whatever the line’s southern direction may be.
The distances, as the crow is supposed to fly, but
doesn’t, are about as follows :
Port Darwin to Melbourne .. .. 19S8 miles
~ ~ Sydney .. .. 1960 ~
„ ~ Newcastle .. .. 1954 ~
~ ~ Brisbane .. .. 1784 ~
„ ~ Albany '.. .. 1679 „
„ ~ Adelaide .. .. 1659 ~
~ ~ Fremantle .. .. 1568 ~
~ ~ Rockhampton .. 1505 ~
~ ~ Port Augusta .. 1472 ~
These figures haven’t very much bearing on the
case, seeing that no one really proposes to build a
line on crow principles. Still they give some sort
of preliminary idea of the situation.
At present there is a powerful movement afoot
to abandon the old surveyed route and bring the
railway south-eastward from Port Darwin into
West Queensland, then southward through West
Queensland and S.A. as far as Koppermanna ;
south-west to Hergott Springs, and then
south again to Port Augusta. This line, in its
first stages, will run parallel for some
distance with the Gulf of Carpentaria, and will
doubtless have a branch to another convenient
Northern Territory port—the mouth of the great
McArthur River, where the Sir Edward Pellew
group of islands forms a vast breakwater;
or to some point on the river itself, for»
the McArthur is navigable for large vessels
a good many miles up. The line will pre-
sumably be connected as rapidly as possible with
the Queensland State lines from Townsville to
Cloneurry and Winton, from Rockhampton to
Longreach, and from Brisbane to Charleville and
Cunnamulla ; in fact, the whole idea of bringing
it through West Queensland must be to make
these connections, otherwise the deviation would
be a wholly purposeless and meaningless business.
* * * *
Assuming that the Port Darwin line comes
through West Queensland, and is connected with
Townsville, Rockhampton and Brisbane, the new
commercial centre of gravity will proceed to find
itself. It is only necessary to look at the map to
see that Cairns and Cooktown are not likely to be
affected one way or the other; they lie too far
north to have any interest in the new develop-
ments. So far as this matter is concerned they
are in a backwash. Cloneurry, however, so far as
concerns any trade with Europe or Asia, will
lie almost exactly on the dividing line
between the Federal port on the McArthur
and the Queensland State port at Towns-
ville. The reason why its European trade
will tend towards the Federal port in the Terri-
tory (and its other trade must naturally follow) is
that by that route sea-freight round Cape York
and through Torres Straits will be saved. The
only way to keep the Cloneurry trade for a State
port will then be to build a line due north to the
Gulf (if any good port can be found there); in
which case the business may be saved to the State,
but will still be lost to Townsville. In fact, a
direct railway connection between Cloneurry and
the Gulf must divert all the trade west of Rich-
mond from Townsville, and leave that place, to a
great extent, commercially high and dry. All the
trade of the Queensland mineral country west of
Cloneurry will naturally make for the Federal
port in the eastern part of the Territory. A new
town on the McArthur will probably, under the
railway deviation idea, soon eclipse every Queens-
land centre except Brisbane.
* * * *
On the Rockhampton-Longreach railway the
position will besomewhat different. There two new
competitorswillcomeininstead of one. About half-
way between Longreach and the western border
of Queensland is the spot which will be equi-
distant, by the proposed deviation, from Port
Augusta on the south, Rockhampton on the east,
and the Federal port on the McArthur up north.
The reason why wool and meat and other foreign
exports from this region will go to Port Augusta
in S.A., or to the McArthur in the Northern Ter-
ritory, is that in one case the immense sea journey
round by Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, and Ade-
laide will be saved, while the other route will save
the almost equally immense sea trip up the
Queensland coast, round Cape York, and through
Torres Straits. With these advantages in favor of
the north and south, and against the east, it is
quite probable that Rockhampton’s commercial
influence will stop about Longreach, and that all
the 350 miles of Queensland territory west of
Longreach will become the commercial appanage
of one or other of the Federal ports. In the case
of Brisbane the watershed or dividing line
of trade will also be pretty far east.
Brisbane’s commercial area will have no tend-
ency to gravitate towards the Territory, but if
the transcontinental line runs southward through
West Queensland the drift of trade towards S.A.
will begin to be felt a little westof Charleville and
Cunnamulla. Roughly speaking, the proposed
deviation will annex, for commercial pur-
poses, about one-fifth of Queensland, partly
to the Territory and partly to S.A. It may
be laid down in a general way that, so long
as the transcontinental railway has its beginning
at Port Darwin and its end in S.A., the farther
east it diverges the more of Queensland it will
annex commercially either to S.A. or the Territory,
and the farther west it goes the less it will annex.
Of course these calculations are based on the
theory that the rates charged per mile on the
Federal railway will be the same as on the State
ones, and that any special advantage which Port
Augusta and the McArthur River will possess
over Townsville, Rockhampton and Brisbane to
enable them to extend their trade eastward even
further than their adjacency by land seems to
suggest, will consist only in the saving of from
1500 to 3000 miles of sea-distance on the road to
Europe. If the Federal Government, however,
charges specially low rates in order to develop
its new country, the Territory’s trade influ-
ence win spread still further into Queensland —
unless that (State fights the new competition with
greatly reduced charges also.
• * * m
The interest of N.S.W. in the question of the
straight line from north to south, or the deviation
through West Queensland to S.A., seems very
small. The diversion into Queensland won’t make
it any easier for N.S.W. to connect with the great
new railway ; its shortest and cheapest connection
will still depend on the completion of the line
from Cobar to Broken Hill. Certainly a deviation
into West Queensland will tend to make the land
route from Sydney and Cobar to the Far North
longer, but very few people are likely to travel
that way. It will also make the railway more ex-
pensive, and N.S.W. will have to pay its share of
the extra expense, but the difference won’t be very
much. And it will attract more of the trade
of the north-west of N.S.W. to Adelaide, but
that may possibly be regarded as a secondary
matter. Victoria’s position will be that the
shortest land route from Melbourne to Port Dar-
win lies, and apparently may always lie, through
Adelaide. A deviation will make the Victorian’s
road to the Far North a little longer and his share
of the cost of building the line a little greater, but
the difference will be hardly perceptible. In any
case, very few Victorians want to go in a hurrv to
Port Darwin.
South Australia takes a view of the case which
is totally different from that of Queensland. It
clamors for the straight line, partly because it
is shorter, cheaper to build and cheaper to
work. Also the South Australians believe, rightly
or wrongly, that there is more trade to be created
(for the benefit of Port Augusta) by taking that
route and opening up the country around the
Macdonnell Ranges than by deserting the oasis of
the Ranges and going circuitously into Queensland,
and dragging the trade of West Queensland out of
the jaws of the merchants and dealers of Towns-
ville, Rockhampton and Brisbane. Incidentally,
and as a side-issue, the Crow-eaters recognise that
the adoption of the straight line will prevent their
bit of track between Hergott Springs and Oodna-
datta being abandoned and turned into a bad debt.
As the straight line is surveyed to come almost
directly south from Port Darwin, and doesn’t go
near the mouth of the McArthur River —in the
east part of the Territory, and close to the Queens-
land border—that place may be left out of the
calculation. Therefore the McArthur River won’t,
in this case, annex the trade of Cloncurry or of
the country west of Longreach, or of Western
Queensland generally. Port Darwin is too far
away to seize the West Queensland trade, so by
adopting the straight line and cutting out the
McArthur River the commercial territory of
Townsville and Rockhampton will be extended
about 300 miles farther west than by the devia-
tion. The influence of Brisbane will also be ex-
tended 200 or 300 miles farther west; in fact, the
adoption of the straight line is an entire abandon-
ment of the idea of annexing West Queensland
commercially to South Australia and the Northern
Territory.
* * * *
Then there is a third alternative which is occa-
sionally hinted at —that the great railway shall
start from Port Darwin, go south through West
Queensland and Western N.S.W., connecting on
its way with extensions of the present lines from
Townsville, Rockhampton, Brisbane and Sydney;
and shall finally join on to the Melbourne-Swan
Hill line and finish its career on the shores of Port
Phillip. This proposal cuts out Port Augusta and
Adelaide altogether, and opens quite a new set of
circumstances. It will annex all the trade of
West Queensland down to about Longreach
to the nearest port in the Territory; but it
won’t do anything immediate in the way of
diverting the trade of south-west Queensland to
Adelaide. Yet S.A. can’t be wholly refused con-
nection with the big railway, and as soon as a
branch is built between the transcontinental
line in south-west Queensland and Farina or
Hergott in S. A., the south-west Queensland
trade must start for the nearest S.A. port.
Melbourne, however, will enter into immediate
competition instead of S.A. Melbourne is nearer
to south-west Queensland than Brisbane is; in
fact, assuming the construction of the Port
Darwin line through the three Eastern States,
Melbourne’s competition will be felt in the
matter of foreign exports even west of Rock-
hampton, for the fact that the Melbourne route
saves 1000 miles of sea-distance on the road to
Europe must be taken into consideration. The
most remarkable effect, however, will be the
diversion of trade in Western N.S.W. On an
Australian-owned line there can be no differential
rates as between State and State. Trade will
have a chance to go to the nearest port, and, if
the Port Darwin line goes through the three
Eastern States, as is sometimes proposed, it will
commercially annex to Melbourne—except so far
as Adelaide can compete—a great triangle of
N.S.W., fairly narrow at the Queensland border,
and widening as it approaches the Murray until
it covers fully half the width of the State.
About two-thirds of the navigable part of the
Darling will then become, commercially, a Vic-
torian stream —except, of course, for S.A. com-
petition. Milparinka, Wilcannia, Hillston,
and many other western towns are much
closer to Melbourne than to Sydney, and will all
be cut off in a trade sense from the N.S.W.
metropolis.
» • » ■*
Westralia, of course, votes for the straight line
because it will cross the centre of the continent,
and the further west the railway goes, the more
chanceof Westralia making connection withitfrom
oneof itsnorthern ports, and, incidentally, connect-
ing with Queensland, and making a northern trans-
continental system between west and east. In these
matters each State is plainly and undisguisedly
looking after what it regards as its own State
interests, though it certainly seems that some of
them are doing it more intelligently than others.
The habit of taking it for granted that if anything
—a railway or a goat-track or a disease—can be
dragged into “our ” State, it must necessarily and
always be to the entire profit of “ our ” State, has
a tendency to create a wild and reckless rushing
at conclusions. Sometimes the conclusion is
right; sometimes it isn’t. The straight (or rather
the as-straight-as-possibleline) will open up wholly
new country, and give the empty west a chance;
the eastern deviation leaves the empty west out
of the calculation, and though it will open
up much new country, it will also open
up a good deal of country which is
really opened up already by State enterprise. The
straight line will take the trade of the perfectly
new country to Port Darwin and Port Augusta,
except such of it as may diverge east and west;
the deviations will be mostly employed in captur-
ing the trade of West Queensland and Western
N.S.W. and taking it in new directions. In fact,
apart from its uses in the way of opening up
land in the north, the deviated lines will exist
mainly for the purpose of shifting trade from the
ports of eastern Australia to those of the north and
south. The straight line, on the other hand, leaves
the Eastern trade where it is; in fact, in the two
instances of Rockhampton and Townsville, some
scraps of the Northern Territory trade may
even come to the east, judging by the mere matter
of mileage. In addition to everything else, the
proposed eastern divergence of the railway will
leave the northern part of Westralia out in the
cold. That is reasonable enough if there are
adequate compensations ; but to do this thing in
order to shift existing trade from the east coast to
the north and south seems hardly worth while.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“We Owe Everything to Britain.”
The above frayed remark was thrown by Senator
Millen off his somewhat limited chest last week
at West Maitland (N.S.W.), and this paper is
moved in anger to tell Mr. Millen that he is a
fraud and a bore. If, as alleged, we owe every-
thing to Britain, the simple reply seems to be :
“Let us pay everything to Britain, and be done
with it.” There is considerable doubt as to how
much we owe to Britain; but Senator Millen
nrofesses to be convinced that we owe a terrific
lot, and, under these conditions, the only honest
thing he can do is to rise in his Ministerial
capacity and clamor that the bill be settled.
The trouble about the class to which Millen
belongs is that it mistakes a HEEP-like humility,
abuse of its own land, and the persistent slinging
of mud at itself and its fellow-countrymen, for
hard coin. “Where,” asks the Millen and
Kelly and Bruce Smith variety of person —
“ Where would Australia have been if it hadn’t
been for the money which Britain so kindly lent
us?’' The self-respecting democrat naturally
replies that if the blessed loan was an act of
charity and not just plain business the best idea
is to get to work and wipe off the whole bill, and
thus get out of this state of abasement; and this
is the attitude which The Bulletin has always
taken up. But, curiously enough, it turns out
that the Millen-Kelly-Smith-Cook people pro-
pose to float a new loan, and thus become more
indebted and more aba.-ed. Similarly the Millen
clan is always explaining that Australia ought to
knock its head in the dust of abject leverence
because of Britain’s kindness and charity
in “defending” this land of ours. The good
Australian replies that he isn’t taking any hori-
zontal attitude of that sort; he would rather put
up such military and naval defence of his own as
will represent his full share of the responsibility,
and thus extinguish the alleged liability. But
Millen and his kind are so fond of being, by
their own showing, humble and abject and abased,
and objects of charity, and political free-lunchers,
and national recipients of old clothes, that they
lately conspired together in haste to abolish the
Government which threatened to pay the bill and
thus deprive them of their abjectness. The atti-
tude of the Millen folk of this country towards
Father Bull in England is curious. They say in
effect: “We are deeply indebted to you—
words can’t tell how deeply—for military
and naval defence and for money lent.
We don’t propose to start repaying the money,
and we don’t propose to create promptly
an army and navy with which to help you
in return, but we bring you on a shovel a full state-
ment of our servility and our gratitude and a
complete diagram of our grovel.” And Bull
naturally replies that the grovel and the abase-
ment and the abject humility are of no use to him, ;
and are rather disgusting than otherwise. This
country shows signs of growing weary of the push
which is always telling it what a poor, dependent
thing it is and how vast a debt it owes to Britain,
yet always fights its hardest against any attempt
to square the account, because it can’t bear to lose
its excuse for saying that Australia is a worm.
By his own showing, the typical “ loyalist ” is an
undischarged bankrupt—an individual who de-
clares that he owes a large amount, who won’t
make any effort to pay the amount, and who takes
a diseased pleasure and pride in throwing guano
at himself for owing it. It is an unwholesome,
degenerate kind of business all round.
♦
Dear Food.
Within a very few weeks there will be another'
yelp from the Freetrade remnant in Australia
about how Bill Lyne’s tariff is forcing up food-
prices, for lately the great gamble in Chicago
l-aised the market value of wheat to ss. per '
bushel, and the boss wheat gambler announced
that it was going to be shoved up to 6s. 3d.
Tariffs make no difference to the U.iS. wheat
gamble, for the U.S. doesn’t import wheat; in
fact, there is no place to import it from, for not
only has Europe none to spare, but it requires the
American wheat to keep it alive. So between a
small crop and a large swindle the market is at
the mercy of food speculators. John Bull
depends almost wholly on foreign supplies, and
he will have to pay 6s. 3d. per bushel if the Yankee
“corner” demands it; therefore, his twopenny
loaf will be only about one-third the size it
was a few years ago. At last General Election
the great cry of the old Cobden brigade was
“Vote for Freetrade and the Big Loaf,” and
England voted Freetrade and got about the
smallest loaf in its history. Australia will also
have to pay 6s. 3d. per bushel for its wheat—its
own wheat—because otherwise local dealers will
send the Australian-grown victual to England
and leave this country destitute. The evil of
Private Enterprise in commerce grows so enor-
mously that the Government will yet have to
take a hand, and the sooner it does so the better.
The wheat market suffers from two diseases—very
low prices and very high prices. In the time of
low prices Australia gets its own loaf cheaply,
but because it is an exporting country it is all the
poorer for it. The wheat it exports doesn’t bring
nearly so much money as usual into the country ;
cash is scarce; wages fall; farmers go bankrupt
and drag other people down with them ; and
affairs are gloomy. All over the world,
wheat land goes out of cultivation in these
hungry days; it is a dismal fact that
whereas the Commonwealth had 6,269,778 acres
under wheat in 1904, it had only 5,383,911 acres
in 1908. Then, when supplies are short, prices in
America and Europe are suddenly boomed up to
a ridiculous figure. Australia prospers then, for
its exported surplus brings lots of money into the
country, and wages rise, and everything in the
garden is lovely barring the fact that two im-
mense slugs infest the place of verdure. One is
the fact that Australia, because it allows the price
of its own loaf to be governed by foreign specu-
lators, has to pay an absurd price for its own bit
of food; the other is the fact that, having partially
abandoned wheat-growing in the lean years, it
hasn’t nearly so much to export as it should have,
and it loses much of the benefit of the high prices.
The Federal Government Wheat-Dealing Mono-
poly is a matter of urgency. The Mono-
poly should have the sole right to purchase
wheat from the growers, giving them a
figure at which their business will pay—something
between the skeleton price of the worst years and
the bloated price of the best. It should supply
the local demand at a fixed rate, which will keep
the local loaf the same size at all times ; and it
should export the surplus and sell it for all it will
fetch. When the exported surplus brought a
profit, that profit should form a reserve fund to
meet the loss in years when the farmer was
receiving perhaps 6d. or 9d. a bushel more than
the article fetched in London. Such an arrange-
ment, whereby the Government would be the
only wheat speculator in the country, would make
Australia the one wheat-using land in all the
world which didn’t need to care a straw, so far as
concerned the price of its owi, loaf, for the mad-
dest wheat gambler that ever raged in Chicago or
elsewhere. But to make this scheme workable
Australia must always have a big surplus of wheat
for export, and if the amazing decrease of
its wheat area continues it is likely soon to be
a wheat importing country. There is great need
for a Federal Parliamentary Committee to inquire
into the reason of this falling away, and to look
for a remedy. The remedy must be found, even
if it should be necessary to make wheat growing
compulsory, like education. Probably the boom
in dairy produce and the mad rush to grow Cow
has had a lot to do with the falling away in the
grain crop. Cow is being overdone, and people
who look ahead fancy they see a slump coming,
and a time when butter will be axle-grease and
cheese only ballast, and when the infuriated
farmer will go out and heave clods and road-metal at


his honied deity. But of course behind the Cow
there too often lurks the landlord. During the
dairy boom Cow, in many places, paid better than
wheat, and the landlord at once raised his rents
to correspond with the highest possibilities of
Cow; so it had to be Cow.
♦
Speaker Holder.
The House of Representatives chose its first
Speaker well, and suffers a heavy loss now by his
sudden death within the walls of the Horise.
Frederick Holder no doubt had advantages
which no other Speaker will ever have. Parlia-
ment is in some respects merely a school of bigger
boys, among whom familiarity breeds, not neces-
sarily contempt, but at least a feeling of equality.
It was Frederick Holder’s good fortune that the
House of Reps, never knew him except as
Speaker. Members, saving the handful of S. Aus-
tralians, had not had the chance to fight
with him in the ranks, to jostle him and
be jostled, to take blows and have the
right to give blows in return. They only
knew him as one in authority, and they cultivated
that attitude of mind towards him. And he in
his turn cultivated the corresponding mental
habit. He always was a man who inspired
respect. He was never one whom his intimate
friend, let alone his casual acquaintance, could slap
on the back. Even when he ran his little country
paper in the Burra, he was the man to whom the
dwindling mining township turned for advice.
He took that great local reputation with him
to the South Australian Assembly, and had
not been two years a member before he
was chosen Treasurer—a tribute to the clear-
ness of his mind and his versatility, because
he was distinctly not a commercial man; he
never ran a successful business in his life. As an
earnest Federalist he was elected, of course, to the
Convention which had its first session in Adelaide
in 1897, and impressed the distinguished gather-
ing chiefly by his grasp of the intricacies of the
financial problem and by his courtesy. Passing
thence to the House of Representatives, he was
marked out at once as the man who would do
honor to himself and the House in the Chair; a
studious, cultured and methodical man, whose
brain was quick and clear, who commanded
respect, and who was well acquainted with Par-
liamentary law. No doubt the Ministerial office
which he might easily have got had some attrac-
tions for. him; but he was poor, and had
never been able to make much provision for
either his old age or his family; and that
fact forced his hesitating steps towards the chair.
As Speaker he did not disappoint the high ex-
pectations of his friends. He might have done a
more sensible thing had he decided to dispense
with the horsehair and the millinery which the
official heads of older Parliaments wear. But,
setting that aside, even his errors of judgment
were few; and never once did he mislay his
courtesy or lose his hold upon the House, Had
he been as well satisfied with the House as the
House was with him, the stroke which laid him
insensible on the floor of the Chamber might
have been averted. But he was not a Little
Australian. He wanted the national ~Rriiainent
of Australia to tower high in public esteem above
the local Parliaments of the States, and hitter
conflicts which in his view threatened its dignity,
imperilled that virtue of which he felt himself the
special guardian. That fact adds now to the deep
and genuine regret of Parliament for his death ;
while his devotion to duty makes the sorrow
common over the whole Commonwealth. So they
bury him near his old friend and colleague,
Charles Cameron Kingston, that other S. Aus-
tralian martyr to his sense of duty to.the Common-
wealth.
—4 p,
The Man Who Doesn’t Like to Have a
Surplus.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Johnson, ad-
dressing the Farmers’ Conference in Sydney the
other day, explained what great things he was
doing for the country ; and the men from the
country promptly wanted a mortgage on any good
things that might he arriving. Already grain,
flour, hay, straw and chaff are carried over the
lines at an average of less than two-fifths of a
penny per ton per mile, while general goods, even
by the truck-load, have to pay twopence and
three-fifths per ton per mile ; that is to say,
the fanner gets 13 tons carried for what
the railways charge to carry two tons
of general goods, even when shipped by the
truck-load. Regardless of this fact, however, a
member of the Conference told the two-year-old
Commissioner that they knew he had a surplus of
three-quarters of a million ; wherefore the farmers
wanted their rates still further cut down—evi-
dently to the point at which they would have 20
tons carried for what other people have to pay for
the shifting of two tons. It was a fine opportunity
for the comparatively new man to do some plain
talking, and so save himself a lot of future worry.
He might have shown these farmers what con-
scienceless cadgers they were, and how the De-
partment was already losing heavily on lines built
for farmers’ use. From his own department’s re-
port for 1907 he could have hurled this list of losses
at them
Demondrille to Blarney £28,924
Goulimrn to Cooma .. 38,346
Wallerawang to Mudgee 22,730
Muruillumbah to Casino .. .. .. 22,074
Taunvortii to Jennings 41,337
There are over a dozen more that the Commissioner
might have mentioned—line upon line which
made heavy losses in a year when things were
unusually good in the country, and when the
farmer-grazier was a far more affluent person
than the manufacturer. But instead of point-
ing out these things Johnson assured them
that his surplus wasn’t as. big as alleged ; and,
moreover, it wasn’t going to be as big, because he
didn’t believe insurpluses—if the lines made a profit
the pablic.should so promptly get the benefit of it
that there wouldn’t be any profit to speak of the
next year. So Johnson dangled the hope of still
further freight reductions before the eyes of men
who already have their goods carried for less than
one-sixth of what it costs on the average to send
general goods even by the truck-load. The “back-
bone’s” habit of scoffing at. Socialism while
sturdily leaning up against the State is pro-
bably incurable; but if Johnson’s habit of
deliberately avoiding surpluses isn’t cured,
there, is disaster ahead. There may he some
excuse for him. It is not his fault that he doesn’t
know Australian conditions; it is merely the
State’s misfortune that a uian was appointed and
given full control who had never had a chance to
learn them. Johnson can’t, in short, be expected
to know the appalling difference-there is in this
country between good years and bad ones, and
especially between good years of high prices and
bad ones of low prices. If he did know that, he
wouldn’t shudder at surpluses in fat years; and
he certainly wouldn’t struggle to prevent them—
at any rate, until the huge accumulated railway
deficit has been wiped out. From 1883 down to
1896 there wasn’t one single surplus ; and, though
there was a surplus in each of the next five years,
the deficiency itl the ensuing four amounted to no
less than £787,229. At the end of 1907 the
Auditor-General showed a net deficiency of
£2,807,866; and to that he added this note “To
the net shortage of £2,807,866 there should be
added the interest on the Railway Stores account
from 1872 to 1904, and the amount (£1,000,000)
advanced in 1889 for the purposes of reconstruc-
tion and improvement of rolling stock and per-
manent way, which was agreed to be repaid from
earnings, making a total shortage of £4,357,257.”
If to that is also added the interest which the
State has had to pay on the deficit—for it mostly
has had to borrow money to make good the loss—
the total deficiency would probably be well over
£5,000,000. In the face of that deficiency,
which the State has had to make up to
the railways on their past working, and
a good part of which the State advanced on the
distinct understanding that the money-would be
paid back, the man who now controls the railways
says he is opposed to surpluses. So far as railway
men and users are concerned, the really serious
thiiig is that, if Johnson struggles to avoid credit
balances in fat years, he will be bound to struggle
desperately to avoid deficits in lean ones; and
that is liable to mean increased freights when the
country is least able to stand them, wholesale
reductions of men and wages such as Victoria had
a recent bitter experience of, and a policy of
“risking it”—which mostly means a multitude of
maimed men and mourning widows.
The Late Lamented.
G. S. Beeby, Blayney’s Labor member, put these
trying questions to Premier Wade last week in
the N.S.W. Assembly :
(1) Is it a fact that a fund alleged to amount to nearly
£lOO,OOO has been subscribed by private citizens for the
purchase of a Dreadnought?
(2) Is he in possession of any information as to the
actual amount subscribed to this fund?
(3) Is it a fact that a considerable sum of money alleged
to have been subscribed has only been promised, and has
not been paid into the fund ?
(4) Is it a fact that all police officers of the State were
asked either by the Inspector-General of Police or some re-
sponsible officer to subscribe one day’s pay to the fui.d ?
(5) Will he take steps to prevent appeals of this nature
being made by superior officers to their subordinates ?
(6) Is it proposed to introduce legislation to compel the
originators of special funds; for charitable and public
purposes to submit their accounts for audit by some
Government official?
(7) Will the Government consider a proposal to grant
a £ for £ subsidy to the Dreadnought fund on the under-
standing that the whole amount will be banded to the
Federal Government for the purposes of local defence?
Wade owned to a comprehensive ignorance re-
garding most of the problems submitted. As a
fact, they take a lot of resolving. It is hard to
find from anyone how much—even approximately
—Allen Taylor’s fund really amounts to ; and it
is an absolute rank (not to say blanky) impossi-
bility for anyone under the status of a Heaven-
sent seer to suggest the figure it is going to pan
out at when all the promised and widely-advertised
“donations” have or have not come in. Bathurst
is not the only town which promised £6O or so
more than it intended to give. Dreadnoughters are
to be found in other centres who have gone stone-
cold on the scheme. They have enjoyed the glory
and pomp of seeing their names in print in asso-
ciation with imposing sums of money. Now they
feel chary about liquidating the cost of their
jingo drunk—a common enough manifestation
in all orgies, suggesting that bursts—alcoholic,
financial and otherwise—are more satisfactory
in all ways, if conducted on a strict 0.0. D.
basis. It is no one’s business to worry these
dilatory ones; and as, anyhow, a Dreadnought
promise does not constitute a contract to
pay of which the law takes cognisance,
there would be no sense or profit to the Empire
in taking action. Even if tiie heavy foot of Justice
could wade into a concern like an Allen Taylor
fund, it is felt in British Empire League
and kindred circles that such a move would
so operate to fray the silken bonds as to be hardly
worth while. Painful rumors are abroad to the
effect that some of the very big “donors”
are still “shy” with their cheques. The only
matter the Wade Government seems to be quite
sure of, amid the murk and obscurity which sur-
round the question, is that N.S.W.’s administra-
tion will expire ere ever it grants a subsidy in
order that the whole amount collected may be
applied to purposes of Australian defence. The
attitude is understandable. The knowledge that
their money was being put.to an Australian use
would drive the anti-Australian crowd that ran
Dreadnausea, to the verge of self-destruction ; and
even if the donors were willing, the idea of a
State Frights Government expending its hard-
borrowed coin on an affair of Australian national
urgency is unthinkable.
- -*■ y
Fusions, Loans, Etc.
Every time the Fused Government is heard from
it seems a shade less satisfactory than it was the
time before. Its weakness is alarming; its com-
promises become abject; its tendency to hang
things up reminds of the suspension of Judas by
the neck in old Palestine. In this respect, of
course, it represents every other coalition of two
diametrically opposite parties. Each gives up the
principles that the other objects to, and when
everything is arranged there aren’t enough defi-
nite principles left to tjirow at a dog. The
Dkakin-Cook combine first gave up all serious
idea of improving the tariff. True, “anomalies”
are to be put right; but the tiredest member of
the Ministry has been entrusted with the job of
looking after these anomalies, and that puts the
matter away into the dim remote, where it isn’t
likely to give trouble. The two parties wholly
disagreed about, compulsory military training, so
that matter is hung up pending a report from Lord
Kitchener, who knows little or nothing about
this country and won't have time to learn much.
Kitchener and Roberts are commonly under-
stood to be in hostile camps, just as Roberts and
Wolseley used to be, and as Beresford and
Fisher are now—especially since the evil day
when Roberts used all the language at his corn-
mind to express his views about Kitchener’s
military doings at Paardeburg. Roberts believes
earnestly in compulsory training; Kitchener, it
is strongly suspected, sticks to the old voluntary
system.which has failed so lamentably. Even if
Kitchener isn’t being imported in order to give
the tired Fusion an excuse for letting things slide,
the Fusion has decided to let them slide in any
case; at all events. Defence Minister Gook
announces that nothing very definite is likely to
be done for three or four years, and his colleague
Foxton goes to the Defence Conference with some
pathetic theory about “cadets ” and the training of
kids. The naval defence question is apparently
also on the.slide; at least very little is heard
of it these days. The Federal capital question
has slid ; Alfred Deakin was a strong advocate
for the building of a city worthy of Australia on a
site where there are all the features which make
the growth of a great city possible, but now he
just drifts with the S. M. Herald and Telegraph
and the parish-minded, anti-Federal brigade.
The Federal graduated land-tax, which was to
break up the huge land monopolies and make
room for a great population, has done the sliding
act also. As a compromise, Alfred Deakin was
going to call on the States as they had never been
called on before to unlock their lands; but it
becomes more and. more apparent that the Fused
Government has no call of any size or importance
about it—not that the call would make much
difference in any case. The idea of mak-
ing, when the Brad)X)N clause ceases to be
mandatory, some new arrangement for the
division of the tariff revenue which would
leave the Commonwealth with adequate funds
for the great undertakings which are ahead has
gone overboard; all the talk now is either of
“ liberal treatment ” of the State Governments or
else of the supremely lazy device of renewing the
present arrangement for five years, and thus leav-
ing the final settlement to some Government
which isn’t SO tired- The non-borrowing policy has
walked the plank, and the easy, shiftless, thriftless,
loan device is now openly avowed as a feature of
the Fused program me. There are even reports that
no serious fight will Be put up over the Deakin-
Price agreement for the taking over of the
Northern Territory, and the building of the
Transcontinental railway to Port Darwin. In
fact, the Fusion, having to satisfy two hopelessly
hostile parties, seems to have thrown almost every •
thing that is definite into the sea—barring the loan
policy. That is , the one feature which it
has added to Federal politics—the one point on
which the Fuse appears to be strong, definite, and
unanimous. And as a result Fusion is sloping
steeply towards its well-earned grave. Its end
is in sight, and the triumph of the Labor party
appears to be definitely fixed for next General
Election. The only fear is lest Fusion may
contrive to do things before then which will
require a great deal of undoing.
Cheap Men v. Cheap Machines.
Australia has just had another chance to laugh
at the old Cobden doctrine that Freetrade makes
things cheap and Protection makes them dear.
The Commonwealth wanted the plant for a small-
arms factory, and called for tenders in England
and America ; and this is what it got:—
B.S.A. Co. (English) £177,231
Pratt and Whitney (American) .. 92,144
Of course, there was a yell that the American firm,
in spite of its money guarantees, couldn’t supply
machinery that.would do as good work ; but the
yell was bitten off short when the announcement
of the tenders was followed by a report from
Engineer-Commander Clarkson, the English
naval man who is representing the Commonwealth
Government at the other end. This expert s&id that
he had proved by actual trials of materials ob-
tained from the two factories that “ Prait and
Whitney’s machinery can make small-arms more
efficiently than European machines. In many
cases they can turn out double the work produced
in England;” Following on the enormous differ-
ence in the cost of the machine, there is, of course,
an enormous difference in the cost of the goods
that the machines produce. Allowing 4 percent,
for interest and 5 per cent, for depreciation, and
assuming an output of 15,000 rifles a year-—the re-
quired minimum capacity —then these standing
charges alone would mop up 21s. 3d. per rifle in the
case of the English machinery, as against 11s. Id. in
the case of the American goods; and if, as the
Commonwealth’s experts allege, the American
machines can do more work, as well as better
work, then the difference in their favor is still
greater. An annual 5 per cent, for depreciation
is, however, probably not nearly enough, not
because the machinery won’t last 20 years, but
because new man-killing appliances are continu-
ally coming along, whereupon the machinery used
to produce the old appliances has to be scrapped.
If, therefore, a very moderate 10 per cent, is
allowed for depreciation, then with the English
machines the average cost apart from labor and
material would amount to £ll3s. Id. per rifle, while
the cost with the American machines would be
only 17s. 2d. In fact, these figures supply some
of the explanation why the two tenders are so
many miles apart; for other machines are re-
quired to supply the guh-making machines, and
exactly the same thing happens with regard to
their output. Under Freetrade you do get some
things cheap. You get men cheap. And where
there is cheap labor there isn’t the incessant
struggle to get cheap machinery. Australia had a
sample of that in the sugar business, which was
almost aboriginal in its simplicity while Tommy
Tanna was on hand; and it has a sample of it
still in the Cow industry, where the milking
machine makes hardly any headway in districts
where the little child slave is fettered. America
is looking for machinery all the time, and because
the American workman knows that, he is on the
look-out always for machinery ideas, which are
the most saleable things he can have. So between
one idea and another, and one tool and another,
and one machine and another, Pratt and
Whitney can produce a plant for £92,144,
which, in the land of Freetrade and cheap
labor and scarce ideas, costs £177,231; and
on account of the saving in interest and deprecia-
tion alone that plant can produce another machine
for 17s. 2d. which the Freetrade and cheap labor
plant couldn’t produce for less than £1 13s. Id.
Which means that in the production of that one
small machine, and supposing these two factories
have to compete, there is an extra 15s. lid. avail-
able in the Protected American factory for dis-
tribution among the inventor, the workman and
the manufacturer.
Wanted an Organiser.
“ Horse Marine” writes
If we are to have an Australian fleet built by Aus-
tralians in Australia it is time that the Government
fished out an organiser and set him going. He has a
gigantic contract before him. All the Minister has to do
is write, “Let there be a fleet!” But the organiser has
to work out the details. Building warships is a very
different matter from constructing a fleet of mercantile
steamers. First, the proposed navy has to be mapped out
and created on paper and all its different classes carefully
evolved as far as plans go. It makes but little difference if
the s.s. Carpentaria and the s.s. Monaro of the Blue Giraffe
line are identical in their construction or not. But war-
ships of the same class must be alike down to the size of
the armor-plates and the position of the last
magazine lift. The British was the first navy to be
constructed on this plan; and in all the ships
of, say the “River” class, the interior of the
vessels and their mechanism are identical. They are all
fitted with the same kind of artillery, operated by the
same kind of machinery, driven by the same type of en-
gines and boilers, and fitted up exactly alike all through.
So when one “River" ship has been badly battered in
action, it crawls back to port; the crew crosses over to a
reserve ship of the same type, and finds even the cap pegs
in the same places ; so that no time is lost in getting the
hang of thenewfighting machine. The Germans have car-
ried the idea to its logical finish ; and pn a German ship of,
saj-, the Deutschland class any part is interchangeable.
Which makes for rapidity of repair and efficiency in work-
ing. All this sort of thing has to be arranged for ; for it
is useless having a fleet that is not constructed on the
best lines.
Australia’s chief trouble is the boiler and engine
question. All warships'bf first-class value are now fitted
with certain types of engines—mostly Parsons turbines —
and one of two brands of boilers. The firms that make
these particular types of boilers and engines must oe
induced or compelled to either start local works here or
grant the Australian Naval Department (to'be) the right
to manufacture their products here. It is useless buijd-
ing the ships here if the machinery to make them go has to
be dragged half-way round the globe. Parsons’ engines
are not likely to be used fora long while to come m any
but warships’; but the boilers are slowly winning their
way into the mercantile marine in spite of the conser-
vatism of the marine engineer; The British naval
authorities, after an exhaustive series of experiments ex-
tending over the best part of four years, decided that for
large ships the Babcock and Wilcox boiler was the best;
while for the smaller craft of the various torpedo types,
the Yarrow large tube was the ideal thing. But since
then the White-Forster water tube boiler has sup-
planted ' the Yarrow, and is being installed in all the
new ships and many of the old ones, on account of its
manifest improvements. The Yarrow has been declared
obsolete, and the White Forster has been enthroned in its
stead ; and the result is that torpedo destroyers that
hitherto did 30 knots an hour are now doing 39. These
boilers arid engines are the best in the world, and the
Babcock and WilOox firm has branches or subsidiary firms
in almost all civilised countries, so that to-day the German
fleet is fitted exclusively with Babcock and Wilcox and
White-Forster boilers, the same as the British. But they
are made by a German Babcock and Wilcox firm Most of
them are also fitted with Parsons’ turbines, but
the turbines are made by German firms working
in conjunction with the Parsons firm and paying
royalty on each engine made. If Australia is
to have * a navy, it must be fitted with the most
modern machinery, and the first step is to make an
arrangement with these firms to establish works in Aus-
tralia, or else to acquire the right to manufacture their
patents. They represent the apex and the last word in
modern engineering; and have to be reckoned with on
that account. As the Parsons engines are not likely to
be used in the mercantile marine, no doubt it will be
easy enough to come to an arrangement with the firm.
But as tne Babcock and Wilcox boilers are in use all over
the continent, it is possible that firm could be induced to
start works in Australia by an arrangement to take a
certain number of boilers of both the firm’s own
invention and the White-Forster invention which it con-
trols. If it will not come to an arrangement, the only
thing is to pass a Patent Law which will forfeit its patent
rights so far as this continent is concerned.
Ananias Australian.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Early Liar wrote a book,
His thieving times between ;
He happened shortly after Cook
Upon the Southern scene ;
The fat of facts he rarely took
But always chose to lean.
When Phillip, with a motley crew,
At Sydney Cove began,
Before the days of Waterloo,
His settlements to plan
The Liar did his level do,
Australia’s hope to ban.
His budget “’Ome” was ever writ
Unto a tune of “ Bust,”
Arid ev’ry scurvy line of it
Breathed failure and distrust;
Until his chance arrived to flit
Breathing his loud disgust.
And if he left with cash in hand
He settled down abroad
To vilify the distant land
Wherein he’d raked his hoard.—
A mean, ungrateful bounder and
A liar ’fore the Lord.
They followed sourly in his train,
The Liars, year on year :
The scratchings of their pens in pain
These generations hear—
Fat libel-mongers vyho complain
And yawp in tones severe.
The rum-lords of an early time
In Sheol fry or freeze ;
But still their tribe, with cheek sublime—
Ungrateful absentees —
Across the water grunt and chime
Their ancient perjuries.
They damn the country whence they cull
Their dividends and rents.
They fill the ears of Father Bull
With warnings and laments.
Their drivel to the Times is full
Of Stale Fish arguments.
Their Socialistic tiger loud
Among the gum-trees raves ;
The Caucus, like a spook in shroud,
Its awful moleskins waves :
Depression hangs its baleful cloud
O’er empty homes, and graves.
In gloomy haunts of sin and sand
Seditions slyly lurk :
The yeoman will not yoe his land,
The worker does not work ;
The tram-guard is a tyrant, and
The tradesman is a Turk.
The miner prigs the broker’s pelf
To play it up at cards ;
Qur single girls are on the shelf
For lack of decent “ pards ” ;
And Austral rhymers—like myself—
Are merely “ minor bards.”
And nothing but the Chows can save
This thrift-forsaken land ;
Unless a Tory leader brave
Appears to take a hand,
And young Australia sings “ Gorsave ”
Unto a German Band.
The Ananias of the South
Is just a paradox
Of hairy ears and blatant mouth
In striped exotic socks—
A cross between bad rum and drouth,
Who wears a hat like Knox.
Weird bogies haunt his daily dreams ;
And in his frantic nights
A Fenian yahoo squats and screams,
And barks and yelps and bites.
Across his mprning waking gleams
The Serpent of State Frights.
J ust what this paltry critic clod
Would have us be or do
Is only known to him and God ;
But this is plain and true —
’Tis time Australia’s bluchers trod
The bleater out of view.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS ana BUYERS.
We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHGNE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
! 179 Collins St., Melbourne :93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Lyne and Groom and the Dead Body of
Speaker Holder.
There was something curiously unaccountable
about therise of the tumult which was raging in the
Federal House of Representatives when Speaker
Holder said “ Dreadful, Dreadful! ” and then fell
down and died. The following are the most notable
points from the three-column report of the Deakin-
ite Melbourne Age (it was 4 a.rn. and William
Lyne was pointing the finger of rage at Minister
Groom):—
“ I am sorry to see the son of a good old man,” hissed
Mr. Lyne, with flamitur countenance—“ yes, of a grand
old man, destroying his career. It is enough to make
that good old man.turn in his grave to see ”
He g6t no further. A dozen Ministerialists shouted,
“ Shame ! Shame ! Withdraw, withdraw !”, They shook
their fists, gesticulating. Crouching upon the Ministerial
bench, as about to spring, Mr. Joseph Cook yelled above
the uproar, “Coward! Coward !” “You coward!*’
Mr. Groom’s head had sunk upon his breast. He raised
it to say, half sob and half hiss, “ You old scoundrel! ”
Facing the tumult with his head thrown back, his eyes
dilating, and his arms extended as if to repel a physical
onslaught, Mr. Lyne silently offered defiance.
The voice of the Chairman (Mr. McDonald) calling
“Order!” was lost in the turbulence. Mr. Joseph Cook
sprang.to his feet with a decision that betokened definite
and serious action. Momentarily the shouting benches
were hushed. ...
The Prime Minister leant forward on the Ministerial
bench and touched his colleague, who was wildly waving
his piece of paper, in order to bring him back to self-
consciousness. ... •
This observation was the signal for an indignant little
speech from the Prime Minister. He had sat silently be-
side Mr. Groom since Mr. Lynk's reference to that Minis-
ter’s father. Mr. Groom’s head was upon his breast ;
there were tears in his eyes. Mr. Dbakin’s face was
deathly white, arid he glared across at the member for
the Hume with flashing eyes.. . .
Ministerialists cheered'loudly ; some of them cried,
“ Seatrdalous ! ” “ Shame ! ”
Mr. Dbakin continued : “ I think, in justice to this
committee, that that reference should be withdrawn.”...
Mr. Lyne, who had been straining in his seat against his
inclination to rise, now jumped to his feet at a bound.
He faced the roaring benches as before, with purplecoun-
tenance and gesticulating arms. . . .
Mr. Groom waved his hand with “Oh, don’t, don’t!”
and rushed out of the Chamber. . . .
Labor members, some of whom had cheered Mr. Lyne,
now cijme to his defence. “If a member does not reflect
upon the dead in any way,” asked Mr. Hall, “ is that out
of order?”
“Shame! Shame !” shouted Mr. Mauger.
“The living can protect themselves,” said the Prime
Minister ; “ the dead cannot.”
Mr. Lyne started for the table again. He was in a
towering rage. “I didn’t say one word against the
dead,” he shouted. “ I honor him.”
Mr. Deakin interrupted. “ Desecration of the dead,”
he said.
Mr. Lyne turned upon his old chief with withering con-
tempt. “Does the hon. member talk like this to me? I
never said a word against the dead. I honor the dead. I
honor the memory of the dead.” . . .
Mr. Lyne (shouting very loudly and passionately): “I
didn t reflect on the gentleman referred to in any way ;
he was a great old friend of mine ; I only regretted that
he was not here instead of the son.”
Again there was a chorus of indignant Ministerial pro-
tests. “Shame! Shame!”
“You coward !” hissed Mr. Joseph Cook, thrusting his
face towards Mr. Lyne. “ You old coward ! ” (Great
uproar.)
Mr. Lyne paid no heed. He seemed beside him-
self in a transport of anger. “I cannot follow the son,”
he yelled , but I could follow the father jhe was mv
friend ; I knew him.”
The Minister of Defence: “Reflecting on the dead'
Shame ! ”
Mr. Lyne (still shouting): “I am supporting his
memory. I” (Uproar.)
It was about the end of the third column of this
sort of riot that Speaker Holder fell unconscious.
And the riot seems all hypocrisy, mock heroics,
hysteria, bogus anger and' folly. All that three
columns of shoutings about “reflections on the
dead,’ and-about the dead being unable to defend
themselves, and about “desecration,” were based
oil the, fact that William Lyne called Minister
Groom s father a good and grand old man. What
tnaniifr possessed the Fused crowd to rave as it did
the Lord only knows, but one fact stands out '
Speaker Holder is dead. And if that insane
bellowing killed him, then his dead body lies at
the Fused party’s door.
_
The Bulletin gets a note from H. F. Halloran,
a well-known Sydney land-subdivisionist, which
shows the wonderful ways of man when it comes
to a land deal. All that the public knew was that
Halloran owned the Stan well Park land, and the
Government wanted to resume some of it for a
park, whereupon Halloran asked for £lO,OOO.
Part of this was for damages, though, instead of
the prospective park being a damage, it was held
up .As an inducement to people to purchase
blocks in the subdivision. After a long and
expensive law case the State was ordered to
pay £3210 plus Costs. As The Bulletin
remarked before, it is a monstrous thing,
when a man asks £lO,OOO for property required
for public purposes, and a jury assesses the value
at £3210, that the State should have to pav all
the Costs. But it seems that in this case the State
only has itself to blame for trusting its business to
a Government with a craze for law ; anyway, Mr.
Halloran assures The Bulletin that, when he
was asked to name a price “without prejudice,”
he quoted £2300 for the area which the jury after-
wards said was worth £3210. Afterwards, when
Wade and his crowd decided to go to law. as
usual, Halloran claimed £10,000; and the fact
that he was just previously willing to accept
£2300 ought to set juries and courts and Land
Boards thinking the next time they sit on a case
m which they have to consider whether the price
asked for a proposed land-resumption is a fair one
or not.
-V
“Hassan”: A shocking case came into the Mel-
bourne watch-house tile other day. Four lads had
been charged with some petty larceny, and were
being searched. The search revealed the fact that
the youngest, a child of 14 years, was suffering
from a loathsome disease—in fact, it is such a
dreadful disease that the wowsers say its dread-
fulness ought to be enough to keep people from
catching it, wherefore they refuse to countenance
any Contagious Diseases Act. The Wowser argu-
ment is in effect: —“ The scoundrels Who catch it
are plainly punished by God for their wickedness.
The righteous man (like me), and the righteous
woman (like my daughter) are, by the grace of
Heaven, immune. This horrible disease may
serve to frighten many young men from their
sin.” But what about the little hoys ? This boy
who came into the watch-house is not the only
one. A month or two ago an infant of 12 was
treated in the casualty room of Melbourne Hospi-
tal for another venereal disease, a gift from his
governess. Whose sin was that ? Is innocence
sin, anyway ? Doctors in Melbourne have told me
that the disease is shockingly prevalent in Victoria.
But the fool parson aids and: abets the iniquity,
because he says he won’t give a legal status to
“vice.” As, however, the “ vice” is here to stay,
probably for longer than the parsons, it would be
a distinct advantage to make it a clean vice
instead of an insanitary one. Cleanliness is said
to be next to godliness. Whichever comes first, it
is rather surprising to see the two at war. It makes
one suspect that what the parsons consider godli-
ness is just plain stupidity, which is next to dirt,
and goes hand-in-hand with the disease which the
poor little slum babies are beginning to catch.
♦
The Victorian Chief Inspector of Factories has
issued his annual report for 1908, and makes a
remark or two well worth pasting on the bed post.
“ The general state of prosperity so noticeable
during 1907 was not continued last year,” he tells
his chief, “and the most that could be said was
that trade was fair.” Various reasons have been
given by different manufacturers for this ; but the
outstanding reason is “ the falling off of the export
trade to other States.” That is to say, the Pro-
tection afforded by the Federal tariff, especially
to the Ma State, has benefited N. S. Wales at the
expense of Victoria—which is quite a different
yarn from that commonly told by the anti-Federal
crowd in Sydney, whose narrative is that, because
the Commonwealth Parliament temporarily sits
in Melbourne, no place but Melbourne is allowed
to benefit by Federation. And the second point
worth noting is made by the senior inspector,
George Hall, who says :
Trade in country districts appeared good and in some
cases much improved on previous years, especially in
districts where large estates had been cut up and were
being used for cultivation purposes. This cutting-up not
only benefits the district concerned, but has indirectly
benefited many other trades in the city.
It is an old truth told anew by a practical man,
whose business it is to wander from factory to
factory and see the inwardness of things. The
disastrous land monopolist not only drives the
young farming community away to distant States
where it can get land, but he throttles the
State’s manufacturing industries as well.
♦
The Argus has been reading the report by the
N.S.W. School Inspector dealing with child
slavery in the dairying and rabbiting districts;
and it expresses its sorrow, in a mild, gentlemanly
way, adding that “ it is to be feared that a very
similar condition of affairs exists in some parts of
Victoria.” Then, in rather a hurry, the paper
nervously remarks that,, of course, “our best
farmers are a highly intelligent and progressive
body of men ” ; and that it is only the old con-
servative minority who work their children to
death. And furthermore :
We cannot help believing that it is to the narrow cir-
cumstances of parents like these that the bulk of the
child slavery which they so justly condemn is due. With-
out the assistance of child labor, some of them would not
be able to keep their heads above water.
Then, just when the article was beginning to get
interesting, the editor’s nib broke, or he upset the
ink. Anyway, the discourse came to a sudden
stop with the lame platitude that :
While admitting that only the strongest reasons can
justify any interference which may further handicap a
body of men already struggling hard for a living, the
claims of the children must not be overlooked.
There are two -classes of men who would be
“interfered with,” as the Argus characteristi-
cally puts it, if child labor on the farms were pro-
hibited. The first is the miserable, earth-hungry,
bowelless man who is always buying a bit more
land at a high price, arid sweating the purchase-
money out of his children. The other is the land-
lord, whose high rent is dependent on the fact that
his tenants have the free labor of their children.
The decent farmer wouldn’t be affected at all.
All that would happen would be that rents would
steady a bit, and land-values would stop in their
present rush skywards.
♦ — ;
Melbourne Age lately spread itself at large on
the gorgeous results of Californian fruit-growing
under irrigation, giving instances where men
cleared suras of £l5OO. £BOO, £5OO per acre. Un-
happily it went into details in one case—half an
acre of pear trees (54 trees), producing 880 cases of
fruit, realised £730. That spoilt the whole thing.
If the Age would send a man out as far as Don-
caster, only nine miles away, lie could be shown
trees that, under irrigation, produced over 1000
cases of pears to the acre last summer; but,
whether they were exported or sold locally, those
pears seldom netted the grower more than 2s. 6d.
a case. So the Victorian fruit-grower, either near
Melbourne or in the Goulburn Valley or up at
Mildura, doesn’t need any lessons on irrigation;
but if the Age can tell him how to get money for
the crop he does grow, he will be no end obliged.
“ Oby ” on a genealogy
Dr. Thomas Hodgkin, in his University extension lec-
ture in St. James’s Hall, Sydney, l ist week, traced King
Edward’s genealogy back to Alfred the Great and there-
abouts. But the late Queen Victoria treasured a family
tree with a much more ancient stem. Emperor William,
through her, claims descent from the House of David,
and has frequently asserted himself as being of the same
family as the Founder of Chrisi ianity. Parson Glover, of
the Anglican Church, devoted most of his life to seeking
out the alleged ramifications of the Guelphs, and
in 1869 presented Victoria with his book of results.
Speaking from memory, it is difficult to sort out the
tangle, but it dates back to Heremon, King of Ulster,who
must have been very far back, long before the days of
Nial of the Hostages, or Nial of the Showers. Heremon
visited Palestine and seems to Ijave boltedwith a daugh-
ter of King David and abducted a Hebrew prophet at the
same time. Names like Zedekiah and Jeremiah drift
through the narrative, but it is a hard story to dis-
entangle. How Heremon’s descendants were identified,
and how they got mixed up with the Guelphs of Germany
are also things that are not easy of decipherment; but
anyhow it was a fine, large pedigree.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Flag’ Lieutenant."
Theatre Royal. “ The Bondman."
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatreseope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Town Hall Kate Rooney (Aug. 5 and 7).
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Theatre Royal “ The Taming of the Shrew,”
Her Majesty's “Havana.”
King s “ It’s Never Too Late to Mend.”
Princess’s “a Bachelor’s Honeymoon.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
“Cinderella,” the pantomime which ran
for over four months in Melbourne, arrived at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night last. It
brings one up against the problem : “Can a modern
pantomime be a pantomime?” Seemingly not.
Originally pantomimes were plays of fantasy
wherein, by dance and song, and the introduction
of elves, gnomes, monsters, fairies and demons,
and talking birds, flowers and beasts, the fairy
atmosphere of the old-time children's tales
was preserved. Primarily they were sup-
posed to be for the youngsters. But, in order
that the latter’s attendants or tamers shouldn’t be
too much bored, topical jests, sentimental ballads,
and other items gratifying to the adult mind were
introduced. Andsoan attractive and worthy sort
of play was gradually evolved. If contained a good
deal of poetry, some innocuous humor, various
grotesque figures, human and otherwise ;and finally
it satirised current affairs, social and political,
in light and genial fashion. Nowadays all that
is changed. The new Criterion production, for
instance, is a cross between a Rickards show and
a musical comedy. Grown-ups may appreciate it,
but it is calculated to puzzle and weary the
average juvenile to exasperation. Its main weak-
ness lies in the dogged determination of the prin-
cipals to be funny at any cost. Rarely have so
many licensed humorists come together in any
theatre. It is wonderful to watch them enter
one by one with their strange clothes and
their weird face-stripes and other disfigurements,
and stand in distorted attitudes expressive of
gratification while the house applauds. Nearly
all the principals aspire to be comic. They
are continually buffeting, kicking, pushing,
insulting and thrashing one another with boards ;
falling, tripping, somersaulting, making puns, and
seeking by every device conceivable to liven
things up. It takes particularly good fooling and
some novelty in the way of wit to render this sort
of thing attractive for 2£ hours. The fooling at
the Cri. is not wildly meritorious, and many of
the quips date from the days of our forebears.
* * * *
A heap of the old pantomimic traditions that
have grown up round the famous story of the
maiden with the tiny foot has been jettisoned.
The “ugly step-sisters” are portrayed by
attractive young women, who look much
too merry and well-fed to be malignant.
The 20-year-old part of Dandini is sustained
by a man—an absurd arrangement in the circum-
stances. There is no kitchen cat (indispensable
adjunct of past Cinderellas); no Fairy Godmother
worth discussing (her arrival in Cinderella’s
kitchen is a marvel of unimpressi veness); no evil
spirits ; a paucity of ballet; and satire on con-
temporary affairs is confined practically to a
guarded assault on the dust of Pict-street. On
the distinctively credit side of the show may Vie
ranged the scenic effects (few, but exquisite); the
male chorus-singing; the costuming; the figures
of the majority of the young women performers ;
and Miss Ruth Lincoln.
"THE FLAG LIEUTENANT." AT HER
MAJESTY'S SYDNEY.
THOMAS
KINGSTON.
Lady Herrnione Wynne ('MISS
ETHEL WARWICK).
“The Flag Lieutenant” was played at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, for the first time in Aus-
tralia, on Saturday night. The effect was pleas-
ing. The action is laid in and about a British
battleship. Flag-Lieutenant Dicky Lascelles and
Bill Thesiger, Major of marines, are friends. In
the days of his youth, Dicky—being of an irre-
sponsible turn of mind—helped himself to lucre
from the ship s wine-fund. No exuberant humor
or geniality condones this sort of exploit in the
Queen’s navy, and so Thesiger, to save his friend,
made up the depleted drink-money from his own
meagre screw. Naturally Lascelles conceived a
great gratitude and love for his preserver. Years
pass. The curtain rises on the after-cabin
of the Royal Edward, what time a dance
is raging. Things have gone as well with
Dicky as his ambitionless nature demands. He is
socially popular. The girl of his choice adores
him. He has an income of a size to render wine-
funds safe in his hands. But poor old Bill Thesiger
is a grey-haired failure. He has no money, no
influence, and in all his 20 years of service no
chance of grabbing glory by its fleeting leg has
come his way.
* * 9 m
Suddenly the luck changes. Mrs. Cameron
—rich, influential, and a widow—owns to Wil-
liam that she loves him. That disposes of
two of his most crushing disabilities right away.
The powder from the widow’s divine cheek
is still dry on his chest when the Admiral
enters and puts him in charge of a relief expedi-
tion to Crete. We are glad for Bill’s sake —yet
apprehensive withal. For he is one of those
luckless ones, as common off as they are on the
stage, with whom nothing ever goes tjuite right.
Bill proves true to type. Arrived in a beleaguered
fort at Crete, what is, seemingly, the one brilliant
idea of his career occurs to him, and he sets out,
in the garb of a Bashi Bazouk, to communicate
with a cable station, half a mile away, and
thereby save the garrison. A spent bullet stuns
him. Dicky finds his senseless form, grasps the
position, commandeers his disguise, and performs
the deed of heroism himself. He returns to dis-
cover (1) that he has been urgently wanted in his
absence, and (2) that Bill’s experience with the
bullet has served to blot from his (Bill’s)
memory the events of the preceding hour. The
unpleasantness over the wine-fund and Bill’s
conduct in regard to the same surge up in Dicky’s
mind ; also the tragedy of his saviour’s un-
eventful soldiering existence. He inspires a
despatch which gives the credit of his
plucky deed to Bill; ' and persuades Bill
that he is the hero. Act 111. finds Bill
famous; and Dicky, owing to his inability to
account for his absence in time of stress, shunned
as a coward. In the end, trouble is smoothed
away, more or less, owing to the discovery by
Bill’s Jiancde of the truth. A peculiar arrange-
ment is come to whereby all who really matter
learn that Dicky is the real hero; and Bill and the
rest are kept in the dark on the subject, and
yet are cheered by the Admiral’s public assur-
ance that Dicky did not show the white feather as
alleged.
* » ♦
The dialogue is clever and delightfully
life-like ; there is not a stagey phrase in it. The
scenic effects and mounting approach perfection ;
the acting is level and good throughout; and
infinite attention has been paid to detail, so that
no anomalies or anachronisms creep in to jar
on one. The weakness lies in the ending.
The finish of the story is not only not
inevitable; it is hardly possible. Even"if we
manage to assume that a British, or other Ad-
miral, is going to condone (purely in the cause
of sentimentality) the faking of a despatch,
and enter furthermore into a conspiracy of
silence whereby the wrong man shall get
a “step” and a 0.M.G., the conclusion
doesn’t work out satisfactorily. Down the long
vista of the years we see Bill embarrassing and
exasperating his clever wife with fatuous blither-
ings anent the luck he had in that Cretan busi-
ness. She would have to tell William all in
course of time, or assassinate him. And Dicky !
Would he ever, for all the Admiral’s quarter-deck
exculpation, shake off that charge of cowardice —
the one allegation that is never forgotten or for-
given in the service? Long after Dicky was an
old, old man the injurious yarn would be going
strong, and growing apace in the process. No;
the after-lives of the characters don’t bear think-
ing about.
* * * *
Never, in the writer’s recollection, has
Thomas Kingston provided a more attractive stage-
figure than he, does as Dicky Lascelles. Yet it is
doubtful if the authors meant Dicky to be quite
the sort of person Kingston portrays. There is a
frequent brand of British mariner who does
things, big and little, in an elaborately
futile manner. Futility is, as a matter
of fact, his pose. Often the apparently
half-witted one is an excellent man at his
job; Kingston lacks a good deal of the surface
idiocy of the Dicky whom Drury and Trevor
appear to have conceived. G. S. Titheradge
is a magnificent and delightful old Admiral.
Cyril Mack ay plays Bill for all that
pleasing part is worth. Dion Titheradge
and Rege Carey are a likely pair of midshipmen,
and Greg MaeMahon’s sketch of Palliser is full of
merit. Miss Dorothy Grimston acts with charm-
ing distinction as Mrs. Cameron. Miss Warwick
and Miss Elwyn Harvey are good in ingenue
parts, and Miss Emma Temple does well as Mrs.
Gough-Bogle.
** * *
After Friday next “The Great Rescue”
ceases to occupy Sydney Royal. On Saturday,
“ The Bondman,” one of the masterpieces of the
Divine Hall—he of Man—will be staged by the
Bland Holt co.
* * '«
“A garden is a lovesome thing, God
wot!” And with that line in their six poetic
minds, Mrs. James Ashton and the Misses A. and
E. Cusack, Alice Norton, Gladys Owen and Ethel
Stephens have wrought close upon 120 studies of
flowers and flower gardens. The exhibition
(in Holt’s Chambers, York-street, Sydney) was
opened last week by Lady Chelmsford, and will
remain ajar until Saturday. On the whole, it is a
charming collection. The native flora is often
lovingly and faithfully delineated, and the gar-
dens are seductive in their incitement to get
hence and take up horticulture and make a par-
terre worth reproducing on canvas. Red seals on
a number of the studies proclaim them as sold.
** * *
The Newbury concert programme at
Sydney Y.M. C.A. Hall was further diversified on
Saturday night by the addition of a contralto.
Miss Kathleen Dorahy, and the pianiste-composer
Miss Esther Kahn ; also Mr. Sidney Price filled a
suddenly-made gap caused by the illness of the
reciter, Miss Wingfield. Mr. Price’s delinea-
tion of a Shakspearian reciter with an artificial arm
and hand sent the audience into staggers of mirth.
A Newbury audience always has its ears pricked
for the tenor’s singing of “ Come into the Garden,
Maud.” If it is not a programme number it must
be an encore, and an encore it was on Saturday
after Newbury had given “ On with the Motley.”
Cyril Monk and Gladstone Bell, Mis 3 Amy
Murphy and Mr. Larsen —who sang gleefully,
pagan-wise, of the Pipes of Pan—lent their aid.
Some additions to the forthcoming concert an-
nounced by Mr. Lewis Scott (musical director) —•
are Laurance Phillip, Miss Elsa Fischer (a
daughter of the late Hugo Fischer and possessor
of a fine dramatic soprano), Miss Ruby Michael,
and a boy—a wonder child with a violin.
In the test outbreak finished yesterday
England’s position was desperate, and she had to
risk everything for a win. And, as this
strengthened Australia’s position, the English-
men’s only hope was in an urgent, but judicious,
appeal to D.C.L—the whisky of the wise. In
the scholarly brand is often found the inspiration
which provides the final element of success.*


The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take lias made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone Nq. 230 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
Mr. Ernest Truman, who out of many
called was the one chosen for the billet of Sydney
City organist, at an increment of £4OO a year and
the right of private practice, is an Englishman by
birth. During the period between his sixth and
fifteenth year he was a Maorilander ; for the fol-
lowing three years he was a Sydneysider, and a
student of music. Later he went to Leipzig,
where he abode five years, shunning the de-
lights of duels, Frankfurtsausagesand Bier-gartens,
and spending laborious days at his art. The re-
mainder of his still young life has been spent in
Sydney. He is a prolific composer, and has
turned out songs, chamber music, organ music, a
Mass in D minor, and an opera which was pro-
duced at the Criterion Theatre about five years
ago. The only excuse for putting Mr. Truman in
this column is that he has in his short career
played many parts. Also an organ with a monkey
on top of it is certainly a show, and an organ
without a monkey should be one also.
** * *
An entertainment of varied interest is
billed for Monday next at Sydney St. James’
Hall. Miss Maud Grantham, an elocutionist of
note, proposes to give recitals from Dickens’s
“The Cricket on the Hearth.” Those who haven’t
yet encountered Caleb Plummer and his afflicted
child, and John and Dot and the rest of the quaint
characters in this charming Christmas book, should
turn up and meet them. At intervals. Miss Con-
stance Brandon-Usher will play, and Miss Emma
Sussmileh and Mr. Richmond Crouch will sing.
** * *
Chung Ling Soo is still filling Sydney
Tivoli with patrons and mystery ; but his sailing
date draws near and the weird Chow music of his
turn has a sad note of farewell in it. The Three
Laurels likewise are shortly due to pack up the
patent spring table and get hence. These two
notable departures will leave the programme
standing on one leg, and it remains to be seen
what other support the management has
provided. R. H. Douglass and Cissie Cur-
lette, the other two first-class artists of the
cqmpany, are not yet threatening to leave the
country—like Capital. According to the morning
paper, Manager Rickards has been speaking
solemnly to the Era, and some of his remarks to
that religious print should he published on the
programmes. This is one of the impressive slabs
of his oration : “ The Australian people will have
nothing hut the best, and no act or no artist is too
big for them. As it appears to all who take an
interest in the subject that an era of undreamt-
of prosperity is dawning in Australia, the require-
ments of those who purvey for the public amuse-
ment will be of a character that will give rise to a
steady stream of emigration, temporary or per-
manent, of the ablest entertainers the Mother
Country can supply.” To which noble sentiment
the gallery will, no doubt, say, “ ’Ear, ’ear !”
■Sfc Sfc
“Havana,” the musical incoherence which
arrived at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) last Satur-
day (its first Australian experience was in
Sydney), is the spineless product of a syndicate
of authors and composers. In the story of the
previous production “The King of Cadonia”—
there were some humorous points and suggestions,
but in “Havana” the flickers of narrative are
weak and foolish ; and, except for certain amusing
circumstances in the performance, it is dull, as
musical “ plays ” go. The strenuous endeavors
of the chorus to wake things up are not wholly
fruitless; the labor is not all in vain. In-
dividual efforts by Bert Gilbert and Miss
Lottie Sargent give capital results, and
make for the salvation of the show. Never-
theless one notices all the time that a lack
of originality is “ Havana’s ” original sin. Every-
thing is what one has seen before in a slightly
different form, and the general effect falls below
Williamsonian par. The company has been given
a full box of tricks to play with; but nothing
notably new and clever is disclosed.
* * * *
Bert Gilbert, as the pessimistic bo’sun of
the yacht that comes to Havana Harbor, is con-
spicuously successful, not because he has the
leading part, but because he has a humorous
personality. He looks, to be sure, more like a
despondent railway porter than a bo’sun ; but he
presents a distinctive character. His method is
incisive. He gets there' and stays there. Some-
times he dwells too long upon his joke, although
he is never tiresome. And Miss Sargent is like-
wise pungent and incisive. Her thin, weak voice
does full justice to every word she speaks, and her
eyes, feet and hands are full of expression. Being
quick and lively, with a pretty little turn for
mock sentimentality, she is the best of soubrette
associates for gloomy Gilbert. His rejection of
her amorous advances is not new humor, yet it is
very droll. Other people are not notably amusing.
Frank Greene, a baritone singer and graceful
dancer of commonplace quality, has no natural
vivacity. Doubtless, his manners are irreproach-
able at table ; but he doesn’t frivol with theatrical
abandon. Greene is supported in three musical
numbers by eight damsels billed as “flappers,”
who bound into action and introduce elaborate
business effects with their “flapping.” Unfor-
tunately there is no visible reason why they flap
thus around Mr. Greene, and when their inter-
ruptions cease they leave no ripple of excitement
on the surface of the proceedings. Herbert Clay-
ton, as the owner of the visiting yacht, is the
other baritone, and he loves the heroine. In
“ Cadonia ” he was better placed, for there he was
a nice young king who culminated in coronation
robes. Here he is a young man merely, and
although Clayton is a very nice young man
he is not dramatic and picturesque in
style. He wears an air of refined amateurish-
ness and an ingenuous smile. In short,
he lends no color to a colorless part, in
which shortcoming he affords a violent contrast to
P. Bathurst, who plays a glaringly ornamental
conspirator, as usual. Bathurst should be engaged
to instruct Clayton in the rudiments of picture-
poster acting. Miss Olive Godwin, as the heroine,
appears to be a virtuous and respectable first
cousin to Carmen. She smokes cigarettes and
smiles scornfully, but has no vice in her. Also she
sings vigorously and tunefully, and may be said
to meet the requirements of an unexacting case.
Miss Susie Vaughan impersonates an elderly
skittish spinster, mostly engaged in contributing
bags of money to the cause of Pat Bathurst, the
conspirator. Miss Ivy Scott has a song to sing
and a little else to do. Victor Prince is a pon-
derous Mayor of Havannah. Edward Noble is
an alleged junior assistant on the yacht, and
there is one Sidney Gotto, in the character
of the Mayor’s Son, betrothed to the Carmen girl.
Gotto, to tell brutal truth, doesn’t amount to a
character. He is only a scalp dangling from the
girdle of G. P. Huntley, the very English comedian
who came to Australia with “Three Little Maids,”
and afterwards showed his versatility by appear-
ing as Hoggenheimer. That is to say, Huntley
adapted a real type of lordly Johnny for stage
purposes, and a whole tribe of comedians fell
victims to Huntley’s native art. Gotto is the
most out-of-place of these imitators that Aus-
tralia has known thus far. The music of
“ Havana,” not being generally catchy, is utilikely
to haunt the soul of the local German band ere
the season runs out.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal there is solid and
admiring patronage for the Asche-Brayton co.
and “The Taming of the Shrew.” An excep-
tionally fine show was promised, and this first
production of the imported forces confirms the
best suspicions of inquiring minds. Therefore,
the devotees of Shakspeare are repeating their
old assertion that the works of William, when pre-
sented in a handsome manner by practical per-
formers, are bound to draw large audiences, which
statement is about as truthful as the average
mining prospectus. All the same, “ The Shrew ”
with the Christopher Sly induction thrown in,
has paved the way for a prosperous series of re-
vivals, assuming that the rich spectacular
jest at the Iloyal shall move Melbourne
in the direction of poetic drama. The story
of Petruchio’s experiment in matrimony is
not very poetical; but the staging is beautiful,
and when the dialogue invites reverent elocution
the company rise to the occasion like goldfish at
feeding time. Oscar Asche himself is a bright,
chippy spokesman. Miss Brayton has a velvet
voice. The performance throughout pleases the
ear whilst appealing to the eye of a generation
that neither accepts Shakspeare for his reputa-
tion’s sake, nor bears him any ill-will on account
of his intemperate idolators. If the superfluous
happening of the mock Vincenzio were omitted
from the play, it would be improved by his ab-
sence. However, “ The Shrew ” promises to keep
the management joyful for another week, and, in
a Bardy way of speaking, all’s well that pays
well.
* * 4* .Jit
Meanwhile the absurdities of “A Bache-
lor’s Honeymoon” are filling a public want at
Melbourne Princess’s. The farce which centres in
the fatal wedding of Hugh Ward and Grace
Palotta is a tissue of preposterous complications
arising from a practically impossible event.
Nothing is legitimately funny except the foolish-
ness of it all. Fiction goes stark, staring mad in
the reception room of Benjamin Batchelor, and
the least impossible person on the premises is one
who tries the whisky cure for dog-bite until he
walks on all fours and says “ bow-wow.” Yet the
farce is laughable in the first act, and more laugh-
able in the second and third. People seemingly
approach these strange outbreaks of Hugh Ward,
these naturalised extracts of nightmare, with a firm
determination to be unreasonably happy. A
special license is granted to them, but if Brough
of yore had done the same thing he would have
whistled for public approval as vainly as J. C.
Williamson might if he were to do likewise.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s “A Sailor’s Sweet-
heart ” is the cause of managerial satisfaction.
Last Saturday night a large population came
to adore the vocal gaucheries of able seaman Bert
Bailey ; and also study the last sartorial
blither of Lieutenant Redgrave. As it happens,
the Lieutenant can easily justify the magnificence
of his attire. He has returned from the grave a
plutocrat, and his wealth comes in handy to van-
quish such poor forces of evil as a perfidious
bailiff and his myrmidons. These are the last
nights of the gallant officer and his triumph. On
Saturday occurs a revival of Charlesßeade’s “It’s
Never Too Late to Mend,” on a scale of scornful
indifference to £ s. d.
** * *
The Bulletin has to record its languish-
ing interest in “Sweet County Kerry” at Mel-
bourne Bijou, although the play is not devoid of
original efforts. One of the most captivating
scenes in the piecfe is A. Doone’s warble to
his colleen. He murmurs fascinatingly of love
among doves and little fishes; but stops there.
This gives the song an unfinished aspect, for so
many animals are omitted.
“ THE TAMING OF THE SHREW” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
OSCAR ASCHE as
Petruchio.
ATHOL
FORDE as
Grumio.
Two of three films of exceptional merit are
now jogging across the cambric at West’s Mel-
bourne Olympia. The' best of these is, possibly,
“ The Grandfather,” a morbidly pathetic incident
of the Franco-Prussian War. “ The Abduct.on,”
a commonplace story of a stolen infant, de-
serves a diploma for its rich and accu-
rate tinting, which gives the tatters ,of
the banditti quite an elevating brilliance.
“A Narrow Escape” is quite of another order. Its
theme treats of a baldheaded husband, a wife with
a gash of a smile, and the usual extra. Possibly
in the original French the picture was more un-
guarded in its stocking and elan ; but in the
anglicised version it is comfortably below the
speed limit, and will never be hauled up for
furious driving.
At Melbourne Town Hall —the Taits’
Saturday evening address for a few more weeks—
the menu is bright and persuasive. There is
rather a superfluity of entrees with saucy emana-
tions ; but the heavier nourishment is in sufficient
quantity to satisfy most people. F’rinstanee,
there are “The Little Shepherd of Tumbling
Run,’’ a tale of a little angel, a wandering lamb
and a faithful dorg; and “The Road to
Love,” which shows that the thoroughfare is
the old, oft-trodden track even in a romantic
Central American environment. Travel-pictures,
which provide the populace with a hash of foreign
experiences, are in fair force this week. There
are a naval review at Spithead, several scenes
on the Canadian Pacific Railway, and the
port of Copenhagen, which serves to remind
the thoughtful spectator of Melbourne’s only too
obvious docking deficiencies.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the most
recent additions, other than Bluett, are the Two
Bells, who dance a merry chime, and two other
lady artists, who play the trumpet, violin, piano,
and all kinds of music with an air of distinction —
a distinction without a difference when they blow
their sweetness into their respective brass instru-
ments. The taller onq. is either Florence or
Lillian. The Meisters linger on, likewise Blake
and Granby; but Lawson and Namon have de-
parted. Cinquevalli, meanwhile, is at his last
nights, with a new assistant in the comic relief
business. Theold assistant, Walter, will nevermore
occupy the chair that Cinquevalli balanced on his
chin. Epilepsy befel Walter a few days ago, and
he was placed in an asylum under medical in-
structions as a hopelessly insane case. After
which he put the strength of his sympathetic boss
to an exciting test, for, having escaped from a
private asylum, he was discovered by Cinquevalli
who tried to take him quietly in hand. The
madman turned on the juggler, but the skil-
ful strong man mastered him at last. Walter
was assistant to Cinquevalli for more than 10 years.
Previously •he had been dresser to Bert Gilbert,
who was lucky in not being revisited by his old
employee when the poor fellow became a dan-
gerous citizen. One never knows one’s luck.
“A ROYAL DIVORCE” AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Julius Knight (Napoleon), two supers and a
horse rampant. (Tableau.)
Had Walter, on his last appearance in public,
become possessed of the idea to kill a fiddler with
Cinquevalli’s cannon-ball, it would have gone hard
with that fiddler. It is in the nature of a cannon-
ball to go hard.
** * *
At Adelaide Tivoli Rickards has again
got busy in his own house. Miss Casselii and her
Che (something Mexican) dogs Are a really star
turn. These are amoosin’ little cusses, and trained
beyond all the limits of probability. The sisters
Sprightly are just that, and are specialists in cos-
tume, too. Adelaide has seen Tom Dawson
before, also Graham and Dent, and is glad to see
them again. The Royal has revived “The Fatal
Wedding.” H. R. Roberts continues to putin fine
work on poor parts, and Maggie Moore is at last
content to take a character that suits her ; but, as
of old, the Tin Can Band saves the show. Denis
Carney has come to the Empire, also a Russian
wire-walking lady with an improbable name. At
the Town Hall, Bribery’s Steeplechase has been
showing per film.
** * *
Chapman and Alexander are having a
great time in Adelaide. The Exhibition, on Sun-
day afternoon, had a house of 7000 “ men only”
(and a £lOO collection).' But at their first recep-
tion one>- Henry Howard, himself a fearless and
unconventional preabher, gave out some straight
talk. There was a revival in Adelaide some years
back. “ The aftermath of that fell to me.” When
the revivers left, Howard was handed a list of
600 people they had saved, and was asked to keep
in touch with the lot. He analysed the list, and
400 of the newly-saved were among the most
prominent churchgoers in the city ! (Which is as
much as though, on the departure of an English
XL, Noble and Armstrong and Clem Hill should
put themselves down as having taken a deep
desire to play cricket, and wanting to be shown
how.) He passed by the 400 pious frauds and wrote
to each of the other 200. “ I got 150 of those letters
back from the dead-letter office. There were no
such persons and no such addresses ! Of the
remaining 50 I cannot now put my hand on one.
That was the result frotn the inside as I saw it.”
The hard-headed penitent, who knows he will be
sorry for it to-morrow, and even while crying
“Glory,” retains the presence of mind to give a
false name and address, just as if he had been
caught in a two-up school, must surely be a
special product of practical Adelaide.
At latest advices, Australia’s Annette Kellermann was
firmly lodged in the public eye of Somewhere, Some
State, U.S.A. An automobile carnival was lately held at
that address, and, asa side issue, there was a beauty com-
petition to select the queen of the show. Over 1000 damsels
of varying loveliness joined in. Annette topped the poll
with 12,000 votes. The calibre of some of the competitors
may be gauged by the fact that the beauteous Anna Held
was a candidate, and managed to bapturfe 1000 votes.
Foster Fraser’s lecturing tour through Australia will be
under the management of Oarlvle Sm.vthe, who, by the
way, has been talking very brightly about Germany and
its people and its drama in the columns of Sydney
Morning Herald. Smythe junior, who succeeded to the
the title of “much-travelled” when his parent —R.S.—
conferred the distinction of “most-travelled” upon him-
self, will be back in Melbourne at the end of this month.
Foster Fraser follows him a month later, and will make
his first appearance on August 30.
AT POVERTY POINT.
John Brunton, one of a long line of eminent
scenic artists and one of the best of them, died suddenly
last Thursday night at his residence in Roslyn Gardens,
Sydney. He was 63 years of age. Heart disease was the
cause of his passing out, and it is about as easy death
as any one could devise. Brunton, who was of Caledonian
origin, catne to Australia about 20 years ago, and toiled
for many years in the service of Bland Holt. He leaves a
widow, two sons, and a 16-vear-old daughter who is
already in Bland Holt’s service. He was buried at
Waverley, not far from' the slab which tells of the. resting
place of “ Our Honey ” Sadie McDonald. A multitude of
theatrical and other folk attended at the grave, and the
vegetable which expresses grief and respect was numerous.
“Snell”: There is more than a touch of bright, broad
caricature in Rose Musgrove’s Mary Ann, the comic
serving maid in “ A Bachelor’s Honeymoon,” It is as
funny as the author’s somewhat tripey treatment will
permit of, and hints that in Miss Musgrove we have the
makings of that very rare bird, an excellent female low
comedian. Polly Emery was one, and the scarcity of the
species is testified by the fact that we have not produced
one since whom I can call to, mind with hard thinking,
for Pattie Browne never quite got down to the requisite
note. It is my opinion that Australia’s incapacity to
make the best use of its best artists has eclipsed a world
of gaiety in Rose Musgrove.
“S.S.”: The cable the other day told of a trained
crocodile who so far forgot himself as to bite off the arm
of the “princess” who was toying with him during a
music-hall performance in Paris. Crocodiles are very
absent-minded, and no amount
of training- quite convinces them
that they should not bite at any-
thing Which the instincts of
10,000 generations of crocs
teaches them to bite. I have
these facts from a mock
Egyptian who was showing
in these parts with; a brace
of poddy crocodiles > a few
years back. She was careful
to confine herself to croco-
diles that weren’t large
enough to help themselves
to more than a p'dpnd of
Egypt at a time, and she
kept herself bone ,thin so
as not to throw temptation
in their way. “ Do they get
fond of you?” I asked. “Oh, yes,” said the French-
polished ’Egyptian ; “ but they are fonder of mutton.”
“E.D.”: Asche’s production of “The Taming: of the
Shrew” is, in many respects, the finest Shakspearian per-
formance Australia has seen in 20 years. Whete critics
and spectators are disposed to give it least credit it is
nearest perfection—that is in dressing-, mounting:,.scenic
effects and in the general grouping. The mellow perfec-
tion of some of these pictures is absolutely charming,
where the meretricious splendor of many previous .Shak-
spearian displays only gave pain. Here everything is
old and in keeping. The walls are mellowed by time ;
they have the deep, gracious tones age iriipart's. The
clothing is rich, accurate and always appropriate,
and the settings are admirably composed. Two pictures
alone are worth the fee—Sly in his sumptuous bed,
and the last scene, with the dancing couples in
an ancient quaint apartment, and the two fools caper-
ing in the shadows. There are no spangles. no'Christ-
mas-card prettinesses—the thing is just right. Apart
from the two principals, however, I think this entertain-
ment has been excelled in the feature of which* most is
made in the advts., the happy abandon of thetcomedy.
I recollect a keener satisfaction in this particular jrom a
performance of “Twelfth Night,” by* Janet Waldorf s
company, when the fortuitous concourse of comedians
resulted in a burst of rollicking merriment that has hardly
ceased to rollick even now. Atholwood was Sir Toby,
Gwynne the clown, May Chevalier (of small consequence
previously and since) made a most whimsical Maria,
Aguecheek was excellent, and Malvolio good enough
to go on with. Sufficient for the play was the evil thereof,
but the comedy at least was generous and gusty.
Oscar Asche, interviewed on the slump in things
theatrical in London, attributes it to three causes : (1)
The simple one of too many theatres. (2) The odd one of
stage illusions being “given away.” “I am assure as
I am that I am sitting here talking to you, that the now-
very common practice of letting friends behind the
scenes, and the printing of magazine and newspaper
articles showing how this or that illusion is worked, has
done a great deal to destroy the old enthusiasm
for the drama.” (3) The English practice of
making a good show by filling up the- house
with “paper.” Once a man or woman (particularly
a woman?) has been given a free seat for the play, that
person is probably spoiled for life as a cash patron. Asche
declares that a manager he was with, who had given
away two seats for a Friday night, was thrown put of
work by the burning down of the theatre on the Friday,
and on Monday, received a letter from the pass-holders
presuming that, as there had been no pla.v for them to
see, the money-value of the seats would be handed them !
Amy Castles, it seems, will be back in Australia next
month, and the Taitshave booked her dates at Melbourne
Town Hall from August 21. Two men singers are coming
with her—a young tenor named Anderson Nicoll, and
Peter Dawson, the well-known basso. On her merits
rather than on her former “boom” reputation, the
soprano will be judged this time. Melbourne is bound to
note an improvement in the singing of Amy Castles, and
a certain roundness in her voice, as well as in her appear-
ance. The writer, hearing her in London last year, found
her w'arble beautifully sweet and smooth, though minus
the ringing tone and telling top note of more sensational
artists. She is a comely, matronly-looking Miss Castles,
with a refined method of using an uncommonly sweet
voice.
“Theorbo” : The two chief Melbourne musical societies
—Philharmonic and another—are busy getting up Men-
delssohn Festivals for the Centenary. There is some con-
fusion in the musical world as to whether Felix Men-
delssohn Bartholdy was Jew or Christian. Both, per-
haps, under the same circumstances as Disraeli. He was
grandson of the noble Hebrew reformer, Moses Men-
delssohn. Yet two of this Moses’ daughters turned'.
Catholic. Two sons were firm Jews. Another son, Abra-
ham, Felix’s father, came under the influence of his
brother-in-law, Salomon, who had turned Christian and
added on the name of Bartholdy, taken merely from the
former occupant of the house in which he lived. How-
ever, Salomon persuaded Abraham to have his children,*
Fanny and Felix, baptised as Christians, taking the name
of Bartholdy. Therefore, when a Mendelssohn Centenary
Monument was inaugurated in Germany this year, thg
Mendelssohns refused to attend. Only the Bartholdy
crowd went. Much excuse, indeed, there was for the
cunning of Salomon and Abraham. The Jews used to be
more persecuted in Germany than almost anywhere else.
They were not allowed to be taught German, hence arose
the Yiddish language. Amid the petty worries there was
a rule that everj Jew, on getting married, had to buy a
lot of crockery, according to his means, out of the Govern-
ment factory." Thus the unsaleable stuff was worked off
on Israel. One Mendelssohn was stuck for a number of
life-size crockery apes (said to be twenty !) now treasured
as heirlooms.
(Continued on page 30.)
THE MERRY WIDOWER.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
I saw him rocking at his gate,
A merry man and stout;
The moon was up, the hour was late,
None other was about.
He raised a joyous cry, andflopped
Recumbent on the pave ;
’Twas but a fortnight since he dropped
His missus in her grave.
And now he was too tight to stand.
His grieving all was gone.
He shook a 'topper in his hand,
Which he had jumped upon. <
“ Oh, come an’ look,” he cried with glee,
“ Say, what yer make o’ that ? ”
He waved the tile, “ It is,” said he,
“ The Merry Widower Hat! ”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


A FASHIONABLE HAT.
This is the new style Black Hard Felt
Hat. It has medium low crown and a
smaller rim than former styles.
A popular hat, suitable for all occasions.
We guarantee a fast, Black Dye and
first-class quality.
Prices from 10/6 to 21/-
We send the hats carriage paid throughout
the Commonwealth.
David Jones Ltd.
SYDNEY.
'
T* 8
Hollingdale & Kessell,
— FOR
WEDDING RINGS and PRESENTS.
We have large and beautiful stocks of the
most acceptable Wedding Ware.
We are also noted for
Wedding Rings of our
own special make.
Write for a Catalogue.
All orders post free.
<£§22l3=-^
Sterling Silver Toilet
Set, three pieces, 8/6.
Others, 10/-, 15/-
mi )
Silverplated Afternoon
Teaspoons and, Tongs,
in Case, 10/6.
Others, 12/6, 15/-
Sterling Silver
Hat Pin, 1/6.
WEDDING RINGS
Solid 18ct. Gold, 20/-
9ct. Gold “Nellie
Stewart ” JBangfle,
30/-, 40/-, 50/-
15ct. Gold, 60/-, 80/-
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
WATCHMAKERS
JEWELLERS,
OPTICIANS,
98 KINO STREET
SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
PENFOLDS
WINES
Ihe hunger-strike, once common in Russian
prisons, has taken hold in England. A week or
two ago a lady who wanted the vote was sent to
prison for her share in a rather excited demon-
stration ; but when she had refused all food
for 91 hours (just five hours short of four
days and nights) she was hastily released lest
she should die in the house, as mentioned on
the packet of rat poison. Since then the
authorities have hardened their hearts, and
recently a suffragette wasn’t released until she
had thrown aside all nourishment for 171
hours—rather over a week. Another six, who had
presumably also fasted a week, shortly followed
her into freedom, and it was reported a few days
ago that a number more were qualifying. Many
of them were so hungry that thev bit the female
warders, yet they resolutely east their food out of
the windows. Some of them, tortured by the hollow
void within, also kicked the warderesses, and
for this and their refusal to wear prison clothes 14
£dier were recently doing “solitary.” John
Bulls fixed resolve not to give women the vote is
leading Mrs. and Miss Bull through deep waters
<>f tribulation ; but the fact is now generally ad-
mitted that they will win. And if the Govern-
ment cuts things a little too fine some day about
the release of a hungry woman, and she dies in
gaol on an empty stomach, then the victory will
come all at once.
From aruold Indian officer :
What does Exeter Hall say now about its brown
brother and his last act?—the treacherous shooting: of one
of the secretaries of the India Office in London by an
“Indian student,” who promptly followed the approved
barbarian precedent, and tried to shoot himself. In a
newspaper called the Indian Sociologist, issued in Lon-
don, by one Ivrishnavarna, said to be “ a well-known
Indian barrister practising in London,” this remarkable
sentence had just previously been printed :—“ Political
assassination is not murder.” The Indian student, having:
read this, went out and deliberately emptied five cham-
bers of a revolver into Colonel Wyllie’s head. Yet Colonel
Wyllie could have done that man, or any other, little good
or harm. He could only advise, or recommend, or bring 1
things to the notice of the Minister. He had
simply no power of independent action. Therefore,
even as “ political assassination,” it was a wild
thing. And it was abominable treachery, too ; the
murderer accosted an unarmed, defenceless old man in
a public place, and under pretence of a friendly con-
versation, emptied a revolver into him. It all merely
shows that mir “Indian fellow-subject” wants more
than the whit.' man’s opportunities to come up to the
white man’s standard. The Indian student can learn
anything in the way of words or formulae. He is quite at
home with languages, mental and moral philosophy, and
law. He does fairly well with ordinary mathematics, and
the ordina v routine of medicine ; but he fails miserably
when he is * ailed on to follow out a long chain of reason-
ing or to ci ase up an elusive fact through a course of
experimental researches. In short, our Indian fellow
subject, like all men of the colored races, can learn any-
thing - parrot fashion, but pan construct nothing ; and
though he may wear a veneer of European culture, and
impress Exeter Hall, he remains in substance the same
unreliable person, whose thin veneer is instantly stripped
off by any one of a thousand accidents.
*» a * * 1
Hopetoun, a township in the Victorian
mallee, has just covered itself with glory hv
“publicly entertaining ” Mr. Sue Kue, a Chinese
gardener, “on his departure for his native coun-
try.” For 18 years, it seems, Mr. Sue Kue has
supplied Hopetoun—supposed to be a settlement
of white people—with the spring ’callot and the
autumn onion ; and Hopetoun is so well pleased
with itself for having encouraged the yellow alien
and discouraged the white Australian that it has
now “presented him with a purse of sovereigns
and a gold watch and chain as a mark of esteem.”
Nobody, it seems, could grow the ’callot and
the onion and sell it so cheap as Stewed
Glue—most likely because Stewed Glue lived
in a hovel, and probably lived the sort of
life that suited the hovel. And now Stewed
Glew puts the foreign devils’ money in his
pocket, and takes: it back to his native
stinks; and Australia is the poorer for that, and
the poorer because for 18 years a whiteman has
been done out of a job—all because Hopetoun
wanted to save tuppence, and was prepared to
sacrifice Australia to do it.
* * * *
The Victor ian Railway bosses had just
sent across .to Sydney a schedule showing how
much more deadly the N. S. Wales railways are
than their own so far as railway workmen are
concerned, when news came along of the
latest smash on the Tait system. A “live stock
special” had dragged along the Gippsland line
towards Dandenonsr, and had got as far as the
bridge over the creek, when it drove full tilt into
the engine of a goods train which was shunting on
the same set of rails. The “live stock” driver,
fireman and guard were badly knocked about ;
the “goods” driver and fireman jumped—which
was well for them, for their engine was wrecked,
and those .trucks that weren’t spread over the
track were spilt into the creek below. It was
another Sunshine, except that cattle and goods
took the place of human heings. In fact, it was
in one way a worse smash than Sunshine, for it
took just twice as long to get the line clear for
traffic. Of course the usual secret departmental in-
quiry is being held, and equally, of course, the usual
overworked signalman or shunter will be blamed
Some day, though, Victoria may have a Premier
who will call for papers, and then inquire whether
or not Tait is trying to make money bv cutting
things so I fine that a multitude of accidents are,
humanly speaking, unavoidable. But the chances
are that Victoria will first have to get a more
energetic Premier than Jolih Weary.
A WOMAN’S REASON.
“ Now do you know Billy Smith, wants to be your
sweetheart ?”
“ Because he pulled my hair and ran away. So
there! ”
THE OFFICE INDICATOR.
(1),Boss out. (2) Boss in.
Apparently there are sea hogs as well as
land hogs. In preparation for another possible
disaster, the salvage people who went gleaning in
the Annasona wreek on Middleton; Reef not only
fixed up pipes and tanks to catch rain-water, but
left on the vessel sufficient provisions to last a
crew some weeks. If the exhausted Errol men
had found this food when they struggled ashore
from their raft, the circumstances of the barque’s
finish would not have been nearly as horrible as
they were. But the whole lot had been stolen,
and the men of the Errol had to gnaw shellfish.
As there is not another wreck visible, it looks as
if some marine animals had stopped their pirate
galley to rifle the little store of mercy. Besides
such robbers of the dying and distressed, the
body-snatcher and the burglar are entitled to hold
up their heads and look the whole world in one
eye at least.
*** ' *
“ Phil Mite ” —his letter :
At Albury (N.S.W.), on a recent Monday, a huge Hindu,
bearing a very dirty appearance and the name of Jabah
Singh, was convicted of assaulting the 16-vear-old daugh-
ter of a respectable local citizen. The evidence of the girl
was that she was sweeping out the front staircase of a shop
in the main street, when the Hindu entered and put his
arms round her. He kissed her, and when she resisted he
offered her money. The girl’s account of the assault
aroused the indignation of everyone in court, and the
P.M., who is accustomed to terrify drunks with ponder-
ous lectures on their depravity, had ah opportunity to
make a name for himself. And he did by imposing a
fine of £4! Jabah promptly paid, the fine, and
Justice shrieked as the four sovereigns fell on
the Court table. This Hindu holds a hawker’s
license in Victoria, and invites* the settlers’ wives
and daughters in the lonely country districts of the
north-east to “buyem neckiace,” etc., what time the
male folk toil in the paddocks “ beyant.” When Jabah
can assault a shop girl in the main street of a big town
in broad daylight for a trifling £4, what might he not be
expected to do in the country, when the “boss” is not
“in”? Only a few months ago the writer sat in this
same, Albury Court and beheld Harry Holland getting
two years’-hard labor for “ arousing class hatred ’ against
the Stout Individuals who cherish Jabah and his kind,
and regard them as victims of “ the White Australia
atrocity.” If Jabah would only turn his affections in the
direction of the daughters of Pat, and invite them to
“takem money,” the White Australia policv would
receive more general appreciation. As it is, these
Hindu hawkers are doing things in (he country
districts that city politicians would not credit,
and I could give instances that would make even
the wire whiskers of some of Jack Meehan’s friends
bristle. The sooner the Labor party adds a new
chip to its platform by calling for the deportation of
Hindoo hawkers as well as Kanaka cane-cutters, the
better will it be for the purity of the race in the Country
districts. If deportation is impracticable, their licenses
should be cancelled, and they should be declared noxious.
There is sure to be some old law on the Statute, Book to
meet the case.
* * * *
When Archbish. Clarke, of Melbourne,
went to Geelong the other day to confer with the
three local Anglican vestries rc the interminable
Gnash razzle, now almost a Gnashional ques-
tion, the meeting took place in the Board room of
the Chamber of Commerce, and four brawny
policemen guarded the doors. The presence of
the police implied a dread on the part of the ves-
tries that Nash’s devoted barrackers might break
in and bite the Archbish., but nothing serious
occurred, and nothing came of the conference.
The eminent churchman’s plea that the present
incumbent of Christ Church should be accepted,
and the Nash grievance be dropped into the bot-
tomless pit was wildly scouted by the Nash
defence committee. This whole Nash business is
an instructive illustration of the good churchman’s
inability to let up when he has discovered a fly-
speck grievance to wallop and howl about. The
Nash uproar continues even though many people
who never knew what Nash did have forgotten
what he was.
An English midsummer ! The London
dailies of Monday, June 7, recorded that since the
previous Monday the sun had been visible for a
little less than half an hour altogether !
PARSONICAL EXASPERATION.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
We have numbers of times previously referred to the
enormous “Merry Widow” hats worn bv women in
church . . They are positively aggravating:, not to
say maddening. One feels like taking a shot at them
with a hymn-book and humbling their lofty pretentious-
ness and pride in the dust.— Rev. Gilbert, in the W A
Christian Advocate.
Lord ! how I loathe the headgear that
Our modern females don !
I preach, scarce knowing what I’m at,
What time they have it on.
It maddens me so that the Word
Fades wholly from my mind.
I cannot stir an answ’ring chord
In any heart, or find
A single sympathetic face.
Or raise a sob or cry,
Or steer one erring soul to grace,
No matter how I try,
When aye, ’twixt me and Beelzebub
A large and ornate tile
Inserts itself. (Oh for a club !)
The pieacher-man may pile
Pelion on verbal Ossa, strain
His voice,'•yell sharps, howl flats ;
All his assaults are rendered vain
By these enormous Hats.
Last week the plate was handed round,
(I started it myself
With four and six). I later found
No sign of public pelf.
While ev’ry cent that I’d slipped in
Was gone ; I put it down
To those soul-blighting things of sin
Which top the female crown.
My verger holted recently
With the choirmaster’s wife—
A Sabbath-school instructress she,
Well on in middle life.
The day before, at evensong,
The Law my Curate grabbed.
It seemed that all his cheques were wrong.
The sad occurrence stabbed
My very vitals ; scare had I
Got fairly well and right.
When news arrived that Malachi
(My churchwarden) was tight.
I mind me I was letting flv,
Just then, at folks who “ did ” ;
I stopped, distraught, and cast my eye
Upon a mighty lid.
A-shimmer on its human stand
Near-by ; I swiftly took
A hymnal volume in my hand
And shied the blessed book
Full at the cause of all 1113’ woe.
I grieve to say my aim
Was good ; —and now I have to go
To court and fight a claim
..For damages and battery.
And, doubtless, I’ll get “ rats ” ;
Lord ! that such grief and agony ’
Should spring from things like Ilat-s !
N T S.W.
THE ARCHDRAUOX.
THE VILLAGE BLOODSMITH.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
A new torpedo, costing £3OOO, and containing- 19801 b.
of dynamite, and directed wirelessly for a long- distance,
has been tested in the Seine, France.
He was a kindly little man,
With spectacles and spats ;
Each morning to his work he ran
With guinea pigs and rats,
And straight to murder them began
With acids out of vats.
He was a gentle little soul,
No harm thro’ him befel.
He mixed a powder in a bowl
Which raised a wretched smell.
“ This stuff,” he cried, “ will blast a hole
At twenty miles ! 'Tis well 1 ”
Pure joy his countenance suffused
With one tremendous-blush ;
He winked a gay but harmless wink
And to his home did rush.
(The chairs—most suitably, I think—
Were garbed in blood-red plush.)
The baby on the doorstep crowed,
His wife waved at the gate
As he came bounding up the road
At a tremendous rate.
“ Got it! ”he yelled. She cried “Be blowed ! ”
(Which was his awful fate.)
There was a roar that shook the Street
And fourteen dozing cats ;
It shook the people off their feet ;
It shook the front doormat-* ;
To Heaven he had gone complete
In spectacles and spats.
Whep Providence created Man,
With all his nerves and cells.
Was he included in the plan
To brew unpleasant smells
And knock from other tovs the bran
- By busting them with shells ?
N.S.W.
KODAR.


Every Woman Should Know
That Sir Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
ex-President of the Royal College of
Surgeons, has testified to the absolute purity
of the materials employed in the manu-
facture of Sunlight Soap, and declares
that he himself uses Sunlight Soap.
What every woman does not know is, that
in common soaps she frequently pays for
adulterations at the prices of oils and fats.
Try Sunlight Soap next wash day, and you
will see that Sir Charles A. Cameron is
right—he should know.
Do you want to live happy and long?
Do you want £0, be healthy and strong?
Laxo-Tonic Pills take,
For it’s not y#t too late, ...
And vour system will never go wrong.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and ls. Cd.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. ThS establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
Peapes’ Perfect PocKet Razor.
PEAPES LT«?
*JL
PRICE, with 10
Spare Blades,
211-
Post Free
in
Australia.
WE have complete satisfaction in introducing a razor that combines all
the advantages -of the flat-blade style with those of the Safety.
It gives the same stroke as the .former, allowing the man used to
such to change without any inconvenience. It requires little stropping,-is
ready for use at a moment’s notice, and, being in shape like a pencil, speedily
appeals to travellers, marine officers, surveyors, bushmen, etc. _ IVlien not in
use, a cap fits over the blade, giving the appearance of a fountain pen.
It particularly appeals to men with tender skin, for it allows of
the lightest stroke, and yet gives satisfactory results.
Peapes & Co. Ltd. * 309=311
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
The law in victoria has, for once, landed
Propputy one in the stomach. Cornelius Job
Ham and the executors of George Porter, deceased,
a while back leased a dilapidated building in
Bourke-street to draper Aikman. As usual, he
was to attend to the ordinary repairs that a tenant
is supposed to look after. Last year the ancient
edifice fell into a state of senile decay, and as the
front wall threatened to spill itself over Bourke-
street, the City Council first propped it up and
then pulled it down. Aikman shifted his chiffons
and haberdashery, and disconnected himself from
the matter. But Propputy had other views ;so
when he declined to put the ancient wreck into a
thorough state of repair, it took him to the
Supreme Court. There, however, it met C.-.T.
Madden, who firmly and wholly refused to make
the desired order, holding that the building had
come to grief mainly through ordinary decay, and
that no lessee was bound to repair in such cir-
cumstances. Propputy, which dearly loves to put
a repairing clause in the lease of a decrepit build-
ing, and has scored off it many a hundred times,
hasn’t felt .the same person since G.-J. Madden
spoke.
* ♦ * ■*
The latest man with a growl in his mouth
is a Sydiiey suburban cow-owner, who feeds the
source of milk on lucerne from Tam worth.
His grievance is that the Tamworth
lucerne grower is wallowing in riches,
while he and his kind are still pursuing
a mere crust. He gives one explanation.
Lucerne comes down in bales battened
with p eces of wood. Lately Tamworth
has conceived the idea of battening
these bales with huge junks of timber,
and the dairyman is afraid they will
use whole trees if not spoken to. The
buyer pays for this wood at the price
of prime lucerne, and he reckons that,
if every grower in the State copies
Tamworth, the lucerne-buyers will have
to pay £25,000 a year in Sydney alone
for rough, green timber. He argues
that 3cwt. of wood out of a ton of
lucerne is not a fair thing, and he
threatens to do something. For if he
only puts a pint of water into a gallon
of milk a callous magistrate deals him
out a fine. So why not fine the lucerne
and timber mixer? To adulterate hay
with trees isn’t a fair thing.
* » * *
“Mint Sauce” Jones’ old gibe,
when he addressed his then Victorian
■constituents as “gentlemen of Ballarat
and savages of Bungaree,” is. revived by
the evidence given in a recent assault
■case. Thomas Redmond, licensee of the
Shamrock Hotel at Dunnstown, was the
person who thought himself badly
treated. He has only been in the dis-
trict six months, but his pub has already
been violently attacked twice. Last
time he had to close up at 9 p. m. and
put out all lights, but even then his 2in.
front door—“a necessity in that dis-
trict ” —was broken open, and he himself
tasted blue metal. Once the gentle
jokers commandeered a passing motor
and tried to rush it into the bar; an-
other time they captured a traction
engine and essayed to drive it through
the hotel. In last week’s case a wit- '
ness remarked that the “savages” mostly
fought for pure friendship ; while another as-
sured the Court that he personally “ had
never done any wrong, as he had never
killed anybody.” The episode ended with the
“ King of the Wallabies ” and his mate, “ Prince
Albert,” going to gaol for a month ; but the rest
of his Majesty’s joyous and friendly subjects are
still at large and “in good nick.”
“ Old Soldier” : The very latest shock on
July 24 was this cable :
Reuter’s Simla correspondent reports that the Ameer
of Afghanistan and his officials in Kabul are giving all
facilities for a general arming of Afghans, and also of the
Indian border tribes. The latter are steadily procuring
better weapons, and large numbers of repeating rifles
are being sent to Herat, etc.
It has been coming for months, all the time we
have been hearing about “gun-running on the
Persian Gulf,” and captures by various British
war-vessels of native craft employed in the gun
trade. Apparently the gun-runners have carried
their point, landing arms on the coast of Mekran
for transport by caravan through Kohistan and
Seistan to Kandahar and Herat. No wonder the
Indian Goverment is uneasy. Afghanistan has
lived for centuries on the plunder of India, and
sometimes, for a change, oh that of Persia. In the
18th century more than one Afghan army over-ran
Persia, and till the end of the first quarter of the
19th, the alleged descendants of the Lost Ten Tribes
were never absent from the soil of India. It is not
100 years yet since an Afghan army at Paniput, near
Delhi, overthrew and utterly routed the largest
and most efficient force the Mahratta Confederacy
had ever put in the field. An Afghan invasion
would be ten thousand times worse than all the
howling of all the babus in India. It would mean
genuine hard fighting, and it might mean a'
partial mutiny of the native army. It is no use
trying to hide the fact that a great many regi-
ments of Afghans are serving in the Indian army.
Would they fight against thsir countrymen?
What is Habib-Ulla’s little game? Is it a raid
into Persia or India? No doubt it is one of the
two, and they ought to start a guessing competi-
tion at Simla to find out.
* * * *
Parramatta (N.S. W.) St. Patrick’s Church,
which got into its half-century recently, is only a
middle-aged inhabitant alongside its predecessor,
which is still in use as a schoolroom. Latter’s
foundation stone was laid by Archbishop Polding
in 1836. The first “ official ” Mass was celebrated
in Sydney on 15th May, 1803. and the second at
Parramatta on the following Sunday, by Father
Dixon, the first authorised priest in that district.
Parramatta’s first Mass, however, was celebrated
some time before that by Father James Harold, a
convict, who had been “sent out” for some
political offence. Father Dixon has had five
successors, all well known in R.C. circles—Father
Therry, Dean Coffey, Dr. Hallinan, Monsignor
Rigney, and the present Father O’Reilly, who
has been grafting in that vineyard for over 20
years.
+■■*•**
One Septimus Smith, from South Africa, is
so well pleased with this country that it is difficult
to tear him away from it. The legend goes in a
vague sort of way that Smith, acting under the
name of Steyn, sold some land to a South
African municipality at a big profit, and that if
the buyers had known that Steyn, the agent for
the seller, was also Smith the seller (which it
is now rumored he was), they would have been
(or might have been) more careful about the
price—or some tangled thing like that, or
dimly resembling that. It is difficult to see
what difference it makes in the value of
the property, but last August Smith was
arrested here on a charge of being suspected
of being a fraudulent person. He was ordered
to be extradited to South Africa. He then
applied for a writ of Habeas Corpus, that
palladium of British liberty which demands that
NOMINATIVE
GENDER.
“ Who was that man I
saw you Lunching
with to-day?”
“That wasn't a man! ”
“No!”
"'Certainly not —that was my husband !”
any person who “lias your body,” must show
cause why he should not surrender the meat.
Smith got his writ and liberty. He was again
arrested, this time on a charge of being actually a
fraudulent person, and again ordered to be ex-
tradited. He has again applied for the Habeas
Corpus and has’ been released on bail pending
further Full ‘Court proceedings. So one way and
another the law has been clamoring for about a
year over the dilatory body of Smith.
OVERHEARD ON ST. HILDA ESPLANADE.
THE B OY: “ Naw, I can't manage it. Got to go to the dentist’s on Monday.”
THE WOMAN: “ To get your teeth cut, I suppose, Charley!”
Really these ladies of Tory leagues should
look before they leap. Speaking the other day in
the Austral Salon, a foremost committee-woman of
the Women’s National League, urged her fellow
members to encourage their sons to equip them-
selves for the defence of their country. “From
the women of Sparta,” she said, “to the women
of Japan, women had been patriotic; and Aus-
tralian women would do well to emulate their
sloe-eyed Eastern sisters.” The sentiments are
all right; but—well her husband will be able to
explain exactly how Jap women sacrificed them-
selves to encourage patriotism during the Russo-
Jap war. After which she’ll probably decide not
to exhort her lady friends to put Mrs. Chrysan-
themunkeyat the top of their copybook.
Jfr * * *
A letter from Joseph Ward’s city :
Maoriland just now has a Commission that consists of
one man—Magistrate Bishop. But whatever it lacks in
numerical force it makes up in interest. Briefly put,
some six years ago, Seddonland imported a sleuth-hound
from Scotland Yard, London—Commissioner Dinnie—to
reorganise and superintend the police-force. Like most
importations, Dinnie seems hardly to have filled the bill.
I have been in this windy city of Wellington for the
past few months, and, judging by what has occurred in
that time, I am satisfied the force is something between a
circus and a tragedy. Quite' recently three constables in
plain clothes were indulging about midnight in an all-
round scrap in the main street. A gentleman, who was
passing accompanied by his wife, thought that two of
the scrappers were kicking the third over the Jordan,
and interfered. It was quite two weeks before he and
his wife were fit to go abroad again. Result, three Johns
heavily fined and passed out. Again, another officer
arrested a young man for drunkenness, but as the watch-
house keeper and a doctor declared the prisoner was
absolutely sober, the charge was dismissed. One
evening a week later I met this arm of the law
in the main street with a crowd of youngsters
around him. They were throwing mud at him. He was
the happiest-looking and yet most incapable John on
earth, and he too received- the large bag from his
superiors. Another specimen, when off duty, happened
on a scrap between a push and a couple of Johns. He
stood by and entreated the push to “deal it out to the
cows.”
During the recent short session of Parliament, Arnold,
M.P. for Dunedin, let himself go, and incidentally dropped
some serious charges, with the result that the Bishop
Commission is hearing strange evidence. The most
peculiar part of the whole affair seems to be the kind of
material of which the force is composed. The members
are said to include men who have “got the run” for
serious offences from the bobby establishments of other
countries, and individuals who are living with other men’s
wives. The most astounding story concerns an Aus-
tralian criminal who was “ wanted.” His record, photo,
and finger-prints were in the possession of the Maoriland
detective department. He was evidently a humorous
cuss, for he became a policeman. He had been a Maori-
land cop quite a while before his superiors dropped to the
fact that they were earnestly searching for their own
officer. This episode casts a sort of radiance around an
otherwise hairless and squalid narrative.
If Hell fire were abolished the Church
would get cold feet.— New proverb.
• * * *
“ Willy Probate ” writes ramblingly on
several square yards of parchment
The cheap divorce business was dealt a severe judicial
blow last week in Melbourne, when a lawyer’s clerk was
handed three months cold storage for bursting the mar-
riage tie and collecting fees for same, without first having
obtained permission to cover his own hair with that of
some superannuated cab-horse. Some of the remarks
made by Chief Justice Madden on this sorrowful and
hairless occasion throw a soft radiance, like the
light from a stained-glass window, on the great
and sacred question of Costs. To the simple and
undivorced layman it looks as if half the offender’s
sentence had been awarded him for his sacrilegious raid
on the unguarded shrine of Costs. Also, a Week or two
might have been added for his unlegal cheapness. That
anything should be- done cheaply is abhorrent to the
legal mind, which makes one charge for receiving a tele-
gram, and another foyreading it, and has been known to
demand a fee for “ instructing” itself, when the. solicitor
and barrister both breathed inside the same waistcoat
and looked at their drink through the same spectacles.
According to Madden,- “divorce could not be conducted
for £5 unless unprofessional ‘short cuts’ were taken.”
And again, “the sum of £5 would, as a matter
of fact, leave no profit to a solicitor in any
but the most simple cases.” Which opens a
bleak prospect for the poor but honest man or
woman who desires to cut free from a useless partner
and take the road alone, or with a more congenial help-
mate. My people once, on moving to a new suburb,
hired a small, cheery woman to wrestle with the washing
and wield the bluebag. She proved the best washthb
artist the family ever struck, and her capacity for carry-
ing pegs in her mouth was something wonderful; only a
crocodile would have had a show with her in the mouth
business. She never talked scandal, wasted time, growled,
drank, or swamped the washhouse ; she was, in fact,
utterly devoid of the usual sins of her cheerless
craft. It was her practice, on receiving her few
shillings at the end of a wild, damp day, to
remark cheerily, “ Well, that brings the k ’appy
time a bit nearer !” We naturally supposed she was re-
ferring to her wedding day, and always spoke of Her as
“The Bride.” But, one evening, when she had become
quite an old servitor, someone asked her if she had
got her trousseau ready. Her mouth fell open as if a
cargo of 18 pegs were coming along, and she leant on the
boiler like one who had received a mortal blow.—
“ Mum ! ” she gasped, “/ don’t want no trooso ! I’m
savin’ up ft a divorce !” If it cost that excellent washer-
woman more than £5 for the use of John Madden’s legal
wash-house for a brief hour or two it was a darned shame,
for she w 7 as a more satisfactory cleanser of Soileddinhn
than any lawyer charging or dead ; and she Would carry
more pegs in her mouth than a C.J. could stick on the
two ends of the biggest waxed moustache in creation.
THE BREATHLESS ARMY.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Egotism . . . desire for notoriety . . . degradation . . .
vulgar . . . brazen . . . verbosity . . . harangue . . . loqua-
cious . . . empty word-spinning . . . humiliating . . . pain-
ful exhibition . . . silly vanity. —Breathless ivords used by
the daily -press concerning the recent long-distance speech
record established by Webster, M.IJ.lt.
There are some things on which, times past, one Voice
spoke out unkindly,
And quite a few stout people heard that Voice and fol-
lowed blindly.
Clean through the bog of argument
After the braying Voice they went;
And, as they trod upon their skirts, and stumbled there,
hoof-tangled,
They cursed one Alfred bitterly—with all his schemes
new-fangled.
The Past is dead, if what the Voice remarks is worth
believing,
And for that Past the relatives large wreaths are now
receiving ;
Yet, through the gloom, the army bogged
Cries out “ Advance !” although befogged,
And loud the trumpet-Voice that once with Alfred’s
cohorts wrangled
Applaudeth Yes and No and Alf—and damns all schemes
new-fangled.
The Voice cries aye for utter truth ; and yesterday, or
lately,
The truth was not in Alfred's friends—from it they
wandered greatly ;
Those times, the breathless, bogged brigade
Cursed Alfred’s ensign, undismayed ;
But now the Voice shouts for a flag by Fusion’s splendors
spangled,
And cheers for brothers Alf and Joe —and groans at plans
new-fangled.
Groans, then, and piles of horrid words to down dear
Alf’s ill-wishers !
Great stacks of jagged language, yes, to dish the would-
be dishers,
And thus the friends of Alf and Joe
With loud-tongued shoutings onward go !
Still through the bog of argument they plunge, with
; manners mangled,
And bless Alf and the Light Ahead —and curse all things
new-fangled !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT (made in England.)
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the comers at the
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., ciromar Q Ua » East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding- Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Roekbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lvdiard Street, BALLARAT'
and Pall Mall, BENDICO. ’
The WILD CAT
COLUM
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
, £ £ £ £
June, 1903.. 58,768 10 p.c. = 50.000 8,76 S 1,045,615
Dec., 1903.. 64,640 10 „ ~50,000 14,649 1,060,264
June, 1904.. 65,555 10 ~ ~50,000 15,555 1,075,819
Dec., 1904.. 65,570 10 ~ ~50,000 15,570 1,091,389
June, 1905.. 65,204 10 ~ ~50,000 15,204 1,106,503
Dec., 1905.. 65,263 10 ~ ~50,000 15,263 1,121,856
June, 1906.. 66,022 10 ~ ~50,000 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906 .. 67,982 10 ~ ~50,000 17,982 1,155,860
Premiums on new shares .. 42,713 1,198,573
June, 1907.. 71,800 10 p.c. = 50,000 21,800 1,220,373
Premiums on new shares .. 6,522 1,226,895
Dec., 1907.. 83,005 10 p.c. = 61,288 21,717 1,248,612
Premiums on new shares .. 765 1,249,377
June, 1908.. 90,973 10 p.c. = 62,420 28;553 1 277 930
Dec., 1908..-. 91,706 10 „ ~ 68,184 23,522 1,301,452
June, 1909 .. 104,438 10 „ ~74,776 29,662 1,331,114
For the first time this bank has made over £lOO,OOO of
profit in a half-year. Even during the boom of the late
’eighties it did not reach that; it got nearest in 1883,
when in one half-year it declared a profit of £91,617 on a
capital of £600,000. They were gay times when share-
holders’funds earned over 13 per cent, and the div. was
25 per cent. The total balance-sheet figures then were
under nine millions; to-day they are over 20 millions.
Times have changed, and changed for the better ; for the
25 p.c. divs. begat the boom, and the boom begat the
bitter smash, in those days people were too busy ad-
miring the giddy height the interest had reached to
think about the principal. For years past, however, this
bank seems to have kept its best eye on the principal ;
and the interest earnings have never therefore been at all
out-of-the-way. Calculated on the basis of capital and
reserves combined they have lately shown up as follows:
Dec., 1905 ..£6 310 p.c. Dec., 1907 ..£6 14 7 p.c.
June, 1906 .. 6 4 6,, June, 1908 .. 7 5 7'"
Dec., 1906 .. 6 7 3,, Dec., 1908 .. 6IS 7 ”
June, 1907 .. 613 3 „ June, 1909 .. 7 9 0((
Considering that the bank uas the use of £6 2s. of the
public’s money for every £i of its own, these figures are
on the small side. That may mean several things : that
tne securities are picked, wherefore the interest is low ;
or that there are a lot of unproductive assets on the
books ; or that the profits are really greater, but some
are being “ socked ” away in case things go wrong again.
If the Commercial of Sydney has a lot of unproduct-
ive assets, it has disguised the fact very well; it
wouldn’t have been at all likely in that case to have
lately issued £250,000 of new capital at par, knowing
that it would be expected to pay (and is, in fact, paving)
10 per cent, on it. So the chances are that this bank’s
comparatively low rate is because of the other things
mentioned above. And the idea that it is adopting this
cautious policy is backed up by the fact that it could pay
no less than 49 per cent, of its debts with its liquid assets
alone.
One or two other Commercial of Sydney details
follow:
June, ’OB. June, ’O9.
Notes .. .. £545,905. £499,612 Dec.,£46 293
Bills .. .. 682,895 785,011 Inc., 102,116
Deposits.. .. 15,986,387 15,971,760 Dec., 14 627
Liquid Assets .. 7,944,161 8,531,563 Inc., 587 402
Advances .. 11,376,942 11,168,582 Dec., 208,360
Premises, etc. .. 492,000 468,792 Dec., 23,208
It looks from that as though this bank has an idea that,
at the present price-level of most securities, the money
that is in the' vaults or in Government securities
or other liquid form is the safest ; hence the re-
duction of advances and the increase of liquid assets.
That policy means for the moment a trifle less profit•
but it also means fewer bad dreams. Still the time must
come when Australian banks will have to risk a few bad
dreams, and consider whether they are giving the manu-
facturing industries of this country enough support. Up
to now they have to a very great extent been mere land-
mortgage hanks, and the greater part of their business
hasn’t been really banking business at all. While the
fiscal policy of the country was unsettled, they had a per-
fectly valid excuse; there was no other reasonably safe
business to do. But now that Protection-effective Pro-
tection —has been admitted by even the Freetrade party
to be the settled policy of the country, the old excuse
goes overboard. And once the banker gets as thoroughly
interested in the manufacturing industries as he"has
been hitherto in the erratic sheep and wheat growing busi-
ness, Protection will be a good deal more the settled
policy of the countrv than it is even now.
* *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):
Profits by
Purchase No-
Bank- of De- Writ- Added minal
r ing preeiated ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Deposits. off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1902.. 3,463 17,559 21,022 280 612
June, 1903.. 4,190 18,334 22,574 303,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,166 21,760 22,926 326,112
(Capital written down from £1,168,042 to £154,529.)
June, 1904.. 2,459 326,112 2,459 2 459
Dec., 1904.. 2,964 ‘4964 5(423
June, 1905.. 2,144 2 144 7 567
Dec., 1905.. 1,421 1 421 8988
June, 1906 .. 1,523 _ 1(523 10,511
Dec., 1906.. 2,423 2,423 12,934
June, 1907.. 1,450 1(450 14(354
Dec., 1907.. 7,210 7210 n 594
June, 1908.. 9,008 9,008 30,602
Dec., 1908 .. 15,149 _ 15,149 45,751
June, 1909 .. 14,285 14,285 60,036
The A.J.S. is making an effort to rearrange matters,
under a scheyne of reconstruction lately discussed.
Apparently profits have been much., bigger during the
last year or two; at the same time it may be that the
new general rpanager, who came into power in 1907,
doesn’t hold his predecessor’s views as to the amount
that should be stuffed away. Still this bank’s heaviest
anticipated losses were over pastoral securities; and
those have lately improved enormously both in yield and
in value. In 1903, when arrangements were being made
to write down capital, it was estimated that the losses
could be split up this way :
Queensland pastoral properties, 33 )
N.S.W. „ „ 27/ •• 6 °P- C -
Commercial accounts 33 ,
Land cos., building societies, etc. .. 5((
Private accounts .. .. .. .. 2 ”
Total 100 p.c.
The great spring in values of pastoral products and pro-
perties in the past four or five years must therefore have
made a very great difference to the bank’s outlook.
Down to the end of 1903 it was the practice to
show the amount saved bv the repurchase of old deposits
at a discount. At Dec. 31 in that year the outstanding
deposits were £4,698,626. They now amount to
£3,750,068—a reduction of £948,558. Of this total
£254,Q00 of A deposits had to be paid off at par in 1907.
As B deposits and inscribed stock have been quoted at an
average of, say, 145., it is pretty certain that the bank
must have made, or saved, about £200,000 by the repur-
chases ; and that, in addition to any undisclosed banking
profit, has been available for writing- down assets. But it
was a most undesirable way of filling up the gaping hole
in the assets ; and the management at last does the right
thing in putting forward a scheme of reconstruction.
Besides, there was no hope for the new business while
the old wreckage littered the fair-way. The new business
was no doubt perfectly safe—the new liabilities are, in fact,
a first charge on all assets, new and old—but the public
naturally preferred to go where there weren’t these con-
stant reminders of past disasters. Handicapped as it has
been, the bank has £1,483,327 of new deposits besides bills
in circulation, etc. ; aud it has £2,502,673 of new advances,
etc., recently declared to be a sound and profitable lot ;
and that is a greater amount of business than is shown
by such well-known and highly profitable concerns as the
Bank of Adelaide, the Westralian, or the National of
Maoriland.
If the scheme of reconstruction goes through
the capital will be (calculating on the old deposits as at
June 30):
Ordinary shares £359,475
Preference shares .. .. 1,250,022
Total £1,639,497
The old bank advances now stand in the books at
£1,882,570. Add bank premises, £367,693. Total,
£2,250,263. The present capital (£154,570) and reserves
(£60,036) will be written off ; total, £214,606. In addition,
therefore, to the writing down that has been done out of
undisclosed profits (if any) and repurchases at a discount,
the assets can at once be written down a further 10 per-
cent. or thereabouts. It is impossible to say how much
“paper” value will then remain among the assets; but there
ought not to be any very serious amount. In other words, ,
when this cleaning up is done, it looks as though by far
the greater part of the capital will be represented by
tangible assets ; and that being so, a capital of the size
mentioned above ought soon to put at the service of the
bank a good deal more than tire present £1,483,327 of
new-deposit money. Though a few more sacrifices have
to be made, the situation is far from hopeless ; in fact,
on the s icrifiees of.the past and the ashes of the A.J.S.,
there is no reason,why prudent management should not
build up one of the bigger banks of the Commonwealth.
« « « »
The Bank op Victoria
Dividends.
; •- , Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. 3| p.c. serves. serves.
Dec., 1902.. £33,715 £10,419 £18,572 £4,724 £154,360
June, 1903.. 29,440 10,419 18,672 449 154.809
Dec., 1903.. 34,354 10,419 18,572 5,363 16(£172
June, 1904.. 34,555 10,419 18,572 5,564 165,736
Dec., 1904.. 34,583 10,419 18,572 5,592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905.. 34,260 10,419 21,225 2,616 173 944
Dec., 1905.. 34,524 10,419 21,225 2,880 176,824
4J p.c.
June, 1906.. 37,212 10,419 23,878 2,915 179,739
5 p. c.
Dec., 1906.. 42,912 10,419 26,531 5,962 185,701
June, 1907.. 43,739 10,419 26,531 6,789 192,490
Dec., 1907.. 49,921 10,419 26,531 12,971 205,46 L
June, 1908.. 50,063 10,419 26,531 13,113 218,574
Dec., 1908.. 50.394 10,419 26,531 13,444 232 018
June, 1909.. 50,605 10,419 26,531 13,655 245,673
It is often great foolishness; still the fact remains that
the bulk of the public does like to “do with a bank that
pays big dividends. And this bank, like several othersin
Victoria, was reconstructed after the boom on terms
which made big or even biggish dividends practically im-
possible. It permitted the creditors to take one-fifth of
what was owing to them in 5 per cent. pref. shares ; and
thus for five years it was not possible to pay ordinaries any-
thing at all, and after that theirdiv. was only 2J percent,
for a while. An effort was then made to brin<>-
ordinaries up level with prefs., with the result
that the additions to reserves were smaller than they
should have been. Had the bank a greater tnana
it would probably have been rushed with more of the
public’s money ; and the more it put aside in a liquid
form the easier it would have been to get large supplies
on the easiest terms. Not being treinendouslv fashion-
able, however, it apparently decided that its best policy
was to use as much of its available resources as it dared
Twelve months ago it only had 23 p.c. of its liabilities iii
liquid form ; but it has since got in some of its advances
and now has 29 p.c., though even that is still a bit too
narrow.
However, though a bank may strike sudden
trouble through having too much of the public’s money
locked up, there are other things just aboutas important.
For instance; the bank that for every £1 of its own has
£7 of the public’s money out at risk can clearlv stand less
of a .-lump than this .bank, which has only £3 14s. of the
public's for every £1 of its own. Probablv that compara-
tively small proportion explains why profits, calculated
on capital and reserves combined, are low :
Dec., 1905 .. £4 3 7 p.c. I Dec., 1907 .. £5 19 6 p c
June, 1906.. 4 911 „ | June, 1908... 5 18 11
Dec., 1906 .. 5 3 6,, I Dec., 1908 .. 518 9 ”
June, 1907 554 ~ | June, 1909 .. 518 4 ”
The last three half-years show shrinkages ; but that is to
the bank’s credit, because on the balance-sheet figures its
position has undoubtedly been strengthened. In other
words, it has sacrificed some profits in order to put its
creditors in a safer position. Note, for instance, the
growth of liquid holdings during the past 12 months:
June, ’OB. June, ’O9.
Notes in circulation .. £120,852 £113,391 Dec £7 461
Bllls » etc 523,907 506,649 Dec. 17,258
Deposits at interest .. 3,813,985 3,967,064 Inc 153 079
Free deposits .. .. 1,654,561 1,789,091 Inc. 134A30
Liquid assets .. .. 1,441,529 1,891.056 Inc. 449527
Advances .. ..5,981,612 5,829,994 Dec. 151’618
Premises etc. .. .. 423,680 415,779 Dec. 7,901
The principal movements shown here are quite likely to
mean rather smaller profits for the time ; but they are
movements that in the long run will pav the bank for
they will mean increased public confidence and credit
and a bank can acquire very few more profitable assets
than that.
The Queensland National Bank
Repaid
Repaid Private Nomi-
Gross Written Govern- Deposi- nal ite-
Profits. off. merit. tors, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £22,329 £10,329 £3OOO £6,000 £3O 000
June, 1903.. 21,660 9,660 3000 6,000 3s’ooo
Dec., 1903.. 21,777 9,777 3000 6,000 36000
June, 1904.. 21.822 9,822 3000 6,000 39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823 - 9,0:0 42 000
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009 9,000 45 000
Dec., 1905 . 22,307 10,307 9,000 <lBOOO
June, 1906.. 23,421 11,421 - 9,000 51 000
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 12 000 55 000
June, 1907.. 34,783 18,783 12 000 59’000
Dec., 1907.. 43,606 23,606 _ 15,000 64 000
n m ' e ’ Inc." “- 3 ’ 482 - 15-000 69 000
Dec., 1908.. 43,737 18,737 - 20,000 74 000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 - 20,000 79*000
After the Government had appointed a committee of
inquiry in 1896 and discovered that things were worse
than had been represented, a new scheme of reconstruc-
tion was adopted, under which one-fourth of the old debt
to the State Government and to private depositors -was
to carry no. inte< est, and the private depositors’ one-
fourth was to be payable only out of future profits. Later
on Kidston modified the arrangement with the bank so far
as the debt to the State was concerned ; the latter save
the Government 16 p.n.’s, and the whole outstanding debt
to the Government then carried £2 12s. 6d. p.c. interest,
isinee 189/, the year of the reconstruction proper, this
bee " made in the removal °f the old
r , . 1897. 1909. Decrease.
Government deposits(re-
constructed) .. ..£1,833,327 £774,879 £1,05S 448
Interminable stock (debt
° f l(i dep°si tors) .. 3,116,621 3,106,768 9,853
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,038,974 830,974 208 000-
Dehts due to bank (debts -uo.uuu
in suspense) .. .. 742,835 186,623 556,212
Under the modified arrangement it was thought
at first that a dividend up to 3£ per cent, could be paid
when half the p. n. ’s had been wiped out. Counsel’s opinion
was however, taken, and it was found-that there were
difficulties in the way of paying any dividend until
the whole £1,038,974 had been repaid to the old private
depositors ; but whether that difficulty can jet be got
over remains to be seen. As shown above, just about
one-fifth has now been either paid or provided for. This
list shows how the progress has been made :
Current
Profits Repaid Balance
Appro- to in
priated. Depositors. Hand.
June7l9o°}-- £42 > 000 • 6d. in £ = £25,970 £16,030
Dec., 1901 .. 6,000 22,030
June, 1902 .. 6,000 6d. „ ~ 25,970 2^060
Dec., 1902 .. 6,000 8060
June, 1903 .. 6,000 14 060
Dec., 1903 .. 6,000 2o'()60
June, 1904 .. 6,000 6d. ~ ~ 25,970 ’9O
Dec., 1904 .. 9,000 9 090
June, 1905 .. 9,000 18090
Dec., 1905 .. 9,000 6d. ~ ~ 25 970 1 120
June, 1906 .. 9,000 loVo
Dec., 1906 .. 12,000 2 2*120
June, 1907 .. 12,000 6d. ~ ~ 25,970 8 150
Dec., 1907 .. 15,000 . 23*150
June, 1908 .. 15,000 6d. ~ ~ 25,970 12*180
Dec., 1908 .. 20,000 lBO
June, 1909 .. 20,000 9d. „ „ 38,955 13,225
£208,000 3/9 in £ = £194,775 £13,225
The £13,225 in hand is equal to about 3d. in the £, so
that the bank has paid or provided 45., and has 16s. more
to makejjood. But it will be seen that in the 10 years
1898-1907 only about 25.6 d. was provided, while in the
past two years nearly Is. 3d. has been put by. This recent
extra rapidity in the cleaning--up lias been due chiefly to
three things : (1) The bank used to have to put by 25 per
cent, of the net profits towards repaving- the" Government
and now it is relieved of that; (2) it has admittedly
written, off about £200,000 of profits in the past seven
years—in other words, it has replaced £200,000 of un-
productive paper values by productive money ; (3) the
general prosperity has g reatly increased the bank’s profits,
bo if it can continue to get along as fast as it has done dur-
ing the past two years, less than 12 years will see the end
of this particular trouble. As to the debt to the Govern-
ment, only nine of the 16 p.n.’s remain, those falling due
in 1910, 1911, and 1912 having been prepaid.
The old and the new business of the bank is not
shown separately so far as advances are concerned *
therefore only this comparison is possible
June, ’OB. June, ’O9.
£ £ £
New private deposits.. 2,268,219 2,504,741 Inc. 236 5’2
New Govt, deposits .. 756,228 1,185,796 Inc. 429*568
Bills and notes, etc. .. 736,873 498,907 Dec 237*966
Liquid assets .. ..2,195,298 2,551,090. Inc. 355*792
Advances .. .. 5,935,650 5,751,844 Dec. 183,806
Premises.. .. .. 277,474 280,480 Inc. 3,006
Under the latest arrangement the Q.N. is banker to
the Queensland Government; and as that Government
has been borrowing, the bank holds £943,231 on its
account. That partly explains the increase of liquid
assets, in spite of recent heavy repayments on account of
old deposits, Government and private. The advances
have shrunk ; this, however, is partly due to the realisa-
tion of what are called old private ledger accounts old
“ debts in suspense ” which have been reduced altogether
from £742,835 to £186,623. No doubt there have been
other realisations also. It would be interesting to know
how much of the advances represents new business and
how much of the old boom-time securities is on hand ■
obviously without that information it isn’t much use
comparing the present total advances with those of a few
years back. The cash position is strong, notwithstanding
that the bank is well ahead of its obligations to the
Government; and, generally, excellent progress is now
being made in wiping out the awful deficiency disclosed
12 years ago.
*■*■**
The Southland Building and Investment
Society and Bank of Deposit (Invercargill, 1V1.L.)
. . . To Be- Be-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899 .. £1687 4J per cent. = £2357 £36
1900 .. 2445 4 „ 2326 £ll9 155
1901 .. 2556 4 „ ~ 2244 312 467
1902 .. 2680 4J ~ ~ 2475 205 672
1903 .. 2649 4J „ 2429 220 892
1904 .. 2811 5 „ ~ 2637 174 1066
1905 .. 2913 5 „ ~ 2867 46 1112
1906 .. 3483 5 ~ ~ 3177 306 1418
1907 .. 4547 6 „ ~ 4277 270 1688
1908 .. 4866 6 ~ ~ 4829 37 1725
1909 .. 5477 6 ~ ~ 5364 113 1838
This co. borrows not on deposit, but on debentures,
though some of these debentures are apparently payable
on demand ; but how much there is of one and how much
of the other isn’t mentioned. Some more of the position
is shov\ T n hereunder :
Ad- Properties
Capital. Debentures, vances. in Hand.
1898 .. £54,169 £14,865 £62,131 £1635
1900 .. 60,770 21,092 74,889 456
1905 .. 60,920 49,722 112,575
1906 .. 67,169 61,960 126,244 —*
1907 .. 76.291 69,820 145,162
1908 .. 86,014 66,858 155,314
1909 .. 95,799 65,076 165,815 510
That looks all right ; the total liabilities don’t amount to
quite 70 per cent, of the shareholders’ own funds. That
is, £lOO of shareholders’ money has to safeguard no more
than about £l7O of risks. The weak point is the
poverty of the reserves, which means that nearly all the
risk has to be carried by t,he capital. Shares are matur-
ing all the time ; therefore it is arg-ued that reserves
should not be accumulated, because reserves are profits,
and when the shares mature they lose their interest in
those profits. So one rule says that reserves wav not
exceed 1 per cent, of the advances. This would be all
very well if the society knew for certain that wdiat it
thinks are profits will turn out to he profits. Thus the
society may lend £lOOO to-day, get 8 per cent, for it, and
go on regarding that 8 per cent, less expenses as
profit; but later on there may be a slump, and
the property may realise only L5OO. Then the
future shareholders will have to suffer because
previous profits were fictitious, and the present share-
holders drew- too much. It is quite true that in a build-
ing society the risk, so far as any individual- property is
concerned, is a diminishing quantity, owing to the system
of fortnightly repayments ; but the same system was in
vogue in Melbourne, and yet not 1 per cent., nor ten
times 1 per cent., was enough to cover the depreciation.
* * * *
The City Bank op Sydney
To Be- Be-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £BlOB 4 per cent. = £BOOO £lOB £110,205
£109,000 transferred co Contingent account 1,205
June, 1903.. 9351 4 per cent. =£Booo 1351 2,556
Dec., 1903.. 9052 4 „ ~ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904.. 9045 4 ~ ~ 8000 1045 4 653
Dec., 1904.. 6158 2J „ „ 5000 1158 5,511
June, 1905.. 6060 2J ~ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905.. 6068 2J ~ ~ 5000 1068 7,939
June, 1906.. 6066 2j „ „ 5000 1066 9,005
Dec., 1906.. 6049 2| „ ~ 5000 1049 10,054
June, 1907.. 7066 3 „ ~ 6000 1066 11,120
Dec., 1907.. 7205 3,, ~ 6000 1205 12,325
June, 1908.. 7098 3 „ ~ 6000 1098 13,423
Dec., 1908.. 7030 3 „ ~ 6000 1030 14,453
June, 1909.. 7055 3 „ „ 6000 1055 15,508
This bank didn’t take the opportunity to re-arrange
things when the boom burst 17 years or so back and left
it with a lot of over-valued assets on its hands. Had it
got into the swim after that, and been able to pose as a
strong concern that didn’t have to seek relief, it might
have forged ahead ; but it somehow' didn’t get into the
swim, so it benefited nothing by letting slip "the chance
to have a cleaning up when that process w'as too common
to attract much hostile notice. Consequently what
others accomplished almost at one sweep this
bank has had to struggle with in a more or
less furtive way for years. A bank in a
position like that deserves some sympathy
Of course, it has a few friends who stick to it'- but the
ordinary run of business that has no ties and no svmna
thies turns almost automatically to the few banks whose"
names are in everybody's mouth. Thev take their nick •
the culls go on to the other banks. And then some
people are surprised that in proportion to their business
the banks which get get the culls make more losses than
the others.
Exactly how the City Bank has been doing it
would be hard to say. The profit figures tell for
certain ; there was so great a deficiency to make good r?hat
if the bank were making £50,000 a year, two-thirds of it
could very conveniently be mopped up without being
shown Nor is it much use comparing the advances now
with those of a few years ago, because rotten business
representing £lOO,OOO in the books may been written
down out of profits and replaced by sound business
standing at £lOO,OOO. Here, however, are the fi<nires as
they appear, compared with those of 12 months ago
June,'oB. June,'o9.
otes . •• •• £98,502 £87,984 Dec. £10,518
Deposits, etc. .. 1,253,353 1,272,732 Inc 19 379
Liquid assets .. 335,496 356,692 Inc 21’196
Advances.. .. 1,289,402 1,275,640 Dec. lsW
Premises .. .. 147,049 150,477 Inc. 3*428
Nominally the capital is £400,000, so that the total debt
to the public (£1,360,716) is not heavy by comparison:
put then there is no telling how much of the capital is
intact. The £8 shares are quoted at £3 and under ; and
it they are only worth that, it means that £250,000 of the
capital doesn’t exist. On the published figures, the
profits are at the rate of £3 Bs. Id. per cent, of capital and
reserves combined ; and that suggests either that some of
the profits are not disclosed or that much of the capital is
gone The whole position is, however, full of uncertainty"
and it is a thousand pities the directors don’t tell the’
public what the situation really is, and have a cleanino-
up. l<or in the balance-sheet of a concern which issues
notes and takes deposits, it is desirable that £1 should
mean £l, and not anything from Bs. lid. to 355. If the
directors owned a'2o-roomed house,'and 10 of the rooms
fell down, they would say it was dishonest to go on
advertising it as a 20-roomed house to let. And if a bank
lias lost half its capital and knows it, it doesn’t seem
much different to go on advertising as though the capital
were all there, and getting deposits on the strength of it.
* * * „
Otago Farmers’ Co-operative Association,
-Ltd. (M.L.): —
Dividend Wrifc-
,, , T 1 „ Oi p.c.) and ten To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Bonus. off. serves. serves*
£ ’ 495 ±B ° £1659
1905.. 2381 680 65 1636 3295
1906.. 2626 1225 238 1163 4458
1907.. 3012 1649 338 1025 5483
(5 p.c. Div.)
1908.. 3270 889 4110 3754
1909.. 688 Nil 1649 2793
Repeatedly this co. was warned that it had a cheap-jack
wav of doing business which would get it into trouble
unless it had an enormous amount of luck ; and the
trouble has been arriving all right during the past
two yea.rs. , This matter wouldn’t be. mentioned now if
'.«-nu C ®j- had K °. C oufcof ibs °M habits; but it hasn’t,
u- ■T directors are unable to advise the declaration of a
dividend now, but an interim dividend may be decland
after the half-yearly balance in. September.” This dan-
gling of a possible interim div. bbtore,shareholders is a
catch-penny sort of business ; and, anyhow, on present
appearances, a dividend certainly should not be paid,
lhe fact that in the past two years £5769 has been written
oir, mostly on account of old bad debts, proves con-
clusively that in previous years the profits were .not what
they were represented to be, and the dividends find bonus
were excessive—probably more than the earnings. As a
matter of fact, the last two,years ought t.o show a heavy-
loss, because the amount written off'bad debts ought not
to be shown as “written off,” but should be deducted
from profits direct; but unfortunately this co. lias a
habit of lumping the amounts written off for various
things. Further, in the foregoing, £350 which has been
put to a contingency reserve in the past year has been
treated as profit, though it ■■will probably disappear
presently. The co. traded on insufficient capital ; but,
though it had little capital, it did a big credit and
advance business, and the money for the purpose was
got mainly from depositors. Even now, though capital
has been increased a little and deposits reduced, it
owes £57,059, while its own capital is onlv £28,233 ; and
on the assets'side stands the item “Amounts at debit of
current accounts, £61,106.” Thus it has lent nearly
three times its own capital; and in the slump in values
that is happening in Maoriland, it is practically irnpos-
sible for it to escape considerable losses. To meet these
highly probable losses it lias hardly any reserves worth
mentioning*; and yet it talks about an interim dividend.
In some respects it has improved ; it has centralised its
business, abolished some of its branches, reduced its
stocks, and lessened its overdraft, reducing* its total
debt in 12 months from £65,586 to the £57,059 mentioned
above ; but it needs to do a good deal more to put its
house in order. Under the very proper law of Queensland,
Tasmania, and some other States, building* societies can-
not take deposits for less than two j'ears, and then they
may not take more than three-times the amount of their
paid capital ; but a trading co. can take just whatever
deposits it can get hold of, and it heed not hold tuppence
against even £lOO,OOO of current account deposits.
Great Cobar, Ltd. (N.S.W.), whose huge
deficit to start with was made up of preliminary expenses,
£22,596, and underwriting commission, £144,073 :
Dividend Written
w Profit. and Tax. off. Deficit.
May. 1906.. £166,669
Dec., 190/.. £188,931 11J p.c. =£126,028 Nil 103,766
Further Preliminary Expenses, £97 .. ..103,863
Loss.
Dec., 19081 501 Nil Nil 104,364
. I,Discount on Debentures, £4425 .. 108,789
This is fairly shocking. And the position, though in
some respects it may be better than it looks from that, is
in some respects certainly worse. This can be realised
better by comparing liquid assets and liabilities with
those of 12 months ago
Debts,— Dec., 1907. Dec., 1908.
Debentures (6 p.c.) .. .. £555,836 £588,644
Loans and interest .. .. 127,212 219,149
Sundry creditors .. .. 45,146 36’636
Total £728,194 £844,429
Liquid Assets, —
Metal and ore in hand and
transit £121,714 £130,653
Stores 18,039 21,566
Gash and sundries .. .. 8,420 11,550
£148,173 £163,799
Excess of Liabilities .. .. £580,021 £680,630
So in the 12 months more than £lOO,OOO has been either
lost or put into fixed assets, mostly plant. But not a
penny has been written off old" plant, though it
has been scrapped wholesale. The excuse given
12 months ago was that, as £lOO,OOO of profits
had to be put up each year. to pay back the debenture
holders, depreciation was in that way amply provided for.
It might be—if the £lOO,OOO were set aside. So far, how-
ever, not a penny has been, dealt with in that way, so
that not a penny has been written off for wear and tear ;
and the alleged profits of the first 16 months were not
t rue profits, while the true loss of the past 12 months was
much greater than the accounts show. The auditors’
certificate is one of which no co. ought to feel proud :
“ No provision has been made out of profits for depreci-
tion, preliminary expenses, underwriting commission and
discount on debentures. Subject thereto we are of
opinion that the balance-sheet is properly drawn up,”
etc.
The directors and consulting-engineer Kendall
(who is one of them) throw most of the blame on ex-
manager Blakemore, to whom numerous acid references
are made. At the same time Kendall admits that the


How
Will
, So tKatit
|wm be '
Ca rnt
out,
Of
'V-
i
*3?
%
Wa
%h
4;S
m
%
%
m
m
Appoint;
TIC A;.
WIT
k
Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL, WHEAT.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co.
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALQOORLIE.
DIERCRS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
MLE .CENTS for KRAIISR LOCOMOTIVES
. .. •
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all prinoipal mining com
panies, sugar plantations, contractors, etc. j 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. & E. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 '
new furnaces had weaknesses. No doubt the troubles
added to the costs ; though how much of the repairing
was charged up to working account and how much to
capital account isn’t apparent. However, putting aside
the work of the past year, let us come to the estimates
for the future. Kendall says blister copper can be
produced f.o.b. Sydney for £34 a ton. General-manager
Bellinger, who followed Blakemore, says from £34 to £4O,
the latter on a 2Ap.c. mixture. The blister contains about
2Joz. gold and 13oz. silver per ton. The total quantity of
ore in reserve at Cobar and Chesney is estimated at
2,235,000 tons. Average the extraction at 2£ p.c. copper
(last year it was under 2 l-sth p.c.). This means 55,875
tons copper. Allow £62 per ton at Sydney for blister ;
average the costs at £4O. Then the “profit” is on that
basis £1,229,250. The present excess of liabilities
over liquid assets is £680,630. Deduct that, and
£648,620 remains for the shareholders and to pay
interest on debentures and other idebts and Lon-
don management expenses while the metal is being got
'out. At present the interest bill is over £41,000 a year ;
the London expenses were £9821 last year. If the new
plant can, as expected, treat 1000 tons a day, the re-
serves will last six years. In that time, allowing for the
repayment of the debentures at the rate of £lOO,OOO a
year, the total interest bill will reach about £120,000,
and the management bill about £57,000. Total £177,000.
Deduct that from £548,620, and £371,620 represents what
is left for the shareholders. Or put it this way :
Profit in ore £1,229,250
Liquid assets 163,799
Total £1,393,049
Dess—Debenture interest,
etc., six years .. £120,000
Management .. .. 57,000
Debentures .. .. 588,644
Other debts .. 255,785
Total £1,021,429
Balance far shareholders .. .. £371,620
'This assumes (1) an average extraction of 2£ per cent,
■copper ; (2) that the blister copper, containing about 2Joz.
gold and 13oz. silver, will be worth £62 per ton f.o.b.
.Sydney ; (3) that the working costs will average £4O per
ton of blister copper; and (4) that not another penny will
be spent on construction. For every £1 per ton that can
be knocked off costs or added on to the price realised,
(the shareholders are, of course, £55,000 to tiie good, pro-
vided that the saving or the gain applies to the whole of
the ore in reserve.
There are 150,000 shares in the co. They are
quoted now at about £5 10s. =£825,000. The Bulletin
doesn’t know where that value is. It certainly isn’t ex-
posed. The market is gambling either on much bigger
prices for metals or-the disfeovery of much bigger ore
reserves. In either case, however, there is bound to be a
jump when the thing happens; and then somebody will
be in the soup, seeing that those things have evidently
been provided for already.
* « * *
Sargents, Ltd.—This Sydney tea-room and
pastry-cook business was acquired by a co. early this
;year, and accounts for the first six months are now
iwsued. The paid capital is £BO,OOO in fully paid £1
■shares ; but of that capital £45,000 represents goodwill.
The co. therefore begins with a deficit of £46,235, the odd
£1235 representing preliminary expenses, including the
installation of a Melbourne business. The net profit for
the half-year was £6865 ;_ a div. at the rate of 10 per cent,
per annum absorbs £3379, leaving £3486. From this the
£1235 of preliminary exes, is written off, leaving £2251 ;
this reduces the deficit—that is to say, the capital
not represented by tangible assets—to £42,749. No time
should be lost in writing down this goodwill item out of
profits. For the time being, the business is no doubt
worth money; but goodwill simply represents the habit
which some people have of “going to Sargent’s,” and
that is much too vague and unreliable a thing to keep in
a balance-sheet. The profit depends very largely on the
severity (or otherwise) with which leaseholds and cups
and saucers and other plant and assets are written down
to cover depreciation ; and no hint is given as
to the total amount written off. This is another wav
of sa.yiiig that the profits are only an estimate ; and
the directors may under-estimate or they may over-
estimate the wear and tear, and hence also the profits.
As chairman and financial manager they certainlv
Mve the advantage of Herbert Priestley’s services ; and
Priestley is an accountant with a high reputation. Fur-
ther, he got his earlier training in an official assignee’s
■ office ; so he ought to know' where the snags are that most
commonly wreck cos. and other concerns. On the pub-
lished figures the co. has made an excellent start, always
-saving the fact that it lias done nothing towards formally
■wiping out the purely paper asset before alluded to.
*■***.
Douglas Mawson, the mineralogist of the
.Adelaide University,whose specialties are radium and
Tthe South Pole, w'rites: —“l hear from a private source
ini Sydney that a co. has been formed to work the Radium
Hill lode, near Olary (S.A.). Under ordinary .circtim-
-stances I would take no notice of such an undertaking ;
ibut it seems that the promoters have quoted me in the
■matter, so I feel I ought to speak. After a thorough
scientific investigation fiad been prosecuted, large samples
were sent to all parts of the world, and commercial re-
ports received - : The sum total of these reports was that
the ore is too refractory to be treated with a profit, un-
less a large; demand for titanium should spring up. So
far as I am aware, the demand for titanium is just as
limited as ever. A fuller scientific report on this il)ter-
. esting mineral lode will appear shortly. Alreadv some
have appeared in the Journal of the Imperial
institute.”
The market is still in a state of uncertainty
about'Tongkah tin. The fact is that, though pages have
been written about it, no first-rate engineer has yet
reported on the mine. Especially nobody has reported
on the channel and dock excavation which is part of the
price the co. has to. pay for the claim. Chairman Jones,
the jam manufacUM-er, \vas prepared to give £25,000 for
the right fco do tMt work, expecting to pay himself out
of the tin he wo| 1 get out of the stuff he handled. But
•the dredging of if channel and the building of embank-
nnentsugjongside it may not be such an easy job as it
Hooks #>ft all depends on what the stuff taken out of the
channel is. If it is firm clay it may be an easv job,
(though in that case they won’t get out much tin ; but if
iit is silty sand, it may amount to a big engineering work
•whieh will mop up all or most of the profits for a year or
(two.
The Tongkah Compound’s lease orconcession, or
whatever it is, is, it is cabled, now ready for issue; and
Bvron Moore, jun., has left for Bankok to sign the papers
•on behalf of the syndidate, which is in lOOOshares. This
•crowd, anvhowq knows exactly what it will have to pay,
(provided the terms haven’t been altered ; £12,000 down,
and £12,000 later on. In that respect it is ahead of the
Tongkah Harbor Co.
Main Ridge Deep Lead (N.S.W.) has bought a
10-head battery from Mt. David, which has more stamps
than it needs. Crushing cement to obtain a better re-
covery is a familiar business, and a good deal of it is done
at Clermont (Q.). But cement is just as patchy as ordi-
nal y alluvial wash, and the expense of mining and crushing
limits the grade of wash that can be profitably treated.
The Main Ridge has enlarged and re-timbered the tunnel
to 360 ft. from the entrance, and evidently intends to
work things on an extensive scale. It is close to the old
Sewells’ Creek field, and not far from Mt. David.
» * » *
Cope’s Creek Central, the Tingha (N.S.W.)
tin-sluicing and dredging proposition, which used to
have Gordon Lyon for chairman and a gilt-edged crowd
for shareholders, has lost most of its glitter. In 1906
one six-months’ profit ran into £5657 on a capital of
£7500. While the tin boom lasted it didn’t matter much
what sort of ground the co. had ; but when the boom
faded, the co. began to be worried by the toughness of
the earth’s crust, the granite bars and boulders, irregu-
larity of the deposits, and half a dozen other things. In
the half-year to May, 1908, the profit was £1009; which
left £9039 to carry forward. By the end of the next term
that was reduced t,® £7770; but £504 has been added
during the past half-year, and divs. have been resumed.
The plant has been shifted from lease No. 12 to lease
No. 8 (this work ate up most of the money in the previous
term), and as this ground has been fairly well bored, the
co. ought now to have a decent run, though it will still
be w'orried by the toughness of some of the ground—so
tough that it will probably have to be shot down. On
May 30 the co. had £1473 of liquid assets net; and this
month’s sixpenny div. (the fifth) will mop up £750.
* * * »
Kangiara (N.S.W.) is, of course, having trouble
with its tin-pot furnace ; and it never will do any good
with the thing. It is doubtful also whether the mill now
going up will give any better results. Meantime alluring
assay figures respecting the small parcels of picked ore
sent to Kembla are published. Why doesn’t the manage-
ment tell what it gets net for this ore, instead of publish-
ing'gross figures? The answer probably is because it is
a shockingly expensive ore to handle, and thedeductions
for losses are exceedingly heavy. Chillagoe (Q.) has to
deal with copper-lead ore, and though its me allurgical
practice is excellent, it doesn’t recover more than about
two-thirds of the lead.
* * * »
Though it had a long and hard struggle, the
Australasian Ore Concentration Syndicate, which owns the
Elmore zinc-recovery patents in Australia, has now got
into clover. The co., in which the two Elmore brothers
are the biggest shareholders, paid 25 per cent. (55.) on the
£1 shares for. the year to tHie end of March. The royalty
from the Zinc Corporation is the big source of revenue.
Principal Westralian results for June :
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Great Boulder .. 18,1S8 £50,184 £26,502 65/2
I van hoe .. .. 18,962 40,805 20,035 43/-
Kalgurli .. .. 10,580 28,064 15,075 63/-
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,013 51,094 20,108 48/6
Great Fingall. . .. 10,172 14,079 806 27/8
Lake View Consols .. " 11,053 13,089 2,721* 23/8
Boulder Perseverance 18,262 27,290 3,542 29/10
Associated .. .. 11,284 20,315 5,006 36/-
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,420 20,179 6,693* 35/4
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,040 20,544 6,829 31/6
Oroya- Black Range .. 4,273 10,758 3,850 50/4
South Kalgnrli .. 9,039 12,508 3,008 27/8
Associated Northern 3,750 6,510 2,495 34/9
Mararoa .. 2,380 4,473 2,083 37/7
Golden Ridge.. .. 2,188 5,715 2,802 52/3
Hainault .. .. 5,180 6,951 995 26/10
Gwalia Consolidated 5,140 8,429 644 32/9
Peak Hill .. .. 6,652 2,767 287 8,4
Gwalia South.. .. 1,900 4,484 918 47/3
Northern Mines .. 8,401 8,375 767 19/11
North White Feather 2,158 2,972 67 27/6
Karangahake .. 825 1,700 451 41/2
Loss.
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,269 2,020 252 17/9
Vivien 3,414 3,612 122 21/2
Ing-liston Extended.. 700 1,430 95 40/10
Cumberland .. .. 638 1,344 85 42/1
’lncluding surplus derived from the retreatment of
old slimes.
* a * *
Speaking from the chair at theFingall meeting,
C. A. Moreing urged shareholders to keep their pecker
up and watch the bottom of the mine. He said that after
an impoverishment extending downwards from 1400 ft. to
2050 ft. payable ore bad again been struck, and he cited
the Ivanhoe, Great Boulder and Sons of Gwalia as in-
stances where the ore had got poor and then become
rich again. Unfortunately, however, the cases are not
analogous, as the Fingall has a quartz reef and the other
three properties have lode deposit ; and in the West this
makes all the difference. At a later stage the meeting
assumed a down-in-the mouth appearance again when he
announced that the next quarter’s dividend would have
to be skipped, although he stated in the next breath that
this would probably be the only distribution that would
have to be done without. Moreing was unable to give
shareholders any further information respecting' the
Tarkwa option in West Africa, as the reports of the
engineers sent out to size up the property had not come
to hand.
* * « *
The new shoot in the bottom of the Fingall is
certainly getting better. Possibly what happened just
above the No. 4 level is being repeated in the deep winze
below No. 13 level. At the former point the original run
of gold snuffed out, and on driving south the top of
another shoot, which subsequently proved to be a big
thing, was struck. This bonanza gave out below the No.
13 level, and the fact of the deep winze below that depth
having already been sunk 40ft. in payable values, after pass-
ing through a barren section of some hundreds of feet, lends
color to the belief that the apex of another good shoot
has been exposed. Thk Bullrtin hopes, for the sake of
baekblocks mining in the West, and for the holders of the
country’s already immense pile of I O U’s, that it is so.
Orova-Black Range (W.A.) has taken an option
over the Indomitable lease in the Black Rang-e district.
This show 7 has a big lode of some promise and is thought
well of locally. The proposal for the amalgamation of
the Oroya-Blaek Range and Sandstone Development has
made no progress, although scientific and economic
mining demands the joining together of the two pro-
perties. The Sandstone’s terms are, however, reputed to
be too much for 8., M. and Co., the other co.’s advi&ers,
to swallow.
* » * *
Consulting engineer Ernest Williams’ report on
the Gwalia Consolidated has just arrived from London.
Williams recommends vigorous development at the Nos.
1 and 2 levels, sinking the north shaft to 200 ft., and
prospecting with the diamond drill. He reckons that,
while milling is fairly satisfactory, treatment results are
not at all good and can be improved. He adds that the
slimes and power plant should do better, and concludes
by saying that the outlook is favorable—a remark which
so often means nothing. The directors have cabled the
manager to carry out the recommendations.
Kalgurli Co. (W.A.) is hot on the Scent of two
runs of ore recently diamond-drilled at 100 ft. and 1000 ft,
in the southern portion of the mine. At the former
depth 4ft. of 34dwt. and 2ft. of 94dwt. core was got,
while at the latter point the average was 14dwt. for 28ft.
This property is now being w'orked in a canny way by
canny people, and the interests of shareholders are ap-
parently well looked after.
Whim Well Copper Mines (W. A.) shipped 2909
° xide ore durin k' its last year, aim averaged
£6Z fys. 3d. for the copper. In addition, 8647 tons were
produced at a cost of £4910; but this, being at grass
when the year ended, has been taken and valued in the
balance-sheet at actual cost of production only. This
asset is in course of realisation, and with standard copper
at £6O per ton is estimated to yield a net profit of about
£12,000. The dressing plant erected in the latter part of
19U7 is stated to be just the thing, and the reserves of
smelter ore are reported to be steadily increasing. The
management reports that the facts at present known in-
dicate the existence of several hundred thousand tons of
/ to 8 per cent, ore ; also, that there is no reason to
doubt that the quantities and values live downwards.
But The Bulletin has always doubted whether the
management is so sure about the downward extension of
the ore as it professes to be ; and, so far, the co. is not
doing anything to disperse those doubts.
* » * *
Victor’s Quartz, Woods Point (Vic.), six
months or so ago got an expert to tell where the old
shoot of gold should be. Since then 400 ft. has been
driven to the north at No. 3 level, but narv a shoot has
been found. Down at 400 ft. the manager thinks that
payable stone should be met with 150 ft. further on. If
not, then ring down the curtain. By what reasoning the
manager arrives at his conclusion is not clear, ff at
300 ft. there is not a sign of gold, why should they expect
to pick it up lower down? Hope may say yes, and as
manager Jamieson knows the vagaries of the district
he may see further into the earth than most
mine managers; but to the ordinal observer indi-
cations are all against him. A few blocks of stone in
the southern part of the property may keep the co. off
the call list, and give a few pounds in profits; but Victor’s
Quartz at its best is a wasting claim.
* * * *
Catlicart, Ararat (Vic.), having hit a run of
good gold, there are half a dozen floats. Already the
Langi I.ogan is out; and doubtless the southern Langi
block will appear in due course, to the enrichment of the
fat crowd that has stuck to it so long. At present there
is a nasty bit of grit in the Cathcart’s eye. A slab-shaped
block of ground, pegged to partly obtrude into the Cath-
cart lease, has got on to the market as the Catheart
Central. Bores tell of deep ground in it, and, of course,
there is the usual tale that the wash brought up shows
colors. The main fact is that it is deep ground,
and, if so, it must run in from the Catheart.
In that case Catheart hasn’t got the long life predicted.
But, then, how can the gutter go uphill into the Langi
Logan, which is north-west of the Central? George
Bryant, tnanag’erof the Catheart, says the deep ground is
a second run of wash, which was worked off the Catheart
shaft. This is very neat; but was it not once the story
that deep ground was to junction with the Catheart lead
about No. 9 rise? Ttie Catheart lead may make towards
the Daisy Bell gutter, but that does not say that
the lead does not turn south towards Donovan’s bores
and on into the Central. Not that much attaches to the
Central, which is too small to be a mine. But assertions
as to the whereabouts of a gutter have to be challenged
until actual boring shows the true course. Boring is
cheap. Why should not the Catheart put down a line of
bores on the Cathcart-Langi Logan boundary-line? With
that done we would know how the apple got into the
pudding.
•*■*■*•»
Ballarat is joyful over the strike of stone at the
Prospecting Co.’s claim. This lies beyond the ceme-
tery, and a good find might blot out sad remembrances,
and open up a strip of country to the north which the min-
ing speculator has not yet invaded. With the “blebs”
thrown in, 100 ton averaged about lOdwt. But Ballarat
wants a market gamble ; and that hasn’t come, so it
isn’t as joyful, after all, as it would like to be.
* * *■ »
From the miners’ point of vie-w, this is the
cheerful record of bucket-dredging in Victoria during
the past four years :
Average Average Averag'e
yield (grains yield (oz. Working
per cubic per Expenses
yard). week). Dividends. Weekly.
1905.. 2-04 24-2 £30,869
1906.. 1-8 22-7 33,607 £56
1907.. I'9 25-7 28,650 51
1908.. 2-0 29-5 59,249 57
The dividends paid to date have totalled £179,263 ; and,
as the total initial cost of plant arid races lias been
£227,783, the end of the current year ought to see that
first cost wiped out. There is, of course, also the land to
pay for in many cases. Taking the gold to be worth
about £3 17s. per oz., which is probably under the mark,
the average \ield per week is worth £ll4 ; so that the
weekly working expenses last year absorbed exactly half
the proceeds.
ft- * * *
“ The prospects being somewhat encouraging,
W'e arranged with the bank for an overdraft of £lOOO in
preference to making a call.” That is from the report of
the New Argus, Bendigo. It is most questionable finance,
but it shows the faith these Bendigonians have in their
own mines, When the average co. gets short of money,
the directors give instructions to the manager to skirmish
round for “ encouraging prospects.” Of course, he finds
them. Whereupon out go the paragraphs to the papers,
and then out g'o the call notices. IJendigo, however, has got
into the call-paying habit, and directors don’t, as a rule,
have to sweeten up their reports beforehand; so if this
£lOOO is lost—well, the call notices will go out, and
Bendigo will pay up. And at present it looks as if it will
have to: for the co. is already £773 into the bank, arid
the prospects are not much brighter. Besides which, all
the tributors are on poor dirt.
• * » *
The return of the old Lord Nelson (Vic.) to the
div. list is a slow business. After just over a quarter of
a million had been paid in divs., the directors decided in
1906 that the end had about come unless they could
treat the stuff at less cost; so a big new plant was put
up, and then everything in the garden was going to be
lovely again. The new plant started in 1907, and this
briefly has been the record since then :
Profits. Divs. Bank Balance.
Dec., ’O7 .. £3424 Nil Dr. £1642
June,’oB .. 1632 Nil Cr. 260
Dec., ’OB .. 318 Nil Cr. 45
Loss.
June, ’O9 ~ 1466 Nil Dr. 1373
Certainly during the last half-year £331 was spent on
“ miscellaneous and travelling expenses,” probably in con-
nection with the amalgamation of the Nelson and the
North Nelson ; but that only reduces the gloom by a
shade or two. No doubt with the two mines worked as
one there ought to be a saving of costs and an improve-
ment other ways : but when the forecasts of three or four
years ago are set alongside the actual results, one doesn’t
feel too much inclined to go cock-a-whooping,
* * * *
Porepunkah, one of the Bright (Vic.) dredg-
ing cos. in P. J. Breen’s office, has got along as follows
June,’o7 .. Loss £6l | Dec., ’OB .. Profit £1337
Dec., ’O7 .. ~ 125 June,’o9 .. ~ 922
June,’oB .. Profit 1006 |
So it is now £3079 to the good, though nothing has been
written off for wear and tear. The co. only put up
£5OOO, which wasn’t enough to pay for the land : and the
machinery had to be got on time payment. Total lia-
bilities are £3264 ; cash in hand. £553. The bulk of the
liabilities are payable out of profits at the rate of £lOOO a
year. The ground has recently been too ptiggy for quick
work ; but things are said to look better now.
* * # *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, is
getting its workings east of Mills’ boundary into con-
dition, and some good stone is showing. The hanging-
wall reef, on which nothing butstoping has been done for
a long' time, is to be extended north-east, where good
stone will probably continue with occasional breaks.
No. 2 main east level has improved a little after passing
through broken country. They are also pushing out.
No. 1 crosscut on the hanging-wall side of the shaft, and
should be very close to the reef. Development work has
reached an interesting stage, so the market has revived.
The new reef cut in the East Mexican’s 830 ft. level has
been driven through disturbed country, and prospects are
variable. The two plucky shareholders who backed up
this prospecting venture have the right to mine 400 tons
on tribute.
■**»».
The Maegregor, Cloncurry (Q.), has struck an
ore channel at 320 ft. ; but as it has also struck 12,000 gal-
lons of water per hour, it doesn’t know much about the
new find. It is, however, thought to be a parallel lode to
that worked in the upper levels. The 220 ft. level has been
driven 370 ft. ; half is low-grade and silicious, but the
balance is about 10 per cent, copper. This might be payable
even in such an inaccessible locality if it represented 10
per cent, extraction from the furnace instead of an
estimate of a wide and patchy lode formation. Mt. Cuth-
bert has also struck the lode at the ,350 ft. level, and the
first foot gives 12 per cent, copper. This is also an
exceptionally wet mine, and carries such a wide forma-
tion that separate drives prospect the hanging wall
and footwall sections. No one knows how deep-sinking
in the Hampden, JVlacgregor, orMt. Cuthbert will turn out,
but there are evidently very large lodes carrying a heavy
flow of water, which will necessitate better pumps than
are now in use.
* * * «
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving 1 waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming 1
friction. Itecent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Hives better results than any other. It.saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents ,
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and .
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* m * *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
» * * *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows—l6Bl n. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom—thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.*
“Fibro-Cement” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and Co., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool; under date
October, 1908, writes re Tne Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited :—“ In every branch of businei-s
success has been marked with sagacious management,
and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note
that the huge surplus at the last valuation has been put
to most excellent and practical use in strengthening its ,
resources.”
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TITCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuekett Chambers, 359 Collins .
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman,)*
* * ♦ *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
irj Australasia for the original “Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines ip Ah B
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612:616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87:89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The continued economical success of the up-tor
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing- Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, which is common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
* * » »
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different pses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., $75 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you wanfi to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont.dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagii-st., 74,Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 453 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayeks, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write t.o H. B. Sii.berbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket, transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles:
chemicals; etc.*
ft * * *
Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are finding
an extensive market for Alt. Herbert’s High Speed Ball-
Bearing Drill. This machine has no gears, and is of the
simplest design ; it is very easy to work, and that it can
cut through a bar of Jin. mild steel in three seconds
speaks for its working capacity'. It has many unique
features which recommend it as an up-to-date and valu-
able machine, and it has been the subject of many inter-
esting and remarkable tests.*


c
HAVE YOU BEEN BUYING *
HONEST SILK?
If a merchant gave you % of a yard of cloth and made you pay
for one yard he would be CHEATING you. Yet many stores
sell SHORT MEASURE silk and you keep buying it.
The CORTICELLI Silk on every spool is measured by RULE.
Corticelli Silk known to Science...
Test for yourself the strength of Corticellf Sewing Silk. It cuts
Into the flesh when you try to break it! Corticelli is the
strongest silk made. No other silk is so elastic and springy.
Corticelli Silk Mills
ESTABLISHED 1838
Australasian Office: 91a Yorh Street, Sydney a
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. VV. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. Is. l£d.* [1
EDUCATION BY POST,
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address—Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming; Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprieiof
ABORIGIN-
AITIES
There is no moderation about fish. This
fact explains why a drunkard is always compared
to a fish, and why drink drives men to seek
the company of lobsters. A correspondent of
Melbourne Age wired down to his paper re-
cently that the Avon River (Gippsland) was
teeming with the animal that wanders slowly
about in water with its eyes and mouth wide open,
like a new office-boy. People were rushing to the
river bank from Maffra and Sale, and catching
fish with any old thing at all. One day’s tally
was 10,000, and the luckiest man caught a whole
sackful. It sounds very splendid ; but, with the
recollection in my memory of the great fish visi-
tation that once struck Melbourne, I feel glad
I’m not living in the afflicted district. Several
years ago some unusual combination of marine
circumstances drove an enormous shoal of mullet
into Port Phillip, and, for a space, thousands of
people with time to spare went fishing. It wasn’t
exactly fishing; it was a mere matter of dragging
the animals out of the water and carrying them
off. But the draggers-out comprised the most
unemployed and tired section of the community ;
and as everything in Melbourne —including the
dogs—had been fed up on fish, it was impossible
either to sell or give the things away. The only
thing left to do with the spoils was to sink, burn,
or destroy them, or, in lieu thereof, give them
prompt burial. The draggers-out, unfortnnately,
were too exhausted to do anything except drop
their hauls on vacant pieces of land as they
trudged wearily homeward. It was summer
time, and Melbourne’s marine suburbs smelt like
insane fish markets for a week or two after the
remnants of the shoal had fled once more to sea.
If these innumerable fish had distributed them-
selves over several years they would have con-
ferred a favor on the general public. But there
is no moderation about fish, living or dead—
especially dead.
* * ■* •
The talk of a Dreadnought coming from
these parts, and the occasional references to a
home-grown navy for local defence, recently
prompted the old and highly respectable Cham-
bers’ Journal to supply an article on “The
Coast of Australia.” It is wonderful how well-
informed the immigration agents have at last
made these writers. Bor instance, this is Aus-
tralia :
3000 square miles of Pacific bedrock tbat mesozoic up-
heaval flung up into the sunlight to make Australia.
Evidently it was elastic rock that melted in the
sunlight, and thus spread out finally to our
present 2,974.581 sq. miles. Still, though we do
consist of only 3000 sq. miles of mesozoic upheaval,
there are wonderful things in our interior : —■
The fearful interior has so far been left to the restless
bunyip, which is free to roam in ghostly solitude over
unending plain -of sand and stones. In the heart of the
continent the dead devel is broken only by the gaunt
growths of gums and spinifex, which might stand in the
vegetable world for the emblems of despair. The path-
less earth is powdered with the dust of forgotten martyrs
and of their fallen camels.
All on a vast continent that apparently stretches
55 miles one way and 54 miles the other! No
wonder the writer wasn’t able to crowd in those
other well-known Australian properties, the
womballabv and the dingaroo.
* » * •*
“Janor”: The Yic. State Parliament is
going to toil shortly on a Pea Rifle Bill, which, it
is understood, will be loaded with a provision
prohibiting thecarryingof these weapons by youths
under 18. Which seems a stupid and inefficient
way of grappling with the problem of the nipper
and the gun. A few of the accidents, in which
the actors are an imported gun and a home-made
kid, are due to the gun ; but mostly they are due
to want of knowledge on the youngster’s part. If
every boy were trained in the proper use and hand-
ling of arms before he was permitted to pot the
fecund bunny or the raucous parrot, and if all gun
barrels were made and tested in Australia, the
blown-up nipper would be a scarce article. The
boy Australian loves a gun, and it will be a tough
job to legislate his finger off the trigger; and,
anyhow, this juvenile love is a joyful circumstance
and a national asset of value that should be
fostered and educated, and not suppressed.
VERY MUCH LAID OUT.
HAYSEED HENRY (to new arrival at country
township): "There, now. Ain’t it a fine
town? Ain’t it well laid out?”
VISTOR: "Oh, ya-as, very. Quite dead, in fact.”
In one Gippsland centre, when the waters
were abroad on the earth, the local Metholean
clergyman called a prayer-meeting of his water-
logged flock on the hilltop “ to pray for a cessa-
tion of rain.” As recently as last January, a
Gippsland paper points out. the same reverend
was strenuously praying for rain. What of it ?
No doubt the holy man believes he has every
right to complain of the late delivery of the
goods, and holds himself justified in rescinding
the order. Any business man would do the same
in similar circumstances. Prayer for rain is
always answered in Australia, but replies are too
often postponed. For the future all such com-
munications should be marked “ urgent.”
CONDOLENCE.
"There 'e goes, drunk agin! Gord 'elp ’is wife, if 'e's got one; but it’s better for 'er if’e ain’t.”
“ Trotter ” writes ;
In my breast pocket I find the report of the Otago
(M.L.) Acclimatisation Society for 1909, which I have im-
pounded. This is the 43rd annual, and theO.A.S. is about
the most energetic acclimatisation society going. But it
doesn’t say anything about the rabbit; I cannot find a
single line as to how that little beggar is getting on. I
hope he isn’t extinct. There is also a certain gloom
about the hare. An indifferent shot was the importation
of 80 Indian minah birds from Australia in 1880. The
importation of starlings was 154 in 1874,220 in 1877, 168
in 1878, 22 in 1879, and 182 in 1880. After which the
record ominously ceases. It was the most destructive
bird ever brought to Maoriland. In England it only eats
insects which are injurious to fruit. In Maoriland it
cannot get the insects it likes, and so it eats the fruit.
Darwin could have added a profitable chapter on “ Vari-
ations under Acclimatisation.” Cats were imported to a
New Hebrides island to destroy mice. They wouldn’t
touch a mouse, but ate all the beautiful island birds. The
Otago Society has been most catholic in trying birds,
such as pheasants, California quail, Virginia quail, grouse,
chaffinches, skylarks, blackbirds, thrushes, hedge spar-
rows, goldfinches, greenfinches, yellowhammers, bunt-
ings, Australian plovers, English ducks, English robins,
partridges, peewits, barn owls and little owls—every-
thing except the vulture, the condor, and the crow.
In fish culture it continues most active. During the past
season the fry and yearlings distributed were 678,000
brown trout, 314,000 Loch Leven ditto, 120,000 Scotch
burn ditto, 15,300 rainbow ditto, 850 Lake Blagdon ditto,
making a grand total of 1,128,150 ditto. Many millions
of young trout have been distributed since 1869, and in
hundreds of streams. Nothing said about bringing in
the pike, the yabbie and the octopus ; but doubtless they
will come. Everything comes to the acelimatisor who
waits. The deer, it seems, are getting on well, and
spreading fast, and giving good sport, and eating up the
crops of Farmer Chump at a great rate. Also English
lobsters and crabs are bearing up manfully and going
strong.
* * * *
“Louis M.” : Again I have come across
the term “intelligent bushman,” as applying to
a master of bushcraft, and am constrained
to remark: The bushman proper (not
merely the man who has taken up his
residence in the Baekblocks) is not intelli-
gent, in the generally accepted meaning
of the adjective. The perfect bushman is
one that knows little else than the bush.
The man who rides the silent ways with
thoughts on the latest literary gem, in-
vention, theory, or political crisis, takes
long to get “the lay of the country,” or
to recognise its phenomena. The wild
blackfellow —undoubtedly our best all-
round bushman, has not a thought
beyond his immediate environment—and
rum. The latter he cannot hope to
obtain, in any quantity, unless his study
of the former is heartwhole and complete
—and it’s simply his poor intellect that
enables him to ensure that it shall be so.
All the best white bushmen that I have
met or known of have been men of low
average mental calibre, and of little
knowledge outside their own particular
lore—with the exception, perhaps, of a
very pretty faculty as regards the “duff-
ing” of a neighbor’s stock, the make
of a roughriding saddle, or the proper kind
of horse to carry it. Of course, there are excep-
tions (this to ward off Aboriginaliars); but gener-
ally speaking, the true bushman is not intelligent.
He may be a good or thorough scrub-dasher ; but
that is a different affair.
A SIMPLE REMEDY.
Said to Relieve Rheumatism, and Anyone Can
Prepare It.
Thousands of men and women who have felt the sting
and torture of this dread disease, which is no respecter of
age, p rson, sex, nation or rank, will be interested to
know that while for many years rheumatism was con-
sidered an incurable disease, now it is one of the easiest
afflictions of the human body to conquer. Medical
science has proved that it is not a disease in itself, but is
a symptom caused by inactive kidneys. Rheumatism is
uric acid in the blood, and other waste products of the
system, which should be filtered and strained out in the
form of urine. The function of the kidneys is to sift
these poisons and acids out, and keep the blood clean
and pure. The kidneys, however, are of sponge-like sub-
stance, the holes or pores of which will sometimes, either
from overwork, cold or exposure, become clogged and in-
active ; and failing in their function of eliminating these
poisons from the blood, they remain in the veins, decom-
pose and, settling about the joints and muscles, cause
the untold pain and suffering of rheumatism and back-
ache, often producing complications of bladder and
urinary disease, weakness, etc.
The following simple prescription is said to relieve the
tvorst cases of rheumatism, because of its direct action
upon the blood and kidneys, relieving, too, the most
severe forms of bladder and urinary troubles: Tincture
Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup Rhubarb, one
ounce Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce; and
Syrup of Ginger, five ounces. Mix by shaking well in a
bottle, and take one teaspoonful after each meal and one
before retiring for the night.
The ingredients can be had from any good chemist,
and, being purely vegetable, are entirely harmless, and
safe to use at any time.
“Janor”: Getting into holts over the
spread of bush fires is sheer waste of ink, energy,
and other things. As well argue over the speed
of horses —or women, which vary in pace, even as
does the bush blaze. I saw a spur on the Gibbo
(N.S.W.), some three miles in length and heavily
timbered, burnt clean out from creek bank to
divide in two hours. Some years later saw a bush
fire crawl over the same spur for three days, with-
out reaching the top of the range. This difference
was due solely to weather conditions. I have
seen bush fires consume a week travelling one
mile. TheGippsland fires quoted by “Dandalup”
were as speedy as he writes ; but they were excep-
tional, and without doubt the swiftest thing
in forest fires I’ve fled from in a good long
experience. I have also seen some equally hurried
blazes in dry swamp country, including one not-
able flare up on the Piako River (Maoriland),
when the fire raced through 40 miles of dry flag and
reeds in about two hours. It seems safe to con-
clude that grass fires travel, on the whole, faster
than forest fires. In Gippsland there are many
patches that act as natural breaks, and have never
been burnt. !3o dense and green is the under-
growth of hazel, dogwood and wattle, that they
beat the fiercest blaze. That flames travel
from tree top to tree top in a strong wind, the
charred and blackened arms and limbs to
be seen in every forest prove beyond argu-
ment. “Milky White” is all wrong in his
idea that the bush is more inflammable in winter.
A winter bushfire is a rare bird. Right through-
out the winter months in Gippsland it takes
patience and some little skill to get a fire going in
the open for billy-boiling purposes. No! the
speed of bushfires can’t be caught and labelled
OFF THE SCENT.
CITY STRANGER (not observing notice on wall):
"Haw, could you — er —tell me where the Fox
family lives?”
LOCAL I DIOT: “ Why, certainly—in holes in the
ground, of course. There ain't enny here.
abouts, but there's plenty of dingoes and emus."
and pigeon-holed. Manj’ causes work for variety
in “ Hell on wings,” but I think the weather is the
main factor in determining the rate of combustion,
Frank Morton once remarked in the Lone Hand
“the habit of generalising is the commonest
, , ,■ , , . fV. » ai
symptom of disordered thought, .nd Ajo a.
should cut that out and paste it m the bottom of
the beer glass.
THE DESERT’S OWN.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
A hundred miles on either side lies grey forbidding sand :
A single maid to sanctify a vast and lonely land.
No mountains in her vision reared their fastnesses of
blue—
The eerie plains that die in haze are all she ever knew.
No shining seas have lapped for her, no limpid streams
have purled—
An exile of the exiles, and an outcast of the world !
Her father keeps the Half-way Bore. The Desert is the
urn
That hold the ashes of his hopes. Strong-willed and
taciturn,
Full jealously he fondles her (ah, often has she smiled ;
For she, a woman rosy ripe, to him is yet a child).
And, foolish as a father is, how can he be aware
That all her longings grope for that which is a woman’s
share ?
The sun each morning crawls above the far outstretching
plain
To glare athwart the brassy skies—to sink and rise
again.
Last week a drover drifted through with hint of sea and
town,
Enlisted fora Queensland run to bring its cattle down.
And then two shearers cycled by (she watched them
tearful-eyed
In silence through her window pane ... then bowed her
head and signed).
And then a camel caravan went lurching past the door—
She guessed the secrets of The Bads from out her camel
lore.
Lone ghosts were they of Mystery, but she has learned
to know
The magnitude and hopelessness of where the camels go.
And Abdul Khan—she hated him who sought her for his
wife ;
Yet Abdul was the only man who ever crossed her life.
She heard at times of life and love—but oh! so far
away—
Beyond the Desert’s outer rim, and past the blurring
grey.
She heard of joy and laughing hours, and blazing streets
and bars —
But they were further than her hopes—and further than
the stars.
For oh ! the Desert hemmed her in—no Ishmael big and
brave
Had ever come to clutch her from her cradle and her
grave.
She knew no girlhood ; it was lost in haze and dust and
heat ;
She never knew how strange was Love —how bitter and
how sweet.
She never knew the passion-thrills when lips to lips are
pressed—
And yet that day the shearers passed she vaguely, nearly
guessed !
She felt the surge of womanhood and dumb maternal
schemes
That lay behind her loneliness—and deeper than her
dreams.
She peoples Time and Space with men, brave hearted,
iron-limbed ;
But always when she pictures them her eyes grow dulled
and dimmed.
The lonesome Pads have borne them by (and some were
hopeless clods) —
But Love is blind where Love is lorn—she knows that
they were gods!
Yea, splendid gods who break her heart when Distance
builds its bar—
Poor little lonely prisoner who worships from afar 1
Where flesh and blood are far removed can still the spirit
be?
Ah yes—and he of whom she dreams is Love’s Affinity.
She knows the tend;r yearnings that a virile manhood
brings—
For it is knocking at her heart and tugging at the strings.
And though she dreams by dark and day, how might he
understand—
Her Dream Incarnate dwells across a thousand miles of
sand !
She feels the Hurt of Emptiness—and will till Time has
stilled
The voices of her heritage and cravings unfulfilled.
She feels the pang, and knows it is the wanton ache of
Life —
Perpetuation’s muffled voice that stabs her like a knife.
Hers is the Love Unsatisfied that is her pride and shame
(She pictured him by shade and sheen . . . but only
Abdul came !)
Some day, perchance, when Hope has waned, and fevered
cities tire,
I’ll wander out and make her love the star of my desire.
Where seldom bird is known to sing and scarce a flower
to bloom
(But in those lonely lands our hearts will each have
beating room).
A nd yet—and yet a Brown Man’s hate is oft a red-stained
knife . . .
For Abdul was the only man who ever crossed her life.
N.S.W.
GILROONRY.


PRATT’S
THE WORLD'S RICHEST SPIRIT.
Gives more power gallon for gallon
than any other.
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
The only Motor Lubricants that are
scientifically manufactured.
A Tsar of old, who causrht a cold.
Sent for his Empress, who was i old
It was her fault 1 Then he lay hold
Of his poor wife, and slew her !
The tyrant’s crime was quite absurd !
She’d done her best, upon my word !
But, in those days folks had not heard
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,*
Ihe“FxJR”
WATCHES
are f-plate Levers.
They have Rrequet hair springs.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDINt4 and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order for two years (break-
ages excepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
Write for Catalogue.
GHS
MOO MO »
3* O
s
1b
/
ITv
Gent’s Oxidised Open Face, f-plate “Fx. and R.” Fever Watch,
15 jewels, 33/-; with 7 jewels, 28/-
p, *'"c R?“" 8 1
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“The Undersigned ” :Itis a common say-
ing that when men quarrel there is a woman at
the bottom of it. Frequently, yes, but not
always ; sometimes the trouble is dogs. Strained
relations, brought on by dogs, exist between
myself and Sloan next door. The trouble began
in rather an odd way. My dog, usually a sagaci-
ous beast, made a strategic blunder when burying
a piece of meat for future consumption. He un-
wisely chose a spot against, or rather just under,
the dividing fence. When the dainty fell due,
and had acquired that fine bouquet so relished by
the canine connoisseur, it must have attracted the
attention of one of the dogs next door—
probably the infamous beast they call Ginger.
Sloan’s dog dug the meat up, and doubtless
scoffed it—a most unprincipled hound. Of course,
when my animal dug down for his hidden treasure
it had vanished, and the cupboard was bare. The
excavations made by the two dogs formed a sort
of burrow or North Shore tunnel under the fence,
and through this my dog crawled to see about it.
I don’t think he encountered Ginger, as I have
since seen that beast about, alive and well; but
Sloan informed me, with unnecessarily violent
language, that a prize bull-slut of his was ruined.
He said I engineered the tunnel for the purpose
of letting my dog through. He scoffs at the
meat episode as a far-fetched lie. No action
of mine seems to have any effect in
the direction of changing Sloan’s sour atti-
tude. My dog was originally named Jack ;
but my' wife, who is of high birth (her
father is a stock and station agent), says that John
is much nicer. My children, because he is black
and noisy, call him Johnson. But since his visit
next door, I have, as a compliment, been calling .
him Sloan-Johnson. Sloan has no appreciation of
this delicate thought of mine ;in fact, the
hyphenation seems to irritate him exceedingly.
Nothing softens him ;no matter how politely the
attention is proffered. One day last week I looked
over the fence and asked him, in the kindest pos-
sible way, if he had got work yet. He told me
that no gentleman would obtrude his company and
conversation where they were not welcome. I
asked him what book of etiquette he had been
reading, and he replied that amongst people of his
quality (his father was something on a coal wharf)
good manners and deportment come, naturally,
and only the low-born need to study books on
the subject. He added that I could get
the book I required at any library. I was offended,
and called him an M.L.C. He retorted .with
“pawnbroker.” I told him I was not fishing for
compliments ; also I gave him the name of an
effective soap for washing the head. Having run
off these points, I retired to the house, for fear he
should say something to exasperate me. I really
am afraid we shall never be friends, but lam still
doing my best. Only yesterday I asked if he
would accompany me to the Yankee missioners’
meeting, to see if they could convert him through
their noses. Again thinking to wound a sensitive
spirit, he said their noses were not large enough
to convert me. His low personalities disgust me.
* * * *
“ Lancewood ” (from the place she writes
about): The Bulletin par. (24/6/’O9) re the tank
of rum that was sent up to Portland Downs,
Queensland, recalls another nun-
yarn. At the time of the first ,
election on the Barcoo, the
population of the consti-
tuency numbered 50.
Mount Enniskillen was
the polling station.
The Ellises of Mal-
vern Hills brought
with them a hogs-
head of rum on a
dray, thinking by
its subtle aid to
induce alcohol-fan-
ciers to vote for
their candidate.
The rum was more
than appreciated.
Old hands still talk
with rapturously-
hushed voices of
the joyous scene
at the poll. The
weather was sul-
try, and the ap-
proved method of
defeating it was
to wear the shirt-
tails flying loose,
in which guise most
of the chief personages
of the locality appeared.
A dispute arose over the voting, and to cries of
‘‘Divide, divide ! ” the electors gathered each to
his own side for a count. It went in favor of one
Gore, of Brisbane; and a special messenger was
despatched a distance of about 700 miles to carry
the tidings to him. On being faced with them,
the new member said, wonderingly: “The Bar-
coo! The Barcoo ! Where is it ?’’—and turned
to the map. By next mail he got official notifica-
tion from P.M. Carr Boyd of his election. His con-
stituents didn’t know him ; but they had sampled
the rum that was his friend’s, and they found it
good, and plumped the right way accordingly.
A PEACEFUL FINISH.
VISITOR: “ And did your husband die happy , Mrs. Jones?”
MRS. JONES: “ Indeed ’e did—for ’is lars ’ act were to ’it me over the ’cad with a medercine bottle.”
“Hamer” describes how he became a
millionaire:—
One of the beauties of alcoholic refreshment is the
generosity it instils even in the meanest bosoms.
I have known men who, in a state of sobriety,
wouldn’t give a farthing to a blind beggar to
give away anything—give even their wives away
—when under the influence. I have given things away
myself ; and if I could collect all the things that hav e
been given to me I would be in a position to have bad
dreams about Socialism. As a matter of fact, I
once tried to collect a house a friend gave me ; I
knocked up the occupier and explained my mis-
sion, and asked him to send it out by delivery
van to. my place ; but I must have given the
wrong address, because I never got that house. It
was Jones who gave it. to me. Jones, who had borrowed
sixpence from me, took me in to have a drink ; and it was
then he explained that he owned the pub, and that I
could have it. I thanked him, of course, and asked him
to have another drink ; and th"n we went outside and
saw a stylish sulky. He said he owned it, but I could
IN TOPHET.
“Hullo! What’s the trouble?”
“ The spookus has reported that there is more
water in the Cotter River at Yassbcrra than
in Tophct.”
have that too. An angry man, however, came along and
pulled us both out. When he had gone, Jones
explained that it was his buggv-boy, and he told me I
could have him, too. We went on presenting things to
one another until we arrived at Jones’s house. In an
impressive manner he asked me to wait while he got
something for me ; and I held the keyhole for him whilst
he opened the door. I sat on the step to wait for him,
and I found a milk jug there. When he came back he
held something in his hand. It was one of his wife’s
shoes. He pressed my hand between both of his, and the
tears of friendship’s enthusiasm stood in his eyes as he
gave it to me. Then I gave him the milk jug, and we
parted. I put, the shoe in my pocket and forgot all about
it until the morning, when there was quite a row about
it; and Jones subsequently told me that when his wife
found that the jug had disappeared and there was no
milk, and later discovered the jug under his pillow,
things were not exactly pleasant in his house.
“Myrtle” : Be novel names of streets.
Longreach, which is within coo-ee of all Banana-
land’s best wool country, isn’t at the tail of many.
All its streets, and the places where the streets will
be when the houses grow, are named after native
birds—Galah-street, Eagle-street, and so on. The
superiority of such names over King, Queen or
Jones (a deceased and forgotten alderman), is
obvious. Don’t know if there’s a Jackass-street
or a Lvre-lane.
Broken Hill, which lately whooped for
“internationalism” and “the brotherhood of
man,” has been getting another view of the
matter; and it isn’t so sure about these things as
it was when Tom Mann was the local hero. The
Afghans and Punjabis who pilot the patient
camels across the sandy vastnesses out from
Broken Hill towards the Sunset and the Empty
North have become so spoof-proud, that some of
them travel first-class, and even book sleeping-
berths from the Hill to Adelaide or Melbourne.
And when several Afghans or Punjabis travel
together in a closed compartment on a warm
night, something extra special in the way of
fragrances is provided. The general manager of
the Silverton Tramway Co. was interviewed on
the matter the other day, and asked to do some-
thing to obliterate the Cdor. But he replied to
the effect that if a blaekfellow or a Chinaman
comes along and pays the legal tender, he hasn’t
got any right to keep the discolored gentleman
out, even if he has all the smells of Asia hanging
to him; wherefore, all that the general manager
could advise was that the deputation should talk
to the Railway Commissioners about it.
OUT OF PLACE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The floods were out. Oppressed with chills
I paddled with a brace of chums
Where, nigh submerged, the wind-swept hills
In wintry frenzy gnashed their gums.
There in a fork we found a bloke
Who slept upon his wretched perch.
We shouted thrice ere he awoke.
He really might have been in church.
He told us he was moving round
On biz when swamped. He did opine
No man could anywhere be found
To best him in his proper line.
I asked him what his line might be.
He cursed a bit, and raved at Fate
That left him in the lurch. Said he :
“ I am a water-finder, mate 1 ”
FLOODED DISTRICT OF VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
TO BLANK, M.P.
Really, some people are most unreasonable. You’d
think from the way these country people write that Par-
liament was responsible for the floods. Vic. M.L.A. to a
sympathetic press.
Dear Sir, I’m sitting on a tree,
B meath an ancient gamp,
Rheumatic pains are nipping me,
M.v boots are full of damp.
For seven days and seven nights
My shirt has not been dry.
The flood-tide swamps the farming sites,
And laps the distant sky.
And still it rains, and up the bole
The sullen waters creep.
God help my sin-encrusted soul
If I should fall asleep 1
I breathe no curse upon your head,
Bur, write this while I can :
You are the blighted wretch who said :
“ Go on the land, young man ! ”
victoria.
S. S.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuiiiciently stamped. Name anil
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
N. Roberts : As a rule, the indignant corres-
pondent who writes saying he wasn’t paid for his sug-
gestion is simply one who didn't take the trouble to
send his name and address, “ ‘Draco Red,’ Australia,”
is no postal address Ben Lewis: Many thanks for your
kind letter C.: We are glad to hear that certain par-
sons have got The Bulletin barred out of Zeehan Free
Library. In a library 50 or 500 people read one copy,
which is had for business ; when the paper can’t be thus
read on the cheap quite a lot of individual new sub-
scribers come in. Hooray for the Zeehan parsons 1 More
power to them ! A.F. W. : Thought long and earnestly
about “Encumbrances.” In the end it passed out
H.A.W.: Don't think the diplomas would be worth a
rush. Why not try to get some local tuition ?... Egmont:
David Berry, of Coolangatta, was born at Cupar, Fife, in
the land where they breed bagpipes and other diseases.
He escaped to Australia in 1836.... L. 8.R.: Very pass-
able topical verse. But that “we” of the S.M.H.
wasn’t the editorial “we,” so the peg that the verses
hang on breaks down....R.D. (Broken Hill): Rocky
verses advertising ’s machine cheerfully declined....
S.G.M.: W. Shakesbacon did it better in “ The Taming of
the Shrew.”... Chips: Not asking for any more just
now—unless it’s a lot better.... San Remo: Tightly com-
pressed sausage-rolls of MS. are violently execrated in
this office U.P.: One traveller returns. The other on
the brink Stretton : Paradox knocked out easily by
verses. ..Ratina: Cricket poem no class... .X.E.Z.:
Deplorable verses celebrating German defeat somewhat
premature.. ..P.C.: Methodist musings. Moreover, the
woman who philosophises is wasting her time....Derf
Commor : Venerable story about the man who was bitten
by Urn dog he had bought to slay eats declined with
emphasis... .Cow Boy: Spirited statement that cow-
slaves thrive on being cow-slaves doesn’t help the
argument W.J.R. : No space for weary extracts
from dead poets, who were never really alive
Massa : Introspective analysis of commonplace procrasti-
nator F.H.R. : Autobiographical fragments jumbled
up with fowl-talk and fox items Weary Willie: Said
so often already in The Bulletin, and more vigorously.
Antonio: The amazing missioners would regard your
poem as sincere, and quote it amongst their salvag’e
statistics... M.E.P. : Sorry, but Ada was rather an ex-
hausted subject before your yarn came to hand O.
Thomson: Have no knowledge of the contrivance.. F.
Isaac: After hesitation, “The Breakers” broke in dis-
order and fled into the customary receptacle... R.B.T. :
Very annoying to you, no doubt; but, on the other hand,
vegetable pests which did millions of pounds’ worth of
damage have been introduced mixed with seed, and
inspection is necessary. Of course, your cocky objected,
but that is only natural .. .Rheum : Fusion jokes rather
belated. Fusions want to be hit while fresh Verii :
Two of the oldest chestnuts in history, and you have the
dashed front to s<y they “ recently happened at Oolac.”
Dico: As you say, some words like “obsessed,”
“strenuous” and “environment” grow wearisome.
But, after all, the utterly hackneyed, tired and
overdone word of the British langaiage is the.
You use it three times in one verse A.C.P. :
You jest with the grace of an elephant Tat:
No accounting for tastes ; but you don’t sing the praises
of your Chow wife in this paper W.J.M.M. : Physically
impossible, if you come to think of it, for you two to
“ wander hand in hand, heart to heart” Pip-pip : Bit
too thin, both of them F. Reeve :So the jokes about
Magna Charta being signed at the bottom, and about the
nervous scholar ivho denied having signed it at all “ actu-
ally occurred recently at a suburban public school.”
Wonderful how history repeats itself G. D. Brown :
Fair to medium drawing ; but, with 1, several chains
from publication point.... H. Stephens : Address your in-
tellect to the evolution of some other humor-effort. The
sample submitted was too du11.... C.B.H. : Drearv story
of a dismal lady who nightly prays that her husband may
break his neck... Utiku : Decayed surprise-party humor.
Feb : Nice anti-gambling tract—but why did your
awful example fill his mouth with “racing turf’’before
he uttered his terrible curse ?.... C.D. : Yes, string your
harp in Allan’3 Bower—the further off the better
R. H.J. : Poem about V What us Australians call tin ” all
mullock Warrenjella : The longest-winded bull yarn
we ever read G.B.A. : Incoherent narrative about
some girls, a parson and a mare ...Midnight: Why
should Prohibitionists assume that, because a man reports
adversely on their doxy, he must be incapable, or dis-
honest, or both?....Mungana : Alice, who spends the live,
long day in tending three rosebuds in atrav, is too slow to
be wedded even to your immortal verse Curroka : Stick
to the bank ; verse-making is not in your line, or there
are too many of your lines to a verse, or too many feet to
aline. Something’s wrong, anyway A.E. : What can
you expect of a moribund Parliament led by the oil-and-
water fusion? H.O. : The amazing nature of your
poem causes us to quote a few' lines :
Thirty years ago Alfred Sneakin got a job
As a barrister, his fee was thirty bob
Of politics he had none and of work same
So lie searched a daily paper for a profitable game
The Plague of Melbourne then, was Spiritualistic Spooks
Our Sneakin’ joined the party and spoke in many nooks
One la ly friend was very smart sneaked a ham from th’
back verandah
With it hit a man in seance dark
Who grunted out much dander. —
She stole a cabbage from a cart
While walking home one night
Swore the Spirits gave it
Men winked and said “ all right ”
Bowling Brun and Sneakin were in this pious swim
They imported spooks and speakers
Though protection to the brim
When their litt.le woman got bowled out
Public indignation rose
Detectives found drink and ether things
Hid underneath her clothes.
She took Bran’s gin and many things
In the middle of the night
Where she stowed it Goodness Knows !
Though Spirits were her right ;
The rest of the effort is too terrible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Geo. 0.: Idea not much good, and your two footballers
look like two devils Barry : Declined with some slight
emphasis... M.M. : Drawing quite hopeless. Colors look
as if you had been fighting with an ink-bottle G.A.W. :
Very’ laborious affair Batcher: We have “considered
enolosed.” Results fatal to “enclosed.” T.B.M. :
Presume there is some hidden meaning in the thing, but
can’t dig it out.... Truthful Motor Hog: Declined.


' " One«.ffs v
KotWo fte
(Or^n^eSf**^
/Vfftfrs Rcti tf. object' ■/© joierfertrrce. of- t?c
l\*l tow w«t£ 'f'K ° l ' $ ffteir &**>f'toy€es .
CFi*wis l«tfe*
fb Wo K>o
secre^fy^
Kid
is a deadkcNd, "bci^o
"be tfere only pressure
(of
"befer % ' z'
ec, /
Go way I [e«\vs sjorje !! Were
* '*H>y H"
0
if (lie
,r 7 ? SS
gr-j do*f /
wljole time/
\ to (>ol.tTt
■x \
%<>> toe /
/v V»ist?y will /
"be tUroed /
out >r
(A^#aJ y'
Federal r
Accepted t£r>der
op A v ' / A Vv >®ricA»->
•firm for- iqery (
op- itfe new /
Arms Rectory,, >t I
At f (oS.oo y o ’ A
. • f / ;i
1 A^k
1 \.a
eUtr,« f 0 > oc Mm en t
f^CAve
J. B. Ive Called About" Some friaekirrery—
A\ ir >'S^ r o\ Depend ’ Oh — 1m Very Sorry — Weve,
give*, job to A -firm,# Y ou
jee yotgr WorXy so oat o| 4nte~*
J ft " erf cUte 2\l? W«U & u
~ ti;eyaW« firnr\ your
el<k Dreadnought
§// / / /V \T[>eA , <in sa>'d ~se /
v"'// r<z [ u 2* cc ord free /
/ ' Sk -+b JLAbor rleml?ers i
daring '{*r , e,nig>>fsitf'inp<i, t£e
Oairovrie of l>Ke diyourfuj received
op ~rtje £)pposif,or> •
see ! LooKvvba^i ~
r««U +b AVTJ>?\Ki'n
vf&Q&fjrJ
,
1 BANK j-
\ '
\ y
fje. I UKe ■fta C t~-R, Ba»*K | "
If Attempted to c^rvy
E- ac
in Victoria, Wtere would "be
Ohe Op- b/oodiQ^'f"
the people op Couoffy
eve.- see to . "
(A l?ever« n d Oi'VisJC'n&o^
POLITICS. FUSED AND OTHERWISE.


N S.W. Public Works Committee yesterday gave further consideraUon
to the proposed scheme in connection with the remodelling of the
Parliamentary buildings. -
With regard to the shape of the chamber, one witness was of
opinion, that its acoustic properties would be far better if it was more
circular in form.
tKher ittiprovements to the acoustic properties will occur to the
inventive mind.
“ There was not,” the witness proceeded to say,
sufficient space in the plans allowed for the interviewing
of members by their constituents and the general pub-
And it would be a decided improvement if the roof of Parliament House, as
reconstructed, could be made flat, permitting of an outdoor lounge being added
for the comfort of members.
Ves, the shape of the present roof is not the ideal one for a comfortable
lounge.
He, and he thought that, so far as possible,
adequate space should be provided outside, in-
stead of encroaching on the space set apart,
for members only.”
tn regard to kitchen accommodation,
the witness was of opinion that it could
be arranged far better in a separate
building, so as to remove the smell of
cooking.
And while the Committee-men are about it, they might pro.
vide a special room inside the ’Ouse, so that, In the heat of
debate, members would not have to “go outside and say it.”
WINTER FASHIONS IN TIGERS MUCH SEEN IN THE AUSTRALIAN
BUSH JUST NOW.
THE SUFFRAGETTES AGAIN I
It is strongly urged by medical men that con-
sumption should be made a notifiable disease
throughout the State.
Mr. Hypokon : “ Ah, my dear, 1 have a sudden,
mysterious pain just here, and 1 don’t know
what it may mean?”
Wife: “You had better see a doctor at once ! ”
Air. H. : “ Yes, but what if he found my iungs
were diseased. That’s a notifiable complaint,
and and you know how nervous i am.”
One of the Suffragettes who was re-
cently imprisoned for “righteous be-
havior” outside the House of Commons
struck against taking fond, fasting for
15? hours,
and “her health being seriously af-
fected,” says the cable, “she was
ordered to be released.”
Here’s a tip for Burglar Bilk
x ■
—,/4>.
PARLIAMENTARY REPAIRS AND SUNDRIES.


(Tha Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
A Great Law Suit Decided.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided
that Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against
coughs and colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
PERSONAL
ITWMS
J. S. Ryan, better known as a versifier
under the pen-and-ink name of “ Narranghi
Boori,” is shortly pubhshing a book of poems,
grave and gay. He is (unlike G. Reid, Jawbone
Neild and a whole raft of other wordy, hut
meretricious bards) an Australian writer, where-
fore his efforts call for encouragement.
Of the remarkably strong ten whom South
Australia sent to the Federal Convention only
Symon and Glynn are left in Federal politics.
Kingston. Holder, and Solomon are dead ; Gordon
is a Judge; Baker lives in retirement; Cockburn
sits among the guinea pigs of London; Downer
and Howe are dozing in State polities ; and Flay-
fotd has retired to his cherries and his cabbages.
Joseph Ross, founder of the glass-blowing
industry in Australia, is dead at the age of 78. He
was a Sunderland man, and in 1806 commenced
glass-making at Darling Harbor (Sydney) where
now is the Fresh Food and Ice Co. He was busy
in politics and municipal matters, and was one of
the founders of the Chamber of Manufactures. In
time he removed his works to Erskineville, where
three of his sons carry on the bottle-constructing
business. His first apprentice is now managing
director of the Melbourne Glass Works, and
another is manager of the Sydney Glass Works,
while a third is in the same old business at
Camperdovvn.
Speaker Holder had only one eye. All
parties agree, however, that he could see both
sides of the House.
The death of an old gentleman named
James Scott in Melbourne the other day drew
attention to the extreme antiquity of the steamer
Edina, still doing its diurnal trip between Mel-
bourne and Geelong. About the time of the
Crimean vexation in 1854, Scott was purser of that
nautical patriarch, which was then running
between England and the Black Sea.
Sydney University doesn’t seem particu-
larly fortunate in its imported “Extension”
lecturers. The latest, Dr. Hodgkin, has been
talking about “the great gift of an hereditary
monarchical succession,’’ which prevents “the
scramble for supremacy between general and
general, or demagogue and demagogue.” To
make the thing complete, though, what we reallv
want is a system of hereditary University pro-
fessors and lecturers—some system that would'
prevent this scramble for learning between mere
Browns and Joneses and Hodgkins.
The new governor (or gaoler) of Worcester
prison (England) is Harold Fitz-Clarence, brother
of the Earl of Munster, and one remove from the
title. He is a great-grandson of King William IV.
(“Silly Billy”), his great grand mother being Mrs.
Jordan, the famous Drury Lane actress whom the
Duke of Clarence (afterwards William IV. afore-
said) left to starve in a shabby French seaport
town. The new gaoler’s wife is a daughter of
the late Lieutenant-Colonel William Keppel. So
the man who is lagged at Worcester will have a
person of very blue-blooded connections to serve
out his skilly. But perhaps Harold Fitz-Clarence
will toil in the Jug of Worcester by deputy only.
R.C. Bishop Doyle, of Lismore (N.S.W.),
who died intestate, last month, leaving an
estate valued at, eighteen pence, has been
beaten in the matter of post mortem in-
digence by Bishop Murray, of Maitland,
in the same State. The latter soared, a few
days back, absolutely beanless, and his parishioners
had to plant him at their own expense. This
new practice of prominent clerics electing to pass
over in penury grows a shade monotonous ; also
it arouses apprehensions. The next Bishop may
elect to break for the Golden Shore not merely
penniless, but in debt to the extent of sevenpence
or so.
About a departed Judge :
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darle v’s previous leave of absence,
on full pay, was for 20 months, not 12 months. For this
prolonged leave he received £5833 6s. Bd. (How that
6s. Bd. will creep in!) In all, as Chief Justice and
Lieutenant-Governor, the State paid him £89,000, or
something better than £4OOO a year. The difference be-
tween 12 months’full pay on retirement and 12 months’
pension is £lO5O, to which sum lawyer-Premier Wade
suggested that Darley (poor man) was “ richly entitled.”
Rock-chopper Jones, another servant of the State, retires
without a penny pay or a day’s leave, to his grave.
Wade wastes no words and confers no public cash on him.
Professor Pitt Cobbett, of Sydney Uni-
versity, has resigned the chair of Law and Logic
on the ground of ill health. He is an importation,
and he had one big hour in politics. During the
Federation campaign, his knowledge of Con-
stitutional law was the sheet-anchor of anti-Bill,
and the number of legal tangles, impossibilities
and dreadful consequences that he found imbedded
in the Constitution is said to have been verv
great. But the massive feet of Kingston and Bill
Lvne trampled through the cobwebs without
knowing they were there, and Isaacs glode over
them with a soft Hebrew footstep, and George
Turner dumped the cash-box on top of them, and
nothing came of it all.
N.S.W. LABOR LEADER McGOWEN.
“Jean S.” writes :
It is one of the disadvantages of ex-Prime Minister
Andy Fisher that his oratorical powers are consistently
of the feeblest order. He has scarcely any sens" of the
dignity of English composition. He merely strings rough,
misshapen phrases together with an indifference that
somewhat troubles the Hansard men. Moreover, he
possesses a thick unfascinating voice that would be a
more suitable asset to a spruicher or a pie-vendor. Alto-
gether there could hardly be a more conversationally
unattractive being than this plain and rugged Scot. As
a party leader, he offers an unfortunate contrast to the
brilliant Deakin. Deakin’s phrases race elegantly in
belltoppers. Fisher’s shamble along in old and
broken boots. To some people that is a pity; but, to
others, it is a virtue. For there are occasional persons,
who, rightly or wrongly, associate polish with insincerity.
The foundation stone (Parkes laid it
Over twenty years ago)
Of our “ New State Parliament Houses ”
Is still where it was ; and so
With the Federal Capital City !
Have we got it yet? Oh no !
Yet will our patience still endure
While we have Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
THE FAMILIAR SOUND,
DESOLATED THESPIAN (awaking from a nap): “ Avaunt! Avaunt ! Methought for the
moment stirred multitudes were greeting my unrivalled Romeo once again."
CALLOUS WILLIAM,
[ F o u T n k Bull k t i n. ]
Mr. Kelly (N.S.W.) announced that he was just too late '
to take part in the division. He was away packing his
bag- to get to Sydney when the bells went.— Daily Paper.
Young- William packs what time Australia fuses
(While Rome was fusing Nero wooed the Muses);
So, with that calm which no true statesman lacks,
What time Australia fuses William packs.
N.S.W. 1).
William Sydney Christie, second clerk in
N.S.W. Assembly, will in future see the dis-
orderly member off the premises, vice Larry
Harnett, retired in bad health. Harnett now
conceals himself in seclusion at Oronulla, which is
a pleasant, lonesome sort of place ; still there was
a great row at the bell the other day, and the dog
of the house threw himself up in the air with
curses, and when Larry opened the door lie found
that Speaker McCourt and a good slice of Parlia-
ment had chased him out into the wilderness with
a silver tea-service.
Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) has been counting up
its oldest inhabitants, and has found six who
total 543 years. John Rowan, farrier, of Nowra,
is 93 and still shoeing horses. Samuel Elyard is 94
and still able to get about and take nourishment.
Mrs. Hall, of Bomaderry, is 92, and mighty active
for her years. Henry Wilson, of the same place,
is 90. George Dent, of Huskisson, is 88, and the
baby of the lot is Andre de Mestre, of Green wall
Point, aged 86. The last is the son of Prosper de
Mestre, an American merchant who settled in
N.S.W. in the early days, and brother of Ettie
de Mestre, well known on the turf a generation
ago. He won the first two Melbourne Cups with
Archer, and. like his brother, is enjoying a green
old age at Moss Yale. When he retired from
business, in the late ’thirties, Prosper de Mestre
settled at Terara.
Before the late R.C. Bishop Murray, of
Maitland, was offered that district, a Sydney
clergyman, of simple manners, was sent up to
take episcopal charge; but on looking at the
people, or after they had looked at him, he
rushed back and handed in his commission to Dr.
Pokling. When Dr. Murray was'invited to take
Maitland he was in Rome, so he went to the map
of the world to look the place up. He found it
on a Vatican map, with a ring drawn round the
area of the new See. That area was wholly in-
land. It embraced the Maitlands and a few
other bush towns. Murray said he wouldn’t
he tied up among gum trees, and absolutely
declined to accept the charge unless it had a
water-frontage and a sea-breeze. So Newcastle
and a big stretch of coast were added to the
diocese, and Bishop Murray was able to have fish
for breakfast all the rest of his days.
“ Janor’s ” story
“ Oldest Inhabitant’s ” mention of a certain sporting
captain who plucked many pigeons in days of old at the
Melbourne Club, recalls the fact that I once had some
acquaintance with one of the pigeons. He was a young
Englishman who came to Melbourne in ther’sixties with a
few hundreds whereon to build his fortunes. He began
his quest for great wealth in the usual new-ohum way.
While seeing life he met Captain Blank, and the result
was an all-night flutter at the Club. When the flutter
was over, the rooked one found himself in the grey dawn
on the pavement without a coin. As it had ever been a
fad of his to wear neither watch or jewellery, his sole
asset was the dress suit he wore. He elected to forfeit
his luggage rather than face his infuriated landlord, and
so strolled aimlessly out of the city, and kept tramping
until Yea pulled him up. That recently all-but-submerged
town was then in the height of its giory as an alluvial
field, and gold was abundant and easily won. So the
ruined one traded off his claw-hammer and fittings with
a travelling showman, and acquired flannel and moles,
also tools, and struck it. rich right away. He lived the
simple life after that, and died a miner’s death. Joking
once over his long w’alk, he pointed out that dress clothes
were quite the best clobber for the wallaby-track. One
hadn’t to ask for anything. People were so staggered at
his appearance that they asked the wayfarer to come
right in and get to work on the food.
“O.K.” speaks;—
A rare variety of Australian humorist is Harold Hansell,
who has just published his third book, “The Plum-street
Brethren.” Like “ Dewdrop Dandy ” and “ At the Labor-
in-Vain ” from the same jaunty writer, this is a collection
of short stories, but in the present case nearly ail the
heroes and heroines are of the same persuasion—a canting
Methodist persuasion—and the title of the book indicates
the connection between the characters. Hanseii’s books
sell uptoafew thousnnds atashilling. Hemakesaprofit
every time. He’s a clerk in a Melbourne bank, and after
the daily routine of bank work, he exercises his mind in
dancing a literary jig. There’s not. the least suggestion
of the “ shop ” in his stories, which are almost invariably
frivolous and farcical in the idea. “The Plum-street
Brethren ” is unblushing fiction from start to finish of its
130 pages. But though thereis never more than a jocular
suggestion of possibility in the incidents, Hansell has a
matter-of-fact style of rattling off his stories which gives
a color of truth to them. He has a fresh eccentricity
or eccentric freshness. The stories are detailed jokes,
the jokes being humorous and many of the details
ridiculously funny. Nevertheless there is a method and
businesslike restraint in Harold Hansell’s sportiveness.
He avoids the subjects he is most acquainted with. He
must keep bank figures out of his calculation when he sits
down to spin yarns, otherwise the young man would have
published “ The Collins-street Brethren ” ere this.
The Hastings River (N.S.W.) owns pro-
bably tlie record pair of pensioners—father and
son—one claiming to be 101, and the other 67.
Thhy come into Port Macquarie together to draw
their dole—the old ’un clean shaved, and the boy
wearing a patriarch’s beard.
A letter from a man who seems to he
laboring under a pardonable misapprehension :
Dear Bulletin,—Who is this clever dancer called Wade,
and at what theatre is he appearing? Ever since mv
arrival in the Commonwealth from the Old Countrv I
have been reading about the attitudes of this Wade chap,
and I feel curious to see the beggar. If you want to do
me a good turn, you might give me an answer iri your
paper and let me know where he is performing and if it
is possible to book in advance. I am awfully fond of a
good ballet, and I have read so much about this Johnny
and his attitudes that I’m sure he must be one of the
best.—Yours, etc., Howard Kerosyne-Tynn.
“Pumice”: The Melbourne Law Insti-
tute puts forth a jubilee report. It sounds odd,
this jubilee of Lucifer. A reference to Batman’s
deal with the aborigines for the Melbourne and
Geelong district, on behalf of the Port Phillip
Association, mentions that the Association got
£7OOO compensation from the N.S.W. Govern-
ment when the job was annulled. The actual
deed of the deal appears to be in three copies.
One is held by Melbourne Public Library ; an-
other by Pincott, solicitor, of Geelong; the third
is supposed to be in the British Museum. Mel-
bourne Supreme Court was established in 1841.
Successive Judges were Willis, Jeffcott, Therry,
and A’Beckett. The old yellow-jaundice-looking
court house, now the police court, and shortly to
be demolished, opened in 1843. First Melbourne
barristers were Groke, Brewster, Barry, and
Pohlman. The report embalms all the legal
nobility, now gone aloft—such Judges as Stawell,
Higinbotham, Barry, Molesworth, Williams,
Fellows, Stephen, Webb, and Kerferd ; barristers
like Michie, Ireland, Dawson, Billing, and
Aspinall; and attorneys like Anderson, Bennett,
Brodribb, Bronckhorst, Duerdin, Garner, Jen-
nings, Klingender, Macgregor, Malleson, Moule,
Murphy, Muttleburv, Nutt, Ogilvy, Ramsay,
Read, Stephen, and Taylor.
“ D ” writes
■James Purdey, gunmaker, passed over in London last
month cetat 81, leaving £200,000 behind him. His name
is known and venerated wherever slayers of game—birds
or beasts—assemble, for he had, during over half a century,
been making and sending to every corner of the habitable
globe the most accurate and perfectly-finished fowling-
pieces and rifles. Purdey measured customers for their
guns as a tailor might measure them for their clothes.
He had, in a London suburb, a private shooting-
ground that was studded with clay pigeon-traps and
towers of different heights, out of which the black
discs, called “birds,” were flung. The Purdey
patron took his stand, to start with, behind half a dozen
traps which fronted an enormous iron screen. A
“ try-gun ” was handed to him—an ingenious contrivance
with a stock capable of being shortened or lengthened or
twisted this way or that at will. The arrival of the
charge on the,screen indicated whether the shooter was
aiming high or low, or too much to the left or right, as
the case might be, and Purdey adjusted his invention
accordingly. When the gun was so fixed that the wielder
of it got the “ bird ” in the middle of the charge every
time or thereabouts (it should be understood that few
but fairly competent shots bothered to buy Purdey guns),
he was led to the towers and directed to try his hand at
“ rocketters.” It took the best part of an afternoon and
the expenditure of many hundreds of cartridges to get
Purdey satisfied as to the exact “cast-off” length
of stock, etc., required by the prospective buyer.
He rarely finished a pair of guns under six months, and he
charged accordingly—his minimum price for two plain
12 bore fowling-pieces being 160 guineas cash. A common
figure for a pair of Purdey guns, c ise and all, was 200
guineas. Those who should know aver that a weapon
fitted as described above improves a shooter’s marksman-
ship from 10 to 30. per cent. Purdey’s was one of the
few British industries that, wasn’t hit by Freetrade. The
founder of the business boasted that he had French,
German and American patrons who would go on visiting
him, and “ pajing for the name,” even if their countries
put a 500 per cent, duty on his wares.
FIND FOR FAT FOLKS.
Home Mixture that Takes Off the Fat
Rapidly—Causes no W rinkles—no Stomach
Ills and Necessitates Neither Dieting
nor Exercise.
Too much fat is both uncomfortable and
dangerous, but fleshy people usually prefer to put
up with its inconvenience rather than punish
themselves with the tiresome exercising usually
prescribed, or endanger their health by taking the
so-called “cures” and much-advertised specifics.
This sacrifice of comfort and health is entirely
unnecessary, for there is a homely recipe that is
far superior in every way to anything money will
buy for reducing superfluous flesh. It is said that
this simple mixture will take off the excessive fat
at the rate of at least a couple of pounds a week
without causing Wrinkles. Moreover, it does not
disturb the stomach, but is a good thing for
the system, clearing the skin ; and, best of all, it
does not interfere with the diet. You are per-
mitted to eat whatever you like. The receipt is as
follows :—One half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce
of fluid extract of Glvcyrrbiza 8.P., one ounce of
pure Glycerine 8.P., and Peppermint Water to
make six ounces in all. You can get these in-
gredients at any chemist’s. Take two teaspoonfuls
after each meal and at bedtime. The result will
be eminently satisfactory, both as regards beauty
and health.
FUST MATE JOE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The first lieutenant (Mr. Joseph Cook) was really the
navigating officer of the Cabinet. —Roberts, M.11.R.
'E’sa tough ole salt,
With a ’ide well tanned,
An’it ain’t ’is fault
If the craft is manned
With a motley sort er crew.
Ya-hoo 1
An’ it is a mixed-up crew.
Hut ’e’s sailed, ’as ’e, on many a sea,
An’ ’e’s journeyed nigh an’ fur ;
’E’s a tough ole, rough ole—not to mention gruff ole,
Bluff ole mar-i-ner.
Fer ’e sailed among
The Labor Seas
When ’e wus young;
An’ since that ’e’s
Been on all sorts o’ craft—
Abaft
And ’fore the mast ’o craft.
Fer tlier ain’t no boat that’s bin afloat
As ’e don’t know ev’ry spar ;
Ibis sly ole, fly ole, mind-yer-weather-eye ole,
Spry ole deep-sea tar.
Once in the ship
Re-pub-li-can
’E took a trip
As a ’fore-mast man,
An’ e’ transhipped in mid-sea,
Did ’e—
Went overside at sea.
Frum a Freetrade raft to a ’Tection craft
’E knows ’em stem to starn.
la s ratin' as a great un at the art of navigatin’,
An’ ’e ain’t got much to larn.
To watch ’im skip,
On’s nimble feet,
Frum ship to ship
Is a ’igh ole treat.
Fer 'e don’t stop long on none.
’E’s done
A fair, long cruise on none.
But ’e’s larned a lot from the points ’e got,
Since ’is cruisin’ fust began,
This same old smarty, sail-with-any-party,
Uearty sailor-man.
Now ’e’s signed fust mate
Fer another trip,
Fer to navigate
The Fusion ship ;
An’ a crazy craft she is.
Gee-whizz 3
An’ a frail ole tub she is.
With a crew o’ sorts from all the ports,
An’ a chance o’ mutinee.
But ’e’ll see the vessel thro’ it, if there’s any man kin do it,
Fer a hard ole salt is ’e.
Fer the best o’ mates
Is ’im thet’s got
Cer-tif-i-cates
From the ’ole darn lot,
When the stormy winds do blow.
Yo-ho 1
When the windy storms do blow.
On a Tory tramp ’is callin’ damp
’E ’as managed to pursoo.
Now e as to larn twin-screw ways—with ’er nose a-point-
in’ two ways,
An’ a fair ole rorty crew.
But ’is eye’s glued tight
On the compass face.
An’ ’e’ll make a fight
Fer the anch’rin’ place,
Fer the Harbor o’ Recess.
O, yes,
There’s a harbor at Recess.
An’ ’e’ll do it jet, with luck, you bet,
Fer ’e’s alius bin at sea.
An’ tlier ain’t no glummer salt, lightly-go-an’-comer salt,
Rummer sort o’ somer-salt than ’e.
VICTORIA.
DEX.


A Valuable Australian Asset.
The N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau, alive
to most difficulties, has met the extraordinary
demand for accommodation at the Hotel Kosciusko
by a re-arrangement which gives a good deal of
extra space, and rooms are now, in consequence,
available at the mountain hostelry. The Hotel
Kosciusko is the highest settlement in Australia,
and the experiment of the Government in
placing an up-to-date hotel within the winter
snow-line has proved a distinct success.
Mr. Percy Hunter, the Director _ of the
Bureau, who returned from a flying visit
to the mountain a day or two ago, told a Herald
interviewer that so popular has the house become
that considerable additions will have to be made
in the spring. The skating lake is frozen to a
depth of over a foot, and quite close to the hotel
deep snow courses are available for ski-running
and tobogganing. The guests at the hotel skate
both by day and by night, the scene on the
lake after dark when the illuminations are
mirrored in the flashing surface of the ice
being picturesque in the extreme. In addition
to providing a wonderful change of air and scene
at a most reasonable charge for Australians, the
Hotel Kosciusko will serve a valuable purpose in
assisting to attract the much-desired over-sea
tourist, and in this way will prove an important
asset, not only for N.S.W., but for the whole of
the Commonwealth. The Government Tourist
Bureau, at Challis House, Sydney, will give
anyone interested all particulars of the
hotel and its attendant winter sports, and
also of the means of reaching it. In view
of the public interest in the novel sports of open-
air ice-skating, ski-running and tobogganing, a
lecture to be given in St. James’ Hall, to-morrow
(Friday) night, by Mr. Percy Hunter, is most
topical. The lecturer will deal with the Alpine
sports of Kosciusko, and will show a remarkable
series of pictures illustrating these pastimes in the
snow country. Tickets for the lecture may be
obtained at the Tourist Bureau.
Group of Ski-runners at Hotel Kosciusko.
ON THE FEOZEN LAKE. MT. KOSCIUSKO.


The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
Walter Bradley & Co.
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstei*ed Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
Don’t. Cough All Night.
Restful sleep follows the use of I)r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. The best lung remedy in the
world. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbta Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allayine- all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
arid purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of outs, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will b- sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price—3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
GETTING BACK
YOUR STRENGTH
$
Often Seems Impossible
after Acute Illness.
©
This Woman Low and Weak
after Typhoid Strengthened by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
What a grim struggle there often is to get back
old-time strength after acute illnesses. Typhoid,
diphtheria, child-birth, influenza leave 'such a
train of depressing after effects. No wonder there
is such despair.
The experience of this Brisbane \yoman, and
scores of cases like hers, shows that strength can
quickly be found in the tonic treatment with Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. These pills are a blood-
builder, and they soon furnish the entire body
with a health-bearing stream of pure, red blood.
“I got very run down after typhoid,”said Mrs.
Stringfellow, 138 Constance Street, Valley, Bris-
bane. “ I used to be so healthy before, that I
didn’t know what sickness was, but I began to ail,
and was ill for years. I had never any appetite.
My food didn’t nourish me. I fell away and lost
all my color. As to strength, there were days
when I • couldn’t walk across the floor. Most
every week I was laid up for two days with head-
aches of the most violent description. At these
times I couldn’t let a.morsel pass mv Lips. I had
no energy. I’d often have to lie down in the day,
and I never cared to go anywhere. Often I’d lie
awake the whole night,'and then feel heavy and
drowsy the next day. My daughter would often
have to stay at home to do my housework. My
eyesight got very weak, I had to take to glasses.
I was very low spirited. I tried all sorts of
remedies, and got no strength. My blood was
very thin and poor. Then I read about Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, and thought I’d give them
a trial. The first box did me no good apparently,
but during the taking of the second box I began
to pick up wonderfully. I got up some strength
and energy, and could fancy my food. The head-
aches also got much less. I took three boxes and
they set me up completely. Since then I haven’t
needed another dose. My appetite and my color
have come back. lam quite a different being
after years and years of suffering and ill health.”
Be sure that you get Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
for the many things that are said to be just as
good have never affected any cures. They are
sold by chemists and storekeepers, price 2s. 9d.
per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., or they will be sent
direct on receipt of price by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
T 4
it
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BBOTHtRS
also at Melbourne.
S.'SS'S.j
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In the early Labor days of N.S.W. As-
sembly it used to be, “Support in return for
concessions.” In the House of Representatives
now it is, “Supper in return for concessions.”
One of the mysteries of Parliamentary
procedure is the adjournment as a mark of sym-
pathy. When Parliament heard that Speaker
Holder was ill, it immediately downed tools and
“chucked” work till the following Tuesday.
And when it heard that he was dead it dropped
its pick and shovel again. If this writer is a
prominent M.P. when he dies, he trusts that the
Prime Minister of the day will rise and state
something to this effect: “ I beg to move that the
House puts on an extra spurt out of regard for
the memory of our departed colleague, that
speeches be restricted to 10 minutes, and that at
least three important measures be disposed of
before the adjounrment.”
RUCTIONS IN THE TORY HOUSEHOLD ,
The time has come when all the big landed estates in
Australia must be immediately transformed into holdings
for single families. If the owners will not voluntarily
subdivide then the State should do it.—Geo. Reid:
Mrs. Telegraph,: "O quick, Mr. Pleeceman!
George hav gorn delirious, an ’ is attackin’
of his lies’ frien’.”
The Fused Government has barely finished
complaining of the time wasted over Fisher’s
censure motion, and now it clears its throat to
announce that it is going to shut Parliament up
altogether for a considerable time while Deakin
attends the wholly useless and needless Confer-
ence of State Premiers.
Various remarks passed on the Tait railway
regime in Victoria have moved that State to reply
by heaving a brick at N.S; Wf-’s valued Johnson.
A return has been issued professing to show the
number of railway employees'killed or injured (by
not reckoning passengers it is possible to eliminate
the Sunshine record); and the figures allege that
m 1905, under Oliver, the N.S.W. lines killed
seven and injured 594 (total, 001), while the 1908
record under Johnson was 25 killed and 1268 in-
jured (total, 1293). It would almost seem that
the more Tait and Johnson this country has the
more it loses its good record for safe railway
travelling.
One rather silly old custom which late
Speaker Holder imported from S Australia will
probably be dropped by his successor. He
wouldn’t allow a member in debate to refer to
his fellow member as Brown or Jones ; but it had
to be “ the hon. member for Budgeree,” or what-
ever the hon. member’s district might be named.
And the struggle to remember the hon. member
for Budgeree was horribly wearing on the hon.
member for Gundabooka and his friends.
-In Queensland to-day the renegade coali-
tion is holding on against the Labor party by a
majority of one. In S.A. the informal coalition
of the Peake Government and the Conser-
vatives also hangs to its job by a majority of
one. TheN.S.W. Wade-Twaddell coalition had
the surprise of its life recently when the Labor
men beat it by four votes on the Invalidity and
Accident Pensions Act. And the Deakin-Cook
Fusion found itself last week with a skimpy
majority of three. It seems an unhealthy season
for coalitions.
That robust land-grabber, the Westralian
Midland Railway Co., which got a grant of 12,000
acres for every mile of line it laid, is having a fine
time. In the last three years it has sold 705.568
acres for £430,703, or at the rate of 12s. 3d. per
acre ; so it is getting back £7350 a mile—which is
about twice as much as the line cost —and still has
the line to the good. And as the railway last
year made a profit of £40.000, it is one of the
things that are worth having. Altogether, the
Midland is a large hint to other Australian
Governments to give land-grant syndicate rail-
ways a wide berth.
Some of those fat gentlemen who are quite
sure that there isn’t another place in the world
where there’s so much State-interference with
Private Enterprise as there is in Australia are
finding out a thing or two. The people, for
instance, who are rushing Siam for tin are met by
a bland Quong Pong, who has come to collect
10 per cent. State royalty on the gross proceeds;
and now Robert Philp and the rest of them who
are going to try to make millions out of a gold
mine in Celebes find that the law of that part
requires payment of a 4 per cent, royalty on the
gross output. Philp is probably getting an idea
of how it is some countries have vast debts and
some haven’t. When he was Treasurer he would
rather have issued an lOU than a demand for
4 per cent, royalty any day.
Somehow, there doesn’t seem to be any
better training for a Speaker than the editor’s
office of a country paper of the better sort.
Frederick Holder, the just-dead Speaker of the
House of Reps., for years owned and ran the
Burra (S.A.) Record (before that he had been a
school-teacher and a country council clerk);
McCourt, the highly-respeetable N.S.W. State
Speaker, ran a Blue Mountain paper; Coombe,
for years Chairman of Committees in S. Aus.,
with a reversion on the Speakership, still runs
the Gawler B-unyip; the two most conspicuous
Speakers Bananaland has had, W. H. Groom and
Arthur Morgan, discussed the price of pumpkins
and other things at Toowoomba and Warwick ;
and Davies, of the Mukkery—which is on the
country paper level, though it is printed in
Hobart—is a better Speaker of the Tasmanian
local House than might be expected, if one judged
by his journal.
What slippery and unpatriotic dodgers
these big landlords are, according to their own
account ! A graduated land-tax has been much
discussed during the last week or two
in both the Commonwealth Parliament
and the N.S.W. State Assembly; and
hardly a Fat representative has spoken
on the subject without pointing out
that it would really be very little use
putting on the tax in order to force the
big estates asunder, because the big
landlords would defeat the law by
nominally cutting up their estates and
putting the subdivisions in the names
of their daughters and their sons and
their lawyers. No doubt they may do
these things—these people ought to
know best what they are capable of—
but in that case the people may find
other means of protecting themselves.
The Customs Department confiscates
the goods, and sometimes collects a fine
of twice their value, when the importer
tries to diddle that department; and
for a stare that would be a handy precedent to go
on with.
The N.S. W. Wade Government met with a
well-deserved defeatoverthelnvalidsPensions Act
Amending Bill last week. The Act grants pen-
sions to unfortunates who “are permanently
incapacitated from any sort of work.” This
wording, accordingto the medicoes, is toostringent.
A man who lost both hands was refused a certifi-
cate because it was possible for him to play an
organ with the stump of his arm. He could also
perhaps dictate novels to a typist, or earn £3OO a
year as an M.L. A. A paralysed woman was also
refused ; the doctor could not conscientious! v say
that it was impossible for her to sing in pubfic or
to teach elocution simply because she "had lost the
use of her arms. The Labor party wanted to
amend this ridiculously stringent and cruel inter-
pretation, and the Wade Government, which
never knows when to come in out of the wet,
objected. It fell and almost broke its neck by a
majority of four.
Now that is has to think about going to
the country, the S. Aus. Labor party begins to
have its doubts about Jack Verran—a big, burly
rough diamond of a Cornish miner, who arrived
at the leadership by a succession of accidents, and
while the front-rank men of the party were in the
Ministry. Had Price lived and lost the Premier-
ship, he would, of course, have resumed his old
position as leader of the party ; but as he is dead,
miner Jack from Moonta holds on, and the party
isn’t comfortable. In a hundred places—prayer-
meeting included—he would be picked first man ;
but heavy hints begin to drop in upon him that
the party would probably have better luck at the
polls if somebody else had the reversion of the
Premiership. Coneybeer, ex-whip and ex-Minis-
ter, will probably succeed John of Moonta.
HEDGING.
TIKE: “I see your ole man goes to church
regular lately."
M IKE: “ Well, you see, fee’s getting old; it's time
he done a srnoodge.”
The Gallery Man :
N.S.YV. Assembly made a great mistake in not puttipg
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick in the Chair of Committees, and there-
by to some extent gagging him for the session. Fitz is
phenomenally fluent and preternaturally parenthetical.
On the other hand, the elected J. J. Cohen is a silent and
reliable member without any vices ; he is not a roarer,
and he would stand untied outside a public-house for an’
indefinite time without bolting with the vehicle. It used
to be the regular practice to appoint the most talkative
politician to the Chair of Committees. That was why
YV. R. Piddington, Tom Garrett, J. S. Farnell and
“Anxious” Cameron got there. It was also to put a
cork in Tom Slattery’s fluency and to plug coffin-
maker Ninian Melville’s eloquence (or funeral orations)
that they were rushed into the profitable job amid
applause.- Fear of Crick’s caustic tongue secured his
appointment in the second session of 1904. A justifiable
demand for the suppression of YVood got him the billet
in 1905-6-7. Piddington, YVisdom, Garrett, Driver,
Cameron, Melville and Crick were the ablest chairmen.
Cameron and MeCourt, (six years) held the office longest,
and McOourt has been Speaker for nine years and one
month. Arnold was Speaker nine years and three
months. Abbott’s eye was caught for eight years.
Before the session closes, MeCourt will have "put up the
Speaker’s record, as he just put up the Chairman’s
record.
What keeps Melbourne awake these nights
is the question why its imported railway genius
was so shockingly out in his calculations about the
new station. The first idea was to concentrate all
traffic at Flinders-street, and do away with Princes’
Bridge and the rusty barn at Spencer-street.
Then it was found that Spencer-street would have
to be retained. Next it was found that Princes’
Bridge *vould have to be retained. And now
people want to know whether the new station was
measured out with a pint pot or a 2ft. rule, or if
the calculation was made with a piece of string,
or how, that its holding capacity should he so
badly misjudged. The cost of the new station was
obviously measured by the barrelful (it is taking
three more kegs of cash than the estimate), and
the date for completion was arrived at by tying
the calendar to a tree and firing a gun at it. Then
the people were informed that the date with the
hole through it was the one when things would be
ready.
From the notice paper of TST.S.W. Assem-
bly
Mr. Parkes to move,—That, in,the opinion of this House,
a sum of £lO,OOO should be placed upon the Estimates
for a complete and exhaustive research into the antiquity
of this country, and as to its- geological and ancient
meteorological arid climatic conditions, and as to the
evidences of changes from remote times until the present
day; to make an exhaustive research concerning its
extinct fauna and flora, and, in the interest of science, to
compile a standard record of same ; and also, in the
interests of pastoral and agricultural settlement and
manufacture, to. examine and report upon the soils,
rooks, and deposits of the various counties, and into the
wisest provisions capable of being made in order to cope
with the uncertain and changeable conditions of the
present climate. That for the above purpose there shall
be established a scientific Commission, consisting of ten
members, selected mainly from the scientific branches of
the Public Service.
And if £lO were put on the Estimates to pay the
expenses of an exhaustive inquiry re the immor-
tality of the soul, things would be nicely rounded
off.
“ Boswell ” sends a fragment :—-
The lamentable Wade orated at Grafton (N.S.W.) on
the eve of that town’s jubilee. In a bull voice he
informed his hearers that they would know all about the
great things he and YVood have done if they “read their
papers.” A voice said : “The Bulletin?” The Premier
smiled an uphill smile, and asked if that paper came to
Grafton. He was told that it did, and he looked glad
with difficulty. Wade got on the nerves of the Grafton
audience when he began to denounce trades unionists as
selfish people who wanted all the benefits which were
going for their own crowd. “A Voice” sharply de-
manded: “YVhat about the lawyers? Aren’t they a
trades union?” The clumsy person on the platform
replied: “ Lawyers have brains.” Presumablyan intima-
tion that, in his opinion* other trades unionists have not.
His attempted explanati >n-of the land poliev of his
Government was about on a par with his knowledge of
River cruisers. As to the reason why his Lands Depart-
ment continues the renewal of leases to squatters for 28
years at a purely nominal rental, he bellowed never a
word.
Vic. Laborites are pressing Premier
Murray for legislation to provide for adult muni-
cipal suffrage. Murray seems agreeable, but can’t-
guarantee the rest of his Cabinet, and still less'can-
he guarantee the House of Fat. Fat’s plea always,
is that the “man with a stalce in the country,’”
the property-owner, pays the rates, and is, there-
fore, solely entitled to representation.- He care-
fully ignores the fact that, though a landlord may
hand the rates to the collector, the tenant first
pays them to the landlord ; so that if thelandlord
has the right to control the policy of the Municipal
Council, as he says he has, the tenant and the’
tenant’s lodger obviously ought to have tire right,
to control the policy of the landlord.
Perth is undergrounding its telephone
wires at last, and the part of the city that is
nearest the post office will soon look less like the
web of a drunken spider. This is one of the tidy-
sized jobs that the Commonwealth has to tackle
without getting a penny extra in the way of
revenue. When Federation arrived the electric
spider already looked considerably drunk ;
and things naturally got worse, until the posts
had to be propped and guyed and buttressed.
Now the Commonwealth Government has taken
the spider by the horns, in a manner of speaking,
and has let the necessary contracts to Australian
firms.
AN ERROR IN CREATION.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The l created should not have greater power than the
creator, Dr. Maloney , M.8.R. , on Elective Ministries.
There was once a man who made a weird machine,
Employing dynamite and kerosene.
His subsequent destruction
Was a matter of deduction,
And a circumstance that might have been foreseen.
This gloomy incident I merely state
In case you have a yearning to create.
In which event, be wary,
Else, mayhap, a sad quan-dary
Will arise and face you when it’s far too late.
How, take the case of Toryphat, M.P.,
Created by the voters—you and me.
Then in matters legislative
Be becomes, in turn, creative.
And creates a Deakook Fusion Ministree.
You will notice that this question, as a whole,
Is a matter over which we’ve some control ;
For, if we’d contemplated
Ere the members we created,
We would not have landed things in such a hole.
And, in regard to this strange Ministree,
We are the folk responsible, you see.
For it couldn’t have existed
Had not some of us assisted
In creating its supporters—Q.E. D.
Then, when a weird political machine
Of Tory flare and Fusion kerosene
Blows our policy to blazes,
All our most embittered phrases
Won’t recover e’en the smallest smithereen.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
PROGRESS IN THE POST OFFICE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Men have their meals in the cellar. There is am
offensive smell from the drains below. Below the cellar
there is a big-tank, into which several drains run. Rats
are numerous in our dining-room. Sometimes they eat
the wedding-cake in the mail-room. I have known the
rats to come up alongside me on a gas-ring and almost
shake hands with me. —Some Postal Commission evidence.
Deep, deep down where the dirt is chronic,
Where the scents of the uttermost sinks
are heard,
You can catch the crash of the rat bubonic
As he sneezes the sneezes of dust deferred.
The lover-like missive, the note platonic.
They’re hurried from pillar to post, and then
They take their chance of a rat bubonic
In the poisonous deeps of the sorting den..
Listen, the murmur of sounds harmonic
Down in the Federal rodent’s lair ;
It’s the joyful noise of the rat bubonic
Playing wild tunes on the odors there.
Need fora breath o’ fresh air and tonic ?
Need for a sight o’ the light of day ? ,
Our postman rooms with a rat bubonic—
Pass the carbolic and Let Us Pray !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Special Sale Offering!
FREE
WITH YOUR SUIT
TO MEASURE
iMr
W
mmy.
PANISor
jmcY
*VEST.
DURING SALE TIME we make a
Special Offer of an Extra Pair of
Trousers or a Handsome Fancy Vest
FREE with every Made-to-Measure
Suit. This offer is made to acquaint you with
our splendid Tailoring. The Suits are priced
505., 63s , 705., 755., 84s. In 20 different styles
and 500 Quality All-Wool Patterns. The Extra
Trousers or Fancy Vest i(Free) will evidence
our usual High Degree of Satisfactory Tailor-
ing, for we’re not foolish enough to Lower the
Quality Standard in Fabrics, Style and
Fashioning just to catch a “ Fleeting Trade.”
It’s your permanent custom we require, so
come prepared to receive the Utmost Value at
each Stated Price.
Our Usual “ Money=Back=Guarantee ”
Holds Good with this Offer.
EXTRA PAIR OF “ MADE-TO-MEASURE ”
TROUSERS FREE!
The Extra Trousers comprise Fancy Worsteds—
English and Scotch Tweeds—Pure Serges, in Qualities
which grade with the value of the suit, chosen.
Stylishly cut, and possessing t,lte same Correct
Fashioning present in all our “Made-to-Measure”
Tailoring.
FREE FANCY VESTS IN 150 PATTERNS!
The Free Fancy Ve st.s are in 150 distinctive patterns,
which range in value from 7/6 to 16/6, and vary
according to the value of suit you select.
QUALITY M/IDE-TO-MEASURE SUITS
in 500 Distinctive Patterns and 20 Styles.
Prices a e 50/-, 63/-, 70/-, 75/-, SO/-, 84/-.
This Strictly Made-to-Measnre Suit (as illustrated) is
the Best Value in Australia. Handsome Patterns are
All-Wool Tweeds, Worsteds and Serges, in Green, Brown, and Grey Effects. The Ne w Stylish Coat has Form-
fitting Shoulders, Loose Buck, Broad Lapel Collar ; Finely Tailored, with Hair-cloth Front,
and Good Interlining; Round or Square Corner Coat, High-eut Vest, Medium shaped
trousers—with Extra Pair of Made-to-Measure Trousers or Free 10/6 Fancy Vest,
63j-
Send for Free Patterns, Measure Form, Tape, Style Book of Tailoring,
also Colored Vest Book, showing Free Vests.
The Free Sale Catalogue illustrates and describes fully the Finest Bargain
Offerings-at Saving of 15 PER CENT. TO 35 PER CENT.
F. J. PALMER & SON
STORES
Largest Exclusive Men’s Outfitters in Australia,
(Two Stores), Cor. PITT and PARK STREETS,
also 726=28 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
r
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence C°i!ss
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS / EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for anv of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN ST RFET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brookman's Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
*dJ.
<£?,
VrA
&
p
■
1
CV
/
V
ii
y
I
a
i
m
A.
r
«sr^-
w
a
x
fiu
t
f
«
fe-av
W
s°
y*
<0 > .oc>
WEDDING PRESENTS of EXCELLENT VALUE and QUALITY.
STEWART, DAWSON & CO. (Australia), LTD., Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. our Large illustrated catalogue Posted Free.
No. G2G48 —Silverpiafced Hot
Water Jug, £l/15/-
No. J 290-
No. G 6989 —Em- Solid Silver
bossed and Silver- Flower Vase
plated Call-Bell, Size 4iin.,
9/6. 5/6.
No. oio77—The Latest, Design
Silverplated Jam or Honey Jar,
with Sr>oon, 13/6.
No. 373A—Silveiplated Breakfast
Cruet, “Thistle,” £l/1/-
ffiwm m
mis
ffiti
wtm
r«t
m
&
mart
Sf&siife
o®Bs@
mrnmmm
' V
n»yw
=
No. G7l22—Handsome Full Cut-Glass and Polished Oak Liquor Frame, with
4 Glasses, £5/5/- ; Cheaper Styles in Stock from 17/6 for 2 Bottles.
No. G5123—-Sta*r and Best Steel Bread Knife, p /6.
No.,39l—Silver- Platpd Handle and Best Steel Bread Knife, 6/6.
No. H3o2s—Silverplated
Flower Vase, sJin.,
4/6 each. 1
No. F7OO5 — The Balance
Pepper, Silverplate,
6/6 and 4/6.
No. F 4583 —Embossed and Silverplated Sugar and
Cream Stand, £l/17/6.
No. 352 A—Cut Glass
and Silverplatpd
Breakfast Cruet, 13/6
No. Jl3ll—Silver Top and
Crystal Glass Ink Bot tie, 21/'.
sizes, 8/6 and 9/6,


$3
m
m
m
Ordinary ability, plus a good memory, makes
success, and half an hour daily for six weeks will perfect
your memory. The Pelman System is the natural one—
easily and quickly acquired, permanent benefits simple
and very interesting. Taught by post. Write Pelman
School of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Bldg., Melbourne.*
BUR
( o
PS:
n
Ji.
You’re not a washerwoman,
or you’d know what it is to
enjoy a cup o’ good tea —
standin’ over a hot steamin’ tub,
rub, rub, rubin’ aJJ day Jong isn’t
much o’ a job, 1 can tell yer,
and if it wasn’t for a ’casional
cup o’ tea, 1 don’t know how
I’d get through th’ day half my
time.
Some ’ouses 1 goes to they
buys cheap rubbish, and seems
to think anythink ’ill do for
th’ likes o’ me —other places 1
go to they uses Rob u r, and
them’s th’ ’ouses 1 likes to
work at.
Robur’s what 1 uses in my
own ’ome, an’ it’s th’ No. 1
Grade as 1 uses too an’
1 finds it cheap ’nufif, ’cause it
goes further than other teas, an’
that’s somethin’ what poor
people as to think about in
these ’ard times.
The Washerwoman.
QUALITY-BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
99
m
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 27, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
Mr. “Robin” Clarke, who aide d several of our
State Governors tactfully and well, was married
to Lady Beatrice Moore, daughter of the Earl of
Drogheda, the week before last. The last offices
were performed by the Bishop of London, who is
a friend of the Clarke family. Lady Margaret
Crichton-Stuart, who is sister to a real live mar-
quess (he of Bute), lent the youthful pair her
yacht; and at the time of writing they are
sojourning in the craft (unless shipwreck, piracy,
leak, or other peril of the deep has eventuated)
on the west coast of Scotland. The project of
visiting the Clarke N.S.W. sheep-station has been
held over for a while, as the newly-married ones
have leased a house near London, where they will
repair after the honeymoon.
A friend sends me this :
The Dudley dame’s predilection for white and other
pale-hued gowns is a concession to her lord’s hatred of
black clothes—a prejudice he inherited from his father.
Lady Randolph Churchill mentions this idiosyncrasy in
her book of “Reminiscences,” and relates how, on one
occasion, Lord Dudley nearly reduced her to tears by
asking her why she came to his ball in such a monstrous
frock—a triumph of dark-blue satin and crimson roses, in
which the American beauty had rather admired herself.
No members of this nobleman’s family ventured to appear
in his presence clad in sad tones. If they did, he behaved
and took on so that every right-minded cat and dog rose
up and left the house. It was, in a great measure,
due to his influence that mid-Victorian fashions became
gayer. For some time it had been considered bad form
for a lady to appear at the play in anything but black.
Thus Lady Randolph states in her “ Reminiscences” that
one evening, when she dressed herself in pale-blue satin
to go to the opera, her hubby implored her to go back to
her room and change, as she looked “so conspicuous.”
It is to the late Dudley’s credit that now a female of
fashion can arrive at the opera in 14 different colors and
a peroxide wig, and arouse scant comment.
A Sydneysider lately returned from M.L. talks
about Lady Plunket:—“lt was quite pretty to
see her walking about the lawn at Government
House in the early morning with her new baby
in her arms, crooning to it as if it were the first
instead of the eighth. She is a devoted mother,
nurses her baby in the good old-fashioned way,
and prefers playing with her brood to attending
any smart function. And despite the eight
babies she looks about 22, and has a sweet
little face.” Dudleys, Plunkets and Ohelmsfords
are good exemplars for any sparsely-populated
country.
Item from the Dominion :
A Maoriland wedding of some importance happened
at Hongkong on June 5, when Captain Frank Harris,
late of Akaroa (M.L.), but now earning a crust in the
Chinese Customs at Canton, agreed to share the profits
of his job with Miss Deans, of Christchurch. The bride
was a sister of “ Bobbie” Deans, the mighty “All Black”
footballer, who died so suddenly last year, and she comes
of a notable M.L. family. Her grandfather and her great
uncle were the first settlers in Canterbury. They were
in possession of a large sheep run at Riccarton (now a
suburb of Christchurch) when the Canterbury pilgrims
arrivedatLytteltonin ISSI. They had then been on thespot
about 10 years, and had acquired large tracts of fine coun-
try, having paid the natives for same in the then current
coin—Brummagem and fluff. Their scraps with the
Maori were numerous and exciting during those first 10
years; but, nevertheless, they managed to hold their
own. A great portion of their famous estate is now
dotted with modern villas and an electric car line runs
through the property. The homestead, surrounded by one
of the few remaining patches of native bush on the Canter-
bury plains, is still retained by the family, and there- can
be seen the original hut brought from Fogland in pieces,
and erected by the original Deans Brothers nearly 70 years
ago. But to get back to that recent knot-tying- in a
heathen land. The bride, who must be worth nearly her
weight in gold, went in a palanquin, borne by four coolies
in uniforms of white and scarlet, to say “ I will.” She
must have felt like the Queen of Sheba going to visit
Uncle Solomon in the Palace of Three 'Balls at
Jerusalem. After the voice had duly breathed and
the inevitable reception had been struggled through in
the presence of a surprisingly large number of Maori-
landers who reside in Hongkong, the M.L. girl and her
duty-collecting husband dashed off to a place called Macao,
which seems to be the local honeymoon resort, although
it sounds more like a parlor game or the name of a native
parrot. After the turtle-dove period the couple went
across to their home in Canton—the City of Dreadful
Odor.
Someone writing fluff from London mentions
that the most remarkable toilette at Ascot (in the
Royal enclosure) was a long cloak of aluminium
satin most elaborately embroidered in oxidised
silver. The wearer’s frock was of the same
material, and her hat was black and silver. It is
suggestive of the coloring on a choice mortuary
card, orof theblack coffin and the white plate setting
forth that Smith rests within, or of the white
tombstone in the moonlight and the shadow of
the cypress tree.
There is something new under the sun. It is
“Julia’s Bureau,” conducted by Mr. W. T. Stead,
and founded for communication with those on the
Other Side. In April Mr. Stead opened this
Bureau in London, but he and Julia wish it
to be known as “Julia’s Bureau.” The lady has
been dead some 15 years, apd for 12 years she has
been urging Stead to build this, the bridge to the
Other Side. “It will be a kind of dead letter office
in which the missing messages will be sorted out
and delivered.” In plain English, it is to help
those who love to find each other again after the
change called Death. The living may communi-
cate with the dead. No frivolling, or seeking of
selfish ends will be allowed. Julia is no humorist,
and she is very positive on this point. So that stops
me trying to recover the fifteen shillings I lent a
girl who has since died.
The president and committee of the Freemasons’
Benevolent Institution of N.S.W. give their
annual ball on Wednesday (August 4), at Sydney
Town Hall. It is always a brilliant and popular
frisk, and as it is for a worthy charity you’d
better get your cards and bespeak a taxicab for
the occasion.
Another fixture that you must not miss is the
Carnival Ball, in aid of the Nurses’ Home, P. A.
Hospital. On August 10 this circular object will
roll. One of the gallery attractions will be the
sword and roses dance. It comes after the grand
march and the fancy sets of lancers. Their Exes,
the Ohelmsfords, the Admiral and consort, ana
the Mayoral Taylors will be present.
I have just met a girl who met our approaching
Kitchener at Capetown, at the bottom of
Africa, when the guns were shooting.
I thought I could get some Kitchen causerie
from her; but all she had to say was, “O, he
had such a red face ! It was the reddest face and
the crimsonest nose I ever saw in my life —it was
so red all over that” . Then I began to see
red like Macbeth, so hurriedly broke in with
something about her luck at meeting distinguished
red people, and departed.
All who were of any consequence in the Anglican
fold turned up at the A. B.C. rooms on Saturday
last to give the four Misses Saumarez Smith a
send-off. The law was represented by the
Stephens, the Prings, the A. H. Simpson*
and the Dockers; banking by the Russell
Frenchs; commerce by a shoal of Knoxs;
and that great primary industry which consists
in leaning on a fence, or other handy support, and
watching sheep grow wool sent along the Dan-
gars, Onslows, et al. Quantities of tea were
transferred to the spots where they would do, in
the nature of things, most good, and a pre-
sentation amounting to several hundreds of
pounds was made to the popular sisters. A
strange habit in this that has sprung up here of
late years of forcing gifts in coin or kind on
departers. All who are going anywhere have
nowadays to endure a “send-off” and a co-opera-
tive gift whether, as in the case of the Saumarez
Smith maidens, they deserve the same, or
whether—as in the case of the up-country
Mayor who is fleeing discreetly after having
landed his town, owing to his borrowings for un-
reproductive local works, on the brink of insolvency
—they don’t. None escapes. I shall yet hear, I
know full well, that the friends of some condemned
assassin have clubbed together with the object of
purchasing their pal a brand new brass finished
oak coffin for use on the other side of Jordan.
After the Church, the Stage. In fact, the
Church, in the person of the Rev. Dramaturgist
HillhouKi Taylor, was on the stage of St.
James’ Hall, on Saturday afternoon, to make a
presentation to Miss Tittell Brune, on behalf of
a long queue of girl friends. The latest addition
(up to Saturday afternoon, of course) to Miss
Brune’s jewel casket was a pendant of black opals
and diamonds. Mrs. Williamson gave the Brune
lady her moral support on the platform, and Miss
May Summerbelle, acting for the committee, re-
ceived the numerous girl-guests.
The party who is named in the Clarke divorce
suit as the separator of the twain used to pervade
Sydney, and incidentally the d.c’s of the
theatres, considerably a few years ago. The
damsel frequently wore beautiful clothes, though
sometimes she was merely eccentric in her garbing.
Her choice of hair tone was remarkable and
eclectic. Only one other woman in this city has
secured the same shade of tangerine red. She
was thin to the verge of emaciation, and not
pretty; but report said that she possessed a verbal
smartness and cleverness that would mesh any
man no matter how far gone in boredom.
When fashionable amateurs caper for a popular
charity, then does the smart audience, all pure
wool and a yard wide, assemble in numbers,
decollete gowns and tortuously-dressed hair like a
bird’s nest, and ensure the caperers a good hear-
ing. Last week the Sydney Day Nursery profited
by a dramatic entertainment under the direction
of Mr. R. S. Innes-Noad, and all the ingredients
that make for financial (and several that make for
artistic) success were conspicuous by their pres-
ence. There was the usual apology for an absent
amateur suddenly indisposed. (In most cases
it is pure stage-fright.) A pleasant-looking young
gentleman faced the audience with a delighted
smile —a regular “ I-have-eaten-the-canary ” smile
—and expounded that a lady who was programmed
to sing at that juncture was ill. If the lady had
been dead, the young gentleman, judging by
analogy, would have been speechless from
mirth, and if she had been buried he would
probably have had hysterics. After an
orchestra] excerpt, Jerome K. Jerome’s rather
cold-veal playette, “Barbara,” was given by
Mrs. Albert Littlejohn, Miss Cicely Innes-
Noad and two mere men—Gilbert Nathan and
Arthur Champion. Mrs. Littlejohn, very tall,
slight and graceful, played prettily with ease and
intelligence, and the Cicely damsel was a nice
little comedy in muslin, and the Champion lover
of the piece—he looked like Shaekleton lecturing
—was quite good, and would have been better if his
movements had not been cribbed by the dimensions
of Barbara’s flat. It was of an average
dining-room table size. Came the interval,
unduly prolonged; then the second part of
the programme, with long pauses between
the items. .!" Mr. Innes-Noad had only hur-
ried things up, and if the trail of the caterpillar
Had not been so conspicuously over everything,
and if I had not been so haunted by the thought
of the years that the locust had eaten-—I could
hear him eating in the background during the
long waits, and he made the same sound as an
’Arry devouring soup—l might have been able to
witness “ The Shades of Night (a Fantasy).” But
the shades of night were already so far lowered
that I had to fade out and home in order to arrive
ahead of the milk. Yet I didn’t flee through the
Alpine village of Mossman carrying a banner in-
scribed “Excelsior” until I had listened to Mrs.
Arthur Pearson’s singing and heard st>me more
orchestra.
Kate Rooney, the contralto, has been four or
five years in England, but though she has been
scoring well she has at last got the longing to
come hack, as they all do. Several concerts in
the Sydney Town Hall will precede a big Aus-
tralian tour. In every niche of the Common-
wealth this songstress has friends, who will be
glad to welcome her.
j Many glad hands are ready for the stretch-
ing out to clasp Kate Rooney’s. The St.
Vincent’s College Ex-Pupils’ Union meets her with
a reception on Saturday afternoon, and early in
August the W. P. Manning lady, acting on
behalf of Mrs. Christian, will receive the singer
at Baumann’s rooms. Miss Rooney was a pupil,
and afterwards a governess, at St. Vincent’s
College before she spi ead her wings for foreign
flight and her mouth in public song.
“On with the motley,” sang Newbury at the
Y.M.C.A. on Saturday night, and with difficulty
I refrained from demanding “Off with the gas
first.” What is the matter with the Y.M.C. A.’s
sense of smell? At both Newbury concerts the
escape of gas from some jet in the lower part of
the hall has been so lavish that several persons
fled from it during the interval, carrying each a
programme, a bad headache and a sense of injury
at having to forego the remainder of a delightful
concert. “ See to it, Tigellinus,” as Nero says in
“ The Sign of the Cross.”
Miss Dorahy, who sang at the Newbury music-
burst on Saturday, has a contralto well attuned
to the expression of pathos in its many varia-
tions of yearning, wistfulness, sadness and the
“ bitterness of things too sweet.” She will prob-
ably be heard at her best in Irish ballads—her
singing of “The Meeting of the Waters ” sug-
gested as much. Melba won’t pursue Miss
Dorahy’s contralto. It is not the type of quarry
Melba is after, but ’twill serve. Which reminds
me that a rude paper in Ward’s Own Country
asserts that the Miss Contralto discovered by the
Great Soprano at Stewart Island is out of her twen-
ties and that her voice is coarse and rough. Well,
one never knows what the Marchesi sand-paper
may accomplish, and as for the too many years—as
a Frenchwoman lately pointed out when women’s
ages were under discussion —“ two women born on
the same day will not be thirty on the same day.”
One may be only twenty-four, and the other may
be three dozen or so.
A 17-year-old pianiste, with wonderful eyes
and a softly browned complexion, glode into my
range of vision lately. . She has so many gold
medals (five, to be accurate) from various exami-
ning bodies that she may wear them as a neck-
lace ; and the certificates bestowed by eisteddfods
number ten —a formidable wad of guarantee paper.
This phenomenon is Miss Florence Mackenzie, a
pupil of Mr. Henry Stewart. She will give a taste
of her quality on the ivories about the tail of
August, and, as opportunity offers, appear as a
platform performer.
Miss Beatrice Day and How-I-Admire-Myself
J. Knight had a box at “As You Like it” one
afternoon, and next night were Napoleon and
Josephine on the stage where the forest of Arden
had been. By some hide-and-seek of fate I had
missed “A Royal Divorce” until I saw Bee and
Ju. (I quote a galleryite) do the play last Wednes-
day. Miss Day was in a satin court gown of
the yellowish pink of some fruit, but whether
apricot or rock-melon I can’t, at this distance, re-
member. Sue was a stately and comely Joseph-
ine, but much fairer of hair than the original.
Her Napoleon—really Knight is a cute artist—
alters his figure in the interval between putting
her aside and taking her successor. In the first
act he is a bluff soldier with a tummy, a very
obvious tummy; in the second, where Marie Louise
has been his wife for a year or more, the little
property pillow that was under his waistcoat is
missing, and in white satin clothes he is a most
elegant and slim thing in emperors.
Miss Beatrice Day has invested some of her coin
in Westralian land. An apple farm is her choice,
and her thoughts now stray occasionally from
dramas and comedies to codlin moth, grafting,
and the possibilities of cider. Maud Jeffries
Osborne has taken so kindly to sheep’s eyes that
she can’t be lured from their vicinity. Miss Day
may take as keenly to life where the apple reddens.
Added to her beautiful bird-like voice, Miss
Thelma Hanlon has the additional and by no
means common charm of looking pretty while she
sings. She is a very fair girl with a head
that is sunned over with curly hair, and
she has evidently some years in which to grow
tall. Her concert at the Town Hall last week
brought a fine audience. The Chelmsfords, with
Mrs. Bo.yle and some lovely young men, in-
habited a square of green carpet. The new
soprano will go hence to get her voice silver-
pointed or diamond-mounted or some such. Mean-
time, Steffani has charge of it.
A kindly South-Melbournian, disguising his or
her identity under the pen name “ A Southerner,”
sends me a guinea for the Hospice for the Dying.
He or she is hereby thanked on behalf of the con-
ductors of the charity and the patients thereof.
Dr. Arthur has subsided into a rest-cure house
in London, and Sydney generally is sorry that such
necessity has arisen. The doctor, earnest worker
that he is, will get dreadfully tired of the numerous
rest-house meals, that consist chiefly of Benger’s
Food and fruit-juice. Mrs. Arthur’s)sister is mar-
ried to a doctor, and as these in-laws are on the
spot the apostle of immigration will not be
neglected or defrauded of his milk.
Yours affectionately;
AkENEHI.
John Weary has a Motor-Car Bill making
a fast run through the Victorian Parliament. It
deals very tenderly with the car-owner, but can
be severe enough where the mere hifed driver is
concerned. Its chief provision, as regards the
owner, is that every car is to be registered and
must wear a number, the fee being LOs. the first
year and 2s. 6d. yearly thereafter; and that is
about all. But as to the driver there are a whole
heap of provisions. He must not be under 18 ;
must pass an examination as to competency before
the Commissioner of Police; must pay a fee of
2s. 6d. per annum ; may be disqualified after a
second offence against the by-laws; may be
arrested if he refuses his name and address, or if
the car he is driving doesn’t bear a number; and
may be suspended or disqualified for negligent
driving or half a dozen other offences. Doubtless
the average hired motor driver;badly wants re-
straining, but in nine eases out of ten he doesn’t
urge his machine recklessly because he feels that
way, but because his boss or his boss’s wife or
lady friend is in a violent hurry to get to the
theatre or the tea-rooms or somewhere. If, when
Murray’s Bill becomes law, the drivers are to be
fined 20s. or 40s. or suspended for going at top
speed when they do so mostly by their em-
ployers’ orders, the law will be merely doing a
hypocritical shuffle and punishing the wrong
person ; and if the boss pays the fine he will do
so with a cheerful grin and his tongue in his
cheek.
“Stony”: Melbourne’s harbor, during
various periods, swarms with pilchards, which
are to be garnered in bucket-loads by the simplest
of netting devices. On a day when pilchards are
plenteous, one-tenth of the seaside population
goes forth a-fishing. Thereafter, pier- passengers,
a,nd those who go.down to Geelong and Sorrento
in ships, and the Williamstown dwellers who
train it to Port Melbourne and go thence by
motor-boat—each of these is wildly importuned to
buy pilchards, of which a great parcel is to be
acquired for a few pence. One would think that
the sign, “Pilchards are cheap to-day,’’ would
then appear in the myriad fish shops of the
metropolis. Not so. There is a Mel-
bourne fish store which keeps a cat to
chase away the flies from the wares on
the marble slabs. During the swarming of
pilchards of a recent week, I noticed this cat
evoluting near a basket filled with what looked
like sawdust. With a furtive look to right and
left, the cat put a black paw into the basket of
sawdust and jerked a pilchard out upon the pave-
merit, grabbed it, and retired to the rear of a cash-
register for a meal. On closer examination, the
fact came to light that the basket, which stood
sideways to the dust-laden breezes of the street,
was crammed with pilchards and labelled “ 6d.
per pound ! This is Private-Fish-Enterprise—
sawdusty, cat-mauled, street-germ-laden, poor
men s fish for 6d. per pound, when you can have
them simply thrown at you if you choose to take
a trip to Port Melbourne and curse a pilchard-
fisherman or two. There is money in the fish
business and that is stale news on a too fre-
quently stale matter.
The Wellington (M.L.) city
authorities are making a poor fist at handling the
unemployment difficulty. Over 400 names, includ-
ing 150 of men with wives and families, have been
handed in to the Citizens’ Relief Committee, and
over £7OO has been subscribed to date (to be sub-
sidised £1 for £1 by the State) ,yet the committee
has so far only put about 40 men to work.
Arrangements are being made to employ more,
but at the best it seems that the citizens, or their
representatives on this staggery and confused
committee, can grapple with only a fraction of the
evil. There is too much wild argument about
what work shall be done, how it shall be
apportioned, and what the men shall be
paid. The last point, however, has been
settled. The men are to get Bs. a day.
A few persons (well-to-do ones at that)
were horrified when this princely remuneration
was suggested. They were concerned lest the
toiler should become demoralised by such mad-
dened opulence, and apprehensive that the pros-
pect of work at 8s a day, one week on and one off,
would lead the whole working population of the
Dominion to the windy city and paralyse private
enterprise. Wellington Presbytery discussed the
position in a feeble fashion, and came to the only
resolution parsons ever seem to reach when ready
cash and immediate help are wanted—they recom-
mended that the worn fragment of the plate be
passed round among congregations. One
preacher of brotherly love (let his name be
put on record—it was Rev. J. K. Elliott) reckoned
that “under present conditions” ss. a day would
be “ a fair thing.” A newspaper correspondent
has pointed out that the “present conditions” are
that it is the dead of winter, and that the men
now being assisted have already had such a rocky
time that they are loaded with small debts, and a
good many days’ work at Bs. are wanted to lift
them out of their troubles. It is also suggested
that as Elliott works only one day a week his
wage might be cut down to £l3 a year, and he
would still be getting “a fair thing.”


As the Historians’ History of the World will be obtainable in
Australia only until August 7, a form of subscription is printed at
the foot of this page for the convenience of “Bulletin” readers
who do not wish to miss the occasion.
Please note the following points: —
(1) A single payment of only 7/6 is all that need be
paid in order to secure delivery of the complete 25 volumes,
with bookcase if required.
(2) No further payment is required until one month
has elapsed after receipt of volumes.
(3) The balance of the price is payable in monthly
instalments of the same small amount for the Cloth binding,
10s. for Roxburghe, 12s. 6d. for three-quarter Morocco, 15s.
for Pigskin.
Quarterly payments of a sum equal to three monthly payments will be
accepted.
(4) £9 18s. is the cash price for the 25 volumes bound in
Cloth. At this price the cost of the History works out at only
7s. lid. a volume.
Each of the 25 volumes is equal in all appearances to a book published at a
guinea and sold in Australia at 255. At first sight, therefore, the price of the
History would appear to be one-third of the usual price charged for new books.
But if account be taken of the number of words in each volume, it will be seen
that the price is really about one-sixth of the 01 dinary price.
(5) Purchasers who would prefer to pay cash, but cannot conveniently do so
at once, need not hesitate on that account, for they can start taking the
volumes on the instalment system and pay the outstanding
balance, less a discount of 5 per cent., whenever convenient to them.
(6) A subscriber who, by making larger monthly payments,
completes his purchase before the time stipulated in the subscrip-
tion form, is entitled to a discount of 5 per cent, upon the amount
that would have been outstanding, had he made payments of only
the stipulated amount.
(7) The subscriber is notified as payments fall due. They may
be made by cash, postal note, or cheque, to the office of The
k
ķ
[Bookcase hft. high, S/t. wide, Oin. deep.
Books high, thick, 7in. wide.]
Times in Australia,
°r to any Branch
of the Bank of
N.S.W.
(8) FREE DE-
LIVERY . of, books
and bookcase is given to
any address in the cen-
tres where stock is held,
viz., Adelaide, Brisbane,
Launceston, Melbourne,
Perth, Sydney. Beyond
these limits goods will be
sent carriage forward
from nearest centre, ex-
cept that (i) for an extra
2s. (prepaid) for the
books, and is. 6d. for
bookcase, carriage will
be paid to any port in
the Commonwealth or
railway station within ioo
miles from any of the six
centres ; (2) for an extra
prepayment of 10s. for
the books, and 7s. 6d.
for tfie bookcase, carriage
will be paid to anv rail-
way station. Subscribers
remitting more than 7s.
6d. with their order are
requested to indicate what
portion, if any, is for
carriage.
N.B.—lf you find the Subscrip-
tion Form already cut out when
this copy of “ The Bulletin ”
comes your way, write at once
to “ The Times ” (7 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, or 75 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne), mentioning
the circumstance, and another
Form will at once bo sent to you.
A Choice of 4- Bindings. Contents precisely the same for all.
(1) For those who desire to purchase the History in the most economical form, Tim Times has had a smart
carlet Cloth binding prepared. For a standard book in constant use, a leather binding- proves an economy in the
end but the cloth will give satisfaction to any subscriber, who, after taking the better bindings into consideration ,
chooses the least expensive.
(2) the merit of the Roxburghe style is that the leather back gives strength to the most vulnerable part of
a book. Dark wine colour, prettily ornamented in gold.
(3) The fact that the leather comes so far over the cloth sides renders the three-quarter Morocco binding
all but equal in appearance and strength to full Morocco, while the cost is very.much less, because the binding of a
volume does not cut into a whole skin. The colour is dark green, richly ornamented in gold. The style is strongly
recommended, and offers the greatest value for the price.
(4) The full pigskin binding is superb. The fine grain and warm colour of the heavy natural skin is
beautifully set b . v *' he nob,t! Gothic design covering back and both sides. Indestructible. Improves with
exposure and use.
Cash Payment.
■ Should you prefer to pay cash, and receive a discount of from 5f t 0.9 per cent., please indicate the binding
required, and remit as follows: Cloth, £9 18s. ; Roxburghe, £l2 17s. ; f Morocco, £l7 125.; Pigskin, £22 17s. ;
Oak Bookcase, 84s.
The 25 volumes (which contain an average of 660 pages each,
with 660 words to the page, and equal a hundred volumes of the
ordinary size) are made up as follows: —
Volume I deals with the two earliest known civilisations, those of Egypt and
Babylonia. In no branch of history has the progress made during the 19th century
been more astonishing or proved more significant. Indeed, Egyptian history to a
great extent, and Babylonian history altogether, are the discoveries of the past sixty
years, and our whole conception ot the world has shifted now that historians date
the pyramids at least as early as 4004 —which was the accepted date foi the
Creation—and speak with some confidence of the state of civilisation in Babylonia
some sixty or seventy centuries before our era. Volume II gives the history ot
Israel , the nation which, for all its small extent and one-sided development, has
given to mankind, whether under European or Mohammedan civilisation, its spiritual
features ; the Phoenicians, whose trade possessed the seaboard of the ancient world,
and whose colony, Carthage, later challenged Rome for supremacy ; the Hittites,
the third great power after Babylonia and Egypt ; the Lydians, famous for their
kings, Gyges (Gog) and Croesus ; ancient India , where we encounter the Aiyan
race, which in Persia first assumed the predominance it has since maintained.
Greece, which, though never a nation, yet developed the civilisation that still
remains the ideal of liberty and culture, occupies the third and fourth volumes,
Volume 111 takes the narrative to the end of the war between democratic Athens
and conservative Sparta ; and Volume IV continues it, through the time of Alex-
ander, to the days when Greece became the Roman province of Achsea. Volume
V treats of Rome to the deatli of Antony. Volume VI traces the history of the
empire from Augustus to the abdication of the last native emperor in Italy to the
Goth Odoacer. The subsequent history of the empire, or rather the histories of its
two halves, occupy Volume Vll—the Byzantine Empire to the taking of Constanti-
nople by Mohammed 11. (1453), the Western Empire from Odoacer to Charle-
magne, and from Charlemagne to the triumph of the Papacy at Canossa. Volume
VIII is concerned with three great factors in the records of that period which the
Plistory shows to be ill-named the “ Dark Ages ” —the rise of the Arabs undet the
Mohammedan impulse, the Crusaders, and the Papacy.
Volume IX, taking up the history of Italy with the end of the empire and the
rise of Venice, Pisa and Genoa, carries it down to the present day. Volume X deals
with the Christian kingdoms in Spain and Portugal. Volume XI takes the history
of France from the partition of Charlemagne’s empire to the death of Louis XIV ;
Volume XII carries it to the end of Napoleon, while the Restoration, Second Em-
pire, and Third Republic occupy the first portion of Volume XIII, of which the
second portion gives the history of the Wetherlands. Volume XIV takes up the
history of Germany, or rather of the Holy Roman Empire, where Volume VII left
it, carries it down to the Napoleonic era when the Holy Roman Empire ceased
even in name, and then devotes itself to the new empire of Austria-Hungary. The
history of Prussia in particular is dealt with in Volume XV, which takes the history
to the present state of the new German Empire. Volume XIV might be called the
history of the Plapsburgs, and Volume XV that of the Hohenzollerns. Switzerland,
which has contributed a lion’s sh ire to the world’s record of independence and
federation, occupies, with Scandinavia, Volume XVI, while the little known history
of Russia is told, largely by native historians hitherto unavailable to English
readers, in Volume XVII.
The histories of England, Scotland and Ireland occupy four volumes.
Volume XVIII takes the reader to the death of Richard 111, Volume XIX to the
declaration of war between the Commons and Charles 1, Volume XX to the war
with revolutionary France. Volume XXI goes back to take up the history of
Scotland to 1707 and of Ireland to the end of O’Connell’s career, and then brings
the history of the United Kingdom down to the Anglo-Russian Convention of
August, 1907. Volume XXII deals with the British Empire beyond the seas —-the
American colonies, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, British India.
Volume XXIII carries the record of the American colonies to the Revolution, and
continues the history of the United States to the second Presidency of Roosevelt.
Volume XXIV deals with the Turks, whose entry upon the European scene is one
of the dominating facts in history; with Poland, which offers the classical instance
of an aristocratic system ; with modern Greece and the Balkan States, whose state
of unrest is incomprehensible without reference to their history \ with mediaeval and
modern Egypt, Morocco, Algeria and Tunis; with the “buffer states” ol Asia
(Persia, Afghanistan, Tibet and Siam), with China and Jaban. Volume XXV is a
complete index which renders all the immense mass of information contained in the
preceding volumes readily available for reference.
THE TIMES (LONDON) 7 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Make postal notes (crossed) payable to G. 0. Maclaren. Date - ..........
I enclose 7s. 6d. Please send me the “ Historians’
History of the World,” 25 Volumes, bound in:
Strike out
3 of these paragraphs.
Cloth, for which I agree to make 27 further monthly payments of
7s. 6d. each.
Roxburghe, for which I agree to make 27 farther monthly payments
of I OS. each. (A Leather-back binding at a very hiv price.)
f-Morocco, for which I agree to make 30 further monthly payments of
I2S. 6d. each. {Very handsome and durable. Highly recommended.)
Pigskin, for which I agree to make 33 further monthly payments of
I ss. each. {A superb fall leather style, unsurpassable for strength and beauty.)
The first of these payments to be made one month after the receipt of the volumes, and
subsequent payments on the corresponding day of each month following.
Please also send me the Oak Bookcase, for which I agree to make 3 additional monthly
payments of 12s. each after payment for the volumes has been completed.
(If you desire Bookcase, please put a cross against this paragraph ; if not, cross it out altogether.)
Name
(Please write clearly.)
Y5
Residence: :
Address to which books are to
be sent if other than above:
If in business, please
add business address :
Occupation :
NOT GOOD AFTER
AUGUST 7.


H, *ss
jS
P ■:
II
■ .
ram-c‘.£. '"•
Xf
There’s
SATISFACTION &WEAR
-Dunlop
Rubber Heels
ObladrvaJjlc aJI
BOOT STORES
ACCEPT ONLY
'DUaLOP”
'Rand.
BUNOp
Rubber Co
S^tcs
BkT\dA2
£
Jit e
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
comprising SUCTION & OTHER HOSES,
VALVES, PAOKINGS, RUBBER and
BALATA BELTING are now used on
most of the leading Australasian
Mines, because they are the Best.
We are now doing 75% of the Rubber
Goods trade of Australasia, the 1
result of selling only high-grade
Goods at reasonable prices.
Tenders and Samples Submitted.
Catalogues Posted.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO., ,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perm, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z. A
Km KQOIfI
“TEA
Have you voted for the
KANDY KOOLA Com-
petition Girls yet?
Watch the Voting
Returns.
M4-S
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 26, 1909.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Some of the festive youth of this city ripped
hings up considerably on Wednesday night.
T*i. UI1 §» Y,rquhart was departing to the land of
•John Bull and his wife Jane Cow. His pals felt
disposed to give him a radiant farewell, and thev
instigated a dinner at the Savoy. After a wildly
convivial munch in that manger, these sad young
dogs rolled into the front stalls at Her Majesty’s,
wliere they mimicked the prettiest chorus-girleens
and said smart things out loud to the principals,
lhe apex of devilry was reserved for Lottie
bargeant, who songfully remarks on the “lot of
things when she came back.” including linen from
the brand and forks from Menzies. But “Spoons
from the Savoy ” brought a hard practical shower
or the silver things wherewith Savoy patrons lap
their soup. The youths say it “ broke Lottie all
up. lin not surprised—it’s a wonder she’s not
in the casualty ward at the hospital. The up-
roarious young men spent the next morning
holding their heads tightly with their hands and
teet, while they considered the cost of the spoons
and a few other extras.
The Theatre Royal-ites are guilty of a great
gaucherie. This Shakspearian production is the
last thing in sumptuous coloring. Every scene is
a dream of blissful hues. Yet at nearly every
interval descends a horrible, howling hoarding df
advertisement. In glaring letters one is bidden
to Use Bounder’s Striped Paint for Night-
mares, or some such idiotic impossibility. Some-
body s lager is thrown at the house’s head in
unstimulating lettering; and so on in grotesque
gyration over this most unpoetical drop-scene. It
is the bygone reminder of the theatre’s days of
bellowdrama, when Bill in the stalls gave Sue an
orange to suck and mother brought baby and little
Willie and a bag of peanuts. In those days the
house didn t mind, any more than it minded when
the heroine went down a mine in evening dress or
made a balloon ascent wearing a white satin train,
in its present environment the advertising cur-
tain is horribly grotesque.
Fashionables hunted the Braytons almost to
despair with receptions in their week before play-
mg. Ihe most imposing affair was the University
shivoo. Ihese were the first theatricals “re-
ceived by the University, and it had been a
matter of serious discussion. The afternoon itself
was made ponderous with solemn speeches by the
Chancellor and Prof. Tucker. Asche lightened
the gloom by responding jovially that he and his
wife fe!t the honor deeply, as they knew the
English law still held mummers to be rogues and
vagabonds. He also remarked that in his
school days he loathed Shakspeare. He had too
many punishment “lines ” to learn from the bard.
The Chief-Justice-Chancellor got into his most
lecture-hke sw,m The reception was on the
platform of Wilson’s Hall, curtained off from the
scarcely concealed lecture room below with its
regiment of desks. It took all the blossom-decked
tables and the cherry frocks of the tea maidens to
dispel a class feeling. Madden declared, with
a glare through his glasses, that the people of
Australia were going to pot —or some more digni-
tied place—because of their love of frivolity. He
hoped the population would roll up to Shalt
spearian productions, and abhor the lightsome
pantomime—(less serious Profs, put their
tongues m their cheeks and tried not to smile :
whe.n did ever a University theatre night choose
anything but opera bouffe or wild farce as its piece
de resistance ?)—and that they would go down on
their knees and worship These Two, who had
come to raise the tone of the benighted land.
Not a word of the managers who had persuaded
an Australian-born with pots of filthy lucre to
take a trip home to see mother. These two are
going to have a good, well-paid time, worried by
ground’ Wh ' l6 manager stru^le s in the back-
The Asche performance on its first night inter-
ested me so much that I forgot to watch the serious
Chancellor Did he dare to laugh at his deity,
William of Avon? No doubt, serious-minded
theatneal patrons and Chief Justices in the time
of tehakspeare commented with a sniff on the
insufferable buffoonery of “The Taming of the
Shrew, and compared it unfavorably with the
great, serious historical works of some vast
dramatist now forgotten—probably Bloggs. “As
if anyone m our set would have a wedding like
that! Absurd! These upstart playwrights are
g °w g n to ° as for the Induction :
Well, my dear, of all the improbable tom-
fooleries, commend me to yon new thing
at ye Elizabethan Playhouse ! ” Through
all the heavy lectures the Bravton posed
clad in squirrel grey against the happy gloom of
the rose-red curtains—massive faded draperies of
heaviness that veil the platform of Wilson Hall
Various society dames sat in a row alongside In
the ponderous time for cogitation it was curious
to notice the contrast in the faces in repose. The
mummer lady's countenance held the ghost of
animation even in its stillness. The society
women showed deep ravages of discontent and
petty lines of worry, and had the hard look of a
motor battler or a bicycle fiend. The societv
racket tends to age the racketer faster than any-
thing else, even with the continuous resource to
massage and beauty salves. The eternal struggle
(no matter what the income) to be It, the dreld
of being discovered in some act of undue
condescension, and the small, petty worries of
jealous competition, these stamp themselves and
make the average society woman a very shrew—a
nervy, hackneyed woman, with no peace to her
mind, sleeping or waking.
“Havana,” at Her Majesty’s, smokes to quite
a 1 lorodora flavor. Melbourne is kept in a
state of perpetual entertainment these days, and
has no time to be bored. First nights punctuate
things with a never-ceasing dash. Dorothy
Court is “resting.” She bestowed her quiet
little self in the manager’s box on Satur-
day with Mrs. lallis. Saturday houses are
always crowded, and lately they have been
too crowded. There is abroad the first
hum of the knell of Saturday as a fashionable
night for the Somebodies that crush into a theatre
The general Saturday half-holiday is doing the
squashing. The managers won’t be sorry if the
Somebodies’ whim turns to Friday or any
other old night—they can always get their
Saturday audience. Mrs. Motor-Haw shrugs
her well-massaged exclusive shoulder when
she rubs elbows-in the stalls-against Mr.
Walk-tnis-way-madam of the stores, with the
head milliner lady in ultra-fashionable toggery
Things are likely to turn out well for the man-
agers, anyhow, if they have two extra-special
nights in every week.
, Gilbert and Lottie Sargent hold the show
firmly up with some most quaint dancing. They
burlesque “The Merry Widow” and they bur-
lesque their own Apache dance from “Cadonia.”
Lottie Sargent looks cuter than ever by reason
of a scarlet bandanna bound round her small dark
head. Gilbert is wrapped in gloom and navy
serge from beginning to end of the show. He is
a bosun on the Wasp, and a disappznted man.
ousie Vaughan makes much of her part as a coy
vn gin Queen of Havana, aged some 50 in the shade.
k_he is given to Carmen-lilcedresses, and is looking
for a consort, ’to the dread and dismay of every-
th m - aSCudnß in sight. Sailor Gilbert moans
that hes “mire to be snapped up.” Clayton
and Greene have become glorified “officers”
from a boat, and sing the usual inane love
S r tlgg : f he juvenile ballet has the time
or its life making merry generally with
the tropical-suited beauty men; and drops
into Jflorodora” brands of frock. Some jokes
are worked in that “went” in N’York but are
met by blank amazement here. Yachts boy Naple
sings a meant-to-be roysterous Buster Brown song
with a chorus from the black-and-white girly
ballet. About one-and-a-quarter people in the
house had a ghost of an idea who Buster Brown
is, or why it should laugh at Buster Brown. He
is the most modern funny small boy of the Yoo-
nighted States journals. Buster Brown, in his
holland jumper, is made responsible for all the
wildly comic sayings of Yankeeland; but Buster
±>rown has not shouted loud enough to be heard
across the Pacific.
The Hugh Wards said they would be “at
home to their friends at the Lounge of the
irincesss one day last week. Now they are
sitting down hard in amazement at the quantity
of friends they have in this city. Society folk
nocked in battalions; they pump-handied in
threes and fours and beamed up to Mrs. Ward
hostessing at the head of the stairs with the
stars of the company in a galaxy behind her.
-Lhey failed the Lounge and the Winter
Garden, and invaded the bar and its comfv
masculine balcony. An orchestra discoursed
sweetly to itself. It could not make an
ove , r chatter. Mrs. Grace-Miller-
Ward was almost persuaded to sing, and the stars
would have followed suit, but the everlasting
arrival of folk made it impossible. Mrs. Ward
wore a dream of a frock that was built while
she was in Paris. It was clingsome, and of
the color of faded rose leaves. Miss Palotta
wore mermaiden Gobelin green gear, with
drooping plumes in her hat. Miss Ghiloni
was swamped in sables, and Rosie Musgrove just
managed to peep out of enveloping furs. Some of
crowd “ came on ” after their own show
at the Austral Salon. The Salon was receptioning
them and with its usual nerve put up a couple
of folk to do a scene from “The Lady of Lyons.”
J-he balon natters itself on its histrionic ability,
and has no shivery qualms about showing off to
mere top-of-the-tree professionals.
rr , The Harem carnivailed on Thursday.
, 6 lpe , ”1 itself put on its special frock of soft
g ow lights that suit its pale complexion, and the
atoms that dance and skate made wild endeavors
to disguise themselves. Kaufmann managed this
best. He hid all but his skating boots inside a
cigarette that burnt steadily at the top. A
Madden and the Howard sister-in-law Lawrence
borrowed the parlor-maid’s frocks, aprons and
caps. Black and white is always a Madden suit
for a fancy hand. A couple of O'Hara colleens
and a Clegg or two made rather a travesty of the
Apache dress. Instead of two Hooligans in
the effective black with just the one scarlet
touch these unimaginative people selected five
of the species, and felt forced to further
spoil the effect by roping them together in
the cut-and-dried “ team” fashion that has glued
itself into ice carnivals. A conventional Gold-of-
Vic tori a team ran away with the prize. It
lacked nothing in up-to-date grooming, and carried
its pick-fixes and tins of wash-dirt as if they were
golf clubs and bouquets. Percy Miller has
een in hiding since the carnival—some-
where in the caves of the lulls where
agonised fellow skaters can’t reach him even
with ice axes. The fiend bought up a Da<m
costume—organ, monkey and all. He left the
music-man outside (presumably with a fig leaf or
so), and became an organ-grinder for the night.
High over every dreamy waltz played by the
orchestra was the wail of that hurdy-gurdy.
Walters, the man of stencils and decorative
schemes, could find nothing better than an
ugly old woman’s make-up. There were a
brace of teddy bears that brought live
native bears in their arms. Someone said
they were caught in the scrub at the back of the
Glaciarium—where the chimney pots are. They
looked fresh as gum leaves, and apparently en-
joyed the skating. They make ideal teddy bears
these woolly live, soft Australian animals that
Norman Lindsay draws—with cute black noses
and intelligent eyes. Society in general ran along
in its motor and sat on the hot-water pipes, and
the skaters sat on the ice occasionally, and found
things just as warm.
At the opening of the V.A.S. the Governor
who was to do the deed of commencement, had a
struggle to get to the lecture room through the
th t- at had jP vaded the plilce an hour before
schedule time. He had just got standing space,
and was holding on to the floor with both "his feet
when the Braytons arrived, and the sheep-like
multitude made a baa-mg noise and rushed with
,n . the ir direction. The Carmichael
was left in quite a clear space, as if he had been
an isolated measles patient. “It looks as if the
d show had opened itself ! ” he remarked
tersely, to a man neighbor.
In September no less than four fair maidens
are to sail out on the uncertain sea of matrimony.
I hey are Jean Langtree, Muriel Cumming, Mab
Kelly and Claire Whiting— oneof thesisters whom
the Italian royal duke went crazy about. The
latter s wedding is to be a service affair, and will
month 11 the ld Land w hßher she starts next
Justice Hood’s daughter Kate is to be married
at Colombo, and the family jaunts there with her
shortly for the purpose. Mr. Macmillan, the bride-
groom-eJect, is a subaltern stationed at Penang
which is in the Mialay Peninsula.
, "k 6 ® 'Ykite, t^lafc beautiful solicitor man who
haunts the ice-rink in irreproachable skating gear
t“wvi a conquest that is going to be life-long!
Mrs. Widow-George Robertson has promised him
her hand and heart, She is very beautiful, and
almost a girl widow. Poor old George Robertson
died within a year.of their marriage.
The death of Lady Charles Fitzgerald was
TcZn/> dden ',i bhe - Y as , an enthusiastic
League-ite, and was in the club a week before
her death. She was the wife of Charles Fitz-
gerald a younger son of one of the oldest
Irish families, whose modest homes are Gorton
m County Meath, and Castle Kilceagh in
Kildare. Fitzgerald has been out here for years
living quietly at Riddel’s Creek (Vic.), Where
he spends his time pottering about with
a little shooting or runs down to Melbourne to the
club. He is a florid big-moustached man-a t yp i?
cal guardsman of the “Ouida” variety. Lady
Charles was an Australian. Her sister is still in
Melbourne— Miss Claudius, who has made some
few hits on the stage. The eldest daughter Miss
Fitzgerald, is a remarkably pretty girl. She has
just returned from a six visit to the
embers on the family hearth in Ireland. She
travelled with Mrs. White, a well-known woman,
who built the Girls’ Club—that big white barracks
hanging on to the edge of North Shore. There
are several more juniors of the Fitzgerald tribe —a
pretty younger daughter and two boys.
The ’Murkan sports boys are here, and Mel-
bourne mothers are mothering them, hoping that
the Yankee mothers will do the like for their
boys when they return the sporting challenge.
Coming in from Spencer-street the boys were
“played” down the street with a lusty brass
band. Never was a band put to such good
use. Those boys may have been homesick—but if
anything can salve the feelings of a boy it is a
procession and band. If he is the hero of the
procession—well, there is no room for any other
emotion than pure joy in that youngster at that
time. The band has been a fixed institution since
on the way to “’ball” on Saturday afternoon,
and to the many affairs fixed for the visitors.
I observed a curious thing about that procession.
The leading boys were sallow and dark and small
very like Japs. The same point was notice-
able among the Fleet sailors—even those men of
the open air and sea were pale and sallow.
The Wyreema carried off on Saturday ten
Women’s Leaguers to Bananaland, where they
are going to make history. Grace Watson took
them all under her wing. Her brood comprised
buxom Mrs. St. Ledger, pretty Mrs. Majah
James, Miss Campbell, and half a dozen other
valiants who have got their husbands or their
brothers to write papers and speeches for them,
tearing Socialism to rags and telling frightful
secrets about the Labor party—on the authority
mainly of Mrs. ’Arris (or was it Smith ?), the lady
whom W. Lyne spoke so rudely to, according to
Miss Watson’s famous story, toid at the last Prize
Brahma Convention in Sydney.
Celia Ghiloni, at the Ward show, could add a
new political local verse to her “Find the man”
song. “They’ve killed a man —killed a man,
killed a man ! ” Poor Speaker Holder ! Long
sittings are a poor substitute for sleep, and
long sittings with the air full of electricity and
bricks and ridiculous Fusion arguments are the
poorest substitute of all. Then the Speaker or the
Chairman barks his usually drawled “order-r-
-order,” and his bark in time becomes a yap and a
yelp. Certainly Speaker Holder wasn’t in the
chair when he died ; it was Chairman McDonald
who was trying all night to make his voice heard
above the clamor. All the same, the Speaker fell
down and died. Their fighting killed a man —
killed a man— killed a man.
Pretty Miss Gwen Jones is to marry an English-
man, by name Eric Palmer, about Christmas
time. He is a financial catch, being connected
with Palmer’s biscuits—in fact, the baronet who
is the head or main biscuit-fashioner of the family,
is his uncle. Mr. Eric Palmer has a house near
Beading, where the family’s mighty bakery is
established, and there the couple intend to abide.
From “Kosna,” in Adelaide :
Parliament was opened on Thursday; and the army
stood out in the rain and mud in its second-best uniform,
and with its on its shoulder. His Ex. came and
inspected the soldiery fore and aft, and said it was a very
good little army, and he was sure the children would
like it to play with. Then he walked into Parliament
House, and told members to get to work at once. Her
Ex. and one of the girls were there to hack him up in the
good advice, and the gallery was packed with long coats
and furs and dripping gamps.
At the ’Varsity the classic-looking and classic-loving
Professor Darnley Naylor is giving three lectures about
v 6 drama, and we wear our best intellects to
them, and sit round and look wise. The Prof, is a fine
speaker, in spite of his Greek, and he has such a humor-
ous eye that his audiences are perfectly willing to take
his word for almost anything. The lectures are labelled
The Prometheus Bound” of “The Medea” of
Euripides, and “ The Frogs” of Aristophanes. So if, after
this course, I should happen to mention that Mrs.
Hyphen-Blank was gowned in a ptrwklstylpoi, you need
not be alarmed. It will be a mere slip of the pen.
The G. H. Prossers gave their annual entertainments
to Norwood s citizens last week. They were twin affairs,
the suburban Town Hall not being big enough to take
everybody in at once, though some 400 or 500 people re-
velled each. Many mayors and politicians danced
round the first evening, and the hostess, in a pale yellow
and silver raiment, saw that the ice-cream was at the
right temperature, and that the flowing bowl didn’t get
choked at the spout. Five miles of asparagus fern were
asked in for the evening, and danced with 7946 pink roses.
Mirrors and muslin looked on and saw it done. Nice girls
and frocks were also plentiful. A bright little Gooden
girl was blue-clad ; a tail, graceful Hall daughter was in
cloudy heliotrope, with panels of wide cream lace ; and
bheila Deeley was a graceful fairy in pale pink.
The Eoseworthy College annual dance occurred the
other eve. Various cartloads of girls went up from town
to it, for it is always a revel and a lark. Roseworthy is
the place where they teach our brethren the scientific
method of growing sheep and pruning turnips; and as
the college is away out. in the wilds, the guests all have to
be housed for the night, the young hosts turning out in
bulk and sleeping in the loft or in the paddock, with the
rabbit-proof fence to keep off the breeze.
Lilian Davis, singer, came home last week, after getting
herself bowed at by the King. The exciting circumstance
was followed by a rally of the lady’s pupils at the Lyric
Clu>, where they proceeded to hold out to her the glad
.hand, and pass round the Lyric’s best refreshment.
Some seventeen musical maidens took unto themselves
penny trumpets and twopenny drums and other imple-
ments of noise on Wednesday night, and played some toy
symphonies to the Lyric Club. Sylvia Whiting! on, chief
fiddler-girl at the Oonservatorium, was the principal in
the disturbance, and the band included the Alec Buchan-
ans daughter Mary, the S. J. Mitchells’ youngster, singer
Katie Checlcett, young Mus. Bac. Ruby Davey, and other
celebrities m embryo.
®°J J0 °1 of Mines boys held their revel in the Brook-
mani Hall on triday eve, amidst some 20,000 decorative
scarlet and pink poppies. The expected official frill was
however, shorn off, owing to the death of Speaker Holder’
who was on the Board of the school ; so the vice-regai
folk and all the Council and other celebrities stayed away.
kiVn h , e „ SCnbeS m f ,?°u th Australia > five women and some
oO men, assembled the other day in the Lyric Club’s con-
eert room and formed themselves into the S.A. Institute
Sp w S ’ a lttle brother to the Sydney affair. Mr.
Tred Robertson, associate editor of the Advertisfr was
made president; Rodney Cockburn, of the Sr™
secretary ; and there is a committee with representatives
from the country as well as the city upon it P
Singer Kate Rooney passed through on the Mongolia
on Saturday, and friends brought her up to look at our
new trams. She was well, and lomdng to <~r
Harbor City. They had a frightful trip out— such heat
that about Aden people took to dropping dead And
that sort of thing is almost always fatal * And
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


WATCH YOUR
, . , 1 5 e X e are cer^aln things a woman owes to Society ; they have been pointed out
(with differences) by all sorts of people, from President Roosevelt to the Suffra-
gettes. And there are certain things that a woman owes to herself. Thus she
owes it to herself to look her best, and to postpone as long as possible the inevitable
necessity of growing old. If she can beautify her complexion, so much the happier
woman she. Modern science has shown her the way. Here and there about
ituiope are eminent savants who have decided that it is a thing altogether worthy
and excellent to devote their lives to research in the interests of the Beauty of
Women Dr. Lykuski, for one, must be given the credit of having made it possible,
by his Valaze, for every healthy woman to have a perfectly beautiful com-
plexion; and all over the world to-day there are beautifuf women who
are so many delicious monuments to his fame. One of these states
the matter quite simply: “ EVERY WOMAN SHOULD
USE VALAZE!” ULU
That is the statement of Miss Kate Cutler, the delight-
ful woman, whose superb work with Sir Charles Wyndham
in “ Bellamy, the Magnificent,” started a white heat of
enthusiasm in artistic London. She did not know
Mdlle. Rubinstein, except by reputation; she
probably knew very little of the scientific aspects
of the Beauty Cult. What she did know was that
she had subjected Valaze to tests in her own case,
and that Valaze had exceeded her fondest antici-
pations of what a skin food could do. And so you
can understand why we find honest Miss Kate Cutler,
that brilliant and subtle actress, writing, “ I have
used your Valaze preparations with the best results.
Every woman should use Valaze to preserve her com-
plexion. I he Valaze Powder and Soap also are unlike
any I have used, and unquestionably the best I have used.”
That sounds like high praise, and it is high praise ; but
Miss Cutler gives it simply, as a statement of fact. And there
are scores of other women (excellent judges, all) who say the
same thing. To mention a few : Miss Ellaline Terriss, than whom
it would be difficult to find a more idolised personality on the British
stage, states: “I have tried the Valaze Powder and find it is delightful
to use, while the Valaze Skin Food is a most valuable preparation, and f shall
most certainly recommend it.” Miss Cissie Loftus, who now commands a salary of
a week, and for whom theatrical managers have only recently fouffiit in
London’s law courts, wrote flatteringly: “I have found the Valaze Skin °Food
Powder, and Complexion Soap, most excellent, and shall be glad to come to your
rooms shortly for more.” Miss Pauline Chase, who has not only brouoht all
London to her feet, but created a perfect furore in Paris, by her insinuating
portrayal of Peter Pan, says with disarming candor : “I use Valaze, and consider
it very pleasant and very good.” The quintessence of praise, surely !
m
Outside the theatrical profession, members of the highest of English Scottish
and Irish nobility are loyal users of Yalaze, and only recently a lady of the highest
standing in social life has written to Mile. Rubinstein in these words : “ Valaze is
as necessary to me as fresh air.” The name of this lady is known to everyone in
Australia, but professional discretion forbids its being mentioned on this occasion.
In the multitude of counsellors there is wisdom. In the multitude of witnesses
there is at least truth. But the evidence of these enthusiastic beauties merely
corroborate. J
And there is something to be said now in regard to that matter of the Soap.
Yalaze Complexion Soap is not offered merely as a good soap, but as posi-
tively the BEST Soap. It soothes and stimulates the skin, and is
delicious in use. 2s. 2d. posted.
Yalaze Skin Food keeps the skin clear, smooth, and supple,
free from freckles, lines, and blotches; revitalises the skin
tissues, enables the skin to be rid of all impurities, and
causes it to glow with healthy beauty. Yalaze perfects
the good skin, purities the bad skin, and beautifies all
skins. In jars, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., 6d. postage.
Novena Cerate, the finest skin cleanser, nourishes,
cleanses and preserves the tissues of the skin,
especially beneficial for skins that cannot tolerate
soap and water during the winter. 2s. and 3s. 6d. a
jar. Novena Face Powder—a “ fat ” powder, es-
pecially adapted for dry skins. Valaze Powder, pure
and dainty, for greasy and normal skins. 2s. and 3s. a
box, each quality. Yalaze Blackhead and Open Pore
Cure—an instant remedy for these blemishes; refines
and softens the skin, overcomes greasiness and coarseness,
and promotes healthy skin-breathing. 2s. lOd. posted.
Novena Pasta, the delightful specific, which keeps the
hands, neck, arms and shoulders beautifully soft and white.
2s. and 3s. fid. a jar.
Valaze Snow Lotion, an outdoor beauty specialty which
cools, refreshes and whitens the skin, overcomes greasiness and
shine, and invests the skin with a delightfully dull soft appearance.
Refines the skin, and prevents redness and flushing of the nose and cheeks.
3s. 6d. and fid. postage.
Send for “Beauty in the Making,” Mile. Rubinstein’s unique book, especially
written with a view to making the care of the complexion a pleasant task. It is a
mine of valuable information, and tells a woman all she wants to know and should
know of scientific complexion treatment.
All Chemists, or direct from Mile. Rubinstein & Co., Valaze
Institute Dept., 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; 274 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 23 Brandon Street, Wellington; and at London.
BOQMEfiANG
AWARDED
»GRAND PRIX
-Anr xihle
FfiMCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION:
Q
O
STEINWAY? SONS’
(New
York)
Pianos
A PIANO WITHOUT AN EQUAL FOR 50 YEARS.
In Concert Halls all of the World’s greatest Pianists
STEINWAY when at the height of their artistic
use the
career.
Mu BRINSMEAD s SONS*
ENGLAND’S GREATEST and BEST PIANO.
Established in the Reign of King William IV., and gained
the highest possible distinction, the Cross of the
Legion of Honor.
Pianos
Julius FEURICH (Leipzig) Pianos
The ever increasing popularity of these PIANOS is phenomenal.
In Australia the FLURICH PIANO meets every demand of
the most critical musician.
MIGNON PIANOS
The Best Medium-priced
Piano in the World.
NANON PIANOS
The Most Popular Piano
in Australia at the Price.
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS
Admitted to be the Finest AMERICAN ORGAN yet manufactured.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION .
•Sole Agents:
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd.
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


GIFTS THAT PLEASE THE MOST
A. SAUNDERS.
Souvenir EMU EGG, Hand-carved, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Ebonised Wood Base. Height,
10Jt inches. 207-
Other Styles 10/6. 15/6 . 30/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A Handsome Piece of A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER is
Always Acceptable, and it is the most Permanently
Useful and Satisfactory Gift you can make.
The following give a hint of the values we
offer. Rich, tasteful, and substantial, they
ably represent our high quality at economy
prices.
Your selection will be carefully packed to
ensure safe delivery, and sent carriage free
to any address in Australasia. Write for
our 304-page Illustrated Catalogue.
FLOWER VAbu, Rure
Silver-plated, detachable
Tube, Gilt Lined, 6in
0/6-
Other Stvles, 4/6, 7/G,
10/6.
tiS>£X£m
Ga
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-pL.ted
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand-
somely Embossed Base.
A+ , £2/-/-
Other Styles, 1u,6, 12/6, 15/, 17/C, 20/.
breakfast cruet,
3-Bottle, Fine Cut
Crystal Glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated.
12/6
Other Style s, 7/6, 10/6,
15/, 17/0.
BISCUIT
Handsomely
Size, llin x
A. SAUNDERS.
BOX, Self-acting Lid, Pure Silver-plated,
Embossed and Eluted, Oval or Round.
9in.
Other
£3/-/-
Styles, £4/4/,
£5/5.
HOT-WATER RET I’LL and
STAND, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed. £2/-/-
Plain, 35/. Other Styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
.
ViffSfl
M&rm
£4/4/-
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE fehiv,. .. Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, comprising
Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers/ £4/4/. • Made expressly for
us by James Dixon and Sons. . , .
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/ £l5, £2O, to £5O.
£4/4|-
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Fine Cut Crys-
tal Glass, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame,
25/.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/, 17/6.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Ivory Hurdle, 9in long.
7/6
Other Styles. 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Gilt Lined, “Water Lily” Design.
FERN POT, Pure
plated, Richly Fluted
bossed. Size, 4in.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6,
Silver-
and Em-
-12/6, 15/.
SALT-POURER, Pure
Silver-mounted, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass.
3/6 /A
Other Styles, o/6,
6/6, 7 IS, 8/6.
m
m
m
A. bAUiNDjiKS.
PRESERVE, FRUIT, or CHEESE DISH, with SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Base, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass Dish.
25/.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
Si&jSk
»r. s *
liimiimm
■
....
I
PRESENTATION FRUIT and FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Richly Orna-
mented Base, Fine < at Crystal Glass.
Height, 21in.
£3/./.
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5, to £l5.
EtsfgMHl
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle.
Embossed, Finest Sheffield Steel Blade.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/.
Richly
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE MUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Gilt Lined.
15/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/0, 7/6,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Stag Design, Pure Silver-plated,
25/-
Handsomely Engraved, Fine Cut Crystal Glass
Bottle. Size, 9in x 6in.
Other Styles, So/, £2, £2A<V, £3, £3/10/.
• A .
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, Ruby or Light Green Glass
Dish.
207-
Other Styles, 10/6, 13/6, 15/, 17/6.
SALT - SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal
Glass Base.
3/6
Salt-pourer to Match,
3/6.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Pure
Silver-plated, Gilt Lined,
Weighted Base. Height,
6in, 4/6 ; 6£in, 5/6; 7in,
6/6; 7Jin, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and SIFTER. Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Fluted, Gilt Lined, ic/n
Other Styles, lu/6, V>'6, 15/, 9.01.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt, Richly
Fluted.
25/.
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET, 6-Bottle,
Fine' Cut Crystal Glass Bottles, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality.
£3/-/-
Other Styles, 30/ 35/, 40/, 50', 60/, 70/, 80/.
aau; v.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, Hand-engraved Lid and Base, Crystal Glass
Dish,
9/6
A 1 Quality, 10/6.
-Si®
A. SAUNDERS.
“GONDOLIER” PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver Frame, Milled Glass Dish.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Carlton China Base.
207-
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6,
10/6, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


PIANO PLAYING
' TAUGHT IN 7 DAYS.
Teach yourself at home in few days to accom-
pany dozens of sacred, secular* operatic songs or
pieces in all keys. ■“ Wilson Musical Indicator,
new, simple system invented by the renowned
musician, Professor Morton Wilson. Published at
10/6 to introduce in every home, will be sold for 60
days only on“ London Times” deferred payment
plan. Sent for first payment of 2/6 (2 9 posted), balance
81- payable when you can play piano. No pay-
ment if you fail. 30-day Offer. For 30 days
only will send with Indicator, 10 New Copyright
London Songs, full sheet music, free, if sd extra added
for postage, etc., of songs. Send P.N. stamps 4d extra.
Order quick y, name this paper, address — London
Publishing Coy., 484 George St, Sydney N.S.W.
Q.
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of tiie lining membrane
of the nose and passages
which lead feo the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICAI OH cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10,- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tie Clarionette Accordeon
Really a Moulh Organ and
Accordeon Combined.
Anyone can play it right off.
Sweet and Mellow Tone,
Only 7/6 & 10/6 eacii
The “Clarionette” Accordeon has now
become one of the most popular musical Instru-
ments of to-day. Actually it is a combination of
an Accordeon and a high-class Mouth Organ,
possessing all the advantages of both, without
any of the objections of either. The Eeeds are
arranged and tuned similar to a regular Accor-
ĸ
deon ; but the music is infinitely
sweeter and more melodious, and
of such volume that it resembles a
small Orchestra. An important
feature to remember is that you
can play the Melody and Accom-
paniment atthesame time without
the latter drowning the air. Any-
one can play it right off and with-
out the aid. of a teacher, as you
need have no knowledge of music
whatever. It has 12 Keys, com-
manding 30 Notes, and the music is
produced by blowing through the
Mouth-pi< ce like an ordinary Flute.
You can play on it any class of
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Dance
Music, &c. In fact it is quite
superseding the Accordeon at
Dances. It is a most ingenious
invention, it makes a musician of you without
he tedious practice required in other Musical
Instruments.
We stock only one grade which we know from
experience to be the very best, hut we have
hem in two sizes No, 1 Small and Compact
7s. 6d, each, post free. No. 2. Large size
about afoot long. 10s 6d. each, post free.
A. J. Smith & Co. 14 Hunter St. Sydney
ON THE HOP’’—Cheap Edition NowOn
Sale —2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
BEAUTIFUL SILK PIECES for PATCHWORK
Extra Superfine Quality . .
... No Plain Material at all
LOVELY COLORS. BEAUTIFUL PATTERNS.
Sufficient for a Large Cushion Top, 30 x
24 Inches, only 3/* carriage paid; Two Par-
cels for 5/-, or enough for a Full-Size Quilt
72 x 80 Inches, 17/6 carriage paid.
Money Back in Full if you are not Delighted.
'T'HESE Silks are remnants of the rery "best Scarf and Tie Materials,
_ such as it is absolutely impossible to bur in any shop. If yon were willing to pay ten
times the price, you could not obtain the same quality and variety of patterns
in any other way. The designs and colorings are beyond comparison with any-
thing of the kind you hare ever seen. If you are not delighted when yon receive the parcel,
you may return it and have your MONEY BACK IN FULL. With each order we send full
printed directions for making up, full-size patterns of handsome mosaic design* and metallic
shapes to simplify the cutting of the pieces. We have Special Parcel* of Small
Pieces that you may have for HALF PRICE, with a very effective full-size pattern to
follow and metallic cutting shapes. If you send Six Pence we will forward an assortment of
■ample pieces for you to judge of the quality and patterns; they will make pretty Pin
Cushions, Brush and Comb Bags, Tidies, Doiley Centres. Send at once and secure the best pieees
The Union Manufacturing Company,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
* .r
It Pays Big to Amuse the Public
witb a Cinematograph !
Here’s a SPLENDID OPPORTUNITY
for a man with a little money to turn
over a nice little bit in no time.
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY—
we are Cinematograph Experts, and pro-
vide the complete outfit, instruct and
start any beginner.
Others Have Done Well—
Why Not YOU?
Our stock of all the latest, up-to-date
Machines, Apparatus and Accessories is
very full and complete.
Over Half a Million Feet of Films
to choose from—fresh and new. No
hackneyed subjects for sale or hire.
ALL CINEMATOGRAPH SHOWMEN, Etc.,
should send for our new list of Films
on all subjects and our Cinematograph
Outfit Catalogue—they are FREE.
®Q)
0
a!
©
a>
Q)
Q)®
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS
AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
, i ■
f|
W j
' >~S:£ i
| I L.
*fe
flni]
n—,
H
---■■■■ —
For Trap or Field a STEVENS
SINGLE or DOUBLE BARREL
SHOTGUN is Ideal. Low in Price—
High in Quality—good gun value right
through ! Made in standard gauges,
lengths, weights, etc.—Hammer or
Hammerless Styles.
STEVENS SHOTGUNS SHOOT STRAIGHT
AND STRONG.
For sale by all progressive Hard-
wart & Sporting Goods Merchants.
Send for 160-page illustrated Cata-
logue describing entire output.
J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
m
m
:
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-SECOND HALF-YEARLY REPORT
OF
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 20th July, 1909.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
the Bank on the 30th June, 1909, and present the following Report:—-
Ihe balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and providing for land
and income taxes and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to ... ... £145,889 10 10
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To Payment of a Dividend for the half-yeai> at the rate of
10 per cent, per annum £74,775 15 6
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund 40,000 0 0
~ Balance being undivided Profit 31113 15 4
£145,889 10 10
During the half-year the Honorable James Burns, M.L.0., was appointed by the Board, in terms
of Article 94, to the vacant seat on the Directorate created by the resignation of Mr. E. W. Knox,
and is eligible for election at this meeting.
This meeting is also, called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the
Articles of Association, of G. J. Cohen, Esq., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite
notice that he is a candidate for the office. It rests with the Meeting to appoint Auditors for the
ensuing year.
During the half-year Branches have been established at Neutral Bay and The Rock, in this State,
while the Branches at Coopernook and Delungra have been closed.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable. GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS
(Including London Brunch to 30th dune by Cable).
Cr.
s. d.
To Capital .. .. £1,500,000 0 0
,, Reserve Fund .. 1,260,000 0 0
,, Reserve Capital.. 1,500,000 0 0
£
£4,260,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 0
£20,16S,937 16 11
£
s. d
By Coin and bullion in
hand
,, Cash at Bankers..
,, Money at short
call in London ..
,, British Consols
and Government
Securities..
,, Queensland Gov-
ernment Notes ..
,, Bills Receivable in
London and Re-
in ittances in
transit
,, Notes and bills of
other banks
,, Bills discounted,
and all debts due
to the Bank
„ Bank premises,
furniture, etc. ..
£3,191,821 5 10
151,166 12 3
1,376,753 15 0
2,099,775 0 0
79,948 0 0
1,573,996 5 7
68,102 7 10
£8,531,563 6 6
11,168,582 10 5
468,792 0 0
£20,168,937 16 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. .. .. £6,665 10 5
,, Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum .. .. 74,775 15 6
„ Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 40,000 0 0
,, Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year 31,113 15 4
£152,555 1 3
By Amount undivided from last half-year.. ±41,452 4 10
,, Profit for half-year ended 30th June,
1909 111,102 16 5
£152,555 1 g
RESERVE FUND.
1909—JuneSOth .. .. .. .. .. .. £1,260,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account .. 40,000 0 0
£1,300,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
W. R. SAYERS, Accountant.
Sydney, 12th July, 1909.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in the Head
Office of THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, and have compared the returns of
the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
F. W. HIXSON l
W. L. DOCKER j
Auditors.
In moving' the adoption of the Report and Statements
of Account, the Chairman, Mr. G. J. Cohen, said : I have
much pleasure in congratulating the Shareholders on the
one hundred and twenty-second half-yearly Report and
Balance-She t now presented for your adoption. Though
from a variety of causes the condition of trade generally
has been somewhat quiet during the past twelve months,
the business of the bank, I am pleased to say, has
expanded till the total of the Balance-Sheet is now
upwards of £20,000,000. When the Hon. F. T. Humphery
died suddenly last year, we asked Mr. E. W. Kqox, who is,
as you know, familiar with our affairs, to join the Board,
and this request was acceded to ; but Mr. Knox was
unable to accept the appointment otherwise than as a
temporary one, because of the claims of his own business,
and he therefore resigned his seat in April last—the Hon.
James Burns, M.L.C., being appointed to fill the vacancy.
The Directors appreciate Mr. Knox’s valuable services,
and regret his retirement from the Board. It will be seen
that the additional capital of a quarter of a million
authorised twelve months ago has been paid up, and the
Capital now stands at £1,500,000. In calling your atten-
tion to the figures, as customary, compared with those of
a year ago, let me point out some of the salient features.
The Reserve Fund now stands at £1,300,000, 6r an increase
of £60,000 for the twelve months. The Profit and Loss
Account shows also better by £24,000 during the period
under review. Our Rote Circulation is less by £46,000,
but it must be remembered that a Bank Note Circulation
fluctuates with Trade and Public requirements. Bills in
Circulation show an increase of £102,000, while our other
outside liabilities remain practically unchanged. Turn-
ing to the Credit side of the Balance-Sheet, Coin, Bullion
and Cash at Bankers, taken together, record little change.
With regard to our other Liquid Assets, our holding
Tinder the heading of British Consols and Government
Debentures has diminished by £343,000, caused principally
by the maturing of Bonds early this year in London ;
however, our Credit Balances there, money at Short Call,
Produce Bills Receivable, and Remittances in Transit,
show'a net increase of £587,000. Our Liquid Assets, now
amounting to £8,531,000, equal to 9s. Id. in the £ of our
liabilities to the Public. During the year our Premises
Account has been reduced by £23,000, new premises,
extensions, alterations and repairs being provided for as
customary with us each half-year. In accordance with a
Resolution of the Shareholders, passed on the 19th July,
1907, the Directors commissioned the President of the
Royal Academy, Sir Edward Poynter, Bt., to paint a
portrait of the General Manager. The Picture reached
the State a few months ago, and in addition to being a
pleasing and faithful likeness of Mr. Dibbs, has been pro-
nounced by good judges to be a very fine work of art.
It now hangs in the Banking Chamber. I now move the
adoption of the Report, and that it be printed with the
Balance-Sheet and circulated among the Proprietors.
Combination Couch and Bed-
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
\ '* * .*• *■ .-n- ITN
V" «► =» v_V V V.‘v 7J »
-V V i* ■ £ v 1
ace
CLOSED AS COUCH.
ain
®(3Sfc^!sUii
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
An old landmark in .Pitfc-street, Sydney,
is likely soon to disappear—the venerable build-
ing on the eastern side, between Bathurst
and Liverpool streets, known as St. Andrew’s
schools. For many years a day school was run
there under the auspices of the Cathedral chapter.
It is proposed to build on the site, as a memorial to
the late Archbishop, a “church-house,” which will
include an office for the Primate and other rooms
—in fact, a clerical club-house, without a liquor
license or a billiard-room.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
■ Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
itching, blind, bleeding or protruding piles in' 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
Situations Wanted.
LI-THO PRINTER seeks Employment in Aus-
tralia. Age 24. Litho (stone) or Rotary : (alu-
minium). With present firm 2Jyears ; very success-
ful firm in England. 9 Years’Experience. Address
H. BRAY, 3 Upper Perry Hill, Bristol, England.
LE & LA<a€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALGOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Rugby feature of the week in Sydney
was the great Maori-Kangaroo tussle the League put on
at the Agricultural Ground. About 29,000 people were
there, and became wildly excited over the weird doings
of the autochthones, who, as usual, ran baresark and
jumped over the heads ot' the tacklers, and took their
lives between their feetin a dozen different ways. Having
had a week of hard practice and good training under an
exceptionally good coach, the visitors were in splendid
fettle. Also, their skill was far above that of the
average Maori team. The local men played like
tigers from start to finish, and stood up against
the team of giants that rested on a vast tower of
hard meat, heavy bone and fearsome tan shoes at the
back, lilting* at a windmill was child’s play compared to
charging the gigantic Papakura. Hut the'local men did
it again and again, and the result was a game worth
going 1000 miles to see. The Maoris were very fast, and
their speedy following up bustled the defenders badly.
Still, the match was wonderfully even, and but for the
scores made from penalty kicks the Maoris would have
been beaten. Of the 24 points they scored against the
Kangaroos’ 21, four were due to penalty goals. This is
merely mentioned to prove that, in general play, the
defeated team was far from being overwhelmed.
*.* * *
Compared with the gigantic struggle at the
Agricultural Ground, the Union matches were diminutive
spuds and few. Balmain, playing against Glebe, threat-
ened to do something and finished the first half with a
lead of five to three. But apparently the team was not
trained to the moment, its condition gave out, and once
it started, to crack up, Glebe waded in with great
vim to wipe off the score. This it did, and ran out
by 27 to five. South Sydney fell on North Sydney at
great speed, and crushed and mangled it to the extent of
32 points to six. University got Western Suburbs in a
corner, and did pretty well as it liked with it, the figures
working out at 13 to three. Eastern Suburbs showed
Manly how to do it by 14 points to eight; and Newtown
walloped St. George by 11 points to six.
This does not change the position in the compe-
tition. Glebe and South Sydney are still together in
front with 20 points each, and Newtown is behind them
with 19. The same old gap lies between Newtown and
University with 14, and despair and ruin are behind.
The bulk of the Soccer clubs commenced the
Gardener Cup competition on Saturday ; but Granville
and Glebe continued the struggle for the Rawson utensil.
It was a close game, and Granville at last disposed of
Glebe by four goals t 6 thr.ee. Soccer is spreading, and it
is on the cards that in the near future a baby will be born
in the St. George district.
* * ■* *
In the Gardiner Cup struggle, Sydney and
Newtown played a drawn game with one goal each ;
Adamstown and Helensburgh made a scoreless draw ; and
Kozelle beat Balgownie by a solitary goal, snatched just
on time. But at Wentworth Park Pyrmont met Balmain,
and great was the meet thereof. After a splendid game,
Pyrmont was on top by six goals to one.
* * * *
Oofball in Melbourne grows more blood-thirsty
season after season. Wiliiamstown v. Essendon on a
recent Saturday'was a fine sample of asham fight, with a
wealth of realistic detail. In one case a player, not con-
tent with punching a hated rival clean out, actually
rubbed the fallen man’s nose in the mud. During the
second half there was more fighting than football, what
football there was being merely cover for nefarious deal-
ings, to enable the foeinen to “ put in the boot,”, or to
reach for the point with a vicious hook. The umpire’s
report was quite-mild. You would think he had been
referee at a Metholeyan tea fight. In another game the
writer saw one man kicked down and another punched
out, while five players.of one team furiously pursued one
of the enemy right across the ground with the intention
of doing him grievous bodily harm. The hunted
one sought sanctuary behind the umpire, and still
lives. That umpire’s report was quite genial, too.
The police, however, seem to have at.last realised that a
deliberate .blow is equally ,an assault whether bestowed
on a football ground or in the street, so they have sum-
moned two players and abarracker for riotous behavior
in a public place. Also,.ha ving duly considered the riot
between the junior clubs of North Geelong and Newtown,
on July 3, they requested three players and five “sup-
porters” to call on the P.M. and' excuse themselves.
The P.M. happened to be Victoria’s rare beak, G. Read
Murphy. He, after listening to the tale of woe, dis-
charged two of the accused, and fined three £2
apiece, and three others £5 each. This sudden catastrophe
so annoyed one of the £5 delinquents that be inconti-
nently “ jobbed” a policeman in the eye. P.M. Murphy
immediately had him charged with assault, and, finding
he possessed a record of 25 previous convici ions,
ordered him to face a Supreme Court Judge to re-
ceive an indeterminate sentence. This writer knows why
umpires dorVt report rough or foul play. He watched
a League match last Saturday in which officiated a
boundary umpire who had, a few weeks ago, justifiably
reported two ’bailers. Every time that umpire passed a
particular push of one-eyed “supporters ” he was assailed
with language that ought to have got the users three
years’ hard labor. It wants a few plain-clothes police,
backed up by a strong force of uniformed Johns, to stop
that blackguardism ; but the football authorities grudge
spending money on the police, neither will they pay their
umpires adequately. If they are not careful they’ll have
a case of manslaughter to consider by-and-bye.
* • ■* ■*
Every week, now, the struggle between the Vic-
torian League hoofball clubs to be one of the semi-final
four gets keener; consequently, some of Saturday’s col-
lisions were exceptionally vigorous. Oollingwood, South
and Carlton are. practical certainties, the fourth place
being open for Fitzroy or Essendon, with Melbourne an
outside chance. But none of the latter three can afford
to lose a game; so’Roy’s encounter with South showed
the ’Roy men at the top of their form, and playing in the
deadly fashion of four years ago. Possibly South’s long
run of victories has relaxed its nerves, or its muscles,
or something; anyhow, ’Roy went off with a
dash that carried points by storm, and gained
17 at quarter time to South’s eight. Next term
“Skinner’s Hirelings” rushed in for all they were worth,
and at the interval had raised their tally to 22—two more
than ’Roy. But the Maroons knew they had to win or be
bumped out, and their condition enabled them to keep
their pace and dash to the finish, while the Southerners
palpably tired in the last quarter and suffered their third
defeat this season—by 44 points to 30. After that the
fiintv-facerl supporters of South waited, 3000 strong-, for
the ’Rov players and the umpire, and the riot was such
th it the only adequate remedy seems to be the disquali-
fication of the South ground. Essendon was also called
upon to win its game with ’Varsity, but here the
students’ lamentable kicking saved the “ Same Old ” from
worrying about the result. Playing with the wind, the
latter notched seven goals and three behinds to nil in the
first quarter. After that, Uni. strove valiantly for three
terms, and had all the best of the play ; but shooting that
could only account for four goals out of 23 scoring shots
would nullify a ton of playing effort, wherefore ’Don won
by 75 points to 43. The Carlton-Geelong collision was a
mere exercise canter, the Seasiders being already “ outed ”
for this season, though the play, possibly because of its
lack of strennousness, was open and elegant. Scores :
Carlton, 130 points; Sleepy Hollow, 70. The reorganised
St. Kilda 18 put up a tidy scuffle against Melbourne, but a
League team that has been capsized and stood on its head
in the middle of the season takes more than a month to find
its feet again ; consequently the anticipated disaster super-
vened once more—Saints, 41 points ; Melb., 79. Seeing
that Richmond’s chance of reaching the semi-finals is
less than the late lamented Buckley’s, its encounter with
’Wood might as well have been conducted in a sedate and
genteel fashion ; but Richmond seems to have lost its
manners with its recently-disqualified players, wherefore
its persistence in playing the man instead of the ball only
brought retaliation and disaster. The game was an un-
pleasant, unmannerly episode, which ’Wood’s inability to
kick straight only saved from being a rout. As it was,
the final tally—’Wood 72 points, Richmond 37—was
disastrous enough, in all conscience.
For the Association semi-finals P’ran, Essen-
don, and ’Scray are practical certainties, while Bruns-
wick, ’Town, and Brighton are doing their darnedest to
m-ike the fourth. At present the odds are about 7to 6
on ’Wick. But as 'Scrav is but one game ahead of the
three outsiders its Saturday collision with its neighbor,
’Town, was a Considerable circumstance, and an occasion
of much uproar among the 10,000 spectators. ’Scray this
season found itself in much.the same basket as St. Kilda,
of the League, but it tackled the problem earlier, and
since its reorganised team has been belted into work-
ing order it is playing in the fashion that
gained it the pennant last year. Nevertheless, ’Town
proved a tough proposition, and held a trifle
in hand right up to the middle of the last quarter. Then
’Scraps captain flung caution to the winds, sent two
extra men on the ball, and carried three goals and the
game;by main force. It was a manoeuvre that has pulled
games out of the fire more than once lately, but it fails if
the opposing skipper has the brains to meet it by calling
his men back. Sometimes he hasn’t, as in this case :
wherefore ’Scray’s score was 41 points to ’Town’s 31.
Brighton collided with P’ran, and made a better
show than against ’Scray the week before, but the
Bentites proved no match for P’rati’s purchased
players, and retired with 53 points to the others’
79. Essendon indulged in a casual, negligent sort
of game with ’Cote for three quarters ; then it piled
on 25 points to ’Cote’s two, just to show that “it could
an it would.” Scores: ’Don, 56, ’Cote 26. Brunswick
made a desirable improvement in its average by notching
93 points to Por-’s 17 : and a great uproar in the neigh-
borhood of the North Melbourne Gluepot indicated that
something was happening to Preston —something repre-
sented by the figures 63 to 39—though the uprising of
North and the downfall of Preston matter n thing to
either club now. This capacity to bog in with great vigor
when it is too late to be of any use may have a soothing
tendency on the barrackers, but it is a saddening circum-
stance none the less.
* * ■* *
England annexed the Association Toe-ball
Championship last season, defeating Wales, Scotland and
Ireland. It scored eight goals in all,'and n ver let the
ball through its own goal. This was a wonderful per-
formance, but the English team placed with amazing
brilliance in all the Internationals, and deserved its great
record.
* * * *
“J.P.”: One interesting thing in connection
with the second Test match appears to have escaped the
cricket fiends. Noble won the toss and sent the English-
men in to defend their wickets. Plucky captains' who
reckoned they could forecast the weather, have done
this before in Test matches ; but on every previous
occasion the side that had first use of the wicket, whether
it wanted it or not, has won the match. “ Mary Ann,”
therefore, is the only Australian skipper to date who has
sent the enemy in to bat in a Test match and beaten
them.
Thp chief feature of the fourth Test was Laver’s
phenomenal bowling, which, with eight wickets for 31
runs, beat all records. The nearest approach to Laver’s
extraordinary achievement was the late George Lnh-
mami’s eight for 35, which he took for England
at Sydney in 1887. In 1892 he again took eight
wickets for England at Sydney, but this time the runs
had risen to 58. Trott took eight' for 43 -at’, Adelaide in
1895, so take it by and large Australians have easily the
best of it, although England has had altogether five
bowlers who have taken eight wickets in a single innings,
and Australia hastily three.
*"■***
The Sydney Cricket Ground trouble, is practi-
cally settled. The Cricket Ground Trust made conces-
sions which give the Association one-third of the fees
received from over 2000 members. The charges were
also reduced to 10 per cent, on Sheffield Shield and inter-
national matches ; while for matches against Queensland,
Tasmania and Maoriland the ground will he given free of
charge. Altogether the cricket atmosphere is clearer
than it has heen for many years.
*«" ’ * *
“ J.” : W. E. Collins, in London Daily Mail,
inquires, “Is Cricket Standing Still?” I rise to em-
phatically assure t.he said Collins that it isn’t. It is
retrograding rapidly—going to the Devil, in fact. lam
not speaking of the skill of the operators with hat and
ball, but of the game generally. Who the deuce takes
any interest in cricket now? Where are the cheerful
lunatics who used to ask all and sundry, including total
strangers, “ What’s the score?” Who' cares what the
score is—or if there is any score at all ? In England it is
apparently just as bad. The third Test recently drew a
beggarly crowd of 15,000—about as many as go to see
the Glebe Rugby Union sluggers wrestle in the mud
with the rival club from Newtown. The fact is that, the
game has lost its grip on the public. The gentlemen
who ran it were too obviously after the cash, and the
crowd lost interest in matches that were strung out for
days by artificial fingerings in order to extract a few
more bob gate-money from the interested. Here in Aus-
tralia we got disgusted when the “Players” showed
plainly during their struggle against the Board of Control
that they were not in the game for sport, but in the
business for money. Now men who have played cricket
for years are giving it up, and taking to tennis and bowls
instead ; and their sons are following them. If the
pr sent movement continues, in about five years
cricket will bi a dead game compared to what it
was in the days when the “ Players ” had not yet allowed
the nose and claws of the boodler to stick out from under
the flannels of the sportsman.
* * * *
“ J.P.” : Judging by the accounts of the match,
there was great excitement in Fogland when Surrey
licked the Australian XL, Ltd. The last two batsmen o‘f
the profit-making amateurs were creeping along care-
fully, and were within five runs of victory when the last
of the timber fell. Then the delighted spectators danced
a halta, can-can, or something equally immoral. In
detail, it was a remarkable match. Cotter pulled a ball
from Lees, and six resulted—all run, which does not
often happen in a first-class match. In Surrey’s second
innings Crawford, Lees and Spring each played a
ball on to his wicket without disturbing the
bails. In Australia’s second innings Noble played
a ball and Hartigan ran down the pitch; but
Mary Ann did not move. Both batsmen were at the
same crease and the fieldsman threw the ball in hard to
the vacant end only to see Lees, the bowler, mis-field it
badly, so Hartigan was able to sprint back and regain his
ground. A few overs later a ball from Rush by struck
H.irtigan's wicket hard, g'lanced oft almost at right
angles towards long- leg, and went for four byes. The
bail moved slightly so that one end remained in the
groove, whilst the other rested against the middle stump.
To cap all, Carter was dismissed by a remarkable catch
b.\ Strudwick. The wicketkeeper let the ball bounce
from his hands, but, dashing forward, he captured it at
the second attempt, being on his back on the pitch in
front of Carter when he held the bone of contention.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The top-notch amateur billiardists of
Melbourne have been fighting their annual tournament bat-
tles over again, what time J. B. Belfield, the Svdnev cham-
pion, was demonstrating to Melb. folk how much better a
player he is than the best of the Victorian lot. Belfield
presumably gets more practice than his hopeless rivals,
but any way he is a player of higher grade. It is remarked
of the others that they show no marked improvement
one year from another. The fact that the common or
ill-schooled hilliardist doesn’t gain anything from practice
(except a temporary accuracy in his unimaginative
strokes) is not so remarkable as the fact that these
superior amateurs are so restricted in their talent. At
the beginning of their advance into the front rank they
promise to keep on advancing, but when they have
arrived at the capacity of making a 70 break
pretty often and a 100 break occasionally, thev
seem to have exhausted all the possibilities.
They watch the best professionals at work. They
see, perhaps, the reason of the difference between
the pro. who m ikes a 500 break and the amateur who
rarely gets into three figures, hut they can’t profit bv the
newly-gained knowledge. Indeed, if the skilled amateur
goes too far in his attempts at imitating the method of
the pro. hilliardist, he is likely to spoil his own respect-
able game, even as a moderately good soprano spoils her
warble bv attempting to make it brilliant after she has
turned 30 and her voice is definitely formed. To the
student of the greatest games of skill it seems unac-
countable that a small percentage of men can be so
naturally gifted in comparison with the great multitude
of players, and yet remain so very far behind a few
others, who, in their turn, are easily surpassed by two or
three boss artists. If all the skilled billiardisCs were to
devote their playing time to practice at the piano, the
difference between their performances on the keyboard
wouldn’t be nearly so many or so marked as it is on what
newspaper reporters call “ the board of green cloth ”
» » * «
On Monday evening, August 2, at Billiards
Ltd., Brickfield Hill, Sydney, young Fred Lindrum, cham-
pion of Australia, will meet George Grav, the bov cham-
pion, in a game of 16,000. Lindrum will concede Gray
2300. Both are rapid scorers and have been making pheno-
menal breaks in their training, so an interesting match is
expected. The game will extend over 12 davs ( fternoon
session at three, evening at eight). The box plan is open
at Alcock and Oo.’s, 397 George-street, opposite Roval
Hotel. J
* * * *
Sydney Prince Alfred Yacht Cluh held a
“ blow-out ” last week in connection with the annual dis-
tribution of prizes. Mr. Saxton’s Awanui was easily at
the head of the list—scoring two firsts, one second, and
two thirds out of seven starts—with a prize money total
of £lB 18s. During the season two trophies were won
outright Sea-dog Rawson’s Cup fell to Mr. Muston’s
White Wings, and Mr. Dempster’s Petrel Oup was
captured by Mr. Saxton’s' Awanui.
■*■***
After thinking over it for a long while, an in-
dustrious little gang of Melbourne peds have announced
that the Victorian Marathon amble is to happen next
October, over a course of 26 miles 385 yards, between
Franks ton and Princes Bridge. Entrants will have to
submit to medical examination, and any, competitor must
retire from the canter when ruled out by the medical
officer of the daj\ There are numerous other conditions
touching the age of competitors, refreshments en route
etc.,- and when these have been complied with it will
probably be found that all the mediocrities have been
weeded out. A struggle over 26 miles ought only to be
contested by the royalties of pedestrianism— gentlemen
of the calibre of George Blake, Vic Aitken, the Stillwells
and so forth. And the Law might as well stop the con-
test at the end of 15 miles, anyhow. Marathon in
modera’ion is sport. In immoderation it amounts to a
deplorable exhibition.
*** ■ *
At Invercargill (M.L.) a 26-mile “Marathon”
finished on July 14. Most of the 13 starters fell bv the
wayside, but D. Stewart (whose name is probably Donald)
staggered on and finished first in 3hr. 22jmin., with
E. A. Allan taking second money 1£ minutes later. The
pathos of the situation is that Invercargill is “ dry,” and
the Prohibitionists watched the f tinting Marathoners
closely to see that the}' entered no slv beer shops on the
wav. There is nothing more pathetic than the idea of
running 26 miles into a town devoid of beer. Even the
old-time GreekAvho ran to Athens with the news of
Persia’s defeat probably had the amphora of Chian wine
pas-ed out to him with aliberal hand. Is there no society
for the prevention of cruelty to asses in Invercargill ?
* * * *
The South Australian Lacrosse Association has
a pretty handful of campaigns on for August: Teams
will leave for Tasmania, Victoria and Westralia ; and, as
a visit to Queensland is due, that State will be attacked
later on in the season by a formidable force of veterans.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) Rifle Cluh gathered in the
Daily Mail Empire Cup with the good score of 808 points
out of a possible 840, against rivals from the five corners
of the earth. To have knocked out all comers in a tussle
of this sort is a wonderful feat for a band of civilians who
practise rifle shooting only in their spare, time.
* * * *
The “gate” of the Pearce-Mitchell sculling
match for the Australian championship was £124, which,
after paying exes., left each oar-tugger a miserable
£45 11s. 3d.
* * * *
It is rumored in Maoriland that Webb will row
Arnst again before Christmas. A very optimistic youn"
man is Mr. William Webb, of Webbanui. He is not satis-
fied .yet, and, of course, Richard of the 100-h.p., who has
already relieved him of £lOOO, is quite prepared to make
the total £l5OO. Efforts are being made to induce Barry
to come out to the Wanganui and show wh it he can do
One of Artist’s representatives is now on his way to Fog-
land prepared to offer the Englishman £250 for expenses,
half the gate, and a guarantee that he will be safely con-
ducted from the country if he wins. All this is offered
for a race for the championship on the Wanganui with
Richard the Powerful for £lOOO a side. Mr. Barry, how-
ever, apparently considers his money to be much safer in
the bank, and doesn’t seem anxious to oblige. He is
nevertheless, quite ready to row on the Thames’
for, even should he be defeated there, the "ate
will more than make good his loss. The big Maorilander
is after the Englishman’s scalp, and so, if the mountain
won t come to Mahomet, well, Richard will have to "o to
Fogt.own. The 100-h.p. machine is out for the cash, and
is not making the mistake that Webb did. William was
a remarkable sculler, and if, instead of sitting down on
the Wanganui and waiting for challenges, he had hustled
round seeking whom he could devour at £5OO a time, he
might have mopped up quite a considerable fortune
befot e he met his Waterloo. The one pleasing thing
about the present sculling champion is that he will row
anyone who can show the necessary. He’d row George
Reid if George challenged him and put up the "old
Contrast these prompt, business-like methods with the
skite and language of the champion pug. and his brothers.
* * *
There is great gladness in Maoriland just now
amongst those energetic young men who delight to arrav
themselves in very little, and push lumps of rubber-tyred
ironmongery along lonely country roads, with their
hearts set upon the lucre or the electro-plate that lieth at
the other end. Some two years ago the M.L. Dunlop
Road Race was passed out by the police ; but the local
League of Wheelmen, now that path-racing is dead is
trying to encourage the road business, and has decided to
make a big splash this season bv holdine- a sir,,,™
X'naru to Christchurch (112 miles) Provided h,/
aforesaid can be kept out of the this sudden
will happen on Saturday, October 30, and every youth
who can get across a bike is expected to b/in th.
scramble. If Richard, the 100 h.p. oarsman, would
leinount his foaming bike and put this event to his credit
great would be the popularity thereof. redlfc ’
* * * H
New York Police Gazette tells of Jonel Sul-
sHcl’’ E r d r Ward Vll ' ('V hen pl i,ice of Wales) and a walking-
stick It was away back in 1887, when Jonel had Lift
landed in England, that he was commanded to give a
private exhibition with the now deceased Jack Ashton
under the management of Charlie Beresford. “ I’m very
happy to meet you,” said Ned to Sullivan. “ How are
lou Prmoe? ” replied Sullivan, cordially enough, shaking
the future king-emperor by the fist. When the scraS
was over, Beresford called the men aside and offered
payment Sullivan refused it, but explained that
if the Prince liked to make him a little present
it would be treasured. Accordingly,' a few days
later along came a gold-mounted stick. * Jonel looked it
over, smelt it and then requested Ashton to take it to-
the nearest pawnshop and see how much would be
advanced on it, explaining that it was not to be popped.
T lld •„ T sald As hton when he returned. Sullivan
Rovd i S e t n a l- all V Here > take ifc back to his
Rojal Nobs and tell him he may need it himself ” But
no one would take it, and Sullivan kept the stick, which
np oQSe<f 0 Q Se< f t u- 6X lr bl u r ° und ’ Mu rka to illustrate the “cheap-
ness of his Nobs. Three pounds advance meant a
f“f? h bo m t l2—but apparently Jonel thought-
P ® r' ffc should be set with precious stones, and)
worth anything* up to half a million.
* * * *
Pahrmiiy Burns recently stated that he believed
that Kaufmann would wallop Jack Johnson ; and his-
manager, Mr. Kelly, expressed the same view. Herein
K • u eX u° banipion ''be world and his manager conflict
with the opinion of Hugh D. Mclntosh, who saw Kauf-
mann performing whilo’vbe was in the States, and ex-
pressed the opinion that 1 ® hadn’t a hope against John-
nhll'itr l'l - the M - IntoBh T, as f! ' ood a judge of fighting
abihtj as is running round just now. Certainly John-
sons victory over Tahmmy is nothing bo go by. And, as
Tahmmysavs, his most effective wallop is the uppercut
with the right; which would ppt be nearly as effective
against Kaufmann as it was %airist Burns. And as;
demonstrated over and over again, Johnson’s hitting
power is nothing like as tremendous as it looks. Had it
been Burns would have no face at the present time:.
All the same, the evidence is that JoVmson knows too>
Californian 0 CaU ” bt by the big, lumbering, slow-moving
* * * • *,
The Johnson-Ketehell disagreement, booked for
October 12, may see history repeat itself. When Corbett
first faced the mighty Sullivan, back in the dim past, he
had on paper, no better chance than Stanley Ketchell
will have at Oolma in October. But Corbett knew the
enemy s weakness, and for more than ten rounds he ftedi
from before the awful wrath-of the perspiring champion*,
who called upon him in a loud voice to stand and be slain
without fuss. The way in which Corbett sprinted round
the ring, with, Sullivan in full pursuit, was about- the-
funmest thing that ever struck the Land of Wooden Ham.
Somewhere about the 12th round, the anxious and very
winded John L. caug-ht the elusive “ Gentleman J : im”‘
and was sorry he, had caught him. Corbett- came, nut of
his shell, and really beyan to fiyht, and the inuiinber* of"
stars that Jonel saw, and the manner in which the rising*
champion treated him, are masters of , history. If
Ketchell can only evade the top-heavy Black Streak
f >r the first 13 rounds, and keep him moving* at a good:
bat all that time, it is quite probable that from then on
Brudder Johnson will find the hurricane methods and the
physical fitness of [the boy from Michigan more than he
can cope with. Ketchell has a box full of knockout
punches, and unless the man of Africa proceeds at once
to lay some of his avoirdupois on the altar of hard ‘ work,
lt is more than probable (bat.the punch that wjll double
him up will land on the commissariat.
* * ■» *
There was a sound of hilarity in Brisbane when
it was announced that “ One-yer ” Olsen and “ Stumpy ”
Roughsedge would scrap for a stake and side wager on
July 21. At the ringside the audience waited to see a
burlesque ; but it. was as willing .as they are made. Each
youth was out for the money. Olsen stood on one leg-
onlv, the other had been amputated above the kneel
The other lad had a wooden support finished off with
a washer and a brass cap; and the noise of him,
hopping about was like the rattling of much armorinthy-
days of eld. They got about in a marvellous fashion.
During the second round Olsen requested his seconds to
let him know when he was shaping' like Tommy
Burns, but while he posed, “Stumpy"' propelled
himself through space and landed; him, heavily
on the thing he had just been speaking with.
Olsen calmly retreated to the ring side, discharged
the fragments of a set of false teeth, and then re-entered
the fray with zest. By the end of the round fee had
scored a considerable margin of points. If the Second
round was a whirlwind, the third was a catac-lysm, and
both emerged much the worse for wear. The retreat to
corners was a sight for the gods, both parties showing
marvellous agility. When Olsen was declared winner on
points, “Stumpy” took it like a philosopher, and s emed
more upset about a second who Had fainted than about,
the loss of the scrap. The second was even tually brought
to with liberal doses of firewater, and “ Stumpv ” regaim di
his wonted spirits and retired, in good spirits, to apply
hot water and beef steak.
COSTIVEEESS.
THE CAUSE OF MUCH SUFFERING.
To maintain a healthy bowels should
operate at least once every This is one
of Nature’s provisions which oftes>ignored.
and the result is untold suffering. Women are
the greatest offenders,Suit sooner or later they
must pay the penalty, wiany Cornell’s ailments
are due to the purging, following
upon habitual constipationk and, in many cases*
displacement of the organs may be
attributed to, the same cause.
MRS. LUCY MAHONEY.
(From a photo.)
Mrs. Lucy Mahoney*
157 Evans Street, Rozelle*
near Sydney, writes :—“I
have used Dr. Morse’s;
Indian Root Pills for
some considerable time* ;
for constipation and head-
aches, and found great'
relief. They are oar
family medicine, and; j£
recommend them to tr y
friends. You have niy
sanction to use this tes ti-
moriy in whatever \y ay
yon please.”
Nature often roquirt s a
little assistance, amd if this
assistance is given at the
first indication much dis-
tress and suffering may be averted.. Motl lers,
especially, should guard the health of their cl iild-
ren, and inculcate regular habits front* infanej -.
As a family remedy for costiveness Dr. Me .rse’s
Indian Root Pills have a wide reputation. 'They
are mild in their action, causing neither weal mess
nor sickness, and do not gripe.


THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT—
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medio w Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2£ hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday. ,
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney, The s Tore rinary
’Tis the Voice of the Sluggard
k
that is missing- from the ranks of the B. and B. riders. The B. and B.
is essentially the machine for the brisk, busy, enthusiastic riders who
know a good thing when they are on it.'
Br and B. Model 3 Cycles, at £ll,
are fitted with YOUR choice of finest tyres, and guaranteed a 3 r ear.
LET’S SEND YOU OUR CATALOGUE, and mention this paper when Writing-.
BENNETT « BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building
House in the State.
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
&
• . ? »
The Best Razor for Your Face
—that gives a smooth satisfactory shave under all
conditions, gliding- over the skin, cutting 1 , not
scraping l , the hair—is THE PLUM. It’s perfec-
tion. We guarantee, it for two years and will
refund purchase money to any man who does not
find it as good as we say.
PRICE
10/6.
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
ThePeero Peerless Pill
Admitted by experts to be the Stomach and Liver Pill of the
Age, and invaluable for the cure of Anaemia in Women, Debility
in Men, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Flatulence, Gas-
tritis, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, and Costiveness.
“PEERO **
PILLS are
beyond value to
persons living on
farms, shearing-
sheds, cattle-runs,
sheep-stations, or
mining camps.
They are the best
doctor for the
home, because
they save life and
promote health.
Will clear IheComplexion .
turc ConsripafionJDizzirxess. In-/
digesCion.Headache.and ail
Uver Affections.
Price Is.perbox.
DOS£-12ro3Pillsar
ccJ&ffSSSsg!
Mr. G. NIELL,
commercial tra-
veller, writing
from Hotel Met-
ropole, Sydney,
Fell. 20th, 1909,
says : “Your
‘PEERO’ Pills
are a grand nerve
and appetite
maker. I swear by
them. Theyarein-
valuable for men.”
Australia is noted for the prevalence of serious stomach and liver diseases, caused
by the continuous use of heavy meat foods, and carelessness of diet and eating.
The most serious diseases spring from stomach neglect, leading to expensive
operations. The timely use of “PEERO” Pills corrects and strengthens the
stomach, makes new blood, gives nerve force, and keeps the liver healthy, curing
the most chronic cases of constipation rapidly. It is the advance agent of Health"
and should be in every home. “PEERO” Pills preserve and prolong life'
A SURE CURE for INDIGESTION 8 CONSTIPATION
AN ATHLETE’S TESTIMONY.—MR. W. BARKER,
of Street, Newtown, writesl was a
sufferer for years from Constipation so serious that
I looked upon myself as dead. I could never enjoy
a meal. I took ‘ PEERO ’ Pills for four weeks, and
they have made me a new man. Your pills are, in
my opinion, the best for constipation known.”
MRS. W. RUSSELL, Victoria Street, Darling-,
hurst, says I was known as the walking ghost
of Darlinghurst, I was so pale and bloodless. I
had anasmia for years, which threatened decline.
Your pills are for women worth their weight in
gold. I HAVE TAKEN A NEW LEASE OF LIFE
since taking ‘ PEERO ’ Pills.”
“ PEERO ” PILLS may be obtained all Chemists and Grocers, Is.
per box, or direct from the proprietors post free on receipt of price!
The RAY’ CHEMICAL CO.
76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N S.W.
Any
THE
SLIDJI
£
STROKE
from Point to Heel
Or Heel to Point.
rouble
I Only
WitK.tKe
URLEYgy£4|_RA2DR
ENDS ALL TROUBLES OF SHAVING
MAH<
CET A CURLEY SAFETY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
seif! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post Free.
Denyer Bros., 281 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The CAR for EVERYBODY.
THE DOCTOR’S CAR.
THE «<S>
RELIABLE
The Doctor, in his professional
capacity, had to decide upon the
most reliable, serviceable and
economical Motor Car, and he chose
De Dion.
The Doctor’s a good judge, and
when prescribing the De Dion as
the only car suitable for his pro-
fession, he knew just what was
best.
Now this prescription contains
the combined advice of most of
the medical fraternity.
And it will pay you to profit by it
and follow the great example.
Illustrated Catalogues post free
on application.
BTARRANT
- MOTOR CO.
_JOB RUSSELL 51 MELBOURNf
HI Sole Agents for
Ifl ]rLRTS • Dions A rgyll? il
H| Rovers . F/is. Ford's 31
HJTELS 29i2-AO3O • Lll
To Journalists, Newspaper Proprietors,
and Speculators.
SAIF a “ a ffoing concern, the “TWEED
HERALD,” published three times a
week in Murwillmnbah, N.S.W. Established 1893,
issued twice weekly 1901, and thrice weekly 1909.
In same hands since its establishment. Sole reason for
selling is owing to ill-health of proprietor’s wife, the
climate being- unsuitable. Splendid up-to-date plant,
consisting of two ntotiolines, two oil engines, two platens,
folder, guillotine, Dawson’s double-demy machine, sundry
small machines, fine assortment type, etc. Big sub-
scribers’ list (majority paid in advance), good jobbing
and advertising connection. The Tweed district is one of
the finest and most prosperous in the Commonwealth;
is yet only in its infancy ; future prospects of the bright-
est. Murwillmnbah was, less than two years ago, burnt
down in a night, and was rebuilt in 12 months. Two
large butter factories, one large sugar mill, Shire and
Municipal Councils, Agricultural Society, four banking
institutions, etc. The Tweed Herald is one of the finest
country newspaper propositions in Australia. Offer open
till August 31st,las failing sale by that time, a managing
editor will be obtained. Full particulars from T. M.
SHAKESPEARE, Country Press Association, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
V M.C.A. Ha.ll, Pitt Street, SYDNEY
■ - (Bathurst Street Entrance).
PHILIP NEWBURY andh j? A ®£§ ET
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING.
ELSIE FISCHER, The New Dramatic Soprano.
RUBY MICHAEL, Lyric Soprano.
Re-appearance of LAURANCE PHILLIP,
The Eminent Piano Virtuoso.
GLADSTONE BELL, CYRIL MONK, ESTHER KAHN,
and the Violin Prodigy, LIONEL LAWSON (9 years of age).
PHILIP NEWBURY will sing “ On with the Motley”
(Pagliacci), and “ Che Gelida Manina ” (Bohbme).
Plan at Nicholson’s.
OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
THURSDAY and SATURDAY,
AUGUST 5 and 7.
The Home-Coming of Sydney’s Great Favorite
Contralto,
KATE HOOKE Y.
RE-APPEARANCE of the POPULAR AUSTRALIAN
VOCALIST AFTER A SUCCESSFUL CAREER OF
EIGHT YEARS IN GREAT BRITAIN and IRELAND.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s.
Plan at Paling’s. C. Reid Young, Manager.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
! ** Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON
| EVERY EVENING at 8,
J. C. Williamson’s New Dramatic Company
in Major W. P. Drury and Mr. Leo Trevor’s
Successful Naval Comedy,
THE ELAG LIEUTENANT,
| Depicting with all their JOLLITY, BREEZINESS and
ALLUREMENT the Doings of a Great Battleship.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Amusements
“THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 31,
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
ih HALL CAINE’S Own Dramatisation of
the bondman,
including- THE HARVEST FESTIVAL ON THE FARM
AT THE ISLE OF MAN, and the Great Spectacle
depicting THE ERUPTIQN OF MOUNT, STROMBOLI.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plans at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
v Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors: Clyde Meynell & Jons Gunn.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAYS at 1.45.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of'THE OPERATIC AND
SPECTACULAR RECORD PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
WHICH HAS CAUGHT ALL SYDNEY..
Plan at Elvy’s. • Dav Sale at White Rose.
JH E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J.. WEST.
Nightly at S ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
W K S T \S PIC T U R E S,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is fid, Is, & fid. Popular Prices, fid, Is,. Is fid, & 2s.
QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
REAL ICE - SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—10 to 12 a.m., 3 to 5 p.m.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; CHILDREN. Morning and Afternoon
onlv. Is. SKATE HIRE, fid.
SATURDAY MORNING —Children, Admission fid.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 402, Gleb*. Dunbar Poolk, Manager.
I J O U P I C T U RE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best., and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—1 6, 1/-. and SIXPENCE.
Tivoli theatre, sydivey.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician and Illusionist.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
THE THREE LAURELS, Leading Specialty Artists.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Specialty Artists.
STEWART and LORRAINE. Mr.'TED KALMAN.
IDA BERRIDGE. HARRY LINDEN.
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Greatest, Juggler Living.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH ME1STERS.
LAWSON and NAMON, Trick Cyclists, Ball Punchers.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
VAUDE and VERNE. MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
TWO BELLS, Terpsichorean Artists.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS. FRED BLUETT.
AUSTRALIA’S LITTLE TICK. WILL G. JAMES.
Plan at Allan’s. SW PRICES —3s, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW OPERA
CO. in
HAVANA.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Great Success of OSCAR ASCHE and
LILY BRAYTON in
The TAMING of the SHREW
V
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
HUGH J. WARD and bis Company of.
Comedians, including Miss Grace Palotta,
Miss Rose Musgrove and Miss Celia Ghiloni
—IN—
A BACHELOR’S HONEYMOON.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andkrson.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the famous Anglo-Australian Drama,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
A
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
A Complete Change of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra'. Plans at Allan’s.
| C E SKATI NG.
BEST OF WINTER SPORTS.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
WIRTH’S OLYMP IA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s,


LEFT ON PACE
And Neck by Chronic Running Ec-
zema-Arms Strapped to Sides
Because of Itching—No Help at
Hospital —Confined to House and
Could Not Work for Four Months
Feared There was No Cure,
PERFECT RECOVERY
IS DUE TO CUTICURA
“I was seized with chronic eczema.
The disease broke out on my face and
spread to ray body, arms and scalp.
After attending a hospital it gradually
got worse and on my face it turned to
running eczema. After a fortnight of
hospital treatment, I had hardly any
skin left on my face and neck and it
was so itchy that I had to be strapped
with my arms to my side at night. It
was a rough rash and itchy and sore on
my body and arms, but it was running
all day long on my face, neck and scalp.
I began to think that I should never
get well again but I am now well again
and have all my hair on my head,
thanks to Cuticura. After the first set,
consisting of Cuticura. Soap, Cuticura
Ointment and Cuticura Pills, I began
to find the benefit and after the second
set the disease had almost disappeared.
I can safely recommend the Cuticura
Remedies to all who suffer from eczema
in any shape or form. I never had the
pleasure of leaving the house for over
six weeks and 1 had to leave my employ-
ment and was out of work for over four
months. D. Hyde, 389, Stony Hanton
Rd., Coventry, England, Dec 2, 1908.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
r
Sore
Hands and
Feet
For red, rough and chapped hands, dry,
fissured, itching, burning palms, with
painful finger ends and shapeless nails,
as well as for tired, itching, aching feet,
warm baths with Cuticura Soap and
gentle applications of Cuticura Oint-
ment are simply wonderful.
Cuticura Remedies are sold wherever the British
Flag floats. Depots: London. 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia. R Towns & Co
Sydney; U. S. A., Potter Drug A Chem. Corp.. Sole
Props., Boston. ©3-Post free, 32-page book on care
and treatment of skin and scalp.
WANTED
EVERY NERVOUS MAN to trv the OLD
ENGLISH HOME REMEDY. Best in the
world for the speedy RELIEF and CURE of
NERVOUSNESS and allied troubles. WRITE
TO-DAY for Free Particulars.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 5, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES’
STYLISH SHOES.
This smart Derby Shoe is one of the
most stylish , models in Glac6 Kid,
Pump Soles, with Patent Caps and
Cuban Heels, in two {Trades.
Price, 10/6 and 12/6.
Postage 9d. extra in Victoria ; other States, 1/2
If cleaned with Leeming’s Gazeka
Shoe Paste-(6d. per tin).
SEND FOR PRICE LISTS—FREE.
LEEMING’S SHOE STORES,
■ 109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
e/V@)
Glycerine and “ Bonzoe ” Soaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“ Redness ” ’are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing- and softenuig
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
eA t&lh
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughput Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
BY AMNTWEttr TO H.M.THE KING
' TYRES
BARNET CIABS RUBBER g 1?
234 CLARENCEST., SYDNEY;
Swanston St., near Lonsdale
St., Melbourne ; 10 McHenry
St., Adelaide. And at
Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
OU I 11/ItO,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
FAT
PEOPLE
■/.'ip.
Let us cure you of
Obesity and re-
move your excess
fat. We have cured many thausands of
obesity sufferers. We have the only harm-
less and non-poisonous remedy ever known.
“FATCUR.E”
acts mildly, gradually and effectively. No
matter whether the fat has attacked your
hips, stomach or bust, “Fatcure” will re-
move it. In mariy cases five pounds a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. . . . Our remedy is
, certain, and no successful imitation has ever
been created. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
SAMPLE and Descriptive Booklet, or, if
convenient, call. Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
WRITE or CALL, without any delay.
aaMitiii r 11— i mtmiflgraninimum wuuau
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Jy Appointment.
GEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL
Agents—Harrison Attwood, Sydney.
1 LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
That Have Caught On!'
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia—you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E.Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/0
postage, sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, ]/- ; postage 3d.
ĸ
Duncan McClure, bv
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two com-
bined) ; price, cloth.
3/6 ; postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection,
by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/- ; pos-
tage 31.
From Se'ection to City,
bv “ Ste de Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
aye 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Itudd ” ; price, paper,
1/-; p istage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/0 ;
postage 6d.
Settler and Savage, by
Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloih, 1/- ; postage4d.
Do., paper, ]/-; post-
age, 3d.
On the Fringe of the
Never-Never, bv H. K.
Bloxham; price, paper,
1/-; postape 3d.
The Selector, by James
Green ; price, paper,
1/-; postape 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/-; postape 3d.
Seafarers, by 0. D.
Websdale; price, cloth,
1/- ; postape 3d.
k
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by A. Pratt
price, paner, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
Custard *»3ruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise § Joke Novelties.
The
“Oval"
Puzzle
Match Box.
ķ
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatly made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed ttiis tricky
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
Quite easy to open when you are in the know. Full
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, sprinfr
back. Puzzle to shut
DPI
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife. Trice, with full
directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
U.S A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
ID
BSSS3:
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
w ate h men, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical ■
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anvwhere for 3/-. . :
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. ..
f •*TBT‘-
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY.
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address; Box 3, Havmarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch ; 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Toby, the useful but horribly uncertain elephant of
Wirth-i’ Circus, should have been called Topsy or Birdie.
The huge beast is of the lady sex, and whereas mis-
anthropic lie-elephants are known as “rogues,” the sour
tempered she-ditto are known as “devils.” Topsy is a
bit—a large piece—of a devil. But the professor—one
Cupt. Burrows—who puts her through her antics in the
circus ring, appears to have her under complete moral
control. She never turns nasty with him. He talks to
her in Hindoo language, and when he addresses swear-
words to the lady she is visibly upset. Nobody but
Burrows would attempt to handle Toby in the ring, and
there is said to be no fear of her ever “playing up”
mischievously when the public are looking.
The first night of the “Allen Doone”sliow, at Mel-
bourne Bijou, was an interesting occasion—in the front
of the house. On the stage the performance was desti-
tute of novelty ; but a lot of uncommon entertainment
was to be obtained from watching the audience and its
little ways. John Wren is at the back of Mr. Allen
Boone, from America (originally advertised as “Ire-
land’s Sweetest Singer”). The occasion bristled
with evidences of the ruling Power. A consider-
able section of the audience consisted of patrons of
Pat Reynolds’ pub, which is a rendezvous of Wrenites, and
where many tickets for the show were “placed.” John him-
self sat in the centre of the d.c. front row (so did a profes-
sional pug), viewing the performance .with a mirthless
gaze until his horse, Murmur, appeared on the scene and
misbehaved itself. Murmur’s effort seemed to appeal to
its owner’s sense of humor, and he smiled graciously. A
number of other sports laughed, and Tom Bent probably
enjoyed the incident. Bent was there, of course, out of
respect for Wren. The house recognised him when he
came along, and gave him an ironical reception. His seats
were in the second row of the reserved stalls, and whilst
he was waddling his way thither, along the gangway
between the orchestra and the front row, he spotted one
of the barmaids from Reynolds’ pub in the third row.
So he paused to talk a while with the lady over the
heads of the people intervening. Again, when he
went out between the acts the ex-Premier held some more
converse with the lady, what time a voice from the gal-
lery persisted in informing him that his political career
was “burst up.” To this and all other greetings frott,
the gods Bent replied by waving his hand in a semi-circl°
being apparently happy to think he was the star
of a representative gathering. It was a se
gathering, of a kind different, in the most part, from the
audiences that one sees at any other Melbourne theatre
on a first night. To the initiated there was nothing to be
surprised at in either the performance of “ Sweet County
Kerry,” or the crowd that filled the Bijou, but to the un-
informed public the occasion must have seemed some-
what odd.
“Gwy”: The marriage of Mrs. Brough caused an old
Balmain (Sydney) family to become linked with Cnurch
and stage almost in the one act, so to speak. Mrs. B.
married Charles Bell, the electrician of her company, a
young man still in the twenties, while a week before the
bridegroom’s sister, Miss Muriel Bell, decided to chime
permanently with Mr. Crane, a young man of ascetic dis-
position, who toils in the dim religious light of the
Diocesan Registry, next to St. Andrew’s Cathedral. Her
grandfather, Captain Bell, was a former harbor-master in
Sydney, and his sons once had, at Peacock’s Point, Bal-
main, an engineering and shipbuilding yard (now Foster
and Minty’s), where they built, among other vessels, the
Muriel Bell. A sister married Captain Franklin, who
commanded the Royal Tar when it took Lane’s Rue Aus-
tralia communists to found their colony in Paraguay—the
colony which came to grief over the eternal question :
“ Who is to wash up ? ”
Will Whitburn, the burnt-cork comedian, dear to old
habitues of the Rickards’ show in Melbourne, is just now
suing the Vic. Trotting Association for £IOOO damages on
account of some trouble in connection with one of his
trotting nags. Whitburn for many, many 3 - ears was a
trainer of trotters by day and a variet3’-hall artist at
night; but it is now quite a long time since he blacked
his face and took a grinning audience into his confidence.
A good-looking, business-like man in sporting life, the
popular “ nigger” of yore seems always to have under-
rated his powers as a humorous performer. Melbourne
would be glad to see him again in one of his rust3' black
suits, six sizes too big for him, with the hair of his wig
sticking out in black tussocks, and a conductor’s baton
or a scroll of paper in his sooty paw—but Whitburn is
loth to reappear on the stage. Toall the invitations of Fred
A3don, the Melb. manager for Rickards, he replies that
the public must have had enough of him and his oldsongs
and foolings. And he ends the discussion b3’ promising-
that if ever he can induce himself to resume the awful
disguise in which he has earned a good many thousand
pounds, it will be at the old shop, where his success is
piostly a matter of tradition with the rising generation.
“U.S.”: Allen Doone, in “Sweet County Kerry,” at
Melbourne Bijou, affords a curious illustration of the
growth of prohibition in Yankee Land, where it rules
about 30 per cent, of the country. In prohibition towns
theatrical audiences are indignant if virtuous people on
the stage even drink cold tea under the pretence that it
is whisky, beer or wine. Of course, the bad characters
may drink as much as the3’ like, and the more the badder.
In “ Sweet County Kerry ” there is a real pump with real
water. Shade of Crummies, father of the Infant
Phenomenon. Didn’t he want Nickleby to write a drama
to introduce a pair of wash-tubs (male and female,
doubtless)? About 30 people gather on the stage to
drink a toast to Dear Onld Oireland. Each is furnished
with a mug of real water from the real pump.
(Thunderous plaudits in Prohibition City !) The hero ex-
claims, “ Ah, bliis and gerrels, that’s the shtuff 1 ’ (Up-
roarious applause in Prohibition Cit3’.)
Theatrical manager Bill Anderson has evidently been
moving about in London. He his secured the refusal of
several sensational stage bellowings; has bought the
rights of anew drama, “ The Prince and Beggar Maid ”
which sounds as if it will be too esoteric for Billiam’s ad-
herents ; and has been trying to arrange for another tour
through the Commonwealth and Maoriland of Miss Ada
Reeve. Also William, with a fine disregard for Cocknev
feeling, thinks of inflicting “ The Squatter’s Daughter” oil
a London au lienee. It is darkly whispered that the cause
of that sudden proposal may be Mrs. Eugenie, who is
credited with a modest desire to astound the Whole Fo"
with her bizarre dramatic art.
NO CHANCE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Miss Ada Ward stated th it she intended to conduct an
evangelising'crusade among the chorus and ballet girls.
A clergyman could not enter upon such work. It would
not do. —News Item.
It wouldn’t do for curates young
To wait about behind the scenes,
Where naughty, rort3 T songs are sung ;
Nor would it do for rural deans.
Too frequent the seductive limb
For rectors stiid, and deacons too;
For even bishops, grey and grim,
It wouldn’t do.
It wouldn’t do for any clerk
In holy orders there to stray.
The passages are long and dark,
The managers are oft away;
And if he ventured in the lights,
He’d find too fierce a tint they threw
On bosoms, shoulders, arms and tights— ,
It wouldn’t do.
It wouldn’t do for him to put
His case, that all should aim to rise,
Or some mistaken little foot
Might point, ohedieht, to the flies ;
While words of love reply- might bring
“ What’s wrong, old boy, with loving you?”
It would be most embarrassing—
It wouldn’t do.
It wouldn’t do ; no, not at all.
The more we think do we accord
With all the arguments that fall
So capably from Ada Ward ;
For how could any modern saint
Request Miss Pansy Montague
To put away her cloak of paint?
It wouldn’t do.
n.s.w.
O.N.


W
in
u
<§>
!?=§
S 3
s
V,
/
3
/
B*
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every pr. rt of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOM 3,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
397 GEORGE STREET.
£5O GASH GIVEN AWAY
for Correct Answers to above Puzzle, which
represents the Titles of two Patriotic Songs.
With your answer we require you to enclose
(Fifteen) Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS, the best Liver Kirinev
Blood, and Bowel regulator ever used. At 10 a.m. each day, from Ist Aug. to 30th Sent iqoq'
Sundays excepted, we open our letter box, and to the sender of the first letter we open containin''- correct
andTddrpLTf f °- r pil ’- S the SU £1 willbe forwarded by return post,. After 30th Sept, a list of names
iwfwf* f Prize winners will be posted to all competitors. You may send as often as you please
Perfect fairness and no favors is our motto. These presents are given solely to introduce and advertise
our wonderful medicine. Write at once, as advt. may not appear again.
Address—EMPlßE PILL CO., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
m
m
ĸ
ENLARGED.
Fig. 1377-A
A Pump for Hand
or Windmill Power
. p OU ,^. s Pacific Wdl Force Pump has every good
feature of all others, with several special ones' The
bearer top and air chamber can be turned in any desired
feather 0 PlS *,° n r ° d - S brass cased; the piston is
leather packed and contains a brass wing valve. A
specially advantageous feature is the arrangement of the
hami r hn Ve - T bls ‘ s attacbed to the plate covering the
hand hole in the base and can readily be removed for
examination or repair, without disturbing the pipe con-
nection We can furnish this Pump with brackets and
attached to plank if desired. Complete catalogue
sent on request.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
Winchester
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
Eram.iiwrai
\
fc*
A SINGLE POT OF CAPILLARINE
will work wonders for your moustache. It is a hair
producer the OjNL\ genuine Moustache grower,
and it has been doing its good work for 25 years
without; a single failure.
PRICE 10/0 Post Free Anywhere.
Craig- & Aitken, 654 George St, SYDNEY
* Established 25 Years.
1
■'S*
BILIOUSNESS AND ALL LIVER TROUBLES
Removed by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
f-s--
m
M
. i
I
( KUTNOW’S - !
Improved ErrcßvcsccwT CariSBAD
POWDER
Hirsckcnsprung or Deer Leap
London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.f t
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. J * 1
liver troubles arise from any cause take a, dessert-
spoonful of Kutnow s Powder m the morning- before
breakfast. The action of this refreshing corrective is materi-
ally hastened by a cup of hot tea taken about ten minutes
after ; in twenty or thirty minutes the desired effect is attained,
and the entne system is cleansed and invigorated. Kutnow s
Powder has been before the public for a period of over
twenty years, and is most strongly recommended by the
leading Physicians for Biliousness and every form of Liver
Tiouffe. It is speedy and painless in action, pleasant to
the taste, and suitable for men, women, and children.
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES —
“ About three years ago I was confined to my bed for
a short time with a very acute attack of liver complaint.
T was recommended by my doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after taking two bottles
I was completely cured, and my health has been better
ever since. I have since recommended your excellent
preparation to quite a number of sufferers, who testify of
similar results.
“(Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church, Adlington, Lancs.).”
i-
SOLE PROPRIETORS s
S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUD!
The genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists'
throughout the World. See that the
fac-simile signature, “ S. KUTNOW
& CO., LD.,” and the registered
trade-mark, “ HIRSCHENSPRUNG,
OR DEER LEAP,” are on the carton
and bottle. You will then
Get GENUINE
Kutnow’s Powder.


Now President Taft
Will tackle the “graft”
(That’s cunning and craft),
As a Bayard sans peur !
For Taft isn’t daft ;
His wits are not aft;
He takes, the great Taft,
Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure.
This timely topic forms the basis of
Hwft for August.
Some of its Articles on Australian Defence :
THE BOY SCOUTS, by Chief Scout-Master
R. C. Packer.
THE AERIAL DEFENCE OF AUS-
TRALIA, by C. L. Garland.
THE JOINTS IN OUR ARMOR, by Com-
mander A. Douglas-Douglas, R.N.
GUARDING OUR NORTHERN GATE.
Some of its other Articles :
THE QUACK DENTIST.
GEORGE MEREDITH, by Walter Mur-
doch.
“PAGES FROM OUR PAST.” The
Mutiny on the Abrolhos Islands, W.A.
(Illustrated with colored pictures by
Norman Lindsay.)
THE LOST ART OF DRAMATIC
CRITICISM, by Helen Jerome.
' ■=■??. -+- *i
.
f
The New Serial:
GALAHAD -TONES, a romance of Sydney
Harbor, by Arthur H. Adams.
Some of its Fiction:
A BUSH EMBASSY, a humorous story,
by Herbert E. Riemann.
THE BROKEN VANE, an exciting aero-
plane story, by H. C. McKay.
THE WASP’S FUNNEL, a humorous yarn
of the navy, by Aldridge Evelyn.
PUBLISHED JULY 31st.
Price,
Is.
but worth half-a-crown.
The fact tllkifc Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take lias made it a
favorite with mothers everywhere.*
Next week our Exhibition opens —
we mean our Queensland Exhibition.
And next week our Spring Show
opens —Finney’s Spring Show, the
brightest, most delightful exhibition
of Spring Goods made in the Com-
monwealth !
A Boast ? Well, come and be
the judge. Come and see what we
can do. You are welcome to both
Exhibitions.
And, if you can't spare the time
to come to our gay city, write
to us for patterns of our new
materials —we'll send them, aye,
gladly, free.
We are going to prove to you
that Brisbane leads the Australian
drapery world. Drop a postcard
into the box to-day.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE 810 BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
Parliament Ties Itself in a Hard Knot.
Queensland becomes convinced that it will have
to electa new Parliament—the third in two years
—before any party is likely to get a working
majority. Thisis one of the many wavs in which
the absurd Party Government system is always
falling over its own feet. A whole lot of valuable
time is scattered in dissolutions caused solely by
the unworkableness of things: New South Wales
once had four Parliaments inside three years and
a month ; and another time it had four Parlia-
ments in 4| years. Queensland at one time had
six Parliaments in less than seven years. Victoria
put up a sort of a record by having three Parlia-
ments inside six months. Its ninth Parliament
was still alive on February 8, 1880; it died on the
9th. The tenth Parliament met on May 11.
and was dissolved on June 29; and the
eleventh Parliament started work on July 22.
Yet the actual time spent in the needless
election of new Parliaments is only one item
of the loss. Generally there are weeks —possibly
months —of deadlock and recrimination before
the premature dissolution takes place, and then
when it does take place, there is no guarantee
that it will make things any better. Plainly Vic-
toria’s tenth Parliament was as unable to provide
any party leader with a working majority as its
ninth had been, and the records show that the
eleventh was very little better. The grievous
thing is that the whole business is so superfluous.
No Parliament need ever pass out, save by
effluxion of time. It wants, first of all, certain
men to run the departments of State—the
Treasury, Lands and so on—and if it elected these
men for three years, it is plain that it would have
them for three years. Then it wants to do some
work, and it is quite obvious that, so long as the
Speaker has a casting vote, there must be a
majority, even if it is only a majority of one, for
or against every proposition that can possibly
be laid before the House; so why shouldn’t it do
some work ? Of course, the Upper House
might get in the way, but the simple
remedy is to have no Upper House. These
things being so there is no cause whatever for
votes of censure, stonewalls, coalitions, fusions,
premature dissolutions and such-like absurdities.
They only arise through the political implement
or machine having such large feet that it keeps
falling over them. Of course, things might he a
lot worse. The old Polish Diet, for instance,
was all feet. Every nobleman seemed to have
some shadowy claim to a seat, and there were
about 70,000 of them ; nothing could be done un-
less the House was unanimous; every member
THE SUICIDE.
VEGETARAIN LODGER: “I've
told you so often, Mrs.
Hashley, I never eat the'
flesh of slaughtered animals."
MRS. H.: “ This rooster wasn’t
slaughtered, sir. He ’ung hisself on the roost.”
had the right to dissolve Parliament; the king
was elective, and there was a tendency to
choose the worst fool as least likely to inter-
fere with the old order of things; and the
nobility were allowed by law to form private
leagues and conduct private wars. Poland at last
fell so heavily over its own legislative feet that it
never got up again. But though the British party
system, which Australia has adopted, is ahead of
the old Polish misery, it isn’t nearly so far ahead
as it should be. It is a three-legged affair—a sort
of coach with five wheels. When a Parliament is
always liable to tie itself up in such a hard knot
that the only remedy is to cut its throat, and
throw the carcase away, and get a new Legisla-
ture, things are not as they should be.
Terrible Fate.
It’s a terrible fate to suffer from serious lung
trouble. Ward it off with Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Price, Is. fid. and 3s.*
Somewhere Up In Queensland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE’s somewhere up in Queensland,
The old folks used to say ;
He’s somewhere up in Queensland,
The people say to-day.
But Somewhere (up in Queensland)
That uncle used to know—
That filled our hearts with wonder,
Seems vanished long ago.
He’s gone to Queensland, droving,
The old folks used to say ;
He’s gone to Queensland, droving,
The people say to-day.
But “ gone to Queensland, droving,”
Might mean, in language plain,
He follows stock in buggies.
And gets supplies by train.
He’s knocking round in Queensland,
The old folks used to sav ;
He’s gone to Queensland, roving.
His sweetheart says to-day.
But “ gone to Queensland, roving”
By mighty plain and scrub.
Might mean he drives a motor-car
For Missus Moneygrub.
He’s looking for new country,
The old folks used to say ;
Our boy has gone exploring,
Fond parents say to-day.
“Exploring” out in Queensland
Might only mean to some
He’s salesman in “the drapery”
Of a bush empori-um.
To Somewhere up in Queensland
Went Tom and Ted and Jack ;
From Somewhere up in Queensland
The dusty cheques came back ;
From Somewhere up in Queensland
Brown drovers used to come.
And Someone up in Queensland
Kept many a southern home.
Somewhere up in Queensland ,
How many black sheep mam
Who never write a letter.
And never think of home.
For Someone up in Queensland
How many a mother spoke ;
For Someone up in Queensland
How many a girl's heart broke.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 24, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
This week the vice-regal party will disperse and
wander. Mrs. Hore-Ruthven will depart for
Tabragalba, to stay with the clan Persse, with
which she is somehow connected ; while the
Countess, along with Lady Carmichael and her
lord and about three fathoms of A.D.C., chamber-
lain, and other attendance, will proceed to South-
port. There, it is to be presumed, she will wash
her toes in the briny foam, unless it prove too
chilly. So far, we have had no winter to speak of.
After this respite her Ex. will return to town,
and throw herself into the carnival festivities,
which promise to be the merriest that this city
has ever seen. The Governor-General will pot
the duck on Delilawah, unless that fowl takes
warning and wing, and flees to the uttermost parts
of the earth.
The Lady of Dudley, with a single aide in
attendance and an air of real interest, took the
chair at the annual gathering of the hospital which
bears the name of Lamington. All the generous
ones of the city took a hand, and said the
nicest things they could think of on the occasion.
The Federal Chief Justice led the van, and after
him came the Attorney-General. But for sheer
eloquence the women talkers took the laurel
wreath, and Lady Dudley’s well-known proclivity
for saying the right thing was only on a par with the
polished utterances of Mrs. Kingsbury and the
Bryce matron, who had a word to say for the hon.
doctors and nursing staff.
The vice-regal robe was a creation of lavender
of the palest shade, with sleeves that would make
the fortune of an opium smuggler. It was topped
with a wide leaf of grey silk and some huge
blossoms of no known variety. The multitude
tea’d upon the lawn —all but the Governoress
who slipped away to consume the cheering cup
with Sam and Mrs. Sam at Merthyr.
Other yearly revelations happening this week
have been those of the Bowen and the Children’s
Hospitals, but neither of them climbed any higher
than a mayor or mayoress.
Mrs. Speakeress Bell lunched the vice-regalities
in the Gardens one day last week. Lunching in
the Gardens is quite the favorite amusement with
our visitors. There’s an appealing air of giddi-
ness about the cutlet eaten under the blue
heavens.
Great was the excitement over the McLaughlan
wedding, and enlarged photos, of the newly-wed,
emerging from under an arch of steel, are on view
all over the town. Miss Winnie Hicks, always a
good frocker, hit the top notch in her orange-
blossom rig-out, and the crimson-and-white decked
church, the red coats of the warriors, the band
and the bunting, all helped to give things a
tone. The Fifth Lancer uniform on a good-
looking man is worth going far to see, to say
nothing of the champagne spread that was laid
at the Stodart mansion which reposes in the wilds
of Coorparoo.
Next day came the Kilgour-Abercrombie mar-
riage, and the grim church of St. Andrew’s was
full to overflowing with the very young set, for
both bride and groom are great favorites of the
rowing and dancing crowd. There were presenta-
tions innumerable —so many, in fact, that it was
only by a miracle that the bride had a shoe to go
away in ; she had almost forgotten to purchase
any in the hurry of gathering in her gifts. Any-
way, she did manage to acquire a pair or so, and
as the city is not to lose its willing helpers, she
will probably dance them out upon the very floors
she so often helped to decorate.
The Ralph Cliftons have acquired a swell pro-
perty at Hamilton, and will remove there when
some elaborate renovations are completed. Mrs.
C. is a cheery soul and loves young people. The
lack of a ballroom at Benvarra was always a grief
to her.
Mrs. Annie Perry, one of your Sydneyside
sopranos, is with us, and will be the soloist at the
very smart Toowoomba Liedertafel concert on
Wednesday next. Miss Perry won high opinions
in the highland city last year, I am told.
Still the avalanche of southern tourists descends
or ascends—upon us. They come by hundreds,
and the bloated affluence of the local publican is a
grief and an offence to the temperance reformer.
Several dozen trippists seem to have taken root
for the winter in our midst, and their coming has
given a decided shove to the social whirl. A
smart girleen is the Armitage chick, who was the
hostess at a rosebud party the other day at the
Eschenhagen Cafe, where the cakes have as many
shapes as the name has letters. And talking of
cafes, why does the indiscreet matron choose such
places to meet the man she hasn’t promised to be
anything more than an affinity to? Habitues of
a heavenly tea-shop here have been much
entertained by the daily arrival of a much-
admired beauty and the candle wherein she is
likely to singe her wings if she is not more
cautious. Already one divorce suit promises
to pan out well and give pleasure to all, and 1
hear that some careless utterances of a certain
professional are being put before a legal mind
with a view to deciding whether the case is worth
the cordite and the depreciation of the gun.
The Kidston person, now in the midst of his Min-
isterial deatli struggles, has adopted the expedi-
ent of utilising each week-end to rush off into the
electorate of some political opponent, and endeavor
to bludgeon the deserter into submission. The
general result of these unsportsmanlike tactics is
to rouse a good deal of sympathy with the perse-
cuted, and none at all with the Premier. His
effort to finish the want-of-confidence motion on
Friday last and adjourn the House for a fortnight,
tint he might hurry away, failed sorrowfully, and
it seems just possible even now that when the
Premier’s vehicle starts south the contents may
not be called Kidston.
As I close comes the news of a horrible railway
smash at Macalister, on the western line. The
train containing the returning visitors from the
Halby show jumped the rails near a culvert, and
R. H. Reeves, a commercial traveller, and Mackie,
of Chinchilla, were killed. Two well-known men,
Glasson and Ned Morgan (of Dalgety and Co.),
as well as the mail guard, are reported badly in-
jured, while 17 others are more or less damaged.
This is the first fatal Queensland railway smash,
and the excitement is intense.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.
“ Itan ” : Struggling Gladstone, surveyed
in 1854 as the future capital of Queensland, but
for years overshadowed by Rockhampton, sees at
last a break in the clouds. The new railway
building up the Boyne Ya'ley to the copperfields
will not stop at Nevertire, if the people get their
way and the potential wealth of the Upper Burnett
is consulted. The new movement is to run the
rails to Cania. When the range thereabouts has
been reached, there lies before the land-hungry no
less than 1,500,000 acres, much of it rich in
timber. One expert reckons the hardwood
alone at a trifle of 250,000,000 super, feet.
So Gladstone, disappointed and blighted ever
since the disastrous settlement scheme under
Colonel George Barney in ’47, hopes that the
bend in the long lane has been reached. It seems
to have had an earlier history than even Barney
wrote. In the ’fifties there were discovered on
Facing Island, well up in the bush, the remains
of a very ancient ship, with oaks growing through
its gaping sides. It was apparently the relic of
a Spanish expedition. Close by, at Auckland
Point, a remarkable carving was discovered —the
face of a man hewn in stone, with a date which
looked like 1800. There were also evidences that
extensive clearing had been carried out, and two
wells sunk, both timber-lined.


THE PRECIOUS METAL.
Queensland is one of the great gold-producing
countries in the world.
The value of her production from the year
1860 to the end of 1907 was
66\ MILLIONS STERLING.
The annual production of gold in Queensland
amounts to nearly
HALF A MILLION OUNCES.
The average annual value of the gold production of
Queensland in the six years from 1901 to 1907
was
TWO AND A HALF MILLIONS
STERLING.
There are immense metalliferous areas in Queens-
land as yet unworked, which will employ
thousands of men , and bring into productive
investment MILLIONS of money.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXX.
THU LURE OF GOLD.—I.
By J. D. FITZ GERALD.
Wk now approach a subject which at once brings
us into a realm of romance—the wealth of the
mines. The discovery of gold was the great
factor in the progress of Australian colonisation.
The news of the existence of gold in great quanti-
ties invested the country marked “Desert” on
the maps of “ New Holland ” with anew interest.
Men in all ages have been ready and eager to go
to the remotest desert in the search for gold.
“The Romance of the Wool Trade” has been
fascinatingly presented by .Tames Eomvick, but
the still more fascinating “ Romance of the Aus-
tralian Goldfields ” has, yet to be written. And
tie reign of that romance still continues, not
with those fierce gusts of the gold mad-
ness which caused men to rush in unreason-
ing mobs to newly-discovered fields, which
BRANCH RAILWAY LINE TO MOUNT MORGAN CO.’S FLUX PLANT
AT MARMOR.
Photo, by F. Wham, Mount Morgan Mine.
caused ships to lie at the wharves of Aus-
tralian ports without crews, and greatwarehouses
and factories to lie idle without hands to keep the
wheels working. The febrile stage of gold seek-
ing has almost gone, though it may be revived at
any moment on the opening out of a fresh alluvial
field or the discovery of any large field of aurifer-
ous reefsv Australia is comparatively only
scratched as yet.
There have been four great epochs of the gold
madness, which have brought “rushes” of men
to different States. The early N.S. W. and Vic-
torian rushes are historic ; the later inrush of
gold-seekers to West Australia is still fresh in
the recollection of this generation. But some of
the fiercest of the great gold rushes were concen-
trated upon Queensland. Here were let loose all
the passions of mankind ; here were lured the
daring and adventurous spirits from the four
corners of the earth, who came hot-foot, expect-
ing to “make their pile” and return home rien.
The news of rich finds spread to the ends of the
earth. Tales of huge fortunes rapidly accumu-
lated lost nothing on the tongues of Rumor.
Stories of men who had come out from the Old
World, had gone to the goldfields, made faoulous
fortunes, and had returned on the homeward
voyage of the ship they had come on, were told
and believed. No wonder then, that the adven-
turous spirits, daring all, sold what they had and
“rushed.” The fever even raged in the veins of
those who remained behind.
The whole nation was consumed by it. The
universal mind of Australia was concentrated
upon the one object. Every single individual
w;is interested in some way. All who could get
away to the rush went. Most of those who went
had relatives who watched with a feverish interest
equal to that of the gold-seekers, for news, for
results. Everyone ho'ped to go some day, if not
at once. Men who had never handled anything
heavier than a pen essayed to woo fortune with
a pick and shovel. Doctors left their patients ;
patients, resuscitated, left their doctors. Lawyers
threw off their wigs and gowns and joined the
throng side by side with their clients. Men con-
verted their all into stores and embarked, hoping to
make 5000 percent, on theirinvestment. The whole
nation was full of excitement and Jiope. Then
there were the episodes of failure', disappoint-
ment, and actual distress ; men who went out
with high hopes returning ruined and broken-
hearted. The tides were followed by the ebbs,
the waves by the back-washes, and there were
many wrecks and much flotsam and jetsam. But
even failure was doing the work of colonisation
and settlement. The opening out of unknown
country disclosed the nature of the magnificent
soil, the benignant climate, the splendid scenery.
Among the men who came from abroad as diggers
were many who were farmers in their old homes.
They consoled themselves for their disappoint-
ment by resuming their old avocations; and in
FLASHLIGHT OF MINERS AT WORK AT 1300ft. DEPTH IN INCLINED
SHAFT, MOUNT MORGAN.
Photo, by F. Wham, Mount Morgan Mine.
the smiling farms they found that real, substantial
fortune which had eluded them in the quest of
rainbow gold.
The colony of Queensland derived immense
advantage from these sporadic rushes before the
mining industry settled down to the prosperous,
scientifically-conducted enterprise it is to-day.
They opened up new territories; they drew
thousands who were not attracted by the
more humdrum and less flamboyant features
of the pastoral or agricultural industries
which had in some cases preceded , them.
And we must never forget that one of the un-
official, unwritten and unsung explorers of the
great colony of Queensland and of other parts of
Australia was the “prospector,” the man who,
with his pack-horses, his tin dish, shovel and
pick, found his way to the remotest parts of the
CONVERTERS AT WORK AT MOUNT MORGAN. — (1) On left pouring molten copper
into moulds; (2) on right just filled with 50 per cent, matte , blowing it through.
Photo, by F. Wham, Mount Morgan Mine.
continent in search of the golden prize. Some-
times in the form of a solitary “hatter,” some-
times in small parties, or merely with a
“ mate,” the fossickers went from one end of the
continent to the other, testing all likely-looking
ground—rough and untaught geologists m their
knowledge of likely gold-bearing country, innocent
of geological knowledge or theory, ignorant of the
story which the Queensland rocks have since told
to the careful scientists, who have put it into
available form for all ; they continued their
isolated way among the bush solitudes, in rocky
mountain ravines, or in the beds of rivers on the
tablelands and plains. In due time the Govern-
ment saw and recognised the value of the work
which these men were doing, and subsidised them.
“ Prospecting votes” were placed on the estimates,
and committees of ways and means in sensible
Parliaments found no obstacles to their voting
lat-tre sums.annually to encourage the prospector,
or to reward the finder of fields of permanent
value.
THE STEAM SHOVEL TAKING A GOLDEN SLICE OUT OF THE FACE
OF THE HILL, MOUNT MORGAN
Photo, by F. Wham, Mount Morgan Mine.
There were two great “dramatic” moments in
the history of gold discovery in Australia.
The first was when Count Strzelecki, the
Polish explorer of Australia, communicated the
fact to Governor Gipps, in 1839, that he had dis-
covered gold among the Blue Mountains of N.S. W.
Yet this was not the first discovery of;gold—
the honor of which must be allotted to Surveyor
Mcßrien, who, not far from the scene of Count
Strzelecki’s discovery, had found “specks ” of gold
as early as 1823. The significant and dramatic
fact in connection with Count Strzelecki’s
discovery was that Governor Gipps requested the
explorer to conceal his fateful news, as he feared
that the stringent control which had to be exer-
cised upon the convicts of the early settlement
would no longer be effectually maintained,
and that they would break through all
discipline, with terrible consequences to the
community and to themselves. The explorer
kept his “guilty” secret locked up in his
breast, and apparently so did Governor Gipps,
for it was not until Hargreaves’ discovery of pay-
able gold at Lewis Ponds that the secret escaped,
and was noised round about the civilised world,
causing the first rush in 1851, which was the
second great dramatic moment in the history of
Australian gold discovery. It is curious to recall
also that the first gold discovery at Clunes, in
Victoria, was concealed by the discoverer,
“through fear lest the announcement should
prove injurious to the squatter on whose run the
discovery was made”—so the official “Year Book
of the Commonwealth ” tells us.
The history of gold discovery in Queensland
begins with the Canoona rush—in 1858—not an
auspicious beginning because of the failure and
disappointment which ensued, but an exemplifi-
cation of the superstitious saying—“ Bad begin-
ning, good ending,” for since that time gold has
been dug out of the soil of Queensland to the
enormous value of £(>6,313,841 up to the year 1907.
The average value of the yield of gold in Queens-
land during the six years from 1901 to 1907 was
£2,518,101 per annum, representing 16 84 per cent,
of the gold won in Australia, Queensland is third
on the list as a gold producer. Westralia leads
with £7,931.000, Victoria is next with £3,155,000.
and Queensland conies before Maoriland,
N.S.W.. Tasmania, and South Australia. To
show the actual state of gold-mining to-day in
Queensland, the returns for 1907 are instructive for
quartz-reefing and alluvial mining. They are as
follow :
oz.
Charters Towers 175,552
Gynipie 64,227
Mount Morgan .. .. 146,774
Ravenswood .. .. .. 34,830
Croydon .. .. .. .. 13,411
Clermont .. .. .. .. 4,785
Etheridire and Wooluar . .. 8,102
Other districts .. .. .. 19,201
465,882
When we look at the wonderful figures pre-
sented in the estimate of over £60,000,000 sterling
in the gold yield of Queensland, we have found
one of the most potent causes of that State’s rapid
advance. This constant annual tribute of the
royal metal passes through the commercial com-
munity like the life-blood through the veins of the
human body. When we reflect, also, that this
huge sum total of gold values has been drawn
from the earth since the year 1860 by a community
which even now numbers no more than 550.000
(not quite as many people as those who are con-
gregated on the Greater Sydney area), who are
developing a territory of 429,120,000 acres of land,
we can understand and explain why her statesmen
have been able to do the big things which they
have done and are doing. The system of credit,
which, in every commercial community, depends
largely on the cash reserve, must be on a
sounder basis in a large gold-producing com-
munity than anywhere else. Without going into
an elaborate economic argument, it may be said
that the greater the security of credit in a State
the greater the demand for gold. Civilised
peoples do not hoard gold nowadays as the
Asiatics do, and as the English did in the period
described by Macaulay, when the father of Pope,
the poet, carried £20,000 in a strong-box to a
county retreat for want of a good investment.
The cheque and the draft killed the highwayman
more effectually than the gallows or the hangman.
The gold passes into the banks where it is held in
the form of bullion as a reserve against the note
issues, or is minted into sovereigns to supply the
ordinary purposes of a medium of exchange.
Bagehot has taken Lombard-street as a symbol of
the centre of the financial world (as I have adopted
Mark-lane as a symbol for the world’s market for
raw products), and Lombard-street must have
gold to carry on the processes of finance and com-
merce. Lombard-street stores its bullion in the
Bank of England cellars, and Paris and Berlin
have also gold kept in stock for international ex-
changes, reserves, and other banking and national
credit transactions. The fact that these countries,
have to buy gold from the gold-producing
countries, shows us the advantageous position in
which the latter are placed.
I have somewhat labored this argument for the'
purpose of showing, those who contemplate
emigrating to some new country what an advan-
tage Queensland possesses as a nation in being, by
a happy geological accident, a producer of gold.
The community nearest to the gold-mines is in. a
most favorable commercial position ; and in times
of crisis should recover credit more rapidly
than nations which have to import the measure of
exchange. For Britain’s currency as a standard
of values is not an imaginary one, like the Chinese
tael. It is a substantial and tangible thing, as it
is based on gold. Queensland’s mines are being
delved in for the purpose of keeping the bullion
cellars of London, Paris and Berlin full, so that
banking transactions may be stable and panics im-
possible. In this one industry, therefore, the State
has a commodity for sale for which there is always
a ready purchaser. As to the men, methods and
machinery used in the exploitation of this splendid
natural asset, they will be dealt with in subsequent
articles. ,


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling' at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £:U 10$
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD..
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Meliiouknk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidh & Fukmanti.b Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Colonial mutual £ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hkad Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £'3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154 —Assuring- £33.858,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Ciiikf Offick for Nkw South Walks:
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Uor., C. J. Robkrts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
~ Sank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, EC.
Manager; R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
C ipital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72,500 0 0
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1 1 -t
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout t,b“ World.
Upon - all - Classes'- of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
($»
$
ft p*
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to '
Suppress Usury.
3Xr.S."W .
f|)ontdepieteO.#|.Co.,(;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEItEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collms-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.I).
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES.
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer. ■
DAVID BRAHAM $ CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 ye
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
s’ proven
Shipping.
Nord
D eutscher
L
loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE*
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. C9S. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
_ Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of flew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710,998
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Ausrralia ’ New Zea -
and Ireland, and other places.
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
k
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 4.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 1.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Canetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on An plication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dahjety and < omfxtui/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N TlN€^
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
R. QUEERSLARD
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cook-town, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makauibo to
I’oi t Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shorthand Islands (2 ports).
Solomon Islands (about S
ķ
CRUISES. '%
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise vith
a visit to the famous Ba* ron
Falls and district.
’USerid address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Lew AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan Instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the xAdvance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds, (2) CertifiDated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
D'tailed infirmvtion on applicition to Branch Manigers, or to the Srcrrtart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
ki
No dull blades- —
and no need for new ones
Smooth, close, quick, comfortable
shaving is possible only with a blade that
is properly stropped each time it is used.
The self-contained stropping arrange-
ment of the AutoSlrop Safety Razor
enables you to keep a hair-edge on
each blade for many months. Remem-
ber, no skill or experience is necessary
to keep Auto Strop blades in perfect
condition. You also avoid the buying
of new blades necessary with all
non-stropping razors, and thus the
Auto Strop Safety Razor pays for
itself in a year. There is no handling
of the blade or taking anything apart
for either stropping or cleaning.
K*zoß
*■.
■
The Standard Outfit consists of quad-
ruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor ;
one dozen tested lancet-steel blades ;
one horsehide strop ; in leather case
2 in. by 3f in
25/-
NET
Sold by all leading dealer*.
Descriptive "Booklet free on request to the
Agents for Australia :
Lamson Store Service Co.,Ltd.,^s i^gJ|^J t gJ l §Sl^"
AulO'Strop Safely Razor Go. Lid 61 New Oxford Street, London, England
Also at
Paris and
New York
Auio / Strop
'W SAItTY* f
Also at
Montreal
(Canada)
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhinpinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yonjrala, July 31 and
August 28.
S.S. Koombana (from Pre-
mantle), August 6th,
calling at all N.-\Vest
Ports to Derby.
BRISBANE,
11A0KAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Ojirns.
S.S. Jnnatuincka, July 31.
S.S. Marloo, August 7.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tlie
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Companv s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing, the new twin-screw steamer, “ATUA,”
August 17, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
LAND, transhipping- at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ TOFUA,” leaving
Auckland on August 17 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” August
3, llienee every four weeks for BABATONGA and
TAHITI, returning from the latter port to Wellington
per “ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 10 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, August 12,
thence every five weeks for ItARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 20 days, arriving at
Auckland September 23.
For further information to the various offices
and descriptive booklet in Australasia of
apply— the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-liEJD ROUTE.
THE. BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Fia BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (B.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
Per R.M.S. MA KURA, sailing 2nd AUGUST.
£60
INCLUDING HOTEL
EXPENSES.
£60
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, Qeorge-screet, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
HI
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
f OSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St , Li ndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
H
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,safe, reliable;,and
nandy to use.
Insist on haying NIKOTEEN ; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON,
Froprietor, 39 Hunter-street, ydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars . by post }
18.4 d. (stamps, to make 5 gallons spray.
‘COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
-Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.


a. *
w Points
iSr- /ni/entorj
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning- the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting 1 it
(including drawings, etc.). No charge made for such re-
port, and all communications created strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
“ Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl. 2 needles,
i xeel cotton.)
k
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
| Its immense value in repairs to Boots
'and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc,, it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in hewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc;
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight— 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d„
Sost free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
TAR NOVELTY CQ., 229 Coi.ins Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
BRIAR
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
The only PIPES
That have stood
the Test of Time.
All Good Smokers Use Them
HsVc for them and see
.. that you get them ..
As You Like It.
The beauty of the Edison Phono-
graph is that you can choose your own
programme. When you go to a
concert just a few of the items appeal
to you, and you simply have to eudure
the others for the sake of the good
ones.
But the Edison appeals to all tastes,
and you can have every item in an
evening’s entertainment just as you
like it.
Every note of music and every
syllable of a speech is not only clear
and distinct, but also a perfect re-
production.
Send for complete lists of Records
and Machines, and the name of your
nearest dealer. He will gladly let
you hear
The Edison
Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
o.*Q
“KING’S
NORTON”
CARTRIDGES _
Purposed for .22 calibre Rifle
Shooting, these British-made ■«
cartridges are of the very finest ’
shootiug quality. The hollow
point bullet is recommended foi
sporting —the long and short solid
jjoint for rifle practice. Specify
King’s Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealer. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. i
MELBOURNE I
VICTORIA
k
TBrilktS
ĸ
“KURLO”
produces beautiful curls or waves in
a few days without the aid of tongs or
pins. Makes the hair soft and silkv,
strengthens the roots, and prevents
hair falling out. Curls the straightest
hair if not cut too short. Pleasant,
perfectly harmless. Not affected by
sea air, damp weather, or heated rooms
Price 2/6 per Bottle
(Post Free anywhere, full directions)
Send Postal Note to
STAR NO VELTY CO., 229 Collins St, Melbourne
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
A Great
Idea
Pour any hot liquid into a Thermos
Flask and though you stand the
flask in an ice-house for 24 hours,
your liquid will still be steaming hot.
No heat, no chemicals, no spirits re-
quired — nothing to wear out. The
great value of such a flask is obvious
THERMOS
FLASK
(Keeps cold liquids icy cold for many days in hot weather)
Every sportsman, traveller, invalid, mother,
doctor and nurse should have a Thermos Flask
Price
from
//*
mi §, I
Beware of
imitations
Infringers are being prosecuted.
Of all Jcivellcrs, Silversmiths, Ironmongers, Stores and Wholesale Dealers
as
:
N
J»6
DON'T PAY YOUR DOCTOR
w-
•edjpn
>7
<1
77
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is t&
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on. . , ,
Oup modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
oup doctors to keep us ill. ThelP prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs while you. sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as &1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your tnus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon fo-dav, and we
-will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK t which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help vourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CAI.L for Tree Consultation. Hours — 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagb and Market Sts., SYDNEY., N.S.VV.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The McLaughlin go.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Gastlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name • •
Address
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES— IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. Packet of Ten, sd,


ftUEENSLAND
U RAILWAYS.
MAROOCfIY
HEADS
B
no coastal, scenery in any country presents sucn
a variety or attraction as that of Queensland
* '
SUGAR CANE &c SISAL ft£MP. ISIS DISTRICT.
THE FARMING AREAS OF QUEENSLAND ABOUND WITH
CHARMING SCENES TO DELIGHT THE ARTISTIC EYE.
FERNS.
Burleigh
HEADS.
im
:4
iff
FRPM the STRETCHES of ceEan white sand at
BUREEIGH ONE Can PEUNGE INTO a VERITABEE JUNGEE
OF FERN WITH STAGHORNS AND ORCHIDS
IN PROFUSION.
■
m
«*>»
f:/
<*%
M
IN QUEENSIAND THE PINEAPPLE FINDS A CONGENIAL HABITAT
AND THERE IS A CONSIDERABLE ACREAGE UNDER THIS
DELIGHTFUL FRUIT IN THE VICINITY OF BRISBANE.
k
COOUJM BEACH NEAR NOOSA HEADS.
A HOLIDAY AT THE SEASIDE UNDER THE
CLOUDLESS SKIES AND denial, SUN OF A
QUEENSLAND WINTER 1$ ALMOST A FORETASTE OF
PARADISE.
S?V
» e
m,
SMITHS ORCHARD. BIACKALL RANQE.
AT THIS SEASON rtit ORANGE ORCHARDS WITH THEIR WEALTH OF
DARK FOLIAGE AND GOEDEN FRUIT EXTEND AN INVITATION
WHICH ONE HAS UTTEE DEEIRE TO REFUSE, AND A FEW DAYS
SPENT AW?NG£T THE CITRUS GROVES OF THE BIACKAU- RANGE
WIEK EINGER I ?m IN THE MEMORY OF THE VISITOR.
'-tT
a
FLAWING PJACIDtY THRPOGH PRETTY SCRUB lANDS WITH NUMEROUS
SUqAR. PIANTATIWS AND STRAWBERRY C|ARJ>RNS ON EITHER HAND,
HACIUTIES FOR. BOATIN<S and
Fishing under, the happiest conditions.


“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
the strongest and cheapest.
20 Per Cent. Reduction on
Former Prices.
Send for Price List.
GIANT FENCE CO.,
Camperdown, N.S. W.
s§§
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O//» the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Feather Slaop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established J-849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iPE"* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.p. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas O Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuarv : Richard Teece, F.1.A.. F.F.A.. F-S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents'
for Great, Britain and Ireland —Messrs. J. O. Pliniptqn_&_Co 11 _Liver[)ooh__
“RICHARDSON
k
CHICAGO
THE FASHIONABLE
ABDULLA
from 6/6 to 12/6
per 100.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLA VORED.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
po,, B»uSt?^” f o om< 0 m<
TH.
£2OO
GAN YOU
HIT THE
ķ
| WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SEIL GOODS
1 If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
! intend to give away for correct answers to this
puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
, words that the picture represents, write us at
once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
I are right we will at once send you the prize.
If more than one correct answer is received
the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
| for reply. Only one reply from a family
i allowed. National Publishing Co.,
?° Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Soid by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HE ARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
jPLASWO
REGglßMtlUft
Do You Drink Cocoa ?
There is no Cocoa more delicious than
PLASMON COCOA
. . . and . . .
“Bt is ten times more nutritious than ordinary cocoa.”—Lance*.
PLASMON is USED by the ROYAL FAMILY.
Of all Grocers, Stores, Chemists, etc.
PLASMON. LTD.. LONDON* Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St*, SYDNEY.
PROFIT to FLOCKM ASTERS. NO TROUBLE to EXPERTS . EFFICIENCY and COMFORT for SHEARERS.
The FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC
MACHINES and GRINDERS are Unequalled.
SHEARING
YOUR PROFIT lies in utilising ELECTRICITY.
You need to realise the vital importance of
guarding against the loss of power in trans-
mission. Inefficient equipment means waste of
time and money.
Please write for Catalogues and full particulars to
THE FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE CO., Held Office, Lincoln's Inn Clumbers, 1X5 William Steeet, Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address: “ FALKINER-BOLL,” MELBOURNE. Code Word: “TRIUMPHANT.”
CURES
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has bees* the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by all Qdemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland—Elliott Bros., Sydney & Brisbane.
POWELL'S
BALSAM
OF
ED
CURES
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford,
writes:—■“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEE D ’ was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubles,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years';
I take that when nothing else will give relief. One
or two bottles invariably set me up. It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bottle to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You may make what use of this
you like.” —December nth, 1907.
COUGHS
COLDS
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ Riled Cat ” writes :
There was another shocking instance of Socialistic
legislation and interference with Private Enterprise
in° Victoria the other day. Charles Matthew Germain
Cock, being possessed of a life-interest in an estate worth
£9O 000 introduced himself to one Harry Lyon Moss, a
financier who cheerfully lent him £2OO for two months
on his signing a P.N. for £260. Between June, 1908, and
January” 1909, Cock renewed his bill three times, each
time paying up £6O in interest; and apparently he
would have followed this shiftless practice for all time,
but that, other creditors becoming pressing, he was in-
duced to assign his estate before it all went. Cock him-
self seems to'have considered Moss’ 180 per cent, a fair
thing; but the trustee of the estate had other views, and
asked’ Judge Moule to reduce the rate to something rea-
sonable. Whereupon his Honor, after remarking that
the “financier seemed to have thoroughly enjoyed the
process of plucking the pigeon,” reduced the rate to 20
per cent., and ordered that all previous pay-
ments should be taken as payments on that
rate, and in reduction of the principal. In
this process, by the way, there seems to be a rather
valuable hint. When the swindling milk-vendor is
caught handing out stuff that is 20 per cent, water, his
customers don’t recover a penny, though pretty obviously
they have been paying 10 pence where they should have
paid only eight pence. If the same principle that struck
Harry Lyon Moss were applied to the milk-and-waterman,
a customer would be entitled to set off all the over-paid
tuppences against future supplies. It wouldn’t restore
the starved babies to life and health ; but it
would make a lot of milkmen remember that
there ought to be eight pints of milk in a
gallon. Yet, though the Moss law is better than the
milk law there is a very considerable hole in the arrange-
ment which struck Moss. According to that arrange-
ment, Moss can charge any interest he likes ; he may get
it all, and the worst that can happen to him is that he
will get only part of it. A workable Usury Law would
prohibit the charging of more than a fixed moderate rate,
and in case of breach of the statute, Moss, or whoever it
was, would forfeit both principal and interest. That sort
of law would tend to make Moss sit up. As things are, he
isliable to get quite round-shouldered with sitting down.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.tS.W.
&he LEADING
HOUSE FOR
CAN’T
B
BEAT
iSportmg' Goods
Fishing' Tackle &t Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting; Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
OUR
Special
Snap.
6/0
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
KEY BRAND” FISH HOOKS.
M 34— Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1-2-3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
V- 1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/8 3/- 3/8 per 100.
M34f—Mustad’s Best Rustproof Hooks, Jin. Longer Shanks, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/S 3/- 3/8 per 100.
M2o—Mustad’s Best Bright Hooks, Kirby Bent, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0
9d. lOd. lid. 1/1 . 1/3 1/5 1/8 2/- 2/4 per 100.
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d; The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Gd.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, .Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
ĸ
HOME CyCLOPEDIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guid'd to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be hosted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
_ls_posted. .400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor, : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Dp.iver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No EVlatter what Book you
want I’ve got st.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, fxr* Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEftR.
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs,' Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, lsl Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d .posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing”, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos, and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
HE ARNE'S
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
» POWer ' Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects a ™ ’ > ex peuence delightful and rapid relief; and to those
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice and’it n pith P n m P^ te cure - It is- most comforting in allaying Irritation,
tion to develop. Consumption !sno? Ktf Crj n ° r , *»-»W
medicine. No house should be without it as taUn atTifo’L U j - - . -
icm wicnour it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient
cure is certain.
have, jm their first appearance, been properly treated with this
and a complete
Small Size, 2/Q; Large Size, 46.
Chemist, Geelong, Voter,a. FelatCe" to' Pr ° Pr,et ° r - & HBARN "-
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
''Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only niachi*e on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five ven >-k.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
i l ir/» pract ’ cable wa y- W E MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of it* onderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and p pu’.ar
. , records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first denosit
r Ki for ’ ai nothing to pay on the machine after vou receive it. We claim that this is the onlv
reliable machine on the market, backed up bv a 5 -year guarantee bv the makers and a written
£; araute V s sent wlth every machine we give away. We invite all' who wish for one of these
nachines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing PhonograDh will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
tal rt ' r w”u.“lCi'“, h h| PP,i “ lion - rV e Present the Pho.osreph en'ti"." Si “b‘S* My
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING C 0„ Opp. 8.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
S?>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Gd. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
k
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Poet Froe, Is.
Stnd Stamp for Illustrated. Lists of Books and JS'ooeltiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
1 GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chemists.


A
Zam-Buk Prevents Festering,
“Gathering,” Inflammation & Disease.
A cut or scratch is the gateway through whicli
dangerous disease germs enter the body. When a dirty
knife, a rusty needle, a splinter or a thorn scratches
the finger, the latter is inoculated with germs. In a
few hours the finger will become hot and throbbing.
It will be painful to the touch and swell all round the
injury. A little later the wound may exhibit a whitish
appearance in the middle of the swelling, and-we have
what is known as a festering or poisoned finger. The
inflammation set up by the poison may spread until the
whole hand and arm are rendered useless.
The only way to avoid such serious results is to
cleanse the wound, however slight, and then apply
Zam-Buk, which is a powerful antiseptic and germ-killer.
Zam-Buk is a purely herbal preparation which, when
applied to the broken skin, soothes and purifies the
wound, and then proceeds to heal with new, healthy
skin in a quick, painless, and perfect manner.
Zam-Buk, which is a unique preparation, must not
be confused with mere ointments, with which it has
nothing in common. It pays to keep a pot of Zam-Buk
always handy.
Mr. F. J. Barnett, of Perry Street, St. Peters, Sydney
says:— 1 I am m the employ of the Australian Gas Co., as
gas-main layer, and while at work had the misfortune to injure
my hand. I treated the wound rather carelessly, thinking it
would be all right, but it became worse and showed signs of
blood-poisoning. I applied several ointments, but they did no
good. My hand grew worse and worse, and I suffered such agony
that 1 was forced to give up work. It was at this time that Zam-
Buk was recommended. I applied it, and to my delight the wound
immediately began to heal, and after only three weeks’ treatment
with Zam-isuk I was able to return to my work, absolutely cured.”
4*
1
m
Zam-Buk is in-
valuable for Cuts,
Burns, Bruises,
Pimples, Black-
heads, Scalds, Scalp
Troubles, Piles,
Poisoned Wounds,
Pestering Erup-
tions, Boils,'
Psoriasis, Eczema,
Abscesses, Chi 1-
blains, Cold Sores,
Pace Blotches,
Eruptions, Rheu-
matism, Lumbago,
Stiffness, Sciatica,
Bad Legs, Ulcers,
Ringworm, Bar-
ber’s Rash, Blisters,
and all injured and
unhealtl y con-
ditions of the skin.
Zam-Buk is obtain-
able from all Chem-
ists and Stores, at
I/O per pot, or 3/6
for special family
si * e (containing
nearly four times the
1/6) ; or post free for
same prices from the
Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt
‘S tr“ " 1 S'•rl n p y.
n ■’W.S
4 am
/?
u
B
/
T
I
N.
Established 1752.
When you need a Pill, take a
Brandreths
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE.
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
For Chronic Constipation.
Brandretii’s Pills purify the blood, <
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic ■
medicine that regulate, purify and fortify the whole system.
Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state of the blood.
FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS throughout the world.
40 Pills in every Box.
ĸ
Draw the picture up
close before your eyes |
aud _ watch the pill I
go into the mouth.
m Established 1847.
Allcock!s Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose: A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor.
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
“Paw.”
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
One feature has occasioned great surprise. It is that
the applicants (for Federal include persons
whose positions in life and whose assumption of local
importance had put them in popular estimation outside
the pale of public pensioners. Fashionably-dressed young
ladies, married people of some social standing, have been
conspicuous, and often impatient, in their inquiries
relative to the applications of their parents for pensions.
—Melbourne Age.
Haw !
Ai’ve just obteened a pension for tnai Paw.
And you should hev seen the people thet were
theah.
i2e-ally, it was surpraising !
Maind, Ai am not critisaising,
But it was embarrassing , Ai do decleah.
Ai met the Snobson-Smythes and Toady-Browns,
and many moah
Belonging to ouah set; and wondahed what they
came theah foah.
And, of course, Ai didn’t say a word of Paw.
Ai rather think they've never heard of Paw.
But Ai thought it well to mention
That Ai came to get the pension
For an aged person who had worked for Maw.
The Snobson-Smythes said, “Fancy! That is
just why ive came dahn.”
But Ai ve heard they hev a mothah hidden some,
wheah out of tahn.
Haw !
Ai do deserve some gratitude from Paw.
io think what Ai’ve gone thro ’ foah him to-day ! ■
Mixing with the lowah classes—
And Ai never saw such masses
Of disreputable creatuahs, Ai must say.
Impostors, Ai ve no doubt, if most of them were
but unmasked.
And then, the most humiliating questions Ai was
asked !
Yes, he forced me to admit it was foah Paw.
Asked me, brutally, if it was foah mai Paw.
Some low-bred official fellow,
Who conversed in quaite a bellow,
And he patronised me laike a high Bashaw.
And his questions, rudely personal, Ai hardly
could enduah.
The Government should teach its people mannahs,
Ai am suah 1
Haw !
Ai’m glad we’ve got the pension foah poah Paw.
His maintenance has been—o, such a strain.
Ouah establishment’s extensive
And exceedingly expensive,
As mai husband has remawked taime and again.
It’s quaite a miracle how Ai contrive to dress at
all.
He cut me down to twenty guineas for last Mayoral
Ball!
And it’s such a boah to hev to think of Paw—
To hev a secret skeleton laike Paw.
Paw, you know, was once a diggah,
And he cuts no social figgah.
And his mannahs ! 0, they touch us on the raw.
Of course, we’re very fond of him, and all thet sort
of thing ;
But we couldn’t hev him— could we ?—when
theah s naice folk visiting.
Haw !
It’s cost us pawnds and pawnds to care for Paw.
And then, it is so hard to keep him dawk.
Why, no later than last Mond’y,
Ai was out with Lady Grundy,
When we ran raight into him outsaide the Pawk.
Goodness knows ! Ai managed, somehow, to elude
him, with a nod,
And Ai said he was a tradesman ; but she must
hev thought it odd.
You can’t picture the übiquity of Paw,
And he’s really very obstinate, is Paw.’
Why, he held to the contention
That this most convenient pension
Was a thing he hadn’t any right to draw !
He said we'd kept him eighteen months, and ought
to keep him yet.
But mai husband soon convinced him thet he
couldn t count on thet.
Haw!
He was a pioneah, yo know, mai Paw.
But of mai early laife Ai never tell.
Paw worked, as Ai hev stated ;
And he had us educated ;
And, later on, Ai married rather well.
And then, you know, deah Paw became—er—
well, embarrassing.
For he is so—unconventional and—all thet sort of
thing.
But the Government has taken ovah Paw.
We are happy now we’ve aisolated Paw,
And a better era’s dawning,
r For mai husband said this mawning
Thet the money saved would buy a motah-eaw.
Paw was so good to us when we were voun" that
you’ll allow, ’
It s really taime the Government did something
toah him now. "
Haw !
No! mai husband nevah could agree with Paw.
They are so opposed in Politics, you know.
Paw says he’s democratic;
But mai husband is emphatic
In declaring that democracy is low.
01 An<J . 0.
H 9 wLma’sSgu'e.' 5 ° f <,u "* h '“»>
But Democracy is good enough foah Paw.
len shillings weekly’s quaite a lot foah Paw
And ouah meeting ? You’ll be theah ?
Lady Snubbem’s in the cheah.
We are going to discuss this Pension Law
-JSiwatl 1 * “ * thB Ll *» h
A " d thlm. t “n?joS S “ her to °~ to ° aood foah
VICTORIA.
DEN.
The Maniac of Waimarino.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
f daylight appears early on the ridges
of the King Country, Maoriland, and Chief-
Surveyor Bolger came into my tent just as
the first flush showed above the purple ridge that
shut off the eastern horizon.
I cursed his forefathers to the tenth generation.
“ Get up ; I want you to go across to Harawera
Trig, station and take observations. It’s a two
days’ job.”
Then he went into the next tent and caused
considerable cursing there.
By 6 a.m. I was ready to start, and presented
myself before the chief loaded up with a theodo-
lite, a waterproof rug, billy and pannikin, two
days' provisions, a billhook and revolver.
Chief-Surveyor Bolger eyed me up and down
critically :
“ Here, give me that infernal squirt. I won’t
have this flashing around of firearms; it exas-
perates the Maoris—makes them think we fear
and distrust them. A good billhook is all you
wane in this country—look out for the blazed
track at the bottom of the spur ; being blazed 14
years ago, it’ll take some finding. S’long ! ”
I started down the ridge. Presently the great
Jjed sun seemed to leap over the distant mountain.
Ihe birds burst into song. Far up in the depths
a skylark poured out a stream of melody, and the
landscape rolled away—a picture of blue and
purple, veined with streaks of blood-red rata and
jewelled with the outcropping shingle cliffs that
gleamed like silver in the fresh morning air.
The track led downward. The shrubs gave
way to giant mountain birch trees, and their
needles made walking pleasant. I whistled and
sang every joyous tune I knew, and down on the
road to the Wanganui River a party of Maoris
yelled hilariously, “ Tenakoia, te Pakeha !”
Ihe giant birches gave way to ribbonwoods, the
ribbon woods to wild convolvuli, and then tall taua
trees marked where the mountain sank into the
Wain,anno plain.
I found the blazed track almost obscured. It
led me down to the most awful place I was
ever in.
Downward I followed it till the sky had
vanished, and I walked through a region of per-
petual twilight. The stillness was awesome.
U nder foot was no grass, the ground being covered
with a network of roots, from which the bark
came off at every step, and on which the feet
slipped as though on greasy glass.
The stillness filled the mind with weird, fantas-
tic horrors. The gnarled and twisted konini, or
native fuchsia trees, looked like brown goblins
grinning through the gloomy vistiis, and every
few yards the path was blocked with supplejacks
and lawyer vines which had to be snipped through I
:m the search for the blazed marks. The sound
of the shipping echoed away through the horrible
solitudes, making a fantasia of terror.
Suddenly my blood froze and my hair stiffened.
Ulose behind me I had heard the snap of a twig—a
dry twig that had cracked loudly when someone trod
on it. Ever since I had entered this twilight land
they had been snapping under my feet with re-
ports like those of miniature pistols, and now
while standing still, I had heard one crack close
behind me.
I was followed.
But why was I followed in that wilderness. It
was a hundred miles from civilisation, and no
Maori would have gone through the place alone
or in silence, for all the wealth in the Empire.’
Into my mind came horrible tales I had heard
whispered round camp fires of strange and dread-
ful specimens of humanity who had wandered j
into those solitudes and a fearful in-
sanity that led them to prey upon their own kind.
Was Bolger one of these monsters? Had he
taken my pistol from me merely to follow and
shoot me down with it for cannibalistic purposes?
I felt my marrow freezing and I wanted to shout
with fear and rage, but my throat was dry and
would only emit a croak.
All the while I stood stone still, peering back
and sideways through the gloomy vistas into
darker recesses where brown, twisted konini
trees made faces at me.
Another twig cracked.
I dropped everything but the billhook, and,
getting down on all fours, made a detour to get
behind my pursuer. In five minutes I discovered
ne was still behind me, and all the time remain- I
mg invisible. I would have given 12 months’
salary for my revolver.
For an hour we worked round and round one
another. And then my nerves gave way, so that
I bounded to my feet and fled like the wind
through the track I had cut. Behind me I heard
the patter of running feet, but although mv face
was over my shoulder half the time I never caught
a glimpse of he who pursued.
It was 4 p.m. when I rushed into the camp and
fell exhausted at the door of Bolter’s tent where
he sat on a camp-stool doing calculations. He
listened incredulously to the tale I barked out,
and then told the cook to make me some tea.
“I’ll go myself to-morrow ! ” he said.
* * * *
Next day Bolger arrived home an hour earlier
than I had, and in an even worse state of collapse.
He had had a much worse experience. The
Mystery had flung spears made of ground-down
billhooks at him, and one of them had pinned the
rim of his felt hat to the tree against which he
stood. After that his only recollection was of
rushing wildly through and over everything in
front of him till he reached the clear sunlight on
the open ridge.
Following morning Hartigan and I left at day-
break, armed with my revolver and a Winchester
repeater, and were well into the shadow-land by
noon. We strained our ears to catch the first
sound of the approach of the Mystery. We found
Bolger’s hat, and a mile or so further on the
theodolite I had abandoned. The rest of the
property had disappeared. No sound of the
Mysterious One. We strode along in silence,
speaking only to curse the roots which retarded
our progress, till we tramped into shingle between
the walls of a vast ravine, on the tops and sides of
which giant trees shut off even the twilight, so
that we were compelled to light candles to find the
blaze marks on the few straggling trunks that re-
mained.
The ravine was, if possible, more ghostly than
the bush. The shingle rattled down the sides
with a noise like dry bones. Then the walls
opened out, the trees became thick again, and a
dim light filtered through.
Whiz!
Hartigan lurched forward with a curse and fell
fours. Out of the box in which he carried I
the theodolite on his shoulders stuck a spear I
sprang behind a tree, and shouted to him, asking
if he was hurt.
For answer he turned round and blazed wildly
m the direction from which we had just come,
and by the vigorous way in which he cursed and
(Continued on next page-.)


LIFE OR DEATH.
Keep the Kidneys HealtHy
and you Will Live to a Good
Old Age Neg'ledt Them and
Suffering' and Death must
Soon Follow.
“ Every
Picture
Tells Z,
Story.”
®£>
A
A?
A
V
as
a
K
Weak Kidneys, Bladder and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lame Back, Gravel, Bright's
Disease, Diabetes, and nearly all the Ills of Men
and Women can be traced to the Kidneys,
A SYDNEY MAN
OWES HIS LIFE TO DOAN’S PILLS.
Mr. James Higgins, 97 Great Buckingham Street, Redfern, Sydney, says :
“ Some time ago I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I don't know
how to account for it, unless several accidents were to blame. I consulted
three doctors, and underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good,
advised me to go into the hospital for an operation. They said my case was
almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as one of the
kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicines of all sorts ; the empty
bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was
in such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe
pains in the back, giddiness, headaches and scalding urine. I was completely
done up, and scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the
operation, when a friend asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. He told me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was, and had been
cured completely and for good by these pills. I postponed the operation, and
commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned
to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in me
would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. I am
quite cured, and as fit for work as a man could be.”
Six years later Mrs. Higgins says : —“The above statement is true —every
word, and I can now add the important fact that my husband is still free of
every distressing symptom of kidney trouble. His lasting cure is proof positive
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure serious kidney complaint.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles, 15/3), or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster=McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\
k
ECZEMA CURED.
Mr. H. Watson, 3 Alfred Street,
Annandale, Sydney, says:—“A couple
of years ago I had Eczema break out
very badly on my chest. It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India,
where I had gone with horses. I had
fever badly in India, and the Eczema
seemed to be the result of this sickness.
It was very severe, and spread rapidly,
until I was in such a state that the pain
and irritation nearly drove me mad.
When I went to bed at night my suffer-
ings were worse, and it was nearly morn-
ing before I could get to sleep. A man
I know advised me to get Doan’s Oint-
ment, saying that he had heard of great
results by using this preparation. I
thought it a good idea, and obtained
a pot. The first application was cooling,
and the second soothed the itch, and
after that I got along splendidly. Every
time I applied the ointment there was a
marked improvement, until I was quite
cured. Within a month from the first
time I used the ointment not one trace
of the ailment remained. Doan’s Oint-
ment is a splendid preparation for
Eczema, skin irritation, to take inflam-
mation from the skin, and to heal.”
Six years later Mr. Watson says.:—
“ Jt is now six years since Doan’s Oint-
ment cured me of Eczema, and I am
pleased to say that the cure is permanent.
I am quite free of this dreadful complaint,
and have been during the past six years.”
The most obstinate of all skin diseases
—Eczema—is permanently cured by the
creat skin remedy, Doan’s Ointment.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
shot I knew that nothing very serious had hap-
pened to him.
We waited there half an hour but heard and saw
■nothing ; and at last we proceeded, covering one
another and advancing by little runs in a stooping
position. The light was growing slightly stronger,
and the most delightful thing I have ever seen
was a clear shaft of sunlight that pierced down
between rocks and trees on to a tiny pool of water,
around which grew beautiful soft green grass.
We climbed the slope beyond it, and waited to
see if our friend would pass through that shaft of
light. We had been lying there for some time
when the old bushman gripped my arm, and I
glanced in the direction indicated and saw, creep-
ing towards us, along the branch of a great rimu
tree, a long, gaunt, hairy figure.
It was that of a white man. His shaggy hair
hung round him like a mantle, and he was in the
act of raising a spear, made of a ground-down bill-
hook, to hurl at us. The revolver and rifle spoke
simultaneously. The spear shore through Harti-
gan’s leg, and the awful form on the branch
swayed, clutched at the branch convulsively, hung
for a moment, and then crashed on to the ground.
We dressed Hartigan’s leg as well as we could,
then crept down cautiously to see how it was with
the one who lay, shot, by the pool.
He was on his back, his eyes open and glazed,
and as we cautiously drew near, still afraid of him,
he made a convulsive movement with one arm.
He was a pitiful sight. But for a fragment of
sheepskin round the loins, he was naked. His
skin was tanned and yellow, and the whole of his
limbs and body were covered with coarse, unkempt
hair. •
Hartigan dropped on his knees beside him,
grasped one arm, and, drawing out a knife, shaved
the hair of the forearm away and glared at a
tattoo mark that was almost obliterated.
“What do you make of it?” he whispered,
holding his finger on the spot.
“Looks like a monogram of ‘L.R.,’” I
answered. _ _ ,
“ That’s it—Oh, Lord, and to think that I shot
him ; I of all men ! ”
“ Who is he ? ” I queried.
But Handcock had pulled out the little Church
Service he always carried with him, and was read-
ing the prayers for the dying, although the poor
outcast was turning cold.
* * * *
That night we smoked together under the chill,
serene stars at Harawera Trig, station. The fire
was burning brightly, the bacon and coffee had
made us feel good, and Handcock’s leg was not
hurting him much, so I thought the moment
opportune.
“Who was he ? ”
“Llewellyn Rhyder, M.A., of Oxford, civil
engineer. He was : on the geodetic survey of this
district under Tubby Williams.
Tubby and lie had several rows, and Rhyder left
one morning.
“ Close to Parapara he met a sledge, and in a
bed on it Arini, the wife of Chief Harawera,
deadly sick. . .
“ The tohunga had said she would die in seven
days. There are no flies on tohungas, and they
see that their prophecies as regards death always
come true. The woman knew this, and begged
Rhyder to save her.
“Rhyder said he would comeback.andcarry her
off, and told her, no matter what she saw' or heard
to have no fear ; the more horrible the sights and
sounds the greater the chance of getting her away
safely.
“She understood, and smiled him a farewell.
“ Two nights later the Maoris were roused from
sleep by the boom and clang of something that
sounded to their startled imaginations like the roll
of many drums. They grabbed their Snider
rifles and swarmed out. Strange shadowy mon-
sters were seen dimly on the walls of the houses,
and on the white masses of flowering manuka.
With shrieks of terror they fled away and hid in
the bush, leaving the sick and incapable to take
care of themselves.
“Unfortunately, there were two men who
worked on the survey sleeping in Parapara that
night, and they told Harawera not to be afraid,
and assured him it was some thieving scoundrels
after the sack of bank-notes which rumor said he
kept in the carved house where Arini slept.
“Then one of them burst up the magic lantern,
and there was a sudden darkness. Harawera and
his Maoris came with a rush as a whistle
sounded, and, reaching the carved house, were
told that pakehas had carried off Arini, wrapped
in rugs.
“Down to theMungawhero they rushed. They
tossed masses of burning toi toi grass in the air,
and in the glare saw three canoes of white men
just pushing off from the rocky sides. The
bullets whistled and sang through the leaves,
and some Maoris lurched forward into the river
and were pulled out only to die.
“Every visible canoe had been chopped to
pieces, but Harawera had some higher up. They
were hastily manned, and dashed off in pursuit.
“ They came up with the three canoes crowded
with white men and carrying Arini, but the
English bullets ripping round the canoes caused
the Maoris to sheer off and merely keep them in
view. They lit fires along the banks as signals to
those who were following on foot.
“ Rhyder kept to the water till the roar of that
huge cataract told him he must leave it. They
drew up before a beetling cliff in front of which
was nearly a quarter-mile of driftwood. This was
a natural fortification across which they could not
be rushed. They carried the canoes and the sick
woman to the shore beneath the cliff.
“ All the afternoon the Maoris gathered on the
opposite bank, but kept out of rifle range. They
reckoned the pakehas couldn’t get away ; they had
to pass them to get to the Wanganui River, where
they were, of course, making for; all pakehas
headed for the Wanganui, they reasoned.
“ The afternoon droned away. The night came
down, and the bank opposite the cliff was light as
day with the huge bonfires. It was autumn, and
the bush being dry they were very careful. Then
Rhyder and another swam down the river, and
getting behind the Maoris set fire to the bush.
Of all the stampedes I ever saw that skedaddle of
the Maoris took the cake. We paddled across
the river quietly enough, and by daylight had
gained the naked spur after a desperate race
against the flame. I didn’t know the country
then as I do now, or the whole business might
have been averted. Harawera did, and he raced
away to Koriniti and came back with a swarm of
natives, and attacked us just after we had fallen in
with a big force of the armed constabulary which
had been sent to arrest us.
“I’ve fought in the Dutch East Indies, I have
butchered and bled with and against the Boers in
S’Africa, I’ve had a hand in one or two South
American revolutions; but, s’help me if ever I
saw such a bitter scrap as that one.
“We drove those niggers down the ravine
towards where the steamer was waiting for us,
but that beast Harawera had made his men climb
into the rata trees that grew in the gorge, and
when we got underneath they nearly wiped us out
with one volley. Poor Arini was riddled, Rhyder
was wounded, men were down everywhere. To
retreat was impossible. We swarmed over the
logs they had piled up to stop us, the wounded
Rhyder leading. He had gone mad, and meeting
and killing Harawera with one tremendous blow
of his rifle-butt, caught the corpse and, swinging
it up, with it beat down the Maoris in front.
“This frightful exhibition of strength and fury
broke the Maori hearts—they just melted away.
Then we went back to deal with those in the rata
. trees. We poured volleys through the branches,
collected our ,dead and wounded, and well, you
know, ratas burn fiercely. . •
“It was evening when we steamed away to
Wanganui. The shrieks and shouts of that last
scene when the ratas were fired haunts me yet.
Rhyder was missing, never been heard of since
till we—we —did it to-day.”
* * * *
We buried Llewellyn Rhyder, M.A.; knowii
among the Maoris as The Maniac of Waimanno,
under a great cairn of stones down by the little
sunlit pool in the land of shadow.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Trade.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
TWO thousand years of the Christian creed ;
and a thousand years before—
- Spewing their cargoes out on the quays,
re-gorging their holds once more —
Over the rolling Seas of the World, wherever its
ports'are laid,
They come and go with a royal show, the Ships of
the Merchant Trade.
The timid tubs of an early day, they hurriedly
plied their oars ;
For dragons dwelled in the waters then, and
demons by the shores ;
And Circe lilting a magic strain in her isle
enchanted knew
How a little soft song will ne’er go wrong with a
sour, sea-wearied crew.
The Cyclops haunted their working hours with
the Gorgons grim and dread ;
And every ninth wave threatened death ; and the
storm fiends overhead
Their dreams beset with sea-born beasts; nor
ever a man might know
If a wanton sprite some evil spite was devilling
down below.
But—daring the chance of dangers dire, in the
years beyond the years,
The Giants who dwelled in the Dark of Things,
the myths and the olden fears ;
They labored their ladings out and home that the
profits might be made—
For, old or new, this story is true, that trade for-
ever is—trade.
Ay, the bills of lading, notched on staves by the
skin-clad hirelings, told
The consignees how their cargoes lay in the skin
kayaks of old ;
As the bricks they baked in Babylon, or scribed
. on papyrus,
Or the printed bills the type girl fills, are telling
to-day to us.
The portly merchant of Sidon town most certainly
had no thought
That a future day would classic deem the goods
that he sold and bought,
He invoiced Carthage, at market rates, collected
his cash when due,
Complained of the shameful waste of stores, and
probably starved the crew.
And if it chanced that a Tuscan thief, in his
prowling galley free,
Consigned the goods to his private horde, the
company to the sea.
That portly owner of Sidon town anathematised
the Fates,
And sent a load by another road, and charged
’em at double rates ;
While Plato dreamed of his, perfect State, and
Caesar of his crown,
The trading ships of the ancient time were travel-
ling up and down,
With the corn and oil and clothes and drink, and
the simple mundane things
Of work and play in the every-day—which rarely
a poet sings.
The high-decked hulls of the Kentish ports in a
later fashion went
With their English wool to feed, in course, the
looms of the Continent;
Then haled them home with the Flemish cloth
and the wines of Gascony,
That the Saxon maids and their Norman blades
might clothed and couraged be.
But wider the world began to grow, and always
the distance less—
Though the world to-day is a narrow place to the
world of good Queen Bess.
For all its rovers are sleeping sound, nor over the
Spanish Main,
Shall the Golden Hind set sail to find adventure
and spoil again.
For the English King wears an Alpine hat—they
haven’t a king in France—
And the shipping rings have sounded far the
death of the old Romance;
Now the Kentish ships are manned by Hans and
Pedro and Yonson blonde ;
And the wond’rous sea Columbus dared is only
“The Herring Pond.”
And over the trails- Atlantic wire (soon to be “ out
of use ”)
The wireless flashes the liner swift her budget of
daily news,
Anon, ’twill patter the price of stocks to the flying
Ships of Air,
To keep in touch with the Wall-street bears, the
travelling millionaire.
So over the years and down the years, till the
suns and stars grow cold,
Till all the waters of all the world are backward
in chaos rolled ;
Till Gabriel’s trump shall call them up who under
the seas are laid,
To the east and west the worst and best shall
follow the tracks of trade.
A hundred Caesars may come and go, or a
thousand Shakspeares shine ;
A hundred Brownings singing of Art, a hundred
Omars of Wine;
The Ledger stands where the Ledger stood, nor
ever its voice gainsaid,
On earth shall be by the land or sea, while trade
for ever is—trade.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.


“ After having recovered from rheumatic fever 1 was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
.
w
w
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
,As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no atechied.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured witbaut operation. Tben seed lor pariiculars
oj our perfectflit:ng
Automatic Air cushion Appliance
The Best Ruptur ~ Applianc ■ of the Centimy
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLOW COay 261 Collins St. a Melbourne,Vic
INSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds
Loosens phlegm, allays irritation. .
A POLICY kob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
s
Superior to
INJECTIONS
|CUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
f Cure® the same
diseases without
inconvenient
48 hours (g) |
i
#
t
S
i
Each Capsule bears the name .
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES’'
Australian Blight,Failing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
earne 8 Breaks pear,
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers
Government Contractors,
STRRXGROOM
DOORS.
IF you don't rend THE LONE HAND you
can't keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Svdpey.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to ever'- home—
iu dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flics
of
Hfno.ngT wKorn a reT—
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything, one
lasts the entire
seus.n.
old by
Wh o le sale
Druggists,
Groce s and
Hardware
D e a Ur a ,
Sydney— : Anthony Hordern <£ Sous ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. 11. Fa,ulding tft Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinaon & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell Sb. { Sayers AllportJ
Proprietary, O’Connell St-; ; S. HofTnung <fc Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gobthelf & Co., Barrack St.; -Briscoe & Co. Ltd .
Manufactured by Harold Somers. Brooklyn, N.Y., CJ.S.A
'LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40years proven efficacy.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eolleetionof his best verses ; bound in cloth,' with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
WJUJI c»i;h
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m, 2/9 & 4/6
ĸ
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHM,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
GafFy’s Patent " Keen Blade
PRUNING SHEARS.
9 9
6S» Each.
Postage 6d. Extra.
k
PRICE,
SS. Each.
Postage 6d. Extra,
The merit of these Shears consists of Both Blades having Cutting Edges, hence a
perfectly clean cut of even stout twigs can be made. The bark is not crushed,
nor are the buds injured.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Well Regulated Janjilies
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspeipsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general
and Constipation, it is ever tbe wisest and most satisfactory course, to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
’S pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///i (56 pills ) & 219 (168 pills).
'W:.
'V 1
THERE BE M ANY KINDS
OF WINDMILLS
and of these
The “Steel Wings
THE NEXT BEST
IS THE BEST.
THE “LITTLE TROJAN.'
The former is built in iaiy"" sizes, and its cost is •
moderate.
The latter is made in $lllOll siy.-s—up to 14 feet—has
a fixed tower, and is W w in price,
They are both easy-running', having: hardened
roller hearings, and are very powerful.
Manufactured by
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
The Company also makes Galvanised Sheep TROUGH INC,
all kinds of PUMPS, and IRON and BRASS CASTINGS
of all descriptions’. • 1 *
Write to DEPT. C for Picture Books and Price Lists.
/'ritchley Parker’s
■V Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Tiubault. . 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. fid.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries U Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining $ Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free* 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
. . i
!l£Brifis!)=flustralasian
8*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Pf'if'f 3 ' Afl POST FREE, £1 per year,
r HLC uu « in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Heading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austbapasian ' during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
■ 4 "
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring: this business
. to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price.. .. .. ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breeeh-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. , £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 17 6
12 Rifles,. Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.'
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
The enormous Success of Owbridge’s
L-ung Tonic could not have been worn,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
i remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “OWBRIDGE’
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
In bottles at Is, lid.,
2s ‘Jil,, 4s. 6d,,.&H5.
COFVniGHT.


Perdriau’s 30/- Macintosh.
You ,could search through all the stores
and never find a 30s. Macintosh to
r\
equal the one Hve offer at
the price.
It is splendidly cut to
give grace to your figure,
and is so well made that
its long wear is a certainty.
As for the materials, we
have a range wide enough
for the most discrimin-
ating, and will be glad to
send you samples on
request. \
We pay carriage on the
coat, and you only have to
your height and easy chest measure-
ment to ensure a perfect fit. Will
y°» write for those patterns to-dav ?
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LfD.,
* The Best House for All'Rubber Goods,"
_ 270 Geor B'e Street, Sydney,
Particulars—
T. K. STEANES,
xm
WILLANS 8 ROBINSON Surface Condensers.
39 Pitt Street, Sydney .
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL ANB
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADb.
ķ
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd.
SCHNAPPS
At all times
asK for and obtain only
The beverage
that benefits.
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS.
For Steam, Gas or Oil Engines . Adopted by the British Admiralty, and Used by the Largest Power Users of the World.
“Sentinel" AIR COMPRESSORS, HIGH-SPEED ENGINES & FILTERS
(SIMPLICITY, ECONOMY) (LOW STEAM CONSUMPTION) (EFFICIENCY)
Send for Catalogues. J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ALLIS-CHALMERS CO.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S. & A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
and ORDERS along for
SPARE PARTS
Flour Milling Machinery. Cement Making Plants. Large Gas Engine Units.
TEL.
C3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
5
FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
irmjiin/iiwi
m
the, clamant question of defence
forms the main topic of “ The Lone Hand ” for August. U The aspects
of the Defence of Australia range from Chief Scout-Master R.. C.
Pacßer’s comprehensive account of THE BOY SCOUTS* to C. L.
Garland’s timely article upon THE AERIAL DEFENCE OF AUS-
TRALIA. 11 THE NEW SERIAL, “ Galahad Jones,” by Arthur H.
‘ For the Public Good ” tbe methods
Adams, begins in this issue. U
of THE QUACK DENTIST are exposed by a Sydney dental surgeon.
VZSTnIZZ. lover of literature there is Walter Murdoch’s article upon
GEORGE MEREDITH. And in “PAGES FROM OUR PAST,”
Lionel Lindsay contributes a stirring account of the Mutiny on the
Abrolhos Islands, for which Norman Lindsay has painted a series of
fine pictures, Reproduced in Color. .U Published August 2. Price 1/-
■ £
B <St M AGITATING TANK
Under the n “ me “PACHUCA ” this Tank has been widely adopted in Mexico and the United States.
It effects a Large Saving in the Oyanidation of Concentrates and Slimes.
ADVANTAGES .-Perfect Agitation, Savipg of Time, Little Labor Required, Easy to Start, No Break-
downs or Mechanical Trouble, Power Required only one-fifth of that taken by other Agitators.
The “ B & M’ is now being installed In Australia,
""" | 1 8,1 W.81W.8 Licenses granted by the Sole Agents—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St., Melbourne
