

DEWAR'S The Whisky for Men of Taste.
R. G. WATKINS SZ> CO.,
i 107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ . . ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.Sxrt&c sr (£? S&
SOLE AGENTS FOR
“Sarco” Fuel-Saving
Appliances.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street,
AND
128 William Street, Melboi
ney
3E3C O 3ES JSk. IF*. T.
fjadleys Orient [jotel
ONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
w
Take it back ,
I mu st have
PintAppk firand
s
MAMS ®
•BACON.
BB S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS
Poor Peter Possum had a cold
That would not leave him;
Now he was poor as well as old,
And it did grieve him
He couldn’t give that bad cold best—
“ Weill I’m blest 1 ”
Herbal Cough Drops
cured him in one act.
Fancy 1 Only ONE PENNY a packet.
ALL SWEET SHOPS.
Oil ,
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE
If it isn’t ELECTRIC, it isn’t MODERN !
If it is anything YOU want in modern Electrical Accessories, such as Accumulators, Dry Cells, etc., and it isn’t here—it isn’t anywhere.
Accumulators repaired by experts. Any information in regard to Electrical matters furnished gratuitously. Inquiries solicited.
The India-rubber, Gutta-percha & Telegraph Works Go., Ltd., SYDNEY.
I
c
IS
MALTHOID is not the same
as other roofings, being more
durable and weatherproof
than any roofing ever put on
the market.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The MAIjTIIOID Mineral
has been in constant use as a
roofing for a quarter of a
century, and makes abso-
lutely the best roofing.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
C. A. MacDON/
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
..
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
IMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australian Representatives, 32 § 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
I THORNE’S WHISKY.
A 7» . .
MARTELL’S "brandy."
U3IVM VdS NOamH
H
ELI DON SPA is sold at moderate prices, 4 dozen }
or 6 dozen in a case, Pints or Splits. J
GOLLISM & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 30.—N0. 1535.]
[Thursday, July 15, 1909.
■Rfitn-stPrWi at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


POPULAR BOOKS
MUCH IN DEMAND.
Hamilton : Materials and Methods of Fiction, 6s, post Bd.
Hietzsche : Beyond Good and Evil, 4s, postage (id.
■Nietzsche, In Outline and Aphorism, by Orage, 3s, p. 4d.
ihomson, Prof. j. a.: Heredity, 11s, postage Is.
vveinniger Otto : Sex arid Character, 12s, post 9d.
fealeetiy Or. C. \Y.; Parenthood and Race Culture, 9s, p. Bd.
watts: The Meaning of Rationalism, R.P.A. Series, 3s, p. 6d
Kidil, Benjamin : Principles of Western Civilisation ; a
Sociological Study, 6s, postage 9d.
Metchnikoff, Elie: The Prolongation of Life, 15s, post Is.
Treves, Sir F.: Other Side of the Lantern, 7s, postage 9d,
Winwood Reade : The Martyrdom of Man, 3s Od, post free.
Patten, Pfof. S. N". : The New Basis of Civilisation, 5s 6d,
p. 6d. \V elsford, J. W.: The Strength of Nations, 6s, p. 6d.
ESPERANTO, the International Write for Book list just issued.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMEHTHQL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bacterieidally as is'creosote.”
£3
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
D.
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free oa receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTKGL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New-Zealand, and at S2O Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
J. M. Synge
The Celtic Renaissance, the most interest-
ing literary development of recent years, is
responsible for some notable additions to
English poetry, and for the beginnings of a
dramatic literature which promised to be
even more notable. W. B. Yeats would, no
doubt, have written poetry in any case ; but
it is very likely that we would not have had
the Plays of J. M. Synge but for the great
revival of the national spirit of Ireland,
which has manifested itself in literature.
The revival began with the unlocking of the
storehouses of ancient Celtic poetry, legend,
and history, which found fit and enthusi-
astic interpreters in Yeats and others. But
Yeats saw that the poetry he and his com-
patriots were writing was too poetical to help
much in keeping the national spirit alive,
and in order to get nearer to the people, he
established an Irish theatre, wrote plays for
it, conducted a propagandist magazine,
and stimulated all with whom he came in
contact.
In 1899 Yeats met John Millington Synge
in Paris, and found him reading Racine and
writing literary verse full of “ images re-
flected from mirror to mirror.” Synge had been
educated at Trinity College, Dublin, and
travelled the continent for some years ; and
at that time he was aimless and despondent.
Yeats prescribed, as medicine for body and
soul, a visit to the lonely, wind-swept Aran
Islands, on the west coast of Ireland.
Synge paid annual visits thenceforward, and
lived for some time amongst the simple
folk there. He also became intimately ac-
quainted with the West of Ireland peasantry
and fishermen. The result of Yeats’ stimulus
was that Synge studied these primitive
people and their picturesque language. He
wrote a book on the Aran Islands, and a
nujnber of plays for the Irish Theatre which
are singularly unlike anything else in modern
dramatic literature.
The Shadow of the Glen was produced in
1903, and Riders to the Sea in 1904. In the
first, an odd old farmer man pretends to be
dead. While his wife is preparing for the
wake a tramp drops in for shelter, and later
on a young neighbor calls who explains to
the “ widow ” the advantages of joining her
lot to his. She talks freely about the
corpse ” lying in the same room, until
himself ” jumps up and orders the wife out
of the house. The tramp gallantly accom-
panies her ; the thrifty neighbor remains to
dnnk whisky with the “corpse.” The
situation would be farcical but for the in-
tense air of reality about it, and the simple
beauty of the talk. The Tinker’s Wedding ,
written about the same time, is pure farce ;
but realistic in its portrayal of the wild,
harum-scarum characters, and their auda-
cious phraseology.
Riders to the Sea stands apart, an ex-
tremely moving one-act tragedy, treated
with great restraint. The dialogue is not so
picturesque as in the other plays, but has a
severe beauty of its own, and every touch of
commonplace only serves to heighten the
tragedy. The pathos of the old mother’s
entreaty to her last surviving son, Bartley,
that he should not go to the horse-fair by
sea is far removed from the theatrical-
pathetic :
If it was a hundred horses, or a thousand horses,
you had itself, what is the price of a thousand
horses against a son where there is one son only ?
Her daughter tells her that:
It’s the life of a young man to be going on the
sea, and who would listen to an old woman with
one thing and she saying it over ?
The mother knew what the end would be :
Bartley will be lost now, and let you call lin
itamon and make me a good coffin out of the white
boards, for I won’t live after them. I’ve had a
husband and a husband’s father and six sons in
this house—six fine men, though it was a hard
birth I had with every one of them, and they
coming to the world—and some of them were
found and some of them were not found, but
they’re gone now the lot of them. . . .
Bartley meets the expected end, and the
mother consoles herself with the thought
that he will have a fine coffin and a deep
grave. “ What more can we want than that ?
No man at all can be living for ever, and we
must be satisfied.”
In The Well of the Saints (1905), Synge
returned to the humorous treatment of the
peasantry, the fun depending upon the dis-
illusion ment of an old wizened and blind couple
when their sight is miraculously restored.
It is not, however, dramatic enough for three
acts. The saint is convincing ; but to save
trouble, the scene is conveniently placed in
“ some lonely mountainous district on east of
Ireland one or more centuries ago.”
The Playboy of the Western World (1907)
brought Synge more notoriety than all the
rest of his work, as its characters are open
admirers of the law-breaker, and the satire
hurt a good many. There was a fine row in
the Abbey Theatre on the first night, and a
number of Dublin papers condemned the play
as a wild calumny. Its slight plot resembles
that of The Shadow of the Glen ; but it is
more dramatic and more humorous than its
predecessors. The imaginative quality of
the dialogue may be seen in these quota-
tions :
Amn’t I after seeing the love light of the star
of knowledge shining from her brow, and hearing
words would put jou thinking on the holy Brigid
speaking to the infant saints, and now she’ll be
turning again, and speaking hard words to me,
like an old woman with a spavindy ass she’d
have, urging on a hill.
There’s torment in the splendor of her like, and
she’s a girl any moon of midnight would take
pride to meet, facing southwards on the heaths of
Keel. But what did I want crawling forward to
scorch my understanding at her darning brow ?
If the mitred bishops seen you that time, they’d
be the like of the holy prophets, I’m thinking, do
be straining the bars of Paradise, to lay eyes on
the Lady Helen of Troy, and she abroad, pacing
back and forward, with a nosegay in her golden
shawl.
It’s little you’ll think if my love’s a poacher’s,
or an earl’s itself, when you’ll feel my two hands
stretched around you, and I squeezing kisses on
your puckered lips, till I’d feel a kind of pity for
the Lord God is all ages sitting lonesome in his
golden chair.
When Synge published The Playboy he
prefaced it with a note on his own principle
and methods of dramatic writing :
When I was writing The Shadow of the Glen
I got more aid than any learning could have given
me from a chink in the floor of the old Wicklow
house where I was staying that let me hear what
was being said by the servant girls in the kitchen.
... On the stage one must have reality, and
one must have joy. ... In a good play every
speech should be as fully flavored as a nut or
apple, and such speeches cannot be written by
anyone who works among people who have shut
their lips on poetry.
Synge had shown himself capable of carrying
out his own principle, and his death in
Dublin, last March, at the early age of 38,
cut short the career of one who might have
done great things for the drama. It is
stated that he left behind him a book of
poems and an unfinished play— The Sorrows
of Deirdre.
Another Irishman, Herbert Trench, who
has written the best modern version
of Deirdre’s story so far published, has
arranged, with good financial backing, to
start a repertory theatre in London.
Trench’s theatre will be experimental, and
not a commercial speculation. But at the
same time an enterprising American manager,
Charles Frohman, intends to start a similar
repertory theatre in London and make it
pay. The practical Frohman has told the
young dramatists that they should quit
“ theatrical ” dramas, learn the conventions
of the stage only to disregard them, and
write about the life they know. So far, the
Stage Society has been the only avenue by
which the advanced dramatist could approach
the public. The revolutionary Frohman
theatre, which is to open next February,
has already secured four of the pioneer play-
wrights : Bernard Shaw, J. M. Barrie,
Granville Barker, and Galsworthy. Shaw
and Barrie we know ; but of Barker all we
know is that he is the fortunate husband of
Lillah McCarthy and the author of a play
called Waste, which shares the distinction of
being censored with Shaw’s Showing up of
Blanco Posnet. Barker’s plays are to be pub-
lished shortly; but three of Galsworthy’s
plays— The Silver Box, Joy, and Strife —have
just reached us, published by Duckworth and
Co., in one volume ( per Sydney Book Club).
John Galsworthy
In two of his novels, A Man of Property
and A Country House, Galsworthy exhibited
typical hidebound British families for in-
spection, and in Fraternity he delicately
contrasted a middle-class city family with a
group in the slums. A Commentary, pub-
lished last year, consisted of a number of
sociological studies by a literary artist. He
had. seen life with clear, steady eyes, and
depicted it as he saw it. The force of
the contrast between the subjects made
verbal comment unnecessary. The' same
method has been adopted in his Plays, but
more eflectively. Like Synge,. Galsworthy
has followed the advice of Hamlet, and
held a mirror,up to nature, “to show.... the
very age and body of the time his form and
pressure.” The device of getting your audi-
ence to “look on this picture and on this”
could not have been more skilfully utilised.
The effect is far greater than that of a cart-
load of lectures ; and, no doubt, for this
reason, that acute critic, J. M. Robertson,
included The Silver Box in his Courses of
Beading on sociology before the play
was published. The classes in The Silver
Box are represented by a wealthy Liberal
M.P., John Barthwick, his wife and son,
and their charwoman (Mrs. Jones) and
her husband, a hollow-cheeked member of
the unemployed. Barthwick, jun., arrives
home late, disguised in liquor. He had been
“ on the tiles,” where he met an unknown
lady who had chaffed him, and to score off
her he had decamped with her purse. While
feeling on the wrong side of the door for the
keyhole, Jones comes to his assistance.
Jones had had a few, and was hanging about
to see his wife in order to get more. Young
Barthwick invites him in, and asks him to
take a drink. “ Take a good long drink-
take a cigarette—take any tiling you like,”
and then subsides into sleep on the sofa.
Jones, very full; sees his own reflection in a
mirror, looks at the well-fed calf asleep, and
then makes off with the purse and the silver
cigarette-box. Next day the Unknown Lady
comes after her purse, and meets the M.P.,
who squares her to avoid a fuss—not the
first fusS he had avoided in the same way.
“The whole thing was very much against
his principles,” for, as his wife tells him
afterwards, his principles' are nothing in the
world ■ but—fright. He lets off some steam
on young Jack :
You don’t seem to have any principles. You—
you’re one of those who are a nuisance to society.
You—you’re dangerous. Your conduct, as far as
I can see, is absolutely unjustifiable. It’s—it’s
criminal.. .. You and your sort are a nuisance to
the community
W
The charwoman is suspected of stealing the
silver box, and is arrested in her squalid
room nearby. Jones, who asserts that he
took it and resists the removal of his wife,
is also arrested. Gn the trial, Barth wick’s
solicitor manages to skilfully slide over
Jack’s part in the affair, and to suppress the
Unknown Lady ; the charwoman is let off and
Jones sentenced. The Magistrate tells him :
Your conduct here has been most improper.
You give the excuse that you were drunk when
you stole the box.' I tell you that is no excuse.. .
And let me tell you that men like you who get
drunk and give way to your spite, or whatever it
is that’s in you, are—are —a nuisance to the
community.
This bald outline of the play will only give
a faint idea of the artistic treatment of an
every-day story. Both sides of the case are
presented impartially ; the Barthwicks are
just as human as the Joneses.
In Strife there is the same judicial state-
ment of the case for the company and for the
strikers. The principal interest centres in
the opposing wills of the strike leader,
Roberts, and the Chairman of Directors ; and
these two characters are finely drawn.
One scene between two minor characters,
George Rous and his sweetheart, will illus-
trate the dramatic quality of the play :
Rous (who has a fierce, distracted look): Madge!
I’m going bo the meeting. (Madge, without
moving, smiles contemptuously.) D’ye hear me?
(They speak in quick, low voices.)
Madge : I hear. Go, and kill your own mother,
if you must.
(Rous seizes her by both arms. She stands
rigid, ivith her head bent back. He re-
leases her, and he, too, stands motionless.)
Rous : I swore to stand by Roberts.- I swore
that! Ye want me to go back on what I’ve sworn.
Madge (with slow , soft mockery): You are a
pretty lover !
Rous: Madge!
Madge (smiling): I’ve heard that lovers do
what their girls ask them—but that’s not true, it
seems !
Rous : You’d make a blackleg of me !
Madge (with her eyes half-closed): Do it for me 1
Rous (dashing his hand across his brow):
Damn ! I can’t !
Madge (swiftly): Do it for me !
Rous (through his teeth); Don’t play the wanton
with me !
Madge (quick and low): I would be that for
the children’s sake.
Rous (in a fierce whisper): Madge 1 Oh,
Madge !
Madge (with soft mockery): But you can’t
break your word for me !
Rous (with a choke): Then, Begod, I can !
Strife is a better play than The Silver Box ;
the interest is wider and deeper, and the
characters are built with more subtle art.
Joy is slighter in theme, and has not the
same grip as the other two. The sub-title—
“A play on the Letter I” accurately
JOHN GALSWORTHY.
describes it. Each of the ten characters is
occupied with his or her own interest, but
they all work to the destined end :
Jox {in a whisper): Dick, is love always like
this?
Dick {putting his arm round her, with convic-
tion): It’s never been like this before. It’s you
and the ! {He kisses her on the lips.)
Excepting the (to us) unknown quantity,
Granville Barker ; we think that there is no
English dramatist to-day with such pro-
mise of a great future as John Galsworthy.
-— 1
“Melba”': Who says Australian poetry
isn’t read ? Writer recently borrowed
Marion Miller’s “Songs from the Hills”
from the 'Victorian Public Lending Library,
and was amazed to find from fhe date records
on the book that !)4 other borrowers had
been before him. This aroused curiosity as
to the relative popularity of the younger
Australian poets, and the records were
checked off, with the results set forth below.
“ Banjo ” Paterson (“ The Man from Snowy
River”) is an easy winner, but the full
record has been lost in his case, so the num-
bers can’t be.posted. Brunton Stephens,
Will Ogilvie, and E. J. Brady have Only re-
cently been added to the library ; whilst
Roderic Quinn and John Farrell are “ non
est inventus.” Of the others, Marion Miller
surprisingly holds pride of place, prob-
ably because the library members are mostly
of the same sex. The same reason may
account for the popularity of “society”
versifiers like John Sandes. Here are the
names, with the number of times each book
has been taken from the library
Marion Miller (“ Songs from the Hills ”) ... 94
John Sandes (“ Rhymes of the Times ”) ... 88
A. B. Paterson (“Rio Grande’s Last Race”)... 87
Henry Lawson (“ When the World was
Wide”) 84
Barcroft Boake (“ Where the Dead Men Lie”) 81
J. B). O’Hara (“Songs of the South”) ... 79
Louise Mack, Quinn,! “A (
H e b-b let h waits, j- Southern -j 77
Church and O’Dowd J Garland” (
A. H. Adams (“Maoriland and Other
Verses”) 65
E. Dyson (“Rhymes from the Mines ”) ... 65
V. J. Daley (“At Dawn and Dusk ”)... ... 60
“ Anthology of Australian Verse” 55
“Old Bush Songs” (edited A. B. Paterson).h 55
T. E. Spencer (“How McDougallTopped the
Score”) ... ... 46
Guy Eden (“ Bush Ballads ”) 36
G. E. Evans (“ The Secret Key ”) 35
Rena Wallace (“ A Bush Girl’s Songs ” ... 35
The older Australian poets, such as Gordon,
Kendall, and Harpur, are seldom taken
down from the shelves ; but all find readers,
even down to Henry Parkes (“ Murmurs of
the Stream”), whose record shows two
devoted admirers.
GEORGE MEREDITH.
Forty years back, when much had place
That sin.ce has perished out of mind,
I heard that voice, and saw that face.
He spoke as one afoot will wind
A morning horn ere men awake ;
His note was trenchant, smart, but kind.
He was of those whose words can shake
And riddle to the very core
The falsities that Time will break. ...
Of late, when we two met once more,
The luminous countenance and rare
Shone just as forty years before.
So that, when now all tongues declare
He is unseen by his green hill,
I scarce believe he sits not there.
No matter. Further and further still
Through the world’s vaporous vitiate air
His words wing on —as strong words will.
THOMAS HARDY
(in The Times.)


it
V
The Fenchurch Non-Magnetic Lever Watch, a
reliable timekeeper, with screw Bezel and back,
or hinged and Snap Oases —Nickel Case, 14 /• ;
Oxydised Steel, 15/-
For Economy and
Satisfaction in
JEWELLERY
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
spf^p.
No. 6S3—Silver Pencil Case, Hall-marked, Haul .somely Engraved, 7/-
Gent.’s Nickel or Oxydised Steel Open Face Royal
Lever, Non-Magnet.ic, Stem Set; a Strong, Service-
able Watch, 12/6.
Nickel Keyless Lever Watches. A Serviceable
Timekeeper at a Nominal Cost, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6.
(29003
No. 632.
3®
No. 631.
No. 633.
No. 632— Lady’s Diamond Ring, single stone, 26/-, 42/-, 63/-, 105/-
No. 631— Lady’s Dress Ring, wir.h Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires,
21/-, 35/-, 45/-, 60/-, 75/-, 90/-, 105/- to £2l.
No. 633 —With Diamond and 2 Sapphires, or Diamond and 2 Rubies,
35/-, 50/-, 65/-, 72/6, 80/-
SmiiNfe
m
No. 567.
No. 536—18 ct. Gold Ring, Diamond Cluster, Diamonds and Rubies or
Diamonds and Sapphires, £lO 10s., £l2 125., £l5 15s.
No. 527—18 ct. Gold Ring, 1 Sapphire, 4 Diamonds, 43/-
No. 567—15 ct. Gold Ring, Rubies and Diamonds or Sapphires and
Diamonds, 30/-
gggiiacotii'ifiii
ssa moo
No. 587
No. 528.
No. 519.
No. 513— 18 ct. Gold Ring, 3 Diamonds, finest quality, £15,.'£17 135., £2O
No. 537— 18 ct, Gold Ring, 4 Diamonds, 5 Olivines, £4 15s.
No. 528— 18 ct. Gold Ring, 5 Diamonds, £8 15s.
s
m
m
m
Lady’s Silver'Demi-Hunter Keyless Longine
Levers, 55/-, 84/-, £5 10s., £9 9s.
Horizontal Movement, in Silver Case, 35/-
Top Quality at Bottom Price
is the Golden Rule at the
New Palace Emporium.
7
%
wAIERBURY WATCIU&
\
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Stem Set Waterbury
Watch, improved pattern, with second-hand,
enamel dial. Series I, 8/6 : Series G, 10/6 ;
Series J, 13/6 ; Series L (Lady’s Size), 11/6.
?s@»
*fri
No. 562—18 ct. Gold Ring, 2 Diamonds, finest quality, £ll 13s.
No. 531 —18ct. Gold Ring, Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and
Sapphires, £7 10s., £8 Bs., £lO 10s.
No. 542—18 ct. Gold Ring, all Diamonds, £l9.
No. 770— Patent Expanding Waicn bracelet. The Watch is a strong
reliable - Keyless Rotherham Lever, an accurate Timekeeper, in
Sterling Silver Case, and the Expanding Bangle is also Sterling
Silver. Price £4 4s. and £4 7s. 6d.
Similar design, in 9et. Gold, £6 15s.
Similar design, 15ct. Gold Bracelet, with best Lever Watch in 18ct.
Gold Case, £lO 10s. and £l5 15s.
Terms:
Spot Cash
€'
W I I
W/j *4
:
m &
■ K m
mts
mmi
HH
II l§
I
9ct. Gold Emu
Charm, 2/6..
No. 464— 9 ct. Gold
Bell Charm, 2/6
Folding Link Safety Bracelet. Easily fastened, no safety chain, cannot
be lost. The fastening is in the form of a triple folding link, and the
bracelet is slipped over the hand with the link unfolded. When placed
on the wrist the link is closed, shortening the circle and making a
secure fastening
9ct. Gold Curb Bracelet, as illustrated, 45/-, 47/6, 57/6, 67/6.
9ct. Gold Basket Pattern Bracelet, with Patent Folding Link, set Pearls,
Opal and Ruby, £4 17s. 6d. ; set Pearls and Turquoise, £4 9s.
9ct. Gold Closely Woven Links, no jewels, 3 bars, £2 4s. 9d. ; 4 bars,
£2 4s. 9d., £2 18s., £3 12s. 6d.
Consult our Price List of
Popular Presents. It
trates Travelling Requisites,
Jewellery, Electroplate,
Clocks and Fancy Goods.
Send for a copy, posted Free
on application .
THE PALACE FOUNTAIN PENS.
The Palace Fountain Pen, 14ct. Gold Nib Iridium Point, chased Vulcanite Barrel, patent Feed.
Medium, Broad, and Fine Pointed Nibs, 2/9 and 3/6
PALACE EMPORIUM
The Palace Fountain Pen, 14ct. Gold Nib Iridium Point, patent Feed Bar. Medium, Broad and Fine Points, 3/9
No. 598.
No. 571.
No. 635.
No. 598— Gold Ring, set 7 Stones, £3 10s., £4 IBs., £5 ss. to £lB.
No. 571— 18 ct Gold Ring, 3 Diamonds, 35/-, 50/-, 65/-
No. 635— G01d Ring, 3 Opals and 4 Diamonds, or Turquoise and 4 Dia-
monds, 84/-
Eao
No. 525.
No. 634.
No. 573.
No. 525— 18 ct. Gold Ring, 2 Diamonds and 3 Rubies or 2 Diamonds and
3 Sapphires, 64/-
No. 634 — Lady’s Diamond Ring, 3 stones, 35/-, 63/-, 105/-
No. 573— 18 ct. Gold Ring, 5 Diamonds, 50/-
Passes 1
No. 595.
No. 596.
No. 636— Lady’s Dress Ring, with ‘2 Sapphires or Rubies and 3 Diamonds,
or with 3 Diamonds and 2 Sapphires or 2 Rubies, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-,
to £l6 16s-
No. 595—With 5 Diamonds, 63/-, 100/-
No 596—With Rubies and Diamonds, or Sapphires and Diamonds, from
' 20/- ; all Opals, 32/6.
No. 459— 9 ct.
Gold Bell
Charm, 4/6.
No. 468
9ct. Gold Wish-
bone Charm, 3/-
We are Family
Drapers,
Manufacturing
J ewellers,
Complete
House Fur-
nishers, and
Universal Pro-
viders, and our
immense stock
of the World’s
Choicest Com-
modities offers
attractions not
to be found
elsewhere.
Lady’s Gold-Filled Hunting
Keyless Waltham Watch, 15
Jewels, guaranteed to w*ear
10 years, 77/6.
14ct. Gold Hunting Keyless
Waltham, £9 ss.
Gent.’s Non-Magnetic Sirdar Lever, fully
jewelled, Compensating Balance, Engine
Turned Sterling Silver. An Excellent Time-
keeper, 30/»
Oxydised Steel, 18/6 ; Nickel, 16/6.
Silver Hunting Case, 37/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
' TTTIIT 11l IIIimimMIIMMMIIMMILLUI^
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrrde ™ BOOKS
Any,of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Kecitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels,
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and C a 111 e— C aus e s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 124 S
pag-es, 400 colored plates
and engraving-s, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, l /-.
Letter Writer. 1/-.
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
J<*\* | O
* \+
V//
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n g
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly * squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
tlier.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i o n s ;
anyone can
work them.
2 9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are (J)The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, Gd. eaclT;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
SMOKE
REFEREE
TOBACCO,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
B. BURT & CO.. Brisbane.
F. ETC FT ARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
MARK
Underwear
Made in
England
MARK
P^^zavuj.
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK * MEMO UNDERWEAR
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘F.RUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver Bowels Skin nnri
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it his toffimheS
Stages ot a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
AUTION. Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S * FRTTTT 9 ATT*
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery-IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C.ENO Ltd., FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
' Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superband marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE XING.
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
~ Whether at home, at the office, in the restaurant, or in the
Jheatre, a cup of Bovril is easily and. quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
THE BESSES O’ THE
POCKET
*•
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
„ CRACKAJACK Junior”l
The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are. Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
J Or MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 21-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . . . 1/
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/
Crackajack Cad2t, 20 Reeds . . . . 6d
- SOLD EVE RYWH E R E
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Sole Agents
Melbourne
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA.
NERVOUS
PROSTRATION.
A Marvellous Cure.
Thirty-one years have elapsed since Mrs. Ann
Griffiths, of No. 2 Garden Avenue, Glebe, came
to > this country from Shropshire, and five years
since the experiences contained in this report were
encountered. “I could hardly crawl along,” Mrs.
Griffiths went on to explain to our representative.
“I was so terribly weak, and the whole of my
physical misfortunes arose through bad digestion,
so it is a more important matter than most people
think. For months previously, I had been right
off my food, and I was kept back by the fact that
I was unable to get my rest. Then I discovered
what a dreadful thing it is to have nerves that are
unhinged, for mine certainly were. Why, if a
person spoke to me at all unexpectedly, I would
almost jump out of my skin, and if I happened to
be walking along the street I would be in con-
tinual fear of being run oyer. Good gracious ! how
I used to start if anything dropped on the floor;
but this was not the worst feature of my nervous
breakdown. I was for ever dreading something
that I knew not what. Somebody was going to
die. or be injured, or a fire was going to take place,
and I couldn’t get these ideas out of my head, no
matter how I tried. In bed at night I would find
myself fairly shaking, with perspiration breaking
out upon me, and I would be afraid to move. I
was full of trouble and felt as if I were gradually
sinking into my grave. A suffocating sensation
in my chest, acute aches down my back, a vile
taste in my mouth, and a. tongue white with fiir—
those were some of the symptoms that showed I
was not in good health, but the falling-off in my
weight was more el-oquent testimony still.”
“ What weight were you prior to your illness?”
“ Fourteen stone —a big weight for a woman—
but I got down considerably. Indeed you wouldn’t
have known me, I was so pale and thin, and it
wasn’t because I didn’t try to get well, Heaven
knows ; for I tried all manner of things without
any good resulting. I suffered.most unmercifully
from headaches and giddy feelings, and wasavv-
fully despondent at not getting relief from the
physios I had taken. I used to wonder what to try
next, and presently X struck the idea of baying some
Clements Tonic. Well, I could not have expected
so much as I realised from that medicine, though
from what I knew of that remedy beforehand, it
is a wonder I did not use it earlier, only the pre-
vious experience was in an entirely different case,
about which LIT tell you. Tn mv case, • though,
Clements Tonic was wonderful. It strengthened
me throughout and cured my indigestion, even
when all else fhiled. But its effect on my son
may reasonably be regarded'as one-of the wonders
of the age. When a child, he received a great
shock, which gave him St. Vitus’ dance. He was
treated at the hospital, and took no end of medi-
cine. Poor chap ! he was almost demented, and
hardly able to walk. It was pitiful to see him
quivering in every nerve, hardly able to drag one
leg after the other, with fearfully; hideous nights
in front of him always—no sleep very often, and
when there was, dreams that made him call out —
a poor appetite and weak digestion; really no-
thing but a shattered wreck that would bring
tears to one’s eyes almost to look at. And he was
like that for years, with never a hope of being
cured, as the doctors could do nothing for him, yet
Clements Tonic set him up and made him so
active, and as sound as any man in Sydney.
People marvelled to see him cured, and anyone
about here will corroborate what I have said.”
“They can see your statements in print?”
“ The whole world should know avhat Clements
Tonic can do for suffering humanity, and I am
only delighted to be able to tell you what that
remedy has done for me and mine. And you can
form an idea of what a mother's gratitude should
be, and is, when she has had her son transformed
from a tottering, quivering cripple to a lithe-limb-
ed, sound and robust man. Yes, publish this
news throughout the land in any manner you
desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MARY ANN GRIFFITHS, of 2 Garden Avenue, Glebe,
in the State of New South Wales, Common wealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this eleventh day
of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight, before
me.
12] HENRY W. WILLGOSS, J.P
A


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
now in London
writes under
date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
filler’s
four Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr, J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IJ. S./V
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
money in full refunded with ut question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
•warranted five to ten year-, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODEI.S
£3 010 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
andalllates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each diatrict.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage for free art catalogues
and our * vecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO a , Dept. 280 Liverpool.
rriHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydnev.
“ I suffered from night sweats,
great weakness, pains in my
chest,.and coughed up great
quantities of phlegm. The
doctor told me 1 had a pre-
111301
disposition to
consumption,
and advised
SCOTT’S Emulsion. After
taking SCOTT’S for a short
time I felt quite strong and
well, and the same doctor said
my lungs were completely
ORDERED
healed,
thanks to
SCOTT’S
Emulsion.” (Mrs.) Elizabeth
Windsor, 17 Thomas Street,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.,
1/9/08. Doctors order Scott’s
in preference to other emul-
SCOTT’S
sions because
experience
has shown
them that Scott’s saves life.
There is only one SCO F F’S
(with SCOTT’S “fishman’’
pasted on the salmon-coloured
package) and it has been sa-
EMULSION
ving life for
33 years past.
This is why,
when you hear
the word “ emul-
sion ” you always
think of the word
SCOTT’S. Of all
chemists and
dealers in medicines.
DID YOU EVER STOP TO THINK"
Have you ever considered what trouble may arise from a
neglected Cough or Cold ? Beware of the “Hacking Cough,”
the “Slight Cold,” the “Trivial Hoarseness” —these are Natures
warnings, that something is amiss with your respiratory system—
You require a soothing and healing remedy.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
is an old friend and a tried medicine for Colds.
There is no preparation which will eradicate a troublesome Cough so
quickly and effectively. Insist upon having the genuine article—you will
get this if you say distinctly
I WANT “BONNINGTON’S
IN USE 45 YEARS.
J
EVERY BOTTLE
CONTAINS A CURE !
Allcock^
Porous Piaster I
For pains in the region of the
Kidnevs, or for a Weak Back,
j the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &c.
INSIST UPON HAVING
Allcock!s
L
For Sore Throat, Coughs.
Bronchitis, for Weak Lungs,
and for painful and sensitive parts of
the abdomen, apply as indicated.
REMEMBER —Allcock’s Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
For Sale toy throughout the WorlcE*
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic. Established 1752.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
HEALTHFUL.
ECONOMICAL.
CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. ICO CUPS FCR 1/S*
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD.. Pitt St.. Sydney; Currie St.. Adelaide^J^
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE
Dept. 5,
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Lindf.n Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourlce St., Melbourne.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES’ PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2£d.)
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
yZigMaiuler*
& Sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Prism
Bino-
culars.
new models.
For Military, Naval, Sporting, Opera,
and Tourist Use.
Brilliant Definition and Marvellous Illumination.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send lor Illustrated Booklet, entitled, “ What
Binocular to Select,” post free.
"KING’S
NORTON”
CARTRIDGES
Purposed for .22 calibre Rifle
Shooting, these British-made
cartridges are of the very finest
shooting quality. The hollow
point bullet is recommended for
sporting—the long and short solid
point for rifle practice. Specify
icing’s Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealer. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/-
Thousanas of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Messrs .Sayers, Aliport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared bv I. W. NJCHOIL. Pharmaceutical Ctior.iist-
-25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Killed by the Chemist.
Swinburne has ceased to sing-. There will never he
another great poet. Science has killed the imagination,
because its realities transcend all imaginative efforts, etc.
— P. E. Quinn in Lone Hand of June, 1909.
Swinburne sleeps ’neath his pall,
Toll, toll the bell !
Poets both great and small,
Hear ye,your knell !
Science has murdered Song !
Haste ye away !
Farewell ye singing throng !
Hail, Formulas !
Good-bye to fairy tales,
Science has come !
Poetry’s dead as nails !
Muffle the drum !
Midsummer sprites and imps,
Fairies and elves—
(Mythical things like shrimps !)
Bury yourselves !
Dear, unsuspicious bird,
Lover and maid,
Science says you’re absurd,
Go ! get a spade !
Make a deep cavity,
Cast yourselves in
With all due gravity
(Sexton, P. Quinn !).
Speaking religiously,
E’en this we know :
“ Odor of sanctity
Is H. 2 O.”
Curates protesting faint,
Archbishops snort ;
Science has felled the saint
With its retort.
There’s not a thing Above —
Likewise, Below—
(Sausage—Religion—Love),
Science don’t know !
Chemists imperious,
Puddle and curse
In the mysterious
Old Universe.
Hid with bad vapors, they
Savagely plod,
[ Gnawing like mites away
Cheeses of God.
Little flames leap and fade,
Crucibles hiss,
( What fact could e'er evade
Analysis ?)
“ Science has murdered Song!"
(How those words chimed !
Someone just sang them ! . . . WRONG !
SOMEONE JUST RHYMED ! !)
YICTOSIA.
THE PORPOISE.
The Pub in the Promised Land.
There are tales enough of the Golden Shore,
But, as far as meself has learned,
They haven’t got much to commend themselvi s.
So far as meself’s concerned.
They mostly go nap on a shiny crown,
Wings, and a golden lyre,
And a rickety yarn that life’s reward
Is a place in the angel choir.
\Vell, a crown and a harp’s no good to me,
Nor a place in the angel band—
I want to be havin’ me heart’s desire
When I get to the Promised Land.
And me heart’s desire ain't set on a hyinn,
Nor the gut-strings’ tumpty-tump ;
I want to cheer up on a goodlier tune —
The tune of the nectar pump.
If a fellow goes straight in this world below,
I reckon that when he dies
They’ll draft him along to the Things He Wants
In the corners of the skies.
There’ll be uniformed coves before the Gates
To yell as the souls drive up :
“ This way for the harps and the music halls ! ”
“ In here for the foaming cup ! ”
“Swing off to the right for the banquet hall ! ’’
Or “ The girls are four blocks west ! ”
And so it will go till the souls sort out
The places they all love best.
As far as me and meself’s concerned,
There’ll be nothing to do but tell
A porter that’s wearin’. a guide-room badge
That I’m after the Grand Hotel.
I can see him show me a great old pub—
The pub of the pubs I knew.
I’ll hear the voices I used to love
Of the long-dead pals—the few
Who were men you could count as hearts of gold
I can hear their surprised : “ It’s Jim !
.Now, how in the name of all that’s blue
Did they hand out a pass to him?”
And Madge, and Ethel, and everyone
Of the girls we used to know.
Who manned the pumps and loosened the corks
In the days of long ago,
Will set the glasses along the bar.
And, raising ’em high in hand,
We’ll drink the toast of our Heart’s Desire—
The Pub of the Promised Land.
N.s.w.
THE SNAKE.


**l Mlf
wu
ed
B-W
Well Decorated House
Is Permanently Attractive."
Wunderlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that makes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste ts catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire makes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Sydney Showrooms: Postal Address: Melbourne Showrooms:
56 PITT ST. Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
£
Hi
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order ; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. *in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE HV AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
'‘siSSl
&
PRIZES Value £1 750
IN THE ■ ■ W W
8-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorkiiouse. Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE: SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickers mav be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
Under Vice«Reg'al
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late.with . . .
Miss Van Brakkbl),
Lac/ies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h- Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
CHEAP CDITiON of ON THE HOP!
Price /g Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
/ w THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
I There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
j . . . . f ' . ■ '
and others.
-
I
.
E RICH Be C9I*«V SYDMEY Se BRISBANE
AVENARIUS is not only a cure for
WHITE. ANTiS, but the best Wood-
Preserving oil Known. It strength-
ens the life of the best timber, and
doubles the life of weak timber.
WHOLESALE agents t E. RICH &, CO* LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1535.
THURSDAY, JULY 15, 1909.
Price 6d.
Further reports by inspectors under the Department of Public Instruction
allude to the influence of the cow upon school life in the country. In the
majority of cases the inspectors uphold the view originally put forward by the
Teachers’ Association that child slavery does exist.
THE Call of the bells.—school V. cows.
RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION.
Visiting Parson (to country public
. , school) : “Now, can any little
boy repeat the first Commandment ? ’• *
Chorus: “Bill, d your eyes, git up and bring in the cows! ”
~ scr*-s-
-" 'Cs, an he's a cow."
A GENUINE EXERCISE IN
COMPOSITION, BY A BOY
13 YEARS OLD.
“Sir, —You ask me how
1 spent King’s Birthday.
Well, my father called me
to get the cows at 4 a.m.
“Then 1 pumped water for the cows,
and gave them some feed, while my
brother got the horses ready to deliver
the milk in round the
town.
“We drove in and
delivered the milk, and
got back at half-past 7.
I cut the feed for the
cows,
“ an< J pumped some more water.
Then had breakfast.
“ I got up and drove them in.
I milked nine.
“After breakfast I turned the separ-
ator, and then fed the pigs. We
pumped more water for the cows, and
gave them more feed.
•* After dinner we cut some
lucerne got the cows in
to milk.” Then, having repeated the]
morning’s programme—with more pump*
ing, of course—the essay winds up
with: “Then I had tea, and went to
bed”—having first, let us hope, sang “God Save the King.”
THE DEVIL—IS HE A COW?


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Tiik Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the 00., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES i Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sendiny direct to Tub Bui,lutin' Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have This Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveeli for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to ve addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is . not a pood thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” in' the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be reyarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned., or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black anti White.
Anyone supplying to This Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
• — i.e., any picture 'which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
Neio Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at UJ6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ifolborn, London, TF.C:
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
Neivs Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bulletin metal advertising plates,size titin. x lUin. ,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 15, 1909.
HOW AUSTRALIA TO A GREAT EXTENT
MADE ENGLAND.
I’he Bulletin has received from England this
interesting communication, written in a neat
ilerkly hand on the back of a postcard :
38 Esher-road, Liverpool,
27th May, 1909.
Sir,—The kangaroo on an Australian postage stamp is
out of date, and I would humbly suggest an alternative,
namely, the “ Dog in the Manger.” For a people who
object to the Yellow man, and likewise their own kin,
to help in bringing the arid desert under cultivation, the
“ dog ” would be most appropriate. At the same time,
when the “ dog ” vvanjfcs a bone in the shape of a loan, he
can, as usual, have it for the asking.
To return good for evil is splendid Christianity, but
poor business. Shut out Britain’s goods, shut out her
honest poor, but pray accept her money and the pro-
tection of her navy. Yours, etc.
(Signed) John Siikehan.
That tale might be either English—the Podsnap
variety of English—or it might be Anglo-Aus-
tralian—the Decayed Fish variety of Anglo-
Australian. It would be characteristic in either
case. From the Podsnap variety of Englishman,
who really fancies that John Bull is God, many
things are possible. For the other alternative, as
The Bulletin has had occasion to remark before,
it is the ill-luck of Australia to be cursed with a
certain number of old Tories, mostly imported
from England, who consider any lie, slander
or dirty aspersion justifiable so long as it is
directed at their own country and its Demo-
cratic policy. These people hold that decency,
gentlemanly feeling, the Ten Commandments,
and what they are fond of calling “British Fair
Play ” are suspended when a chance comes
to demonstrate their “loyalty to the Empire”
by maligning the land which finds them
in food and raiment, when it ought rather to
find them in a good strong gallows.
* * * *
The story of The Bulletin’s British corres-
pondent is amazingly inaccurate, though that sort
of thing is only to be expected. Australia has
not yet shut out even one of its own kin, unless he
was so hopelessly diseased as to be a source of
positive danger. It certainly has an educational
test for immigrants, which test may be applied to
any and every arrival, but Australia didn’t want
to make it apply to white British subjects or to
any other white men. It was the very remark-
able British Government which declared that
there must be no appearance of drawing distinc-
tions between Englishmen, Zulus, Chinese, and
the like—the Englishman being strangely fond of
ranking himself with such people—and that the
education test, if there was to be one, must profess
to apply all round, otherwise the Act would be
vetoed. So, nominally, the education test applies
all round ; but no Englishman, Scotsman, Irish-
man, Frenchman, Belgian, German, Dane, Swede,
or any other white man whatsoever has yet been
asked to pass it, nor is there the least chance that
any of them will be asked. Instead of shutting
out the poor but deserving British person, Aus-
tralia is actually paying the unfortunate indivi-
dual’s passage money to help him get here, and
is hunting up well-paid jobs for him when
he arrives—very much better-paid jobs than
his own country offers him. It has been
doing this sort of thing for a very long while.
Within the last fifty-eight years Australia has
paid or mostly paid the passages of about 600,000
British people to its shores, which is a fair num-
ber of folk to drag half way round the globe on a
charitable errand. The number brought out in
1907 was nearly 5000, and the thing was done on
an even larger scale in 1908. As regards the
loans which Australia (described by The Bulle-
tin’s correspondent as “ the dog ”) gets from kind
old Bull ‘‘for the asking,” that is a familiar old
lie of the Tory press and easily recognisable. In
fact, it is as conspicuous as the absence of a bath-
room in the great majority of British houses. Aus-
tralia doesn’t get any loans “for the asking” ;
it gets them because it pays John Bull as good
interest as he can get anywhere else for the same
security; much more than he can get if he buys
his own consols; more than his own banks will
give him if he puts his money on fixed deposit;
more than he can make by investing in his own
agricultural lands since his absurd policy of Free-
trade ruined British agriculture, and quite as
much as his worst enemies, the Germans, are
willing to pay him. If Bull wants grovel, grati-
tude and abasement thrown in with a plain busi-
ness transaction, he had better knock half per
cent, off the interest. A half percent, for grovel
is not excessive. Of course, the idea, that the
borrower should be profoundly grateful to the
lender is very beautiful, and it is always acted
upon in England. In that country, where every-
thing is as it should be, the manager of the Bank
of England always goes down fiat on his stomach
when he sees a depositor—-even a very small one
—for the depositor has lent him money. And
everybody takes off his hat and steps lightly and
reverently while passing the pawnshop where his
watch and best clothes are, for the Moses within
has lent him money, and he feels, therefore, that
he should regard Moses as a father. Even the
British Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he is
doing the dog act, and is out after “a bone in the
shape of a loan,” manifests due humility, and
always hits his head on the floor three times. It
is one of the rules of the game.
Again, the lie about Australia shutting
out British goods is familiar. In the matter
of goods (as apart from coin and bullion)
Australia—tariff or no tariff—buys more from
Britain than Britain does from Australia;
and Australia gives Britain a preference over
other countries, yet it receives no preference.
In 1907 (the last year for which complete figures
are available) Australia bought from Britain
£31,900,000 worth of goods, and in return Britain
took from Australia £28,000,000 worth of goods
and many millions in gold. Any old coun-
try is willing to take gold. The biggest item in
the way of goods which Australia has to sell is
wool, and of that item France is now the largest
buyer, Britain comes second, and Germany is
third. All the same, the tale about the debt of
gratitude which Australia owes to its mode-
rate customer, John Bull, is a weariness of
which there appears to be no end.
And that amazing narrative about our indebted-
ness to Britain for naval defence grows to be a
weariness also. There are few British men-o’-
war here—very few, and small, and weakly-
armed, and mostly rather old. The best of the
lot is a third-rate warship aged 14 years, with an
obsolete and condemned type of boiler. It isn’t
considered worth re-boilering. One armored
cruiser of modern build could knock out the
whole lot. Their only active duty lies in keeping
order among the Polynesian isles, with many of
which Australia has little to do, and their beat
covers most of the South Pacific, where they do a
lot of work protecting English traders and Eng-
lish missionaries. It is commonly understood
that they are under orders to leave at once and
rendezvous at Singapore if war breaks out, but on
this point definite information is scarce. We
have no guarantee that any serviceable vessels
will come out in their stead in war-time ; but
more than one British statesman has declared
that, in the case of a conflict with a country of
Germany’s size, the whole British naval force will
necessarily be required around Britain’s own
shores, and that remote dependencies will have to
shift for themselves, and argue their own case
with any third party which chooses to think the
time opportune for plunder. Australia, as a
country that has paid a good deal for British
naval defence and got a very dubious quantity of
the goods, grows a trifle weary of these demands
upon its gratitude for problematical favors re-
ceived. The favors may be all right, but the
removal of every serviceable British ship out of
the Pacific creates a feeling of doubt. As regards
military defence, the six Australian States at
all events have sent very much larger forces to
assist Britain than Britain ever sent to assist
Australia. And they got much less reward for
their services. The officers of the little British
force which once loafed in this peaceful land
helped themselves rather liberally in the way of
rich grants of land, to say nothing of that amaz-
ingly profitable monopoly of the trade in rum
which they seized upon—wherefore the early
British garrison is known in history as the Rum-
Selling Corps even unto this day.
* * * *
It might help many Australians to get a better
understanding of the situation if they considered
this country’s back history a little more than they
do. The extent to which Australasia has helped
to make Britain is not generally understood
simply through lack of study. Just before the
Australasian goldfields were unearthed, Britain
was a poor but enterprising country, terribly ham-
pered according to modern ideas (in fact, all the
world was hampered in those days) by wantof float-
ing capital. Then the new wealth was dis-
covered, and the British pauper and the British
beggar and the British struggler and adventurer
rushed out, or were carried out at Australia’s
expense, to these parts, and in a great multitude
of eases went home again rich. A remarkable
number of them were carried out by Australian
charity. Inside 20 years (1851-1870) the Aus-
tralian Governments paid the passages of 307,158
British poor, that they might come here and dig
up the alluvial gold, and take advantage of the
land grants which, in the early days, were handed
out pretty liberally, and thereby get suddenly
affluent. A whole lot of the wealthy people
(some of them with titles) who malign Australia,
either in Australia or in England, on account
of its democratic legislation, might, to-day,
be scavenging or stone-breaking in the Old
Land but for this country’s liberality in that far-
back period. They might even be sandwich-men
—and it is difficult to imagine anything much
lower than a sandwich-man, toddling along in the
gutter between two boards, and barked at by
homeless dogs. Australasia raised £572,000,000
worth of gold between the years 1851 and
1908, and in one way and another Britain got
most of it. Australasia provided employment for
British bankers, who got as much as 36 per cent,
dividends on their money. That was what the
Union Bank of Australia paid to its English
shareholders in 1854 ; it started with a miserable
little capital of £143,972, and in its first 50 years
Australia enriched its English shareholders with
£8,607,422 of profits. In like manner the
Bank of Australasia started with £200,000 capital,
and in 53 years this country enriched its English
shareholders with £6,949,169 of profits. And in
the 20 years which have elapsed since then (for
these figures are only up to 1889) they have very
largely improved on this record. Despite
the crisis of 1893, the English banks in
Australasia, on the money which they actually
invested here, as apart from capitalised profits
and reserves which they earned here, are probably
making an all-round 20 per cent, to this day.
(There were four English-owned banks in Aus-
tralia when the memorable ruction of 1893 took
place, and exactly half of them suspended, to the
great inconvenience of Australian depositors, so
this country had a right to consider that English
banks, despite the great amount of profits which
they took out of the country, are not much more
good to the country than Australian banks after
all.)
* * * *
Then again, Australasia turned a whole herd, of
petty English dealers into merchant princes, and
some of them still have their warehouses in these
parts, and spend their profits in England. It
turned needy English adventurers into wealthy
squires, and they repaid the kindness by demand-
ing that the entire coal trade of N.S.W. should be
in their hands, and that no coal should be raised
except on their lands. In fact, for a while, any
Australians who dug up coal were sent to penal
servitude. Australasia supplied much profitable
employment for British shipowners, and it has
employed at different times over 100 British
Governors (and thereby helped to keep more than
one of them—-notably a dead-broke Governor who
dealt in hens—out of the workhouse) at salaries
ranging as high as £lO,OOO a year. For about 40
years, until the South African gold discoveries
brought a new contributor into the field, it was
almost wholly Australasian gold which created that
proud coin, the British sovereign, and it was
mostly Australasian gold which enabled Britain
to embark on that stupendous later career
of money-lending at compound interest which
made it the great world-usurer of recent times.
* * » *
In 1848, three years before the commencement
of Australasian gold production on a large scale,
it was estimated, according to the eminent British
statistician, Mulhall, that the whole of the
world’s stock of gold consisted of £157,000,000 in
the shape of coin and £343,000,000 uncoined
(jewellery, plate, etc.) —total, £500,000,000. There
had been a scarcity of new gold discoveries for
some centuries, and the world’s stock of the
medium of exchange was pretty low. It was this
unfortunate scarcity which caused the Bank of
England to suspend payment for 24 years (1797 to
1821), and flooded Britain with a depreciated
paper currency. Since the date of Mulhall’s
figures Australasia has supplied, mostly to Britain,
more gold than all the world was estimated to
possess before this country came on the scene.
Then, having run short of ready cash through
allowing its resources to be exploited wholesale
by British adventurers, Australasia supplied
John Bull with an investment for about
£300,000,000 of his money—most of it origin-
ally Australasian money, for until Australasia
started producing gold Bull hadn’t very much
actual gold to lend—in Australasian public securi-
ties, on which, in the early days, this country
often paid him as much as 6 and 7 per cent,
interest. In all this gigantic series of trans-
actions not one penny of interest or prin-
cipal has ever been in arrear, wherefore
Britain’s luck in its dealings with Australasia
was very different from what it experienced
when it lent to the Governments of Turkey,
Greece, Spain, Portugal, Guatemala, and a dozen
other foreign States. It was better than its
luck in its dealings with Austria, which
made a memorable composition. It was better
than in the case of Britain’s dealings with
France or .Russia. It was also better than the
luck Britain had with itself, seeing that the first
British public debt was repudiated in the time of
Charles 11. Nowadays Australasia’s trade with
Britain is almost equal to Britain’s trade with the
whole world 20 years before the Australasian gold
discoveries gave John Bull his memorable boost.
In proportion to its population, this country buys
more from Britain than any other country on
earth, and it is (in proportion to its population)
the most notable support of the British manu-
facturer. All of which things make up a fairly
good record.
* * * *
Australasia, by reason of the tribute it has re-
mitted to Britain in rents (many of them rents on
lands which the British owner never paid for) in
banking and insurance profits, in the profits de-
rived from mining concessions which were handed
out gratis to the British person, in the profits of
British mercantile firms established in Austral-
asia—in short, by reason of the Australasian
policy of allowing the British absentee the free
run of all this country’s resources —has supplied
Britain with enough money to meet the bill for
the whole naval defence of the Empire during the
last half century, and has contributed largely to
the Gold Country’s support in other ways as well.
And it has overlooked the fact that a big British
life assurance company once repudiated its Aus-
tralian liabilities, and that exactly one-half of the
British-owned banks here burst in 1893, to the
great inconvenience of the trusting Australasian
depositor. The fact that Britain, by its silly
Freetrade policy, has allowed a large proportion
of the profits it derived from Australasia to slip
away from it, is a different question, and one with
which Australasia has nothing to do. Consider-
ing all that Australia and Maoriland have done
for Britain, these communities have a right to be
just a little weary of the Imperialist or Decayed
Fish party, with its constant yelp about the
stupendous debt which we owe to the 3VIa Land.
Now and then there is even a feeling that the
debt is on the other side of the ledger, and that
but for Australasia there wouldn’t have been
nearly so much Ma Land as there is. The story
of How Australasia Made Britain is at least
as convincing as Parson Fitchett’s wonder-
ful narrative about How England Saved Europe.
And —apropos of the correspondent quoted
at the beginning of this article, and his typical
remark about this land’s readiness to “accept”
Bull’s money—it may be mentioned that Bull
accepted all the money which came to him from
these parts, and refused nothing. He accepted it
thanklessly and off-handedly, as one who only took
what was his due. He has even been accused now
and then of being a trifle condescending towards
the country which gave him so stupendous a leg
up, and of assuming the attitude of the Superior
Person; but that was doubtless a misapprehension.
THE CITY OF LIES.
Last week, the Sydney Telegraph was moved to
sudden fury in the matter of the proposed Aus-
tralian capital, and published two articles, one
headed “The Attack on Yass-Canberra,” and the
other “ Victorian Allegations : the Water Supply
Scare.” A few extracts follow :
So far as the Melbourne press is concerned, therefore,
the demand for Dalgety as the site of the Federal capital
—and it has been frankly admitted that, if Dalgety were
chosen, the seat of government might remain in Mel-
bourne for 50 years—can easily be grasped and accurately
appreciated. The interests of newspapers, in whatever
State they may be published, have no more claim for
consideration, of course, than the interests of any of the
citizens of the Oommonwealch. But the grievance of the
Melbourne papers is that, if the capital should be estab-
lished at Canberra, the exceptional advantages which
they enjoy would go with it, and that they would be on a
level with the other newspapers of Australia.
The opposition to Yass-Canberra, being fanned in Mel-
bourne, is prompted by objection to any site that is not
either actually or in effect Victorian. As the seat of
government, Melbourne is ideal in that view ; while as a
capital site Dalgety is the next best thing, because it
would be nearer Melbourne than Sydney, and anyhow it
presents so many difficulties and grounds of objection
that its selection would mean hanging the whole question
up and leaving Melbourne as the capital for years to come,
if not for ever. That this pettily provincial attitude
is representatively Victorian is quite unlikely, but it
has to be combated all the same, and involves
the same necessity for emphasising the proved suitability
of Yass-Canberra, the same energy on the part of New
South Wales Federal politicians in pressing for a settle-
ment of the whole question on constitutional lines. Yass-
Canberra has triumphantly survived the test of expert
inquiry under which the other sites have gone down. It
has the requisite scenic beauties, it is handily situated,
it has a city site that can be easily sewered and drained,
while as for water, in addition to the Cotter River there
are the Molonglo and Queanbeyan to levy on if necessary.
These facts are all attested by the Advisory Board,
which places recommendation of the site on an
impartial as well as an expert basis. The sugges-
tion that Sydney’s interest is at the back of
the advocacy of Yass-Canberra is absurd. What
has Sydney to gain from the capital being there, when
even the little bit of trade and traffic it might bring is
intended to go by way of Jervis Bay, and when the
capital will be so connected with the railways as to
enable inter-State visitors and Federal members to go
direct from their States? Whatever may be said of the
State as a whole, the chief Sydney interest in the matter
is in having the Constitution observed and Parliament’s
declared choice given effect to. Not much time, politi-
cally speaking, remains for doing this, consequently the
State’s r 'presentatives will need to vigorously press for
the final steps to be early taken to place the capital
where it belongs by constitutional provision and Parlia-
mentary preference.
* * # *
Now, even the worst kind of gutter publication
doesn’t, as a rule, start a course of hard lying
without having some object to serve; therefore,
the really remarkable series of falsehoods in the
screeds quoted above calls for investigation. In
the first place, the statement that it is the Mel-
bourne press which has consistently advocated
Dalgety as against Canberra is a lie: it was The
Bulletin that did so, and The Bulletin did it
in what it believed to be the interests of Australia,
as apart from the local interests of either Sydney or
Melbourne. In the second place, the statement
that “it has been frankly admitted that if
Dalgety were chosen the seat of Government
might remain in Melbourne for 50 years ” is a lie,
except in the sense that something of that, sort
might be “ frankly admitted ” by the Telegraph,
or some such rag. In the third place, the
statement that if the Federal capital were
planted at Yass-Canberra the Melbourne papers
“ would be on a level with the other newspapers
of Australia ” is a lie. for the Sydney papers
would be only about 200 miles from the Federal
city ; the Brisbane papers would be about 800
miles away ; the Melbourne ones would be about
600 miles away ; the Launceston, Hobart, Adelaide
and Perth papers would be so far away that their
chance of competing for any Federal capital busi-
ness wouldn’t be worth alluding to. And in the
fourth place, the statement that Dalgety is nearer
to Melbourne than to Sydney by any possible
road or railway route is a conspicuous and glaring
and foolish lie. And the reason for all these lies
is worth looking into.
* * * *
There are no special and intrinsic virtues about
the Yassberra Federal capital site to recommend
it above all others. It was reported upon only
the other day by four specially-appointed officials,
all men from Sydney, and presumably not pre-
judiced against Yassberra because of its nearness
to Sydney. They said nothing at all in favor of
the beauty of the site or the fertility of the soil.
They said, distinctly, that the Cotter Creek, which
has been put forward as the great standby of
Yassberra ever since it was first heard of, can’t be
relied upon to supply the wants of a modern and
up-to-date city of more than 50,000 people ; and
when the little United Kingdom, which would be
lost in a corner of one of Australia’s big States,
has a capital with 6,000,000 people, this idea of
providing for the future of a mere 50,000 inhabit-
ants seems a terribly short-sighted business. They
added that, even for 50,000 people, the supply
would be very costly. About two other creeks,
the Queanbeyan and Molonglo, they said that
“ prolonged gauging and still further investiga-
tion ” would be required before anything would
be really known as to their value. Concerning the
proposed Federal port at Jervis Bay, they said that
considerable works would be necessary to make
it a safe and serviceable harbor. And since that
report was issued a N.S.W. State Parliamentary
committee has declared against the proposal to
extend the N.S.W. South Coast railway from
Bomaderry to Jervis Bay, on the ground that the
country down towards the proposed Federal port
is so barren that it isn’t worth the trouble and
expense of a line.
* * * *
Therefore the question keeps rising : Who is to
profit by this Canberra capital, and why should
the Sydney Telegraph lie so furiously and reck-
lessly and unscrupulously on its account? The
place has neither scenery, fertility, water supply
nor water power to recommend it. It is no more
within the limits of the Constitution than Dal-
gety is. It won’t be of any special advantage to
the Sydney traders; if it is a failure and a
mere petty country town its trade won’t help
Sydney much, and if it is a success and
becomes a big, noble city its competition will
be disastrous to Sydney. Apparently the only
profit will go to the Sydney morning papers.


With a capital at Canberra, these papers, aided
by the special trains kindly put at their service
by the N.S.W. State Government, could arrive in
the Federal city about 7 a.m., which is as early as
anybody wants a paper. Under these circum-
stances, the job of starting a rival paper in the
Federal city would he just as tough and difficult
as the job of starting a rival paper in Sydney
itself. But at Dalgety neither Sydney nor Mel-
bourne papers could arrive until much later in the
day. They would both be out of all serious con-
sideration. The Federal city would produce
great journals of its own. They might be Pro-
tectionist papers, which would be bad in the view
of the S. M. Herald and Telegraph. They
might be strongly Federal papers, as against the
State Frights attitude of the journals of
the State capital, which would be even
worse. They might even be Labor papers,
which would be horrible—ten different kinds of
horrible. The idea of a Federal city where the
Labor Morning Herald or the Workers’ Tele-
graph—a paper which advocated high wages,
Federal control of industrial legislation, Federal
ownership of railways, Unification and Recon-
struction, the abolition of State Governors and
State Upper Houses, the Federal progressive
land-tax, and the like—would be dropped on
everybody’s doorstep at 7 a.m., while the dis-
credited Tory and anti-Socialistie morning paper
from Sydney only arrived about 10, and the
lamentable Tory rag from Melbourne didn’t toil in
till noon, is the sort of idea that certainly doesn’t
appeal to the Telegraph and the S. M. Herald.
Of course, they might start papers of their own
at a capital like Dalgety, but these papers would
set out from scratch, in competition with the
workers’ daily local organ; whereas, in such a
pla.ee as Canberra, the Sydney anti-Socialist
papers would be great, strong, old-established
publications, and their existing organisations in
King-street and Hunter-street would answer as
well as they do in Sydney itself. If the capital
was placed where the Sydney-built paper could be
delivered in time, there would be no need for new
offices, new machinery, new staffs, and new
organisation. These are the only visible reasons
why the Sydney morning papers should lie in such
a wholesale manner in favor of Canberra —the
barren/ordinary place with the unreliable water
supply.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Elective Ministries—Some Further Aspects.
For days the morning papers have been wailing
over the stoppage of public business, and the dis-
organisation and scandal and chaos that have
resulted from the Labor party’s demonstration in
the Australian Parliament of the farce to which it
is possible to reduce the existing governmental
system. And the spectacle has made so strong an
impression outside the House that once more talk
is rife concerning Elective Ministries—the one sure
method of preventing the sort of futile time-
wasting to which the dailies take exception—and
actually a proposal is afoot to introduce the
Elective Ministry system in the N.S.W. Legisla-
ture. So the Sydney Telegraph, because it
is always against the adoption of any principle,
however obviously sane, that is not of English
extraction, squared its jaw (l/7/’O9) and waded in
to show that, however bad and - foolish, and
ruinous to progress, and preventive of the carry-
ing out of the business of the country, the present
obsolete system may be, yet the Elective Ministry
one —which has been working smoothly on the
Continent of Europe for years—must be infinitely
worse. Its arguments in support of this theory
are:
(1) The Elective Ministry arrangement might act as a
solvent of party ties.
(2) The official position of a Minister elected by a
majority of members would be such as to make him
entirely independent of his colleagues. It would be feas-
ible that Ministers of diametrically opposite political
views might be elected to sit together in Cabinet, and
harmony of policy would be impossible.
Why the Elective Ministry system should dissolve
“ party ties” —in the sense of driving people to go
back on their convictions and their leaders—
is not clear. That, as a fact, is the effect
that is being produced under the present
arrangement which puts so high a premium
on the abandonment of principle by parliamen-
tarians. The maddened Freetrade leaguers who
met in Sydney recently and repudiated various
prominent Federal Freetraders, and pledged them-
selves to work against the latter for the future,
would never have been impelled to do so had
those whom they assailed been members of a
House run on the Elective Ministry basis, and so
not been forced to follow a fiscal path of which
they disapproved. Possibly the Telegraph fears
that the Freetrader who was left out of a Ministry
by the votes of his fellows would be liable to turn
Protectionist in his annoyance at the slight. But
Freetraders haven’t apostatised to any great
extent as a protest against being left out of Minis-
tries by their leaders in the past. Equally absurd
is the contention that the presence in an elected
Cabinet of Ministers of conflicting opinions must
make for dissension. The reverse is the case. In
what Elective Ministry would it be possible to find
a greater number of conflicting elements than in
the present confused Cabinet, which holds Joe
Cook, Freetrade Tory ; Deakin, Democratic Pro-
tectionist; Forrest, Protectionist Tory, and a
heterogeneous mass of sectarians, anti-sectarians,
pro- and anti-defenceites, State-frig liters and
nationalists. It is impossible for these folks
to be honest and to agree for long under
the imported Cabinet system at present in vogue
—a system which postulates that a Minister
who holds views contrary to those of his colleagues
must either dissemble the same or go. The
Federal Cabinet, as at present constituted, exists
collectively and individually, if not by open
lying, at the least by chronic suppressio veri. The
expression by any member of it of his sincere
views on almost any topic of importance would
mean an instant burst-up of the entire concern.
And that is a state of affairs that must make,
men with any glimmerings of self-respect,
for perpetual humiliation and friction. TjhMm' the
Elective system a Minister would not need to be
dishonest to remain in office, and a prolific source
of jar and trouble would be removed. Instead, the
Ministry being elected irrevocably, for a set period,
regardless of the expressed views of its members,
or of the fates of the measures they supported, it
would be practicable for Deakin. if the mischance
of the ballot cast him into Cabinet association
with one so antithetic to him as Cook, to vote and
speak according to his convictions on a vitally
urgent issue such as the capital site one; and it
would be pbssible for Cook to remain Deakin’s
colleague and yet do no outrage to his (Cook’s)
fiscal conscience. Each could speak the thing he
thought without danger of losing his steady job as
Minister thereby. And, further, the House at
large could vote and talk on these and other
questions as it thought, so that it would be
possible for one who was anti-Australian on
the fiscal issue to vote pro-Australian on
(say) a defence issue without the ghastly
prospect of hurling a well-loved leader into
screwless obscurity ; and possible, in like fashion,
for a Victorian Protectionist to assault Dread-
nausea without injuring, or severing relations with
Alfred Deakin. Assuredly the effects that
would not be produced are those which the Tele-
graph fears—viz., the weaning of the politician
from his allegiance to the “party”—the crowd, to
wit, that thinks as he does on any given political
topic—and the causing of dissension among
Cabinet colleagues. Apart from which it is a
scheme that is worth introducing, if only for the
huge amount of lying (directly and by implication),
and dishonesty generally that it would exorcise
from our public life.
The Curious Case of the B. N. Z.
The affairs of Maoriland’s big bank —the B.N.Z.
—are a curious study these days. The institution
has £1,000,000 capital, of which £500,000 consists
of preference shares taken up by the State. The
dividends on the State's preference shares
are limited to 10 per cent. ; the dividends
on the £500,000 worth of ordinary shares
held by the public may go up to any figure,
and as a matter of fact the ordinary shareholders
have just received 12J percent. The Government
has also advanced to the bank £1,000,000 of its
own good loan money at 4 per cent., repayable in
1914. Now. last year the bank earned £408,151,
so if the £500,000 of ordinary capital, the £500,000
of the State’s preference capital, and the £1,000,000
State loan had all been regarded as capital rank-
ing equally, the return would have been over 20
per cent. And it would have been possible to
pay a 10 per cent, dividend all round and yet
add £208,151 to reserves. As the Government’s
£1,000,000 loan only carried a fixed 4 per cent., the
£368,151 of profit which remained after this item
of interest was paid represented £36 16s. 3d. per
cent, on the £500,000 ordinary capital and £500,000
preference capital. Either way the case is looked
at the profits are fairly gorgeous, and for all these
profits the bank is indebted to State interference.
It was once a purely Private Enterprise concern.
The private shareholders elected strange, weird
beings to manage their affairs, and the strange,
weird creatures steered the vessel on to the rocks.
They appear to have been so excited that they
couldn’t see a financial rock anywhere without
rushing straight at it. A time came when all the
capital and reserves were lost, and a lot of the
deposits as well. It was decided to close up for
good and all, unless the State would come to
the rescue. The State came. It took a risk
that no private capitalist would look at, and
advanced £2,000,000, of which £500,000 has
since been repaid. It took over the manage-
ment, gave the bank all the Government business,
bought up the Colonial Bank and added its con-
nection to that of the 8.N.Z., and saved the
situation. But for the State the shareholders
would never have seen another dividend, and
would have had, in addition, to pay up every
copper of uncalled capital that could be squeezed
out of them. Thanks to the State, the private
shareholders have just received a 12£ per cent,
dividend, and have the joy of knowing that the
reserves stand at £710,999. And now a remark-
able thing is foreshadowed. At present the
private shareholders own half the bank; that is
to say, they hold £500,000 out of the paid-up capi-
tal of £1,000,000. But it is understood that they
are to be allowed to pay up their uncalled capital,
which they will joyfully do if permitted—any-
body would joyfully put more money into
a safe-looking concern, where the profits, thanks
to State aid and to the fact that the State
only asks 4 per cent, on its advance of
£1,000,000, run to over 36 per cent, on capital; so
these private shareholders will presently own
two-thirds or perhaps three-fourths of the rich
institution which the State saved for them,
instead of a mere half as at present. If this is
done it can only be said that the wild generosity
of the State, in giving away to Private Enterprise
so- large a share in a bank which ought to be
wholly its bank, because, save for the State, there
would be no bank at all, is unaccountable. Also,
it seems a trifle mad. The State would be fully
justified if it insisted on turning its £1,000,000
loan at 4 per cent, into preference shares with a
right to dividends up to 10 per cent., and thus
made itself permanent owner of three-fourths of
the concern. Even then the fourth interest that
was left to Private Enterprise would be the State’s
free gift to the shareholders, seeing that, but for
the State, the B.N.Z. would have died alto-
gether. A State which made Private Enterprise
a present of shares with a face value of
£500,000 and a five-eighths interest in profits
while they keep at the present £400,000 a year,
could hardly be called stingy. Then, if the profits
kept up, the State would get a return of £150,000
a year on its investment of £1,500,000. Assum-
ing that it set aside £60,000 a year to pay interest
on the £l,soo,ooo—that sum being all loan money
—it would have a balance of £90,000; and if it
set that aside to accumulate at compound in-
terest in reduction of the truly awful public debt
it would at least be doing something for the public
good without putting any strain on the people’s
purse. The amount —£90,000—may not look
much, but in 50 years it would accumulate at
per cent, compound interest to nearly £12,000,000,
and in 100 years it would almost overtake the
existing public debt, large as that is. Maoriland
is so deeply attached to its public debt—it loves
it as if it were a brother—that it would probably
prefer to give away this chance as a free gift to
the private shareholders of the 8.N.Z.; still, in
case the Dominion should have a lucid interval
the matter is worth a mention.
* Food-grabbers.
A tattle news by cable, and a little more by mail,
came to the Australian daily press concerning the
“ Report of a Departmental Committee appointed
to inquire into combinations in the Meat Trade,”
as it affected the land of ,T. Bull. The food-
grabbers of Chicago have lately captured beef-and-
cattle companies in Argentina, and the baleful
glare of the vulture eye has been cast upon Aus-
tralia and Maoriland also. Here are some of the
facts established concerning this gorged meat-
eater, known as the United States Beef Trust: —•
(1) Four U.S. firms—Armour, Swift, Morris, and the
National Packing Co. (all owning subsidiary English
companies)—together with two of less importance, exer-
cise in combination a large control, rapidly growing, over
British markets.
(2) The Trust runs a Black List of persons who are not
to be supplied by any of its members.
(3) The Trust, by regulating supplies, can send prices
up or down in the enormous Smithfi Id Market, and does
actually and absolutely fix provincial prices at an agreed
advance upon that of Srnithfield.
(4) The Trust has control over practically all the ship-
ping space for carrying cattle from North America to
England ; and can smash any rival not possessed of a
capital like the Pyramids.
(5) The Trust holds many stalls in Srnithfield Market,
and can coerce stallholders who depend upon it for sup-
plies.
(6) The Trust has captured two huge beef companies in
Argentina; and is likely to capture more. When it does,
“ the situation may well become serious.” (Even J.
Butt recognises that.)
(7) The Trust controls absolutely the supply of chilled
beef from the U.S. A. ; and this was almost the whole of
Britain’s import till Australia and Argentina took a hand.
(8) The Trust has “made inquiries in Australia and
Maoriland.”
Now, it is easy to see how the depredations of
this cormorant affect J. Bull, and just as easy to
see how they affect Australia. It reaches out to
swallow the Argentine beef, because Argentine
beef jumped from about l,ooo,ooocwt. in 1904 to
3,600,000 cwt. in 1908. When the Argentine meat
goes down its maw, one of two things has got to
happen to the Australian beef-export trade. It
will be either captured or killed. If U.S.A. and
Argentine supplies are refused to dealers who
buy Australian beef, the Devil would not smell
worse to them than an Australian carcase ; and the
deadness of a frozen leg of bullock would be
nothing to the deadness of the industry. The
Wise People say, “Anyhow, mutton is safe”; but
a Polyphemus that had gulped all that beef would
soon raven for mutton also. Therefore, it is up
to J. Bull to deal harshly and bitterly with these
marauders, who otherwise will devour the Chil-
dren Who Give Him Dreadnoughts. It is also
up to J. Bull to consider his own hungry con-
dition. The Beef Trust, if it likes, can send his
national sirloin up to a huge price, so that the
Roast Beef of Old England will be a dish for
dukes only. It is a rare enough diet already for
Britain’s 12,000,000 on the verge of starvation ;
but it will become so rare that the 12,000,000 won’t,
know the difference between it and lobster.
. ♦-
Cash v. Corpse.
It seems almost impossible to suppose that Tait,
who wears the cigar in hisface, is wholly responsible
for it; but it is an amazing fact, nevertheless,
that more people have been killed on the Victorian
railways during the last three years than in any
previous half-dozen or so. Compare the last three
years with the three before that: —
1903 .. 28 1906 .. 60
1904 .. 25 1907 .. 55
1905 .. 25 1908 .. 90
Total 78 Total 205
Formerly the Victorian railways didu’tdoany thing
special in the way of butchery, though they had
a bad record in the boom days ; and for 14 years
from 1901 down to 1906 they averaged only 37
corpses a year. Now, however, they jump to an
average of over 68. Of course, as remarked just
now, it seems almost impossible to suppose that
one man is responsible for this ; yet it isn’t calcu-
lated to make Victorian railway travellers any
more comfortable when they remember that
Canada, where this one man got his railway
training, and learned method which he presumably
tries to reproduce, has the worst railway
statistics in the world so far as sudden
deaths among passengers are concerned. Tait’s
own Government printed the latest statistics on
the subject, the other day ; they showed Belgium
at the top of the list with three-quarters of a
corpse per 10,000,000 passengers, down through
Austria, France and Germany, all with less than
one full corpse per 10,000,000 passengers, and on
to these last disgraceful three at the bottom :
Spain .. .. .. .. .. 5 "54
Russia .. .. .. .. .. 9’Bo
Canada XO'OS
It may, of course, be that the Canadian has a
habit of lying on the steel rails for the sake of
warmth, and gets fatally hurt in consequence ; on
the other hand, it may be that the Canadian rail-
ways decide to take certain risks —practically to
do certain murders—for the sake of saving
money. It looks cold-blooded when put that
way ; but in industrial concerns—mines and such-
like —the cold-blooded proceeding is done every
day of the week. Practically every accident is
preventable; it is simply a matter of spending
enough money and spending it in the right way.
Adopting that principle, one of the commonest
of all State mining regulations is that the
occurrence of an accident shall be priiaa facie
evidence of neglect on the part of the owners or
managers. Therefore, when a railway system
shows an appalling number of accidents it is a
fair thing to assume that more than what others
reckon a fair amount of risk is being in-
curred ; and that is an item which ought to
be taken into account in comparing finan-
cial results. Statisticians haven’t yet agreed
what is a reasonable thing to charge up
for a corpse; but if £5OOO is about the
right figure, then Tait’s financial results for the
three years are in the aggregate about £450,000
worse than they look, seeing that the corpses have
numbered about 30 a year more than the average.
However, Victoria doesn’t want corpses, anyhow,
even if they are put in a balance-sheet after-
wards ; and what it therefore needs to do is to
very seriously consider whether it approves of a
system of railway management which, presumably
in order to save pence, risks life as it obviously
has been risked during the past three years.
♦
Bull and Chow.
Hitherto our father 801 l has been hardly able
to understand Australia’s antipathy to yellow
immigration ; and has been wont to remark that,
as the Yellows are hard-working, sober, law-
abiding people, it is impossible to see why they
should be excluded, unless it is that their virtues
are objectionable. Now he has got a very small
Chinese problem of his own, and in a little while
he will probably be able to view the white man’s
exclusiveness with an altered mind. The first
Chinese settlement of any size was in Liverpool,
and the aliens seem to have been a picked lot.
They settled down quietly, and took unto them-
selves English wives. The colony was watched
closely by the police, who reported from
time to time that the Chinese were law-abiding,
industrious, sober, and altogether very free from
crime. The fact that a great crime was being
committed by the mixture of the races and the
creation of a half-caste population, didn’t appeal
to Bull ; mulatto and Eurasian and piebald
Eroblems are new to that complacent, top-
ooted, bulldog-followed person. Then a colony
settled in the Limehouse district of London, and
the West India Docks quarter was quickly and
quietly overrun. Again the police kept a close
supervision, and reported a striking absence
of drink or crime. They didn’t inquire
about opium. As the Chows paid their way
and never gave back talk to the shopkeepers, the
“ business people ” were loud in their praises, and
had no hesitation in declaring that the heathen
were much superior to their own folk. But when
the Chinese shopkeeper, boarding-house land-
lord, and entertainer arrived on the spot, the
Chinese youth cheerfully chucked the English girl
under the chin, but refrained from spending any
cash with the English. In fact, he began to com-
pete with the business people. Then the business
people turned with a snarl, and made complaints.
But the complaints were unheeded. Quite re-
cently, however, a batch of Chinese coolies, 1000
strong, whose time on the Rand had expired,
came to South Wales and were promptly put to
work in the coal mines at one-fourth the very
moderate wages received by the local Taffies. Had
this happened ten years ago, Bull would not
have been much impressed by the yells of his
working classes; but with the German menace
haunting his dreams, the patriotism of our father
Bull threatens to become aggressive, and he is
worried. The question that is worrying Bull is
—if the sons of Han displace the English
and Welsh workers, where will the country get
the fighters it will certainly one day require to
shove back the German attack ? So, notwith-
standing their thrift, industry and other domestic
virtues, our father Bull begins to regard the
Chinese immigrants with a cold, unfriendly eye ;
and if the influx continues it is certain that some
sort of measure of exclusion will yet be submitted
to Parliament. Bull, in fact, is threatening to
evolve a White England doctrine.
Peers as Pioneers.
About an African white elephant:—
There is a prospect of Rhodesia becoming part of
United South Africa, and the peers and their friends who
compose the Chartered Co. are jubilant. Australians, it
is said, are too prone to seek aid from Governments. If,
however, one desires to see cadging carried on in a
manner high and aristocratic, let him observe the ways of
the B.S.A. Co. That company is composed mainly of
members of the British nobility ; a duke is president, and
his co-directors include a baronet, a lord, and a marquis.
Smaller fry have a say in the business ; but, being small
fry, they are of little account. The charter was
granted 20 years ago, and the authorised share capi-
tal is £9,000,000, of which £6,000,000 has been issued.
There have been no dividends, and to-day the public debt
of Rhodesia is probably not less than £12,000,000. The
company possesses no railways or harbors, and the best
parts of the country have been sold, or granted, to com-
panies and to individuals. This is the great area that
Rhodes “added to the Empire.” Believing it to be
studded with future gold and diamond mines, Rhodes
first intrigued with its unsophisticated monarch, then
turned the Maxim guns on his men, and slew them as
Kitchener butchered the Soudanese. The British empire
is not colored blood-red for nothing. Once the old king
had been driven into the wilds, Rhodesia became part of
Britain’s possessions, but on a peculiar, and a strictly
financial,! basis. The British South African Company,
with its lords and dukes, Was formed, and shares were
sold to the common people. Lands were disposed of, tjje co.
receiving the purchase money. But the co. retained all
the belts supposed to be rich in gold. Customs and
Excise duties were levied by the co, which, at the same
time, administered some kind of law. Rhodes thought
he would get gold—gold galore. The gold he was to keep,
the land he was to sell; and what was left —nothing—he
would present patriotically to the Empire.
Mashonaland and Matabeleland turned out to be poor
in gold, and Rhodes realised that, as far as he was con-
cerned, Rhodesia was scarcely worth the trouble of
acquiring. Of the mines opened few proved payable,
even with labor which cost next to nothing. Rhodes
soon entered upon a game of superb bluff. While dupes
and myrmidons acclaimed him as the great Imperialist, the
man, it is now known, was engaged in a sordid attempt
to foist Rhodesia upon Cape Colony'. John X. Mkkri-
max, present Premier at the Cape, knew as much about
the ways and the dodges of Rhodes as any man living,
and he it was that prevented the millionaire schemer
getting rid of his bad bargain. Rhodes desired that
the Cape should take over the public debt of
Rhodesia—then some millions fewer than it is now
—and buy out the British South African Co.
at a tremendously enhanced figure. But John X.
let it be known that he was aware of the true state
of affairs, and the transfer of Rhodesia to the Cape
had to be postponed. The peers who direct the B.S.A.C.
are unique as barefaced cadgers. Twice they have
appealed to the British Government for aid, and twice
they have been refused. Cr.ewe, this year, wrote that
the British Government “ had never undertaken financial
responsibility in connection with the Chartered Co., and
was unable to depart from that policy.” Our common
Australian pioneers knew not how to go about their
business. A peer or two to do the cadging, in a style
befitting aristocrats, and a Rhodes to dispose of the spoil
may yet become the fashion. For brazen impudence in
the begging line, and in grandly passing along bad bar-
gains, the peers of Britain stand supreme. Their chance
seems to have come at last. Everything comes to him
who waits, even though the him is a peer.
• *•
Sydney got a reminder, the other week, that the
Meat Ring is a very real affair. The price of
meat in the Sydney market is kept up by the
Sydney Meat Preserving Company, which sends
its agent or minion to the sales, where he buys
enough to prevent prices falling. To ei*ible
it to do this the company is subsidised by the
pastoralists. During a few recent mouths supplies
had been’coming forward freely, and the co. had
Futile Toilers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Wilks (N.S.W.) refuted the statement of Mr.
Thomas when he said that supporters of the Ministry only
represented the well-housed, the well-clothed and the
well-fed. He represented as hard workers as did those
sitting opposite to him.—Parliamentary report (8/7/’O9).
True for you, Wilks. Without the slightest
doubt
You represent an ultra-busy crowd ;
Unceasingly it works—day in, day out,
And machinates and plots—grave, anxious-
browed—
To put the Pope (and myrmidons) to rout,
And cast them forth hopelessly “broke” and
cowed.
Each street and lane of your electorate,
East, west, and likewise furthest north and
south,
Contains its quota of weird folks who rate
And scold aloud, like squatters in a drouth,
At Rome and its “appalling moral state,”
And slay the agbd town by word of mouth.
In sundry lodges scores and scores of them
Do gather, and with speech and song proceed
The Scarlet Woman’s march to try and stem.
In their endeavors to effect this deed
They spout like boreholes, pour forth gem on gem
Of thought—and yet somehow they don’t
succeed.
On all sides “ Prentice Boys of Derry” cheer
The late King William ; tear large gaping
rents
In John the Twenty-third’s good name, and jeer
At Pius and the rest —the which events
Are held to fill the Seven Hills with fear
Of those who, Wilks, are your constituents.
From Balmain in the north to Annandale,
From Mortlake unto Rozelle in the east,
The mere word “ Carthlick” makes electors wail,
Drop what they’re at and start to smite the
Beast,
(The Vatican to Wit) and wrench Its tail—
Withal It doesn’t worry in the least.
Your friends toil madly, Wilks, one must confess,
That is a point on which all will agree ;
The thing that’s hard to grasp or learn or guess
Is what the sense of all of it may be.
It seems so curiously profitless—
Such a wild waste of time and energy.
N.s.w.
J. B. D.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT•
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept on hand for immediate use,
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Filins
W FOR HIRERS anti BUYERS.
We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
386 Ceorge Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Polling St., Melbourne ; 98 Queen St., Brisbane.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
Nothing seems to gratify party spirit so
much as party obstruction. And so the game
continues, in spite of D.O.L. Whisky being always
available to inspire wiser counsels. D.C.L., the
scholarly brand, as the spirit of progress subdues
any desire towards unruly, ebullitions, of party re-
sentment, and is the ally of all parties of wise
patriotic aims.*
to buy very hard in order to maintain the
famine price of steak and chops. As a re-
sult, the co. : s works had to run full time
preparing the carcases for export. (It is,
of course, necessary that the Sydney Meat Co.’s
purchases should be kept off the local market.)
The works ran until breaking point was reached,
and then the management gave notice that a halt
would have to be called in order to overhaul the
plant. At this intimation there was a slight
fall in values at the Flemington saleyards,
and consumers thought they saw cheap meat
on the horizon. But they didn’t. The
squatters simply kept their stock back till
the Meat Co. would be again ready to buy and
thus preserve the artificial famine and the arti-
ficial scarcity ; and the only difference was that
prices, with the artificial competitor out of the
way, were a shade higher than usual—and the
Lord knows they are usually high enough.
+
That rather interesting sheep-man, “ Wingen ”
Abbott, recently told N.S.W.' Pastoralists’
Union that he was in a puzzled state of mind :
He failed to understand why all our Australian Govern-
ments, while doing all that was possible to hamper,
restrict, and discourage the pastoralisc industry, should
make such strenuous efforts to create and subsidise
numerous small industries, which could not live without
ever-increasing assistance, as in the irrigation colonies of
Victoria and N.S.W., by heavy subsidies at the expense of
the non-subsidised staple industries, which grow up
naturally without assistance.
The grammar is not very splendid, but it is clear
enough to show that Mr. Abbott is still suffering
from an old and exploded delusion. The wool
person is firmly convinced that his industry is
“natural” because Providence didn’t put the
sheep here, and that, say, the iron industry is
artificial because Providence did put the neces-
sary iron and coal here. It looks rather an in-
verted yarn, but the pastoralist sticks to it man-
fully. And he has an intense admiration for his
own independence and the way he has built up
his; industry without State aid. The paltry
assistance he got from the community was mainly
this :
(1) The State provided the original sheep.
(2) It supplied the original squatters with land gratis.
(3) It supplied them with practically gratis (convict)
labor.
(4) In later years it leased out land to the squatter at a
mere fraction of the price which it would charge for
similar land to the agriculturist. It still does this.
(5) It covered N.S.W. with non-paying railways to bring
the squatter’s wool to market, and taxed the city artisan
to make good the loss on the squatter’s railways. No
railway through purely squatting country has ever paid.
(6) It exempted the squatter during many years from
the local rates and taxes which the city artisan had to
pay, and taxed the city artisan to provide the squatter
with roads, etc.
(7) It carries the squatter’s wool by rail at a far lower
rate than it charges the manufacturer on his goods. It
carries fodder for his stock in drought time at almost
nothing. It shifts his stock in drought time at just about
nothing. It makes Government tanks and bores to water
his travelling stock. Also it supplies agricultural
colleges, travelling instructors, stud bulls, and other
trifles, all on pauper-aid principles.
Barring these and a dozen or two other matters,
the squatter has always been a fine, upstanding
fellow, scorning State aid, refusing subsidies, and
declining to be pauperised in any way.
+
Sydney Telegraph's London correspondent,
writing on May 21, told how the unskilled
casual laborer is made, and the story has lessons
for Australia :
The trouble in London is that there are tens of
thousands of positions which a man might fill, but a boy
can fill equally well. A boy leaving school is a smarter
messenger than a grown man, and he is as good as a man
at delivering goods, at working an elevator, elementary
office work, and a dozen other things that give employ-
ment to tens of thousands in London. ... In the great
majority of cases he reaches 19 or 20, needs more money,
applies for it, and is promptly paid off and succeeded by
another schoolboy. ... He is driven without option to
the ranks of casual, unskilled work.
It all comes of sending children to earn their
living at work that can give them no future. It
suits the employer to pay better wages to an
errand boy, or lift boy, than he will to one whom
he is bound to teach something; and it suits the
parents to be relieved of the maintenance of their
children. But it does not suit the nation to have
its collective earning power reduced in that way.
We may not be ready for it yet; but if the manu-
facture of casual laborers continues at the present
appalling rate, the State will yet have to keep
hold of every boy on leaving school, and give its
consent before he accepts any particular employ-
ment until he is, say, 18. Quite half of the bovs
who leave school simply drift into work—any old
work that happens to offer at the moment. With
the help of the Education Departments, some
bold steps will have to be taken to stop so much
drifting.
“Lex”: Said C. Gr. Wade in N.S.W. Legis-
lature, apropos the elevation of C.J. Darley
to the N.S.W. Bench :
And it was common knowledge that he made a great
pecuniary sacrifice, out of regard for public duty, to go
on the Bench. It was a sacrifice that the public should
not b% unmindful of—etc.
As I read it, the tired feeling crept insistently all
over me, and refused to be exorcised. Whenever
a N.S.W. barrister takes to the lucrative and by
no means onerous job of judging, this hoary old
gag is trotted out. The said gag is an importation
from England, where it is no unusual thing for a
specialist in one line or another (divorce, patents
law, parliamentary work, or what not) to make
£15,000 a year. As applied to N.S.W. it has
no significance. I once heard C.J. Darley
say that in his best year he never made £7ooo—
i. 1 e 'y as n °k man to depreciate himself.
Ihe barrister’s income takes a lot of earning. It
means work by day and night, rigid attendance at
chambers, considerable outlay in travelling ex-
penses, solicitor-entertaining and so forth—and
w ' t h lean years, litigiously speaking,
are liable to happen along in which the
takings slump, and painfully little ink goes
into the fee-book. The Judge, even of the
puisne breed, banks a certain £52 per week
(if he is C.J. it is £7O), and also he commands
£254 per annum for an associate (who may be a
son, if the family is so disposed), and has all his
travelling and hotel exes., when he is on public
business, paid by the State. He works short
hours, gets a vacation of imposing dimen-
sions, and, finally, he hasn’t to lay up
any of his earnings against the dark hour of eld
—for the country supplies him with a generous
post-graft allowance till he dies. There are few,
dashed few, barristers who can pouch a regular
£5O a week the year round in N.S.W. The ones
that do amass the cash by the sweat of their in-
tellects, nor have they any hope in life of carry-
ing on the profitable work for more than a limited
number of years. There is none of them but
would leap madly at a judgeship if it were
dangled in his neighborhood. Also, there is none
—big-fee earner or otherwise—of whom his fellow-
barristers wouldn’t say, WADE-like, after he had
leapt and made good that he did so “at great
pecuniary loss,” and solely out of a desire to boost
up the fortunes of his suffering State.
.
The cry of the Tory press about what it calls Mr.
Fisher’s “policy of obstruction’’—that was the
Sydney Telegraph’s phrase—is rather curious
when read alongside its language of eight or nine
years ago. Then Kingston was shoving the tariff
through, and the Telegraph remarked proudly
that he didn’t know what real obstruction meant
until McMillan and Pumpkin Smith and Cook
showed how the thing was done in N.S.W. One
memorable evening McMillan wanted to adjourn
after a single item of the tariff had been passed.
Kingston refused, so Pumpkin Smith and his
party arranged a stonewall to last all night. The
generalship of Pumpkin, according to the Tele-
graph, was marvellous; and it went on to add, in
a tone of reverence, that his own contribution to
the blockade and the stoppage of public business
was a speech of five hours, and that he
finished up quite fresh. There were many
months of this silly, wooden-headed stone-
walling, and through it all the Telegraph’s
reverence for the staying power of Pumpkin
Smith was an almost holy thing. But the scene
has changed, and now, when the Labor party
talks for two days over a vote of censure the
Telegraph is shocked at these “ obstructive
tactics.” “Legislation is to be prevented and
the Parliamentary machine wrecked” it wails,
“ because a minority is incensed at majority rule.”
What a difference in the point of view, according
to whether the minority is Pumpkin Smith or
isn’t Pumpkin Smith.
<♦-
About an episode in the career of certain sturdy
beggars :
The full strength of the disgraceful act of the North-
cote (Vic.) municipal Bumbles in cadging £3OOO from mil-
lionaire Carnegie, with which to build a library, has now
become apparent. A while back it dawned on these
Northcote worms that a library would be of advantage to
the youth of the town ; but, instead of setting about
raising the money locally for books, and utilising a
room at the Town Hall till they could build a special
apartment, they crawled to Premier Murray and begged
£350 wherewith to erect an edifice. Murray, apparently
without making any stipulation as to what was to go into
the building, consented. Just then, ’Cote heard that
Mildura had been dragging Australia’s name in the
mud with success to itself, and decided to get on
its waistcoat and do a crawl to Carnegie likewise.
When the millionaire sent along his £3OOO, North-
cote’s library committee reckoned the £350 Mur-
ray had granted for building purposes would do
nicely to buy books—apparently it hadn’t up to then
thought it necessary to have reading matter in its library.
Again Murray was complaisant and told the committee’it
could go ahead. The Murray of older days would have
grinned sardonically at the notion of a ten-shilling book-
case to contain a bob novel, but the Murray of to-day is
different. The matter would seem to have been settled
by then ; but at that point the council as a whole chipped
in and decided that the library committee had no busi-
ness to splash the £350 on books, but that the coin
should be spent on the purchase of land, so that Car-
negie’s £3OOO might be all available for bricks and mortar.
This sort of thing, it seems, is calculated to increase the
value of property in the neighborhood—the coun-
cillors being, of course, property-holders. So the North-
cote library is to consist of these items :
(1) Building cadged from Carnegie .. £3OOO
(2) Land cadged from the State .. .. 350
(3) Local contributions Nil
(4) Books .. .. .. •• ..Notone
£3350
But, presumably, even the most dreadful suburban coun-
cillor will see the discrepancy of these things, so the
Solons of Northcote will bail up Premier Weary for more
public money, and when they get it they will rush forth
and buy all the works of Nat Gould, Guy Boothby, and
“ OurDA.”
♦
After interviewing Victoria’s Agent-General,
Taverner, and getting that great man’s seal of
approval put upon him, a London linen-draper a
while ago paid £54 as passage money for himself,
his wife and four children. On arrival in Mel-
bourne, expecting to find dairying land ready for
him to take up, he was sent first to the small
holdings near Mordialloc, and then to Gippsland.
Under the conditions, the Cockney linen-draper
naturally failed to pull through, and now he wants
Murray to send him back again. He was one
result, and one victim, of the provincial method
of doing things. He was one of the immigrants
that the six State offices in London compete for
—and then leave in the mud. At the very moment
that Cotter, M.L.A., was telling the Assembly
about his London linen-draper, Palmer, M.P.
for Echuca, was telling the Fused Government
that it must certainly do something to provide
lands for immigrants." The House gave Palmer
five minutes’ unaccustomed attention. Having
begun like this, it seemed possible Palmer was
going to have an attack of wisdom. But no !
Palmer, having fervently assured Deakin and
Cook that immigrants must be attracted, went on
to recommend Deakin to “apply to the State
Governments to throw open their lands.” It is a
pity Palmer and other State Frighters couldn’t
be brought into contact with the London linen-
draper after somebody had informed him all about
the Six Hives of Cantankerous Insects and their
buzzing habits, about the Six Provincial Parlia-
ments and the Six Houses of Obstruction, about
the locked-uplands and the unpatriotic landowners,
and about the blastiferous affability of successive
Federal Governments and the abounding capacity
of the Federal Parliament for letting things slide.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .... -I As You **””
\ A Royal Divorce ” (21st).
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion J “ Hamlet ”
The Bells (17th).
’i IVOLI Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Thelma Hanlon’s Concert (22nd).
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating-.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Taming of the Shrew,”
Her Majesty’s “The King of Cadonia.”
King’s “a Sailor’s Sweetheart.”
Princess’s “A Bachelor’s Honeymoon.”
® uou “Sweet County Kerry.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall and i t
Town Hall (Saturday) ( Taib s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
Yesterday (Wednesday) night at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, Miss Nellie Stewart will
appear, unless something prevented her, in “ As
You Like It,” provided the roof didn’t fall in, or
the Wade Government doesn’t lodge an objection
to Rosalind’s buskins, or the lady’s voice doesn’t
fail her, or something. It is necessary to hedge
thus cautiously in discussing a theatrical event
which happens to-morrow when viewed from the
hour of writing, and last night when considered
from the morning of publication, and the double
point of view causes the tenses to become mixed.
For six nights, dating from the occasion which is
partly to-morrow and partly last night, Rosalind
will hold the forest; and then, amid a flood of
limelight and much feminine applause and brolly-
hammering, J. Superhuman Knight will transpire,
superbly, on a rock as Boney I.
** * *
Nothing has occurred to block or hamper
“ The Great Rescue ” which eventuates nightly at
Sydney Royal. It is the same effective ceremony
as of yore. There is no bungling on the part of
either salvaged or salvagers. All perform their
parts in the slick, sure fashion of experts. With
the summer approaching—the perilous season
when people take to falling off ferry-boats in a
state of inebriety, and go bathing in the undertow,
and travel by Johnson’s trains, or go down to the
sea in the Bega and behold the marvels of the
great deep, and otherwise take their lives in their
hands—it is desirable that all should roll up and
learn from the Blandolt co. the way to snatch a
fellow-creature from the jaws of Dissolution.
** * *
Even as The Bulletin proceeds to press
(which feat it performs weekly on Tuesday night),
Walter Bentley, tragedian and Scot, is donning
the sombre robes and make-up of Hamlet, pre-
paratory to an evening’s gloom at
Sydney Criterion. Walter proposes
to represent the anguished foreign-
er from Denmark till Saturday
next, after which lie will under-
go certain changes as to clothes,
proboscis and so forth, and
appear in “The Bells ” as
an anguished foreigner with
a dead Jew from Poland on
his mind, the said unpleasant
object having been resting
on the same substance for
many years. The portrayal
of anguish is this player’s
strong suit, and he doesn’t
mind in the least whether
it is the woe of a Danish
prince or of a mere foreign publican, who made
his first rise by butchering an Israelite in the
dead of night.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has nothing new to say this
week. The first part still opens with the remark-
able Scotch farce, and the second contains no one
who was not there last week. The most radiant
patches of the bill are still provided by R. H.
Douglas, Florence and Lillian, Cissie Curlette,
the Three Laurels, and Rosina Casselli’s dogs.
The Tivoli weather department is now announcing
the last nights of Florence and Lillian, Graham
and Dent, and the Casselli dog troupe, so this
paper assumes that a change of programme is
approaching from the sou’-east.
** * *
With the Royal closed, and the Tivoli
given over to the jigging film, Adelaide Empire
has had a week to itself; and Lennon, Hyman
and Lennon are doing well in it at popular prices.
The Bernards (and dog) have been getting most
of the applause; Yokama and the quaint Bruce
Drysdale have just come in. The Royal has re-
opened with “ Struck Oil,” and a younger genera-
tion rejects incredulously the statement that the
same lady appeared here in the same piece 34
years ago ! Adelaide has not seen much of
Maggie Moore lately ; but it sees a good deal
now. The old play still has a certain drawing
power; but, all the same, theatrical affairs in
Adelaide cannot be said to be very exciting this
week.
** * *
“ 0.K.” throws more gloom on the Peer-
age of England
Still harping on the question whether the imported
Andersonian melodramas introduce mis-titled persons of
good old British rank into their midst. lam practically
challenged by “ 10-2-4” to quote an instance of an “in-
correctly styled Debrett resident” in a British-made
bellowdrama. Well, I have turned up the programme of
a 10-year-old shocker, “The Power and the Glory,” by
the author of “ When London Sleeps”; and what do I
find ? Ha ! ha ! The aristocratic matron of the piece is
styled “ Lady Gwendoline (of Dyce Morriss)”; and the
inane young man who loved a plebeian damsel is “Johnnie
Dyce Morriss (Lady Gwendoline’s son).” By what
rule of Debrett’s Peerage or Baronetage, I would
like to know, is Johnnie Dyce Morriss’s noble
parent entitled Lady Gwendoline (of Dyce Morriss)?
But I will also quote a more notable instance of im-
ported incorrectness. The programme of “The White
Heather” gives us Lady Janet Maclintock—the character
that Mrs. Bland Holt has always played—widowed
mother of Captain Alec Maclintock. This strikes me as
being not quite according to Debrett, but it may be all
right. I am, however, certain that the programme of
“ Sporting Life ” —another of Bland Holt’s importations—
is wrong in naming one of the characters “John, Earl of
Woodstock.” Our Governor-General is an earl, but I
don’t remember to have seen his Christian name on his
visiting card when he pushed it under the front door.
And now, by way of a crusher, I quote from the pro-
gramme of “London Day by Day,”a drama by George R.
Sims and Henry Pettitt One of the characters is
Lord, Kempton (a sporting baronet). Finally, I quote
three lines from the bill of the Andersonian production—
Plea ! ure -’’ Here are the three lines, and
if 10-2-4 can make any Debrett sense out of them let
nim declare it:—
In the Prologue.
Harold (Earl of Carlingforth) .. Mr. Robert Inman.
In the Drama.
Lord Carlingforth (of the Towers) Mr. Robert Inman
Lord Arthur Selwood (Lord Car-
lingforth’s son and heir).. .. Little Dorothy Swift.
Why Harold should have his title enclosed within
brackets, and how the earl of the prologue was succeeded
by a lord, and how that lord, even if he were an earl
could have a Lord Arthur for his eldest son—these are
mysteries to me.
** * *
“Sweet County Kerry,” introduced with
profuse advt. at Melbourne Bijou last Saturday,
is said to be a Yankee perversion of “ The Kerry
Cow,” which was accepted in former days as a
poor relation of the Boueicault family of Irish
drama. The emerald green shell of an old-
fashioned play remains in evidence. The Irish
squire bemoans a mortgage on his estate ; the
process server, with bent back and bandy legs,
washes his hands with invisible soap whilst doing
the villain’s dirtily work ; and an incidental major
figures as one of the “ould sort.” But the
substance of the original play—if it had any
must have been scooped out to make space
for a lot of insipid soft stuff and saccharine
matter, commonly known as “piffle” The
period of the story is 1798 (on the pro-
gramme), and the mild young blacksmith
who pervades every scene is arrested in the
first act on a false charge of making pike-lieads
for the invisible patriots. Also, he expresses in
song a hope that all the emigrated sons of Erin
will eventually return with one accord—like Jews
to Jerusalem—“ and set ould Ireland free.” But
the beginning of the story has no body and tail to
it. Though the blacksmith is duly placed in a
rebel’s cell, he escapes from prison and goes
straight to his smithy, where he blows the bellows
of a blameless life as before. Just here a sus-
picion of racing melodrama falls upon the pro-
ceedings. The villain has laid a scheme to
nobble the favorite, or otherwise soil the
purity of a noble sport. A fat racehorse,
impersonated by Murmer. the Caulfield Cup
winner (by kind permission of John Wren, Esq.),
appears at the smithy, bestridden by a she-jockey
in green silk jacket and cap, and wearing a num-
bered saddlecloth of the kind that first came into
Australian racing vogue 100 years later than 1798.
The she-jockey performs a harmless, song and -
dance, and the adjacent population breaks out
into Irish jigs. The villain, however, fails to cap-
ture the Kerry Cup or marry the heroine, so the
story ends happily.
If “Sweet County Kerry” has been the
means of putting 4,000,000 dollars ;to the bank
AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Leah the Forsaken (Sara Collins) kissed by the
sorrowful Rudolf, to the surprise of John
Cosgrove and old Harry Waltham.
account of a ’Murkan gentleman named Murphy,
it follows, naturally, that The Bulletin is sorry
for America. The present production will not
make anybody’s fortune at Melbourne Bijou. As
an entertainment it is exceptionally burdened with
bathos and puerility. The hero wastes about 20
minutes over the silly little job of telling his
love for Norali to Norah’s ponderous father. The
variety turns are prolonged until they become
tiresome. Preliminary advts. led one to expect
something that would challenge comparison with
Andrew Mack’s pieces of cheap and sticky senti-
mentality ; but in “ Sweet County Kerry ” there
is nothing that could account for a big success.
The dialogue and construction are equally feeble.
The cast of characters includes such trivialities as
“Kitty (Norah’s Pony) By Herself” and “Mike
(The Donkey) By Himself,” etc. “Piffle” is a
weak term of contempt, but it is strong enough to
meet the case.
*■*■*■*
Allen Doone, who, seemingly, has come from
America to do this thing, is an unassuming dis-
ciple of Mack as regards his mumming methods.
Lacking force and individuality, he is perfectly
easy on the stage, and his husky, melodious voice
is always acceptable in an Irish ballad. Miss
Edna Keeley (who, presumably, is Mrs. Doone) is
just as pleasingly unaffected. For the rest, there
is a capable walking villain in Percy Walsh, and
a few other adult characters capably or crudely
performed by local actors. Five children come
on and caper occasionally, and a very limited
orchestra provides a running accompaniment.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the sombre and
fictitious story of Buonaparte’s Divorce and Down-
fall is to be replaced on Saturday by “A Bachelor’s
Honeymoon.” Hugh Ward and Co., who have
been travelling east and west with the farcical
comedy in question, are booked for a big welcome
when they show their faces once more in the house
in Spring-street. Miss G-race Palotta, Miss Hose
Musgrove and Miss Celia Ghiloni are concerned
in the coming event, and the advt. lays stress on
the allegation that the purpose of the co. is
Laughter with a capital L.
* * * *■
Five nights of “A Miner’s Trust ” have
come and gone at Melbourne Royal without
attracting as much public attention to that re-
spectable Australian product as its merits
deserved. In some respects Jo Smith’s drama is
quite admirable. The chief situations are in-
teresting, and full of opportunity for the actors.
Much of the dialogue is bright, as well as smooth,
and though a blind heroine is not a strictly legiti-
mate appeal to an audience’s sympathies, the fact
remains that Miss Beatrice Holloway presents the


A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept on hand for immediate use,
is Chamberlain's Cough Remedy.*
! CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire newy
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, I
parts, and accessories stocked. Write. I
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney. ■
MUTUAL FIRE
ffeg INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
* PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining: its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
A girl I met !
A sweet brunette,
With collarette
Of cream guipure !
In best of moods,
’Midst other goods,
She carried Woods’
Great Peppermint Cure.*
The latest novelty is the noiseless clock that
does not tick ; neither does it require winding ; but goes
in any position in a hut, castle, or motorcarforlOOO days
and nights without attention, at the cost of one shilling.
The explanation, of course, is that it is an electric clock,
driven by a battery of cells. The balance wheel is rotated
by the current, and a lever connects the balance wheel
with the hands. Ball-bearings are used to ensure noise-
lessness ; and King Ned is much impressed. The inventor
is Sigismund Kutnow, A noiseless clock will certainly be
a boon to light sleepers, and a cheerful novelty to happy
mortals who can sleep like hogs.*
afflicted young woman in a very pleasing
way. The prologue promises more than
the drama fulfils; nevertheless, the develop-
ments from the prologue are ingenious in design,
if faulty in execution. Jo Smith shows the ex-
perience of an old actor in selecting the old
materials for his situations, rather than a pro-
nounced literary talent for shaping them and
joining them together. The impossibilities are
adroitly kept from obtruding themselves, but
they are not shrouded with a veil of probability
as they might have been. One sees the faults too
clearly, whilst recognising the touches of origin-
ality in the author’s work, and looking forward
to better things from him. Another play by Jo
Smith will be produced anon (at the King’s), and
in the meantime “A Miner’s Trust” ranks as
perhaps the first full-sized play built in Aus-
tralia which has scored a considerable success on
the strength of its human interest. And
this in spite of a colorless performance of the
romantic-hero character by Herbert Bentley, who
merely talks rather like Julius Knight, and looks
rather like Harcourt Beatty. Atholwood,
Hilliard Vox, and Harry Halley are well placed,
the people in the prologue meet all requirements,
the nice-girl parts are neatly filled, Miss Holloway
being especially effective. The co. will be gone
from Melbourne by the time The Bulletin
arrives there. To-night (Thursday) the amateurs
try “ The Case of Rebellious Susan” at the Royal,
and to-morrow —well, to-morrow will be the day
before Saturday.
** * *
“White Australia,” after completing its
third week at Melbourne King’s, will be with-
drawn for alterations and repairs by the author of
its being. To-morrow (Friday) night will see the
last of Randolph Bedford’s slap-dash patriotic
“ WHITE AUSTRALIA" AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
BERT BAILEY
as Terribit.
“ JIMMIE ” NUNN
as Qurrig Ping.
drama in its present form, and on Saturday there
will be a revival of “ A Sailor’s Sweetheart,” in
which British bellowdrama all the White Aus-
tralians who died for their country at Port
Darwin will be born again.
** * *
“The Taming of the Shrew” is due in
Melbourne on Saturday. Oscar Asche and Miss
Brayton, and the co. from the Cold Country,
make their first appearance here in Shakspeare’s
famous anti-suffragette comedy. It will be played
with the Induction, and in the dazed character of
Christopher Sly, tinker, Oscar Asche will give the
b ill of fortune a vigorous kick-off.
*• * # #
J. and N. Tait, whilst retaining their grip
of Melb. Town Hall on Saturdays, have set up
their ’graph at the Athenaeum Hall. The present
menu comprises the usual fact, farce and imagina-
tion. Houdini, the Handcuff King, is seen
releasing himself from substantial bangles, and
contemptuously proves the mere irony of iron.
An averted felo de se, and the astounding remorse
of a rapacious Cohen, are beheld in “ The Money
Lender,” and a pallid orgy of biscuits and
lemonadeis the thrilling theme of “ The Midnight
Supper.” Some big gun shooting is exceptionally
displayed in “ Battleships in Action.” The
picture, having been taken from the vantage of a
fighting top, gives some interesting view's of
moving guns and cleared battle decks.
Hr H£ Hf H£
At Melbourne Olympia, the pictorial West
is unfolding the drama of “ The Poisoned Flower,”
which ends in a climax of poetic justice. A
miscreant is lured to his doom by the widow of the
person that he slaughtered, and, in his death
agony, he is shown an artistic tableau com-
prising a roomy cofßn and a herd of monks.
Cupidity, love, and burnt-cork Hindus are the
strongest features of “The Brahma Diamond,”
and a trip in the breath of the W'orld is shown in
“ The Dirigible Airship.” But the gem of the
present collection is a series of glimpses of Buda
Pesth. One gets views of the royal palace in
Buda; of the Franz-Joseph quay; of sundry
streets; and, lastly, of the magnificent new Houses
of Parliament. When there are pictures like that,
people can go into the Olympia feeling quite
suburban, and come away feeling wholly cosmo-
politan.
** * *
Edward Reeves, the recitalist from Ade-
laide, is holding the stage at the Masonic and
Athenaeum Halls a few nights this week. Last
Saturday (at the Masonic) he started his second
Melbourne season with an interesting render-
ing of “The Sky Pilot,” which is to be
repeated this (Thursday) afternoon at the
Athenaeum. On Saturday he reverts to the
Masonic for the purpose of ’citing “ Enoch
Arden,” and on Wednesday next week he goes
back to the Athenteum with “The Christmas
Carol ”on the tip of his eloquent tongue. Mel-
bourne seems to have an appreciative audience for
Reeves every time.
* -* * *
The first meeting of the Repertory
Theatre promoters happened at Melbourne Town
Hall the other week, with John Madden in the
chair, but the work of elevating the taste of Aus-
tralian playgoers seems to be as far from a practi-
cal beginning as ever. Madden’s introductory
remarks were suitably severe on the things that
be. Public taste inclines to performances that
charm the eye rather than the mind, and as
regards comic opera, or musical comedy, the enter-
tainment is only pleasing to “ nice ” persons when
they fail to understand it. For example, Madden
instanced “ The Merry Widow.” He regretted to
he was compelled to take his daughters
to “ The Merry Widow.” They enjoyed it very
much, whilst he was merely thankful to know that
they didn’t understand the points which shocked
their intellectual parent. For him there was no
enjoyment to be gained from frivolitiesof that sort,
therefore he was in favor of a Repertory Theatre,
where plays pleasing to himself (and compre-
hensible to his daughters, no doubt) would be pro-
duced. The rest of the meeting being likewise
eager for intellectual entertainment, the question
arose as to what would become of the £4OOO which
the Repertorians propose to raise if it were given
to J. 0. Williamson to play with. The idea of
J.C.W. losing other people’s money, instead of
“doing in” £4OOO on his own account, was
evidently distasteful to the intellects present.
All the credit would go to the piper, the meeting
seemed to think, whilst all the loss fell upon the
shareholders who called the tune. Finally, the
meeting arrived at a suspicion that it would rather
get all the credit for losing £4OOO very rapidly
than let the Williamsonian management gain any
credit by losing the money less rapidly.
** * *
At Melb. Opera House the programme,
apart from Cinquevalli, is about to be changed
considerably. Cull Pitt and Tom Woottwell are
removing themselves to elsewhere this week, and
the sisters Sprightly likewise are under marching
orders.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“One Who Pays”: When Oscar Asche was afc the
Grammar School in his native Geelong', he wanted a
humble part in an amateur performance there, but the
stage manager, an usher known as Peggy, said “No,
Asche, you will never be able to act.” Has not that been
said to every aspirant who burst the bars of circumstance,
and grappled with his evil star ! No, it was not said to
Brooke. He bounded on the Dublin stage, as leading actor,
in “ William Tell,” at the age of 15, and was known as the
Boy Tragedian, led about,, in a short jacket and frills, by
his fond mother. Turning up the Melbourne Grammar
School records, I find there was a performance of scenes
from “ Richard the Second,” and the Play Scene from
“ A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” just about the time
when Asche would be there. The star was one Lawry,
and I think he, too, came from Geelong. It was the poet
Stitt Jenkins, Parlces’s rival, and the greatest man before
Juddv ,who was credited with writing these beautiful
lines :
Hail Geelongia ! Hail thou favored spot!
What’s good is found in thee, what’s not is not.
So Geelong has made history.
Fred Clutsum, well-known Melbourne musiciation, seems
to have convinced them in Germany with his semi-
circular piano keyboard, and big makers talk of revolu-
tionising the instrument with the Australian invention,
which enables a player to manipulate the keys in the
distances of the board with “astonishing ease.” Every
note can be struck with equal power, and there is no
clawing out after far-off keys to exhaust the energies of
the storm-tossed professional. Clutsum tried his key-
board on the dingo, and it sniffed disdainfully. Then he
tried it on the British bulldog, and that conservative
animal was equally contemptuous. Now the enterprising
German piano-founders have got it, and think they’ve
secured a good thing.
“ Silas ” : “ 0.K.” is interesting on Jones, and right in
the main, but strains his point, I think, in trying to
make “The Liars” support his charge of Pharisaism;
neither do I think the fact of Henry Arthur having been
a bagman is pertinent to the point, unless he represented
the British Bible Society. In fact, Henry Arthur Jones
has not made good his claim to the title of Grundy. He
is not sure of himself. For instance, in “ The Crusaders”
he laughs with great heartiness at the moral reformers,
and if “ Michael and His Lost Angel ” is not a strong in-
dictment of the fatuous man who deliberately sets out to
be an archangel on earth, I don’t know what it means,
neither does H. A. Jones. Michael sacrifices himself, the
woman he loves, and two other characters to his besetting
holiness, only to find in the end that he has lost happiness
and sown discord and death. In this play the woman
with whom Michael has “ sinned,” meeting him when he
is working out his soul’s salvation, says : “ I have been
skipping and chattering from Hyde Park corner to the
Inferno by a new short cut. What have you been doing? ”
Michael replies : “ Trying to repent and forget.” “Ah,
well,” says she, “ I haven’t been wasting my time quite so
foolishly as you, after all.” “ Michael and His Lost
Angel” was a partial failure in London. That is a good
reason for our not getting it here.
“ Parisine ”: The Melbourne Bijou gives a splendid batch
of living pictures, called “ The Kiss of Judas.” Christ is
absolutely embodied in form and outward dignity by
Mounet-Sully, of the Theatre Fransais. Lambert’s Judas
is highly instructive. All the Old Masters make him a
villainous lago. Lambert does not show him as half-
witted, but rather tending that way, a cunning knave—
also fool. The Last Supper is convincingly presented,
according to Leonardo da Vinci. Peter, John and the
others are as real as device can make them. I heard an
orthodox clergyman and theological professor explain
from the pulpit that Christ did not absolutely invent the
Last Supper. It was adapted from the principal of the
Antique Mysteries, in honor of Ceres, when, from time
immemorial, cultured men, something like Freemasons,
met thus to partake of bread and wine.
“ J.G.” : Melbourne Age of July 3 had a par about play-
wright and critic G. B. Shaw, who has now had two of his
plays turned down by the British censor. The first one
biffed was “ Mrs. Warren’s Profession.” It went out on
its listener because it was irreligious, and likely to offend
the British Chapzanders and Alexjudkinses. The second
play of Shaw’s to be outed was “The Showing Up of
Blanco Posnet.” This time the play was knocked out
because it was religious. Yet Heaven knows there are
scores of plays going the rounds that are religious, or
meant to be, yet should have been passed out. The Age,
however, says “ that Shaw is an incorrigible Fabian, and
still believes in a flannel collar and shirt, and never wears
anything else, except on those rare occasions when he
goes to the opera, and has to obey the opera panjandrums,
when they say that evening dress is indispensable.”
Wonder if Shaw’s costume had anything to do with the
banning of his plays by the Lord Snooks, or the Earl of
Mount Horrible, or whoever acts as the official censor. It
is bound to be a hard tussle for a beastly Fabian and
Socialist to get anything past the Lord Snooks, but when
the Fabian turns up with an armful of MSS., and no
other clothes save a flannel collar and shirt, his cake is
bound to be dough.
“Vic.”: The glad hand to Randolph Bedford for a
daring and original play on White Australia. The dia-
logue needs something of what the playwrights call “ lift-
ing.” George Gordon put “lift” into the play of “A
Royal Divorce” by inventing the tableaux of Waterloo,
etc. Bedford, like the Owe’Sullivan in his drama of
“The Eureka Stockade,” and Duggan, in his on the same
theme, is apt to substitute politics for passion. Vivid
writing does not quite come off. Sardou’s is the
whipcord dialogue, amazingly effective even when
Englished. Pinero is another master. Likewise was
Boucicault, sometimes diffuse, but always telling.
The finale in the White Australia play, destruction of the
Jap fleet in Port Jackson by the airship, is very far
beyond my expectation. The most actual scene is the
telegraph station at Daly Waters, with the poles stretch-
ing away over the desert. This takes you to the very
place. How the monotony is relieved by listening to
the whole news of the world as it ticks out.
Bailey’s aboriginal is the best I have seen. There is the
proper rapid guttural, different from the staccato of the
Ute Indian in “ The Squaw Man.” Aboriginal talk is like
the frizzling sausage sound in the gramaphone. Diver’s
Jap has some of those splendid actualities which oozed
from every pore of Howard Vernon’s Ko-Ko, studied in
Tokyo. Of course, Vernon and Diver cannot help being
tall. By the way, it is pleasing to see Vernon’s son doing
so well. Reverting to “ White Australia,” you may say it
is rather more of a panorama, like “ Round the World in
Eighty Days.” A word for Temple Harrison’s Old
Rouseabout. He is immeasurably better than the
Lone Fisherman, in “ Evangeline,” which tickled
America; but Australia experienced nary a tickle. Lastly,
it was a grand idea to have that drop curtain of
Australia. Our beloved continent there lay All White, on
the blue ocean. In the midst of the continent was the
blue Southern Gross flag of Eureka, without any of the
irritating Jingo concomitants. This drop being hoisted
right up in one piece leads one to ask why we cannot
have picture drops again between the acts. Advertising
curtains are enough to drive people to drink. What
lovely drop curtains Melbourne used to have 1 The
Theatre Royal had five in succession: “Shakspeare’s
House,” “ Bacchus and Ariadne,” “ Lake Maggiore,”
“ Thespians Leaving Deserted Greece,” and “ Stratford on
Avon.”
“Snell”: Clarke, Meynell and Gunn are not the first
to invite the Church to co-operate in luring the people
into a playhouse. I remember when Alfred Dampier
threw wide the Melbourne Alexandra doors to the clergy,
and kept open house for pastors and spiritual masters for
a fortnight. The pilots seized the opportunity by the
wool, too ; but in the press of pulpiteers the doorkeeper
presently identified one suit. He knew it by a white
patch on the left shoulder, as if powdered faces had rested
there too numerously, and a circular disfigurement at the
back, hinting that the wearer had inadvertently resumed
his seat on top of a tart at a Metholean picnic. The
wearer was different every night, but the suit and the
powder-marks and the Sign of the Tart were always the
same. The doorkeeper drew the management’s atten-
tion, and the suit was watched. When the manager had
identified it on three different wearers, he cornered the
last inhabitant, and talked blood and raw meat to him.
It then transpired that the parsonical rig was a mere
fancy dress that had figured at 100 balls, and which was
passing round a large circle of acquaintances as an easy
“ stiff ” to Dampier’s show.
“ H.” : Some Melba worshippers had a bad time at
Rockhampton (Q.) last Friday. They wanted to hear the
cantatrice (as the S. M. Herald chastely hath it) on the
cheap or dead-head system. So they got them a ladder
and stormed the roof of the Town Hall wherein she was
carolling, applied attentive ears to various skylights and
things, and drank in the sounds that percolated through
with the greater zest in that they cost nothing.
The concert over they prepared to descend. Alack ! the
village humorist had spirited away their ladder.
Two alternatives faced them : they" might either
yell to the crowd below for help (thereby disclosing
the unworthy game they had been at), or keep quiet and
stay the night where they were. They decided on the
second course. Not till the next morning did hunger and
weariness impel them to jettison dignity and attract the
attention of a passing John Dunn. As dreary a band of
economists as the district had seen streamed home shortly
afterwards. They had been “on the tiles,” and they
looked it.
“ Casuarina ” : Next to Melba and Crossley, Oscar
Asche is the most important person who may be called an
Australian who has returned to his fatherland with a
show reputation. He went to the Melbourne Church of
England Grammar School somewhere about the time
when Deakin left. Doubtless he will explain the awful
yarns credited to him by English interviewers. He was
a good deal identified with Geelong, like the gentle and
priestly J. F. Hogan, M.P. But it is not about the Pivot
that Oscar is alleged to have romanced so wildly, but
about his boyhood in the wild Dandenongs. There he
was reported to have seen the Kellys, who were never
within a hundred miles of the place. In like manner
Sarah Bernhardt shot a tiger not very far off, at Melba’s
Lilydale. It must have been the Tantanoola one, that
overland bunyip. Genevieve Ward, back from S’Afriea,
was asked : “Haven’t you a lion story ? ” “Oh, dear me,
yes. I forgot. The ferocious animile sprang at me. I
opened my umbrella, and” — “I understand—fled.”
“No —dead.” iStrange to add, it is a positive fact, re-
ported in most of the Victorian papers, that, a few days
ago, a bull charged a man, who put up his umbrella, and
the bull fell dead. Fatty degeneration of the bull, no
doubt.
“Flinderino” from the Far North: —Towards the end
of the year the Yarrabah Aboriginal Band and Concert
Party will most likely descend upon Brisbane and Sydney
and, perhaps, Melbourne and Adelaide. These niggers
belong to the Yarrabah Anglican Mission, which has its
camp away out from Cairns; and when they turn up,
Harry Rickards will have to put on something extra if he
wants to keep ahead of them. They got as far south as
Townsville and Charters Towers recently, and their con-
certs took wonderfully, especially the corroboree dances,
though that part of the show is of Samoan origin. Their
full evening dress consists of a red sulu (waist cloth), a
white singlet, and a broad, flat nose ; and owing to the
fewness of their clothes the southern tour will have to be
rushed through in the summer. They are barefooted and
near no headgear except cockatoo-feathers. When
arrangements are completed for the tour, the heathens
will leave Yarrabah in their own b@che-de-mer schooner,
the Matubu, and sail as far as Rockhampton or Brisbane,
and thence go by train. >
“ Harrison 0.”: An article in London Times records
some interesting facts regarding “The School for
Scandal.” The writer shows how what was originally a
crude melodrama was developed by Sheridan into the
brilliant comedy as we know it. In its original form there
was no Lady Teazle. A Mr. Sol Teazle and his young wife
are to be found in another sketch by Sheridan. Maria
was the original heroine, and Crabtree the original
villain —though present writer has grave doubts about
any villain being original. Snake was at first a woman—
Miss Virginia Verjuice. Somehow, I think the character
would have been more convincing if it had been allowed
to remain so.
“ F.C.” about a house-breaker :
It is a pitiful fact that some men really don’t know
how to work for themselves. There was, for instance,
the Melbourne man who, the other day, set out on a
career of burgling. Without a published “ Guide to
Burglars” to help him, this new-chum started his pro-
fessional life among the seaside residences on Port Phillip
Bay, which are merely trifling abodes where week-enders
dwell in summer. In one he discovered a scrap of
bedding, in another an aged blanket, and in a third a
frying-pan. As the afternoon wore on, he became-
a disgusted house-breaker, hut his spirits rose as.
he came to a recherchi Queen Anne villa among
the ti-tree. First he wrenched off the shutters-
of a window, and then broke the glass, but.
found the orifice boarded up inside. That, he argued,,
was plain proof that there were treasures within ; so he-
violently drove his foot through a door-panel, damaging;
his toe in the progress, and got inside—only to find the*
loot amounted to one pair of old pants. It was heart-
breaking ; but the worst disaster struck him when he’
crawled through the hole again and fell into the arms of ai
constable, who had heard the uproar. Finally the um-
feeling Law marched him two long miles on his injuredl
foot, and wouldn’t even let him have the stolen bedding-
in his cell. As he observed, his luck was “ dead crook..’”
Financial disorders have caused a flutter
in Melbourne banking circles. First a Vic.
country manager of the Bank of N.S.W., owing
to a four-figure deficit in his accounts, was sen-
tenced to three years. Next an employee of the
Colonial Bank in Melbourne was discovered to
have departed and left no address, nor any ex-
planation of a chasm in his books. Then a mere
babe of 23, a teller in the Commercial Bank at
Prahran, finished up sensationally with a bullet
in the cranium. This last youth, like the gentleman
from the Colonial Bank, was said to be a student
of loitering quadrupeds, and was the third in the
same branch to disturb the serenity of his bosses.
Two previous employees in that grimy-looking
edifice gave their manager so much nourishment
for worry that he was declared to be mentally dis-
abled. In one way and another the banks are
having a good deal of trouble with the ill-paid
clerk, Adolphus.
The Old Soldier is disrespectful about ,
a business that gets a lot of trumpeting :
The Bulletin says (24/6/09) that the Australian army-
does not take itself seriouslj'. Is it to be wondered at
when the army reads this sort of thing in the S. M..
Herald: “Staff rides are an excellent medium forth
training of officers. They supply all the situations;
necessary for practice in strategical or tactical work;
without the presence of actual armies. A few soldiers
represent a battalion of infantry: a couple of horsemen
do duty for a regiment of light horse. Everything is
carried out as if there were large bodies of troops.”.
Everything? Well, not quite! Everything, perhaps,
except the sense of the actual presence of the troops.
In the staff-ride in question one of the contending forces
was supposed to consist of “ four brigades,” or 24,000
infantry, which, with proportions of cavalry and artillery,
would make up an army corps 30,000 strong-; and, in
order of battle, in camp or bivouac, this lot would occupy
a front six miles long, or on the march would form a
column ten miles long. You can’t learn how to handle
a body of that size by pretending that a dozen or so men
represent the lot.
Staff rides are a German invention to give generals-
commanding divisions and army corps a chance to
traverse the districts where their forces are quartered,
ami decide on the operations for the next manoeuvres,
when they will go t hrough them with the men actually
present. When the British War Office was smitten with
the idea of the staff-ride, it remembered the trouble it
often had to collect men enough for an effective trial of
some new tactical idea, and it also remembered that, in
the old drill books of 60 or 70 years ago, there were rules
for what was called “skeleton, or rope drill,” in which
two men with a rope stretched between them would rep-
resent the front of a company, or squadron, or any other
sort of “ unit.” It was a good way of making a few meni
go a long way, and so it was grafted on to the British
staff-ride as a new means of teaching tactics, which is the
fine name for drill.
One trouble about carrying out everything in a staff-
ride “ as if there were large bodies of troops present ” is
that, with so very few men, it is almost impossible to
make the huge and complicated mistakes that are often
made in war. Once during the operations on the Loire
in ’7O-1 a French army corps had to move from one posi-
tion to another, and the two divisions marched by
different roads. The right division, when about half way,
was suddenly stopped by finding the left marching across
its road. The latter had taken a wrong turning, and, as
a result, when the army corps reached its new position, it
was inverted, the right where the left ought to have been,
and vice versa. Such a mistake as that would be impos-
sible in a staff-ride, because, where there are only a hun-
dred men or so in question, taking a wrong road is really
of no consequence. But a real army-corps marching in
one column would take three and a half hours to pass a
point on the roadside ; and mistakes under those circum-
stances are of very great consequence.
So, though you get some of the frills and the fancy
work in the staff ride, you don’t get the real business of
soldiering : you don’t get the experience in handling big
bodies of men, and moving them quickly and accurately.
And without that experience anything else the staff ride
may teach isn’t of any great consequence.
THE WAIL OF THE RED-NOSED ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The variety business is gradually besoming the circus.
—Bulletin (June ’O9).
I used to be the turn of the night—the top of the bloomin’
bill ;
But times are changed and the public taste (excuse my
French) is nil;
Oh, the managers must be “ dotty 1” they’re too pros-
perous by far,
And who mifde their fortunes, I’d like to know ? Why
the comic-singing star.
Yet now they’re gone on animal acts. Each blessed pro-
gramme’s filled
With performing beasts and birds and fish ; in big type
they’ll be billed,
While a gifted human like myself, a man of world-wide
fame,
Has to look at the bill with a microscope if he wants to
find his name.
I used to make my entrance once in a lime-lit scene,
“full-set,”
And when I took the centre—O, the receptions I used to
get 1
But now my scene is a dark front-cloth, very much the
worse for wear,
And when I crawl on from the bloomin’ wings no one
seems to know I’m there 1
And the “full-sets” now have gone to the dogs—or the
lions or bears or cats,
(Do you think that’s what the public wants? Ask me,
and I answer “ Rats ! ”)
And I’ve got to yell my bloomin’ songs till my throat is
fit to crack,
For when I’m on in that d —d front scene—oh, the row
that goes on at the back !
If you think that your songs are going to go, or that your
gags will score,
You’ll find you’ve made a bloomer when the lions and
elephants roar ;
So what’s the use of a funny voice, or funny togs or face ?
And yvhat’s the use of a funny dance in an inch or two of
space ?
So I’m going to chuck the reddened nose—there’s no
money in that biz,
And an animal act take on instead, for that’s where the
money is :
The comic-singing is heavy work, so here’s for a life of
ease—
Will anyone buy my props ? I’m going in for Performing
Fleas!
S.A.
EARDLEY TURNER.
DISILLUSIONED JANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
For years Jane played in drama fine
The persecuted heroine,
The comely wife who strove, indeed,
’Gainst pain, and want, and spite, and greed,
To thwart the wicked heavy lead ;
And ever she exposed the crime—
She beat the villain every time.
At length she married (not for pelf),
Went into business for herself;
And, as a comely little wife,
Jane faced the weariness and strife
Of “ wedded bliss ” in real life.
Not twenty months had gone before
She voted it an awful bore.
Jane waited now for each dull day
To start the old familiar play,
To bring the villain, dead to shame,
To work his wiles and play the game.
Alas ! the villain never came.
So in the pit, poor wife, these times
She cheers the villain for his crimes.
VICTORIA.
S[?] SNELL.


OUR DJ. RUG
AT 19s,
P are Australian 00l
measures 60in. x 72in.
Usual Price » «= 21s.
SALE Price« -19 s.
We send it carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Sale begins June 28th, ends July 24th.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
•Handsome, Plain Case, Lady’s Solid
9ct. Gold Keyless Lever Watch, of
Highest Quality, £5 ss. ; in 18ct.
Gold, £8 Bs. ■ and £lO, including
Monogram. Post Free to any address.
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
l*r- Noted for Bangles and Watches of Highest Quality.
Over 50 Years in business at above address,
and we guarantee satisfaction, or return your
money. Write for Catalogue—we mail it free.
Handsome 15ct. Gold Bangle, set with three fine quality diamonds,
£5 ss. ; or with Diamond and Rubies and Sapphires, £4 10s.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE UNBELIEVER.
The cry of “Boh,” a Melbourne suburb
girl:—
It has been raining for a hundred weeks. Some people
say six, but I’m sure it’s a hundred ! ! The gentleman
who brings the clean clothes home wears a hunted-devil
look. And we wear No matter—we wear them !
Mother roots in the old wardrobe on extra-wet days, and
brings them forth triumphantly. We have all got colds
and sore fingers. Mother cuts up old sheets and makes
what she calls “ morning handkerchiefs.” And, by reason
of our chilblained fingers, we take it in turns to do the
washing-up with a stick. We have read everything in
the house, most of it twice. And the man that keeps the
local library bolts when he sees us coming. He can’t
cater for a family that reads six books a day. Our mar-
ried sister plays all the old music she used to practise in
the schoolroom years ago ; and we sit round the fire, and
get striped blue devils, talking of all the things that
ought to be and are not, till mother tells me to go and
“call on” people—they will be glad to see anyone this
weather, she says. If the weather doesn’t “ let up ” soon
I will buy a packet of wax matches, and so—no more !
The Hornsby (Sydney) Municipal Council
spent a recent evening in wrestling with the
unpaid bill for the rent of the local School
of Arts, which was hired for a meeting in
aid of the Dreadnought. The secretary of the
movement had hawked the bill about in vain, and
finally he dumped it before the local council.
After looking at the horrible object from every
point of view, the councillors declined to risk the
wrath of the ratepayers by charging the sum (155.)
to the rates, and booted the document on farther.
A law-clerk, brought up the other day in
a Sydney court, for maintenance, begged to be
let down at 10s. a week, owing to the beggarly
payment he received for his services. The Court
fixed the levy at 155., and the poor wretch will
probably have to pinch himself in order to pay it.
Yet that Court knows, and thousands of others
know too, that clients pay big fees for law-clerks’
work. But the clerks don’t get the money—
the solicitors pocket most of it. The law-
clerk is paid 30s. or 40s. a week. But the
client pays ss. for every letter the clerk writes—
which pans out 6d. for the clerk who does the
work and 4s. fid. for the boss who doesn’t. A
Torrens Act transfer is wholly clerk’s work. A
client pays £2 for that—which means Is. fid. for
the clerk and £llBs. 6d. for the boss. Of course,
the boss has rent to pay ; but, giving all that in,
the law-clerk lives a sweated life, and will prob-
ably go on living it until he is permitted to prac-
tise as a law-agent on his own account. Numbers
of them are ready to submit to the strictest
examinations or tests of competency ; but the
lawyers hold the gate of the paddock where the
fat fees grow, and won’t let the clerks in.
• m m *
The great hoax of last week was a cable-
gram to the effect that a German had devised a
stupendous magnet, which is to be moored close
to the beach in order to deflect the enemy’s iron-
clads out of their course and drag them ashore.
It is a very beautiful idea, but—
(l) The ironclad would haul on the magnet just as hard
as the magnet did on the ironclad, and if the enemy had
20 ships on the coast, each of 12,000 horse-power, the
magnet, unless it was tied to a hundred forests, would
almost certainly break loose and rush out and make a
present of itself to the enemy. If it was tightly tied it
would probably take the coast-line with it.
(2) It would haul upon German ships just as hard as
upon foreign ones. If the German fleet was chaspd into
that part of the sea during an engagement, the magnet
might destroy Kaiser Wilhem’s navy while the enemy’s
fleet got away.
(B) It would make its part of the coast quite useless,
for, if it was big enough to influence ironclads at a ser-
viceable distance, it would grab iron passenger-steamers
and sailing-vessels if they even got on its horizon, and
drag them ashore.
(4) As a magnet works both ways, it would drag the
nails out of houses, take off iron roofs, seize on fireirons
and ironmongery stocks, tear up railways and drag them
into the sea, and otherwise devastate the adjacent ter-
ritory. And, if Kaiser IV. went with his bright steel
sword and his cast-iron cheek to inspect the new device,
it would probably seize on him and cast him headlong
into the sea.
(5) Also the magnet, on account of the trouble it makes
with iron, would have to be got into position by wooden
or tin or brass or paper machinery, which is a serious
difficulty to begin with.
Consequently a theory arises that the magnet is
really an advance puff for a new play, in which
the military villain will be drowned through his
own infernal invention attracting his helmet from
a distance of three miles, while the poor but noble
hero, wearing an old suit and a cloth cap, will
survive and dwell happily for ever after.
* • * *
“ Victorian ” writes, in anger :
Tait of the Oigar is the Victorian Minister for Mistakes.
Ever since he took hold there has been a sound of things
breaking. This is mostly because Tait aspires to be the
Chief Cheese-Parer of the Universe, and the Most Expert
Camel-Loader on Earth. But his cheese is always cut so
thin that it gives satisfaction to no one, and his camels
invariably have their backs broken. So the net result is
a dead waste of camels, straw and cheese—to say
nothing of Tait’s salary and cigar. Tait’s Sun-
shine wreck gouged one huge hole, and now Tait’s
railway station is discovered to be chewing an
extra £45,000 or £50,000 beyond the amount of
estimated cost. Tait, when attacked on the subject, has
nothing to offer but smoke—talk smoke and cigar smoke.
The oldest engine on the premises could do it almost as
well. Melbourne thought in the beginning that all its
trains, both country and suburban, would be brought to
the new edifice in Flinders-street. It was a holy thought,
and as the Railway Department—which is supposed to
know—had the same idea, the general public went about
stuffed with faith and pride, and began to look on
Spencer-street and Princes’ Bridge as relics that were
already crumbling. Later on, it was broken to the world
that Spencer-street would have to be retained; and
the world stood it with the help of a little bad language.
Still later, the news transpired like an escaped cat that
Princes’ Bridge could not be done without after all ; and
once more the populace bore up against the news, and
refrained from making inquiries about the capability of
Tait or the efficiency of his Department. The position
then was that Melbourne was saddled with the cost of an
enormous new station without having received any com-
pensating traffic advantages. The only,improvement was
that you didn’t get rained on so much while you fled for
your train—if it happened to start from the new station.
The people whose trains departed from Spencer-street and
the Bridge proceeded in haste to the old ramshackle
spots, arid got as wet as ever. It would be bad enough
and more than sufficiently foolish if the Flinders-street
muddle had simply eaten up its allotted £440,000 and
gone on doing the work that the job lot of smoke-soiled
sheds formerly did. But it has improved on that;
it has become the jumping-off platform of a
badly-wanted £40,000 or £50,000, and, at time of
writing, no one seems to know what train it left by
or which precise brick is its tombstone. Tait sheds very
little illumination on the financial accident. He waves
his cigar and says that a lot of things cost more than it
was thought they would ; that traffic has increased in an
utterly unreasonable manner ; also that there were delays
and omissions and other wild beasts that eat money.
Speaking generally, he cuts and spreads the blame out
nice and thin like the Departmental cheese. Tait talka-
tive seems hardly as satisfactory as Tait silent, and he
might have done better had he remained perfectly still
and smoked—like an unemploj’ed locomotive on a siding.
A LAUDABLE AMBITION.
WIFEY: “ There are times when I wish I were a man.”
HUBBY : “ When ?”
WIFEY : “ When I pass a milliner's window and think how happy I could make my wife by
giving her a new bonnet .”
The Sydney fluff-and-tape merchant !n the
retail way of business got a bad bit of news the
other morning, when he read that the disrupted
“Warehousemen’s Association of N. S. Wales”
had been re-formed. The Sydney wholesale fluff-
and-tape monarch is mostly a person who believes
in freedom of contract—for the shearer and the
clerk, and every other sort of wages man. But*
after trying it for a few months on himself, he
reckons it isn’t the thing for a fluff-and-tape
monarch. While he was supposed to be enjoying
the great blessings of freedom of contract,
what he found was that it was the retailer
who had the real enjoyment—the retailer
who, setting one fluff monarch against the
other, squeezed out of all of them a 5 per
cent, discount, among other things. The fluff
monarchs stood it for a while ; then the “inesti-
mable advantages,” etc., were taken out and killed;
the fluff monarchs’ union was re-formed ; and the
5 per cent, discount was abolished, and at the very
most now per cent, is allowed, while for
ordinary purposes it is 3 per cent. So the retailer
of the fluff and the tape isn’t feeling quite so well
pleased with things as he did a month ago ; but
the wholesaler thanks his gods that the bad night-
mare of the last year or so is over.
* * * *
A quaint case of deceit was disclosed in a
Sydney police court last week. About nine
months ago, a recently-arrived English widow,
being in a tramcar with her sister, asked a man
for information as to where to get out. Not only
did he tell her, but he got out also, and escorted
the pair home. He called next day, and many
other days, and finally he proposed marriage to
the widow, and was accepted. He gave his name
as Detective Walker, and during their acquaint-
anceship, brandished a pair of handcuffs at every
opportunity, in order to lend verisimilitude to the
narrative. The fiancee sold her business, and was
nearly ready for the wedding, when her sister in-
terupted the pair as they conversed on a sofa by
bringing in the “ detective’s ” wife. The man, it
appeared, was a perfectly mild and ordinary and
everyday paperhanger, living in domestic happi-
ness in a near-by suburb. He was middle-aged, and
had a perfectly ordinary paperhanging family.
For trifling with the widow’s affections and pawn-
ing some £lO worth of her jewellery he was fined
£2O. For being a bogus detective he was fined
£10; and his wife, who testified that up to the
time of his sudden and inexplicable straying he
had been a model father and husband, paid the
money down. So the one bright romance in a
brown existence came to an end, and again there
is only a long vista of paperhanging ahead.
“Red Tape Junior”: Holliman, of the
Treasury, and a couple of other highly-salaried
friends of mine have just been awarded a per-
manent 15s. a week for sitting on the N.S.W.
Public Service Tender Board ; and Neitenstein,
of the Gaols, is to gee 30s. a week for presiding at
the meetings. I don’t mind ; but what, I wonder,
has happened to the N.S.W. Public Service
Regulations? The boss at my place gets £4OO a
year, and, judging by results, earns about £BOO.
He has in his possession some beautifully typed
letters pointing out that, in the opinion of the
Board, the higher-paid officers of the Service
should work gratis after hours when required ;
and for the purpose of this regulation a highly-
paid officer is one at £3OO or more. These letters
are signed “ J. W. Holliman,” and J. W. Holli-
man is the very man who has just got 15 bob a
week all the year round added on to his £lOOO
per annum rather than work gratis 'after
hours. Now how can the Board expect us'
to respect its regulations (which it is a punishable
offence not to respect) when the fat pigs can
grease themselves, and hang the regulations !
* * * *
Melbourne’s most eminent Pak-a-pu-Bah
fell under the feet of the police lately, and some
Chinese bad characters which were found chalked on
the wall of the raided “shop” have been translated
to mean: “In the midst of life we are in gaol.”
The trouble of Soon seems to have been that he
was fairly Soon, but not-Soon enough. The dodge
that laid him by the slippers would never have
outed a very Soon. A theatrically-minded police-
man brewed the successful plot. He dressed him-
self in old clothes, and arranged a stage fight
between himself and another plotter in the lane
next to the gambling kennel. The fellow-plotter
pretended to be in an advanced state of beer, > and
desirous of wrecking Chowdom and giving
no quarter. The disguised policeman, as the
Champion of All Chows, fell upon the'
spurious drunk, knocked him out according to'
arrangement, and thereby won the esteem and
friendship of the furtive Pak-a-pooher. The
downfall of the kennel, and the dramatic arrest
of two shuffling heathen and several Europeans,
followed a few nights later. It reads very amus-
ingly in the daily paper until you remember that,
while the police are having private theatricals in
back lanes, murderers and safe-robbers are calmly
doing their murders and robberies in big buildings
fronting the main streets of the city. If O’Cal-
laghan’s Dramatic Co. would let poor, excited Ah
Soon alone, and rush a few of the more obnoxious
criminals into gaol, the public would applaud.
The ordinary citizen doesn’t care which China-
man wins the other Chinaman’s money, but he
hates to be frequently murdered with impunity.
CALLED FROM THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About 400 South Australian barmaids have secured
registration under the new Act. When they disappear,
the species will be extinct so far as that State is con-
cerned. —Mournful fact.
These are the last! Amid the gleaming bottles
Oh, nevermore will you a new one find
With golden teeth and hair ! Emotion throttles
What little speech we have ! Fate is unkind !
The fading barmaid at the counter lingers,
Smiling at anything that drinks and pays,
Whilst Time, the Artist, with avenging fingers
Works at her face through noisy nights and days.
A wrinkle here —a crow’s-foot dimly lurking
Beneath an eye that twinkles bravely still,
Betrays the hand of Him who, slowly working,
Shall, later, banish her from shelf and till.
Now Love’s the theme for idle conversation,
And they that oft frequent the drink.v hall
Are served with promptness for loud admiration,
Whilst sulky strangers simply wait and call.
When she has gone—when Death or Matrimony
Has called her from the bar where now she reigns,
The argument about a stiffened pony
Shall breed confusion in the sportsman’s brains.
The drink that now o’ertops Youth’s brimming sleever
In sweet return for yearning glances cast
In her direction, bv that green deceiver,
Will cease to flow when she for aye has passed.
Five years—or ten? Perhaps some old campaigner
Who’s wed “ th’ Boss” will stoutly hold the fort —
In speech and features both a good deal plainer—
When we, old man, have reached the oldest Port.
The rest by Time shall slowly be abolished,
And, one by one, like broken bits of delf,
Amid the bottles that they often polished
Be placed with care upon the dusty shelf.
N.S.W.
FOE.


Women’s Labour Union.
One hoar of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
■one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlight way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
Will be pleased with the remits, and you
will surely join the Women's Sunlight
Ur : oi’ ! \.
IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
How Eat Mat be Removed Rapidly by a
Simple Home Remedy, Without Causing
Wrinkles, Disturbing the Diet, or
Undergoing Violent Exercise.
“Eat is nothing but unused energy,” says an
eminent physician, and the man or woman who is
over-burdened with it can easily get rid of the
excess if they wish. All they need is pne half-
ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of
Glveyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
8.P., and Peppermint Water to make six ounces ;
all of which they can get at any chemist’s at a very
reasonable cost. Then let them take two tea-
spoonfuls after each meal and at bedtime until
they are reduced to the desired weight.
This simple home receipt is far better than any
of the secret preparations, for it reduces the fat
safely and harmlessly. The ingredients are
wholly beneficial to the system, having both tonic
and purifying qualities, and so help rather than
distress the stomach. The remedy does not cause
wrinkles, for it reduces one gradually and
naturally, preserving a good outline, and, best of
all, needs no assistance from physical exercise or
any change in diet—one can get the best results
and still take things easy ; eating just what, when
and how one pleases.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
i
Knitted Vests for Present Wear.
THE excellence of our Winter Vests has created a very
strong demand for them this season. The styles are
strictly in keeping- with perfect taste, and are in spotted and
striped designs on quietcoloredgrounds. The whole garment
is wool—back as well as front, elastic enough to retain its
shape with constant wear, fitted with four pockets, braided
edges, and tailored to conform accurately to the figure. The
shoulders are perfectly moulded and made to fit neatly
around collar, with medium-sized opening- for display of tie.
Orders by mail are given special attention, and carry the
privilege of exchange if not just as desired.
Green Ground, with White Stripe, 10/6
Black Ground, with Red Stripe, 10/6
Black Ground, with White Spots, 14/6
Blue G&und, with Red Spots, 14/6
Black Ground, with Red Spots, 14/6
Give Chest Measurement when Ordering-.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
“ Men's Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Last week a Sydney Wages Board learned
a few things about how the fiery gingerbeer is
got ready for the rampageous Cold Tea brigade.
It isn’t a soft, dreamy, tame-curate sort of busi-
ness, by any means. The bottler works under
conditions which one witness mildly described as
“ not very pleasant.” His face is covered by a
network mask and his hands by gloves, while he
usually wears an oilskin. The two former are for
protection from bursting bottles, and the latter to
keep him reasonably dry. Bottles are filled at
such a rate (up to 150 dozen an hour with the
automatic machine) that there is no time to
get out of the way before they burst. Cuts
are frequent; a jagged piece of glass flying off
like a bullet may make a wound requiring
a dozen stitches. Barrister Milner Stephen,
the chairman of the Aerated Water Board, got an
idea of what the pale stuff can do : he was poking
round one factory, when a bottle of soda water, on
being dropped a couple of inches into a basket,
exploded and enveloped him in fizz and frag-
ments. Both bottler and bottle-washer (latter
keeps up a speed of CO dozen an hour on his
machine) work under damp conditions. The
washer has water constantly slopping over him,
and in the more primitive establishments
he mostly stands in a puddle. For this and
similar pleasant jobs the wage paid in a few cases
reaches the dizzy heights of £2 or £2 ss. ; but
more often it is nearer 30s. And there are a large
number of casual hands taken on during the
summer, and liable to be put off at a moment’s
notice, who get 275. 6d. or less, and work for any-
thing up to 60 hours a week. One permanent hand,
starting at the age of 11, had. after 19 years’ toil,
reached 405., and was generally allowed to work a
bit on holidays as a reward for long and faithful
service.
THE TEST QUESTION.
VISITOR : “ Can you tell me the
future?”
FORTUNE-TELLER : “ Oh, yes.”
VISITOR : “ Then how long shall I be able to keep
my new servant.”
The long aiid costly law cases over the
Stan well Park land resumptions have been finished
at last. Stan well Park is a beauty spot in the Illa-
warra district of N.S.W.. and promised to be a
national playground. But, instead of being
reserved for that purpose, the usual syndicate
bought the land, and the usual subdivision at so
much per foot was auctioned; and as one of the
attractions of the sale it was announced that the
Government would reserve some of the beaches
and land adjoining for a national recreation
reserve. This the Government did—and was im-
mediately met with a bill for £lO,OOO, partly for
"damages ! ” The Crown offered about £1650,
and after spending many weary days over it, the
jury said £3200, or thereabouts. So the Govern-
ment saved about £6OOO and virtually won its
case ; yet it is saddled with the whole of the taxed
Costs. The State is the best milking cow in the
world for the shindykit and the shark to get hold
of. And in N. S. Wales the authorities, as a rule,
give them a hand in running the patient animal
into the bail.
The Sydney Board of Health
has begun to put a moderately
heavy boot down on a practice that
badly wants crushing. In 1900 the
population of the suburbs was
367.890; then Federation arrived,
and factories went up, and the
importer went down, and by 1908
the suburban population was
466,265. Thus in eigh v . years it
increased by nearly one-third, and
that crowd took some housing.
And that’s where the owner of
the jerry building-allotment
came in. He owned what
used to be, and in some
cases still is, a swamp; but
during the past four years-
wetness was remarkably scarce
in Sydney, wherefore the jerry
allotment hasn’t been looking
quite such a swamp as usual.
In other cases the natural bog
or waterhole has been filled in
with empty jam tins, dead cats, old
boots, and other sundries; and
over the lot has been cast a few
loads of clay. After that there
mostly sprang up a signboard
notifying that these desirable
residential blocks were to be sold
at a great sacrifice by somebody
who would help the buyer to
build; and “Why pay rent?”
was shrieked in the ear of a public
that mostly hates the rent-
collector. Then the jerry allot-
ment began to be sprinkled with
jerry cottages ; and as the missis
tickled the surface to put in a
pepper tree or a geranium, the un-
derlying dead cat and other fold
things started to make remarks,
and the doctor had to be called in
to little Hethel or Hemma or
Hedgar, and after the doctor
pretty often the undertaker and
the tombstone-maker. It is an
awful and ghastly thing that last
year at St. Peter’s, where the swamp
allotment flourishes, there were 132
infant deaths per 1000 births, and
at North Botany 139 per 1000, while in
the northern suburbs, where there are prac-
tically no' jerry allotments and no swamps, the
average was only 52 infant deaths per 1000
births. For some time past the Board of (
Health has had power to prohibit the build-
ing of premises on land of this deadly sort;
but hitherto it has put down only a carpet slipper
on the practice. Now, however, it declares that
it is going to change its footgear, and action has
already been taken regarding one “ desirable sub-
division ” at St. Peter’s.
* * •* m
On July 6 some elaborate humorist put
into the S. M. Herald an “in memoriam ” poem
re a presumably imaginary girl, said to have died
six years ago. A careful consideration of the
initial letters revealed the violent statement that
the editor of the paper was an idiot. It is a
simple and primitive form of jest which still lags
superfluous on the stage of literature.
* * * ■*
Ever since the smash-up between the tug
Hero and the Fiji liner Suva, last year, there has
been a row over the carrying of mates by the
small vessels that tumble up and down the
N.S.W. coast. The Admiralty Judge cast
the whole responsibility on the Hero, because
it did not have a mate aboard. So last
session the N.S.W. Legislature passed an
Act commanding that every vessel over 15
tons should carry a mate, and about 50
small sailing craft, running out of Sydney
and Newcastle, have been swearing ever
since. For there are not enough able-
bodied mates to go round, and the
steamers have grabbed all there are.
Further, the newly-certificated young
men won’t sign on the dug-outs which
carry on the timber trade of N.S.W.
The sailing ships are therefore driven
to various expedients to nominally
comply with the law. The chief of
these expedients is to call in an ancient
mariner, who, for a trifle, consents
to smoke his pipe in a corner of the
deck and flap his ticket in the in-
spector's face when that official comes
to see if the law is complied with.
The chief duty of a “mate” in the
coastal trade is to wrestle with huge
pieces of timber ; and as Methuselah,
the retired mariner, is unable to bear a
hand at this sort of work, the skippers
have to engage an extra man, much to their
owners’ wrath.
* * * *
The Victorian railways have got their
“economies” down pretty close to bedrock.
They used to employ a boy porter at 2s. 6d. a day
to work the station and the adjacent gates at Glen
Iris. But the other day the shamefulness of
wasting money like this was borne in like a flood
upon the Department, so it replaced the boy with a
girl at 2s. per day. If the girl could be persuaded
to take in a bit of sewing or something, Mister
Tait, from Canada, might possibly get her for
lljd. per day. Whereupon, of course, Parlia-
ment, recognising his great value as an economist,
should put up Tait’s salary another £5OO a year.
BRAINS WILL
TELL.
“ Oh, I was engaged
before I married you —and
to a much smarter man.”
“He must have been, or he wouldn't have got
out of it.”
“ Astron ” : Halley’s comet is expected
shortly, and astronomers the globe over are-
polishing up their lenses, and preparing to bog in.
This hurried messenger is due about every 75
years. Scientists would not have been
able to trace its ancient history but for
the plodding Chinese, who regularly
marked it down without trying to find
out why it transpired or when it would
transpire again. It would come with the
regularity of the rent collector, but for
the disturbing influence of the great bodies
which it passes in its hurry. The planets
of our own system act thus, and nobody
knows what myriads of other suns and
planets the comet whizzes past in its
ellipse. So Halley’s express train is apt
to be a year or two early or a year or two
late, but it has got to come, unless the
celestial Tait who runs the show gets the
time table mixed up beyond repair, and
there is the father of a smash at some
skyey junction, and a ditched comet
with a broken back is out of business for
good.
* * * m
The Syrian, who with his bundles up looks
as though butter wouldn’t melt in his mouth, can
still come down like a wolf on the fold, provided
there’s nothing in the fold besides lambs and
shorn, shivering ewes. To illustrate this, a yarn
was told in the Fitzroy (Vic.) police court, the
other day, when one of the breed, calling himself
Henry J. Simeonson, was charged with smashing
furniture and assaulting a woman. It was, it
seems, the Syrian’s own fold that he came down
on at 11'30 p.m. He had rented it to one Edward
Bull and his wife, and Bull, according to every-
body’s account, was behind with his rent. The
woman’s story is graphic enough to stand by
itself:—
When she was in bed at 11.30 p.m. with her little child,
defendant broke open the door and stood over her with a
chisel in his hand. He said, “If you don’t get out of the
house I will rip you open.” She was dragged out of her
bed and chased out of the house down the right-of-way
by defendant. A gentleman lent her his overcoat, as she
had only her nightdress on. Defendant bundled every-
thing out of the house. Some of the broken articles were
her wedding presents.
There was corroboration to this extent, that when a
constable arrived the Syrian cohort was still brand-
ishing the chisel; also, it (thecohort) “bore traces
of having been roughly handled, evidently by men
who sought to protect the woman.” Fortunately
there were people around who had some doubt
about the propriety of chasing women out of bed
with chisels at 11 o’clock on cold nights;
but the Law didn’t seem to think that small
matters like this are worth troubling about.
Anyway, the Bench, which fined the man £3 for
breaking the crockery, assessed the assault at 10s.
The Fitzroy Bench has its own ideas about the
relative value of women and crockery.
On June 30a “mass” meeting was held
in Invercargill (M.L.) to celebrate the third
anniversary of the night on which Bung was first
compelled to bang his door. The proceedings
were “hearty and unanimous,” and the meeting
passed resolutions about certain deplorable
happenings in the King Country, about 000 miles
away. Apparently it didn’t know what was
taking place under its own nose, so to speak ; but
next morning, along with the report of its own
meeting—including the remarks about the de-
plorable King Country—it had a chance to read
that for the June quarter the Excise duty on beer
manufactured in Invercargill was £435, an increase
of 20 per cent, on the figures for the June quarter
of 1908. This meant that about 5500 gallons more
beer were brewed—and presumably drunk. Still
Invercargill goes on being very sorry for the King
Country. And, meantime, another hundred pubs
have been closed in Maoriland, and the habit of
having a keg in the house grows wider and wider.
In 1896, before the local prohibition victories
started, the Maoriland drink bill was £2 19s.
per head per annum ; and it has gone on rising
steadily till last year it was £3 15s. 6d.
* * * <
“Sr”: Melbourne Age, of July 1, told
a simple tale of a boy who was taken to the hos-
pital because be had swallowed a half-sovereign.
I. know the parties and the details, and it was
a really tragic yarn. Even Mercia going to the
lions in her nightdress wasn’t more pathetic. The
trouble arose in a job printery. Ichabod, the
compositor, held up half-a-sovereign and said,
gaily, that it was going on the pony Ahasuerus
that afternoon, and Ahasuerus was a good thing,
because Menahem, the bookmaker, had told him
so. Nadab, the other compositor, said he was a
goat, and knocked his arm up, and the half-
sovereign hit the roof. Pekahiah, the boy,
snatched it as it came down, said scornfully
that it was a gilt sixpence, and bit it to test
its genuineness. Ichabod hit him hard on
the back to make him give it up, and
the shock caused him to swallow it.
Stomach-pumping and other violent measures
failed to recover the coin from the innards of
Pekahiah, the boy; and as Ichabod hadn’t
another half-sov., he buried his sorrow by putting
in an afternoon’s overtime at the case. About
5 p.m. the news came that the tip of book-
maker Menahem had proved correct; Ahasuerus,
the pony, had started at 15 to one and come in
easily first. Then, in distraction, Ichabod rushed
out to demand that Pekahiah’s father should
make good the loss of £B. Being cast out with
scorn, he went to the favorite pub of Nadab, the
other printer, who had started the whole trouble ;
and taking careful aim through the doorway
which separated the bar from the parlor, he threw
a beer-pot at Nadab and smashed a large
mirror. That is all up to now, save that Ichabod
has a dark suspicion that the half-sovereign has
been extracted from the innards of Pekahiah, the
office boy, and that Jehoahaz, the youth’s father,
is keeping it to buy furniture with.
A LARGE FISH TRANSACTION.
GOOD MAN : “ Christian friend , deal gently with
the erring one.”
SAVAGE GROCER (mistaking the words): “One
’ erring , be hanged! The young ’ound’s shook
’arf the cask.”
Barrister Levy has been telling the N.S. W.
Assembly some solemn truths about the expensive-
ness of law. To quote one instance : If a man
loses a case before one of the inferior departments
of horsehair and wants to appeal to the Supreme
Court, he first requires a copy of the notes made
by the Judge who threw him out. This is sup-
plied by the Judge’s associate, who charges ss. for
every 288 words. If the Judge was a voluminous
person the bill may run to £25. Then the litigant
has to get these notes printed in leaded pica type
on “cream-wove white foolscap folio paper, with
an inner margin lin. wide and an outer margin
2gin. wide.” Having accomplished these great
works, the plaintiff is in a position to hire a costly
solicitor and three ruinous barristers —it is best to
have three in case two fail to turn up after taking
their fees—and get to business. But if it proves,
after hiring the three ruinous barristers, that the
margin was only 2Jin. wide the applicant is Lost.
THE LIMIT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In all the sad, bad city,
Just we two—
Within a cab ! (“ A pity
’Tis, ’tis true!”)
The wheels were rattling badly.
Did we care ?
We loved each other madly.
We—the Pare ! '
So intimate and shocking !
It was fine !
(But Nemesis was knocking,
Friend o’ mine !)
The cab pulled up; romantic?
It was more.
But then he drove me frantic.
For he swore!
I stood there, wet and draggled.
While (what say you?)
The awful creature haggled
With Jehu!!
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROME.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
Represented
b y
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding- Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
Plane or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron & Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
machinery. Addresses
CAMERON A SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT;
and Pall Mall, BENDIGO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Telegraph had a bit of bad luck on
Monday. It happened this way. Some years ago, when
the 1.0. F. insurance fake invaded this country, the S. M.
Herald had the sense to do as The Bulletin did, and
warn the public against the Red Indian concern that
wasn’t exactly a deliberate swindle, but was the worst
possible sort of a trap. But in spite of the fact that the
jaws of the trap could plainly be seen if a critic did a
little scratching, the Sydney Telegraph poured out
quite a lot of sympathy on the concern, and quoted ap-
proving remarks, and, if it didn’t actually' advise the
public to rush in, it at any rate was careful not to warn
the public to keep out. Consequently a few thousands
of Australians were snared into the Red Indian order. And
then, just when the Sydney Telegraph was once more
posing as a financial authority that had summed up
things in a calm, judicial way, and on the very morning
when it was assuring the Commonwealth Government on
its word as an expert that it saw no danger in a policy of
borrowing, the S. M. Herald reprinted the last English
Board of Trade returns covering the operations of the
I.O.F.—the other institution in which the D.T. could see
no danger. And these returns showed conclusively what
a wretched hand the D.T. is at seeing danger even
when it is twice as big as a mountain. The valuation
balance-sheet is quite a simple document; it merely
sets out that the 1.0. F thing the D.T. couldn’t
see any danger in—has a net liability of £13,402,298, and
has £2,293,088 to meet that liability with ; consequently
its deficiency as at December 31, 1907, was £11,109,210.
The 1.0. F. is, however, worked on the assessment dodge:
that is to say, while it doesn’t give any surrender value
in case the policy-holder can’t or won’t continue to pay
up his premiums, the office can increase the premiums in-
definitely. In other words, the office can make the pre-
mium what it pleases, and if the policy-holder doesn’t pay
up he forfeits everything. As a matter of fact, some of
the policy-holders have lately been called on to pay £2
10s. where formerly they had been paying only £1 ; and it
looks as though either a whole lot more will have to
forfeit everything, or the assessments will have to go
still higher. These were the things that the D.T. ought to
have foreseen, but didn’t; in fact, it wouldn’t even see
them though The Bulletin repeatedly drew attention to
them. Wherefore when the D.T. declines to see any
danger in the borrowing policy, and consequently advises
the Commonwealth Government to bog in and borrow, it
will be just as well for the Government to remember
that the paper’s inability to see danger is an old-standing
and apparently incurable disease.
» * * •
Tasmania’s State revenue climbed up beyond
the million for the year 1907-8; but the effort was too
much for it, and it fell back exhausted. For the past 12
months the receipts totalled only £934,326. The Com-
monwealth refunds were £61,418 less ; but, apart from
railways, there was a small shrinkage nearly all round.
Expenditure figures still remain a dark mystery ; but it is
very well known that there is going to be another sub-
stantial deficit. In many respects Tasmania is the Awful
Example among Australian States. Out of its public debt
it has paid for more unproductive side-shows than any
other State has done. In 1908 the gross receipts from ail
its public works and services didn’t amount to as much
as the interest bill;—
Interest £366,855
Works and services .. 323,034
Deficit .. £43,821
But the working expenses amounted to £232;257 ; so that
the net revenue from works and services was £276,078
less than the total interest. From that amount the only
fair deductions are less than £25,000 on account of interest
on loans to public bodies and for telegraph construction.
The balance has to be met out of taxation ; and, as year
after year a deficit is shown, the position grows worse.
For of course a deficit simply means that, instead of rais-
ing enough money, things are squared by borrowing a
trifle at interest, and that trifle isn’t represented by
anything productive—it has gone to pay some of last
year’s salaries. There is only one possible end
for a State or any other concern that works on those
lines. Already over 40 per cent, of the total expendi-
ture goes in interest; and, apart from the Commonwealth
refunds, the State has not £75,000 left after paying
interest and working expenses of its railways, etc. The
figures for 1908 were—
Total revenue apart from Commonwealth re-
funds £711,015
Interest and charges £405,746
Working expenses, railway and other
public works 232,257
638,003
Available for all other purposes (Education,
Justice, Police, Public Health, etc., etc.).. £73,012
And as the States can’t rely upon what they have hitherto
received as Commonwealth refunds, simply because
the Common wealth’s own demands are yearly increas-
ing, and must go on increasing if we are to have
adequate defence, Tasmania’s outlook is shockingly bad.
But it persistently refuses to realise the fact, and goes on
drifting further and further into trouble. To put itself
on a reasonably sound footing it ought to tax itself, and
practise hard economy, until it has wiped out at least
£5,000,000 of its total debt of £9,754,000; for its works
can’t show a respectable return on any more than 4|
millions. Instead, however, of attempting to do any-
thing of that sort it deceives itself with weird sophistries,
exactly the same as the bank directors of Melbourne did
just before the awful smash that happened 17 years ago.
Presuming the scheme ..for reconstructing the
A.J.S. Bank goes through, wl£it are the “B” deposits,
inscribed stock, and shares worth? Lately the first two
have been quoted at 12s. Thus £lOOO (face value) of de-
posits or stock has been worth £6OO. In return for that
£lOOO of deposits or stock the holder will get (to the
nearest £): —
3 p.c. deposit (payable in two years) .. £125
Preference shares 333
Interminable stock 542
Total .. .. £lOOO
The £125, payable in two years, carrying 3 per cent., is
worth about £l2l to the man who wants 4J per cent, for
his money with first-rate security. Therefore, for £6OO,
less £l2l, or £479, an investor gets—
Preference shares £333
Interminable stock 542
Total £875
The stock carries 3 per cent., and the shares are 3 per
cent, cumulative. Assuming that to be paid, the return
from these will be £26 55., which on £479 is at the rate of
£5 9s. 7d. per cent, per annum. In other words, after
discounting his two-year deposit so as to make it give a
return of 4j per cent., the balance of what an investor
gets who buys old “ B ” deposits or stock at 12s. will pro-
duce a fraction under sJper cent. At 12s. 6d., the return
would be £5 4s. 2d. per cent., and at 135., £4 19s. 4d. per
cent.
A.J.S. Bank shares, £1 paid, but carrying a
liability of £2 10s., have not been sold in the open market
for many a year, and there has been no regular quotation
for them. During the last four years they have been
given away with as little as 10s., and as much as £2. The
man who received £5O with 100 shares will now get 250
shares, which will thus cost him £2OO net. If they pay 3
per cent, he will get 3f per cent. on his investment.
The man who got £2OO with 100 shares will get 250 shares
for £5O, and under the same circumstances will get a
return of 15 per cent. Before the bank can pay 3 per
cent, on ordinary shares,it will have to earn—
-3 per cent, on 2-year deposits .. .. £14,066
3 per cent, on stock 60,953
3 per cent. pref. shares 37,510
Total £112,529
Up to now (still using the figures as at December 31 last
as a basis) the bank has had to earn the following
interest:—
Inscribed stock (3£ per cent.) .. .. £27 921
“ B ” deposits 88^597
Total £116,518
That is to say, the old deposits and stock will cost the
new bank £3989 less than they cost the old bank ; and
that money will he available for other purposes. But
besides earning this interest, the old bank has shown
average annual profits of £9150 during the past five
years ; last year alone it showed a profit of £24,157.
Apart from that, however, the ordinary shares will be
represented by entirely new capital, so "it can fairlv be
relied upon to earn its own 3 per cent. ; therefore, a'div.
on ordinary shares will not have to poach on the profits
of the rest of the business. Under these circumstances,
and allowing the bank to do only as well as it has done
during the last few years, there appears to be no reason
why it should not pay a 3 per cent. div. on ordinary
shares from the outset. Of course that assumes that the
new capital will be productive.
At the same time, these ordinary shares in
the new Australian Bank of Commerce cannot be
expected to be a very favorite investment, for some years
at any rate, and for these reasons :
(1) Before the ordinaries get anything at all, the stock
3 p ? r cent - and the preference shares the same.
(2) Interest on stock and a dividend up to 3 per cent,
on preference shares are cumulative.
(3) If oidinaries get 4 per cent., preferences must also
get 4 per cent., and stock must get 3* per cent.; if
oidinaries get 5 per cent., so must preferences, and stock
must then carry 4 per cent. Stock stops at that, but the
preference dividend marches on abreast of the ordinary
dividend. Thus before the ordinaries get 5 per cent., the
bank must earn £45,323 a year to" satisfy the extra
demands (above the 3 per cent.) of the stockholders and
preference shares, plus £25,000 for reserves.
„.^® efore ™° r . e than 3 per cent, is paid to anybody,
fiv’rnn- per i h i a /,‘ y f ar mUSt s ° t 0 reserves ; and if the
£12,500 is not left after paying 3 percent, all round in one
half-year, the div. must not go beyond 3 per cent, till the
arrears are made up. Last week, by the way, it was
inferred that the £12,500 is to be an annual contribution.
xM h o^f;, lSn f as clear as ifc nil > ht be on the point, but
the £12,500 is apparently a half-yearly contribution.
This contribution doesn’t stop till the fund has once
reached £250,000. But after it has once reached £250 000
wUI be under no definite obligation to put
£25,000 a year to reserves. y
( 5 ) The pref. capital will be £1,250,324 ; the ordinary
cap'tol £389,475, if all the shares are paid for. Therefore
though an extra 1 per cent. div. on ordinary shares be-
yond 5 per cent, would only call for £3894 a year, the
prefs ° an ° n y Pay lfc by also P a '’ in ß an extra £12,503 to
.( 6 ) Ifan y more capital has to be written off on account
of the old business, the ordinary capital must suffer first
.Nothing, however, is to be written off these shares for
seven years. Apparently there is nothing whatever to
stop the bank from writing off new reserves from time
-^ me : J be u °u ly will be that > if reserves are
° ff ’ bank Wl !i bave fco RO on putting aside
£12,500 per half-year until the total does reach £250 000.
This, of course, makes it less likely that the ordinary
capital now to be paid up will be written off.
are that are not calculated to make
the ordinary shares a popular investment. But they will
certainly be worth something—not par, it is prettv
certain ; probably about 12s. or so for a start. At that
price, if they pay 3 per cent., they will return 5 per cent,
to the investor. Also at that price a present shareholder
will get shares worth 30s. at a cost of 50s. (one present
share will carry 2£ new ones, at £1 each). And that, at
an n r , ’ IS better than having the 50s. per old share
called up and then calmly wiped out—a proceeding which
for many years looked as though it were inevitable.
The Westealian Tkustee, Executor and
Agf-ncy 00. (Perth):—
Diyidendsand Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1903.. £lOl9 10p.c. =£473 £546 £6,810
Oct., 1903.. 986 10 ~ ~ 473 513 7 393
Apl., 1904.. 1443 32J,, ~ 1523 t’243
Oct., 1904.. 1363 10 ~ ~ 525 838 s'osi
Apl., 1905.. 1551 30 ~ ~1575 s’os7
Oct., 1905.. 1611 10 ~ ~ 525 1086 9 143
Apl., 1906.. 1252 10 ~ „ 525 727 9’s7o
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 ~ ~ 525 189 lo!o59
Apl., 1907.. 1197 15 ~ ~ 787 410 10 469
Oct., 1907.. 1589 20 ~ ~1050 £389 150 10 619
Apl., 1908.. 1275 10 ~ „ 525 1000 10’,369
Oct., 1908.. 1107 10 ~ ~ 525 582 10 951
Apl., 1909.. 1075 20 ~ ~ 1050 25 10’976
The past half-year’s accounts really look a little better
than is shown in the last line above ; but the co. writes
£lO3 off furniture, etc. (about one-third of the book
value), and also pays £289 as a bonus to the staff. The
capital is £lO,OOO ; this and the reserves are represented
by premises, £12,000 ; investments (chiefly mortgages),
£6885; and book debts and cash. The premises return
about 8£ per cent, gross. This includes a charge of £3OO
a year for the co.’s own accommodation—which, by
the way, is not charged up among the expenses;
it is not shown, therefore, in the comparison printed
hereunder; and, on the other hand, the amount is, of
course, not included among the receipts from interest,
rent, etc. Some other figures are as follows
April, April, Oct., April,
1901. 1908. 1908. 1909.
Commissions .. £1,540 £2,788 £2,635 £2,634
Interest, rent, etc... 535 403 510 814
Expenses .. .. 1,321 1,917 2,038 1,981
Expenses p.c. of re-
venue .. .. 63-6 60-1 64-8 57-5
Profits p.c. of funds 10/12/7 12/7/4 10/17/4 10/5/3
Trust balances .. 103,234 538,644 1,073,392 1,122,838
The business is increasing pretty rapidly, and it con-
tinues highly profitable. Westralia is a State on which
the absentee has a considerable grip, and though that may
be had for the State it is good for this co. There is a
liability of £2 on the shares, which are 10s. paid ; but the
reserves now exceed the paid capital. Still neither one
nor the other is in a very liquid form, which might be
awkward if the co. ran against a serious snag. Snags,
however, don’t seem numerous in the track of Australian
trustee cos.
Still, few things are more certain than that
trustee cos. won’t always escape trouble. They know the
old snags, certainly, and may be able to dodge some of
them ; but the interpretation of wills is a ticklish busi-
ness—the tremendous number of equity suits based on
disputed interpretations is proof enough of that. While
property values are on the up-grade the trustee co. hasn’t
got much to worry about on that score ; but when a
slump comes, and beneficiaries only get £5OO where they
expected £lOOO, they not unnaturally look round for
somebody to cast a stone at. And since there are quite a
number of gents one who have no particular affection for
trustee cos., because those cos. have laid a large and grow-
ing hand on one of the ancient fat pickings of the
profession, there are always plenty to suggest that
the trustee co. should be the target ; and thus legal
questions are raised to shift the loss from the estate to
the trustee. So it happened that, after the Melbourne
boom, one of the over-numerous Victorian cos. lost
£130,000 in this or a very similar way. That experience
ought to sink very deep into the minds of Australian
trustees and the managers of Australian trustee cos. ;
also investors in trustee shares might do worse than give
it a thought now and again. The managers are power-
less to prevent these actions altogether ; and where there
are grounds for an action there are always possibilities of
an adverse verdict. But if they can’t prevent the actions
they can at least provide for them beforehand, by making
decent additions to reserves, and not the miserable trifle
that the Westralian co. puts by for the past term. And
a substantial addition is all the more called for because of
the rapid increase of business ; for it is obvious, as has
been repeatedly pointed out here, that the risks of a
trustee co. are not in proportion to its capital, but in
proportion to its business.
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Peoduce Co.
(Sydney)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
Feb., 1899.. 6 p.c. = 112 2538 2,745
Feb., 1900.. 8,788 6 ~ „ 304 4506 3978 6,723
April, 1901.. 320 6 „ ~ 855 6,188
June, 1902.. 2,689 6 „ ~1409 1280 7,468
June, 1903.. 1,625 6 „ ~ 1306 319 7,787
June, 1904.. 2,012 6 ~ ~1335 677 8,464
June, 1905.. 4,783 6 ~ ~ 1335 1742 1706 10,170
June, 1906.. 9,526 6 ~ ~1335 3183 5008 15,178
June, 1907.. 10,669 7 ~ ~1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities, £2615 .. .. 17,150
June, 1908.. 8,066 7 p.c. = 1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 .. .. 18,312
June, 1909.. 9,572 10 p.c. = 2229 2924 4419 22,731
The selling wool-brokers of Sydney lately formed an asso-
ciation, which works in with similar bodies in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane, and among them they regulate
the supplies, preventing the market being over-crowded
at any onetime. This regulation is a good thing all round ;
the only sufferer is the speculator, who used to cut in
during a temporary glut. But along with this object the
Sydney brokers had another —to rearrange charges, so
that they would get a bit more out of the business when
wool prices are low, without getting any less when they
are high. However, this co. didn’t believe in any in-
creased charges at all, and wouldn’t come in ; so it goes
on playing a lone hand, as it has done for many years
past. And apparently it goes on playing successfully,
because for the past six years, at any rate, it has
every season increased the total of its sales.
The table above shows that for the past two years con-
siderable sums have been written off assets. It isn’t
clear whether the losses have been actually made, or
whether all or part has been put to a contingency
account in case a bad season should turn up. Appar-
ently the item which is liable to the depreciation is
“Sundry debtors,” now standing at £22,269. No hint is
given as to the character of these “ sundry debtors.” The
only other assets of any consequence are the buildings
(Phillip-street, Sydney, and Pyrmont); these stand in
the books at £40,740. As capital and reserves total
£45,023, or only £4283 more than the premises stand for,
it follows that the bulk of the “ sundry debtors ” has to
be financed with borrowed money. The earnings appear
to have been the best ever recorded :
1904. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Commissions, etc. £11,557 £20,190 £18,124, £20,926
Working Expenses 9,444 9,204 9,755' 11,030
Expenses p.c. of
corns 81’8 45-5 53 - 8 52’7
Besides these expenses, a small bonus is usually voted to
the staff. On the other hand, a bonus is paid to those
who provide the commissions : last year it amounted to
the usual rebate of 20 per cent. (30 per cent, was paid in
1907, but that was the boom year). The reserves, even if
there are none hidden in a contingency account, are now
very substantial; they have just shoved their nose ahead
of the paid capital—a fine performance, seeing that the
co. is still only 12 years old.
+ * * *
Sydney Exchange Co.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1903 .. £837 6 per cent. = £9OO £15,248
Dec., 1903.. 1395 6 „ „ 900 £495 15,743
June, 1904 .. 986 6 „ ~ 900 86 15,829
Dee., 1904 .. 1269 6 „ „ 900 369 16,198
June, 1905 .. 881 6 „ ~ 900 16,179
Dec., 1905 .. 1069 6 „ „ 900 169 16,348
June, 1906 .. 806 6 „ „ 900 16,254
Dec., 1906 .. 1316 6 „ „ 900 416 16,670
June, 1907 .. 739 6 „ „ 900 16,509
Dec., 1907 .. 1186 6 „ „ 900 286 16,795
June, 1908.. 896 6 „ „ 900 16,791
Dec., 1908 .. 1261 6 „ „ 900 361 17,152
June, 1909 .. 1161 6 „ „ 900 261 17,413
A new item appears in the balance-sheet, following the
reserves—“ New building account, £5000.” And on the
opposite side £5OOO has dropped into the fixed deposits.
The explanation appears to be that this co. owns Aarons’
Exchange Hotel, the lease of which expires next year ;
but a new 20-year lease has been let to Aarons’ Exchange
Hotel Co. on condition that it adds two storeys and makes
numerous improvements. The Hotel Co. estimated that
these things would cost about £5OOO, and apparently that
money has been put up, for payment presently to the
contractors. This may almost be regarded as a reserve,
though as nothing has been written off property account
for many years, some or all of it should probably be
applied to writing down this asset, which stands at
£70,000. The share capital of the Exchange Co. is £30,000 ;
and there is also £21,420 owing - on debentures. Con-
sidering the size of the reserves, the return on capital is
small; but the security is good. And, besides, the
Exchange isn’t exclusively a. money-making concern ; it
is a sort of club without liquor or food, where the Fat-
man can pour denunciations of Socialism into always-
sympathetic ears, and where the visitor can get
information about our great natural resources from the
merchants’ point of view.
* * * *
Victobian Butter Factories Co-operative
Co., Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit repre-
senting preliminary expenses :
Dividend Bonus to Written
Aug., Profits. (10 p.c.). Clients. Off. Deficit
1900 .. £163
April, Reserves
1901 .. £914 £149 602
1902 .. 1603 164 £lOO6 1035
1903 .. 2513 191 1612 1745
1904 .. 3072 201 2593 £2O 2003
1905 .. 2882 206 2483 20 2177
1906 .. 4278 212 1947 571 3725
(5 p.c.).
1907 .. 3006 133 2372 748 3478
Reserves transferred to Capital (£592) . . 2886
1908 .. 997 161 784 2938
Loss.
1909 .. 1595 Nil 1343
In the previous year £2OO was appropriated for a bad-
debts fund ; but as it has disappeared it has now been
added to the amount written off as at April, 1908. The
past year has been disastrous. The season wasn’t too
good in Victoria, and the co-operative butter factories
which are interested in this wholesale co-operative con-
cern had a particularly bad time, it is said. But the real
trouble, as hitherto pointed out here, is that the financ-
ing has been bad. The co. started simply to do
co-operative marketing, which called for very little
capital ; but as it was getting along very
well, it launched out into freezing works and
butter-box making, and had to borrow the money to do
it. The accounts for this part of the business are kept
separate, and only the net result is transferred to profit
and loss account; and for the past year a deficit of £2359
is shown. The paid capital is only £3230, and the factory
and works have cost £19,473. Obviously this means a big
interest bill which has to be paid whether the season is
good or bad. Australian co-operators have still a lot to
learn. They very rarely give the people who manage their
concerns a fair chance. The thing is started, as a rule,
in a small, wheelbarrow sort of way ; and when it
grows till the business calls for a waggon at the very
least, the management still has to go on struggling
with the wheelbarrow. The only thing the management
can do most times is to hang on to profits, and thus get
the capital which the co-operators won’t put up other-
wise ; and even then they often have to do it in a furtive
way, by writing down assets heavily, because if they
showed the reserves, the co-operators would want to
collar them as a bonus. And yet the managements dare
not give the co-operators the straight talk they often
deserve, because, in spite of the great things co-operation
has done for them, crowds of them are prepared to go
over to the ever-waiting Private Enterprise middleman
on the smallest provocation.
* * * *
The Logan and Albert Co-operative Dairy
Co. (Beaudesert, Q.), which began with a deficit 0f,£182,
preliminary expenses:—
Sup- Writ
pliers’ ten De-
May, Profit. Dividends. Bonus. Off. licit.
1905 £7 £175
Re-
serves.
1906 .. 445 £242 28
1907 .. 716 5 per cent. =£B2 £3OO 300 62
1908 .. 1091 5 „ „ 86 123 421 523
1909 .. 1807 5 „ „ 87 2243
Of the year’s profit £227, which has been passed to a re-
serve for renewals, etc., ought perhaps to be written off
to cover depreciation ; the only doubt in the matter arises
in consequence of £238 having already been charged to
Profit and Loss on account of “ improvement, mainte-
nance and repairs.” The co.’s factory has been declared
by the Government dairy expert to be under the standard
required ; hence, no doubt, the large additions made to
reserves. But as the present factory may have to be
more or less wiped out, it looks as though some of those
reserves will presently have to be wiped out too.
* * * *
Great Cobar, whose annual report ought to be
out from England about the end of this month, produced
450 cons copper and 1102 oz. gold during the past four
weeks ; but it still doesn’t say where the metal came
from. In the aggregate, though it has been getting ore
from the C.S.A. field and the Cobar Gold Mines, the
purchases can’t amount to much, comparatively speaking ;
but that ought to make the co. all the more ready to set
outthefacts. Theco., however, simply throws out its four-
weekly figures without a word of explanation ; even when,
early in April, it reported 510 tons of copper, it didn’t
say a word about the furnace bottoms that had been cleaned
up. Great alterations are still in progress at the mine
works, and managing director Kendall will hardly know
his furnaces when he sees them again. Evidently H. O.
Ballenger, the new manager, has more power than ever
late manager Blakemore was favored with. The changes
involve a very heavy expenditure, however, and the co.
had far too big a capital to struggle under even without
these additions. At Dec. 31, 1907, there was £555,836
owing to debenture holders ; and no doubt at the present
moment there is a heavy overdraft guaranteed by the
directors and supported by the unissued debentures
(£200,000). *
The search for the north and south continua-
tions of the Broken Hill main lode still goes merrily on,
and the same bald old lies continue to be dragged in by
their one remaining hair. “The cap of an immense lode,”
and “identical with the heavy cap of the Broken Hill
lode,” are two stock phrases to be seen on most of the
prospectuses. The people who make the comparison
probably never saw the real cap of the Broken Hill lode,
which was blasted off years ago. One of the latest
of these alleged fac-similes to be offered to the
British public is the Broken Hill North Blocks, which
was superficially prospected in the early days of the field,
and abandoned as a duffer. Of course, there is no con-
clusive evidence that the “immense lode” does not exist
somewhere below the surface, and speculators who have
faith somewhat larger than a grain of mustard-seed may
one day be rewarded for their enterprise in trying to find
it. The prospectus is, however, a marvel of presumption.
After stating that the insignificant ironstone excrescence
on the surface is evidently the cap of an immense
lode, the document explains that the work done on the
property consists of a costeen sft. deep and two shafts
20ft. and 38ft. deep respectively. From these, samples
have been broken, one of which assayed 46 per cent, lead,
16oz. silver, 3 per cent, copper, and a trace of gold.
The other sample lacked the gold; but it went
56 per cent. lead. Surely the investor doesn’t want
anything better than that! But that is not all.
The blocks adjoin the “B. H. North mine, peg and peg,
and extend north to the Silver Hill mine.” That
is about as good as the , case of the man who wanted
to raise a loan on the strength of being “ next door to
a millionaire.” The North mine is a good property to be
next door to ; but all the exploratory work dpne on the
north side of the boundary has failed to show any sign of
the continuation of the lode which the North mine is
working on, so the advantage of being next door on that
side isn’t very apparent. Then with regard to the assays :
samples of ore may be broken in a dozen abandoned out-
side show's that will assay high, but the trouble is that
there is not enough of the stuff to pay for the steel used
up in taking it out.
* * * *
There has been a great deal of talk on the part
of the Broken Hill Junction shareholders’ committee
about starting the mill. Such a proposal is utterly
ridiculous, at the present price of metals. It is quite
true that the assay values of the new western ore body
are good ; but when the ore comes to be put through the
mill, the chances are that it will not go any W'ay near
those figures. When the South Blocks mine was sampled
it showed about 22 p.c. lead ; but the mill average is only
16 p.c. Even under the very best mining conditions, the,
sample assay of ore broken in a crosscut or a drive can
very rarely be maintained when stoping is commenced
and the ore is sent in large quantities to the mill. When
the Junction mill was last working it was dealing with
ore assaying about 12 p.c. lead and 9oz. silver, and the
proportion of concentrates produced was one in eight.
At that time a loss was made with lead at £l6. Owing to
the way in which the Junction was knocked about in the
early days, it is like a rabbit-warren below, and ore-
raising there will be more expensive than on the other
mines until much money is spent in widening and
straightening the levels, putting down winzes, etc. That
being so, it Would be impossible to pull down costs
sufficiently to enable the mill to be worked at a profit
with lead at £l3, even supposing the grade of the ore
was raised to 14 per cent, lead and lOoz, silver —which is
as much as it would be for milling purposes.
■i * * *
Broken Hill South Blocks issues a memo, to the
effect that the profit over all expenditure for the past
three months has been : April, £1960; May, £2209;
June, £2190. Total for three months, £6359. That
would be at the rate of 4s. 6£d. per ton of ore,
£1 2s. 7d. per ton of concentrates, or £1 14s. 6d.
per ton of lead in the concentrates. The calculation of
profits is based on lead at £l3 and silver fine at 2s. 2d.
The contract with the B. H. Prop, provides for a return-
ing charge of £4 11s. per ton, with a rise of Is. 3d. per
ton for every £1 which lead goes beyond £l4, and a
fall of Is. 3d. for every £1 it gets below £l4. Allowing
for this, an improvement of £1 in lead would
have raised the profits for the three months to about
£9750 ; a fall of £1 below £l3 would, on the other hand,
reduce the profits to about £2BOO for the three months ;
and the profits w’ould disappear before £ll was reached.
The margiii is-none too wide—not wide enough to be
cheerful over. Costs are low, about 14s. 6d. per ton of
ore; but the silver contents are so wretchedly
small, averaging only 2£oz. per ton of ore.
The three mpnths’ profit was at the rate of £25,436 a
year. Deduct 10 per cent, depreciation, which would
amount to rather over £BOOO, and isn’t enough, and
£2436 for management and office expenses, etc., which is
also under the mark ; then £15,000 would be left. There
are 200,000 shares, and a profit of that size is only equal
to Is. 6d. per share. With the market at 335., it is quite
clear that probable future advances in metals, etc., are
already heavily discounted.
• * * * *
The Sulphide Corporation always has some
trouble on hand. Just now the Ore Concentration Co.,
owning the Elmore zinc process, has started an action
against it in Australia, alleging infringement of patent
rights. Upwards of half a million tons of Sulphide
Corporation tailings have been treated by the acid-oil
process, and the Elmore people want to collect royalty on
the lot. The two companies have been snarling at one
another for two years, but the fur has begun to fly now.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.) ends its half-year in dis-
appointment ; it seems to have struck all its bad patches
at once. For the previous half-year the revenue was


For Security
Stability
Economy
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)*
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2, 4, © 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE.
Manager.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE G.M. 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) .. 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL .. .. 8.07 „
SONS OF GWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, ever}’ small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babhit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne : 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
« * • *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
*■* * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited.. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * » *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows—l6Bin. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom—thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.*
James Hardie and Co. carry large and useful
stocks of Dick’s well-known belting.; “ Fibro-Cement ’
Asbestos slates, sheets and silos ; “ Weston ” centrifugals ;
Fullis’ laundrv machinery, gas engines, shafting, pulleys,
caustic soda,' soda ash, sodium—lowest prices. West
Circular Quay, Sydney.* U
* * * *
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited “We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in
twelve months can secure proposals for'more than a
million and three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for
£1,278,000. However vigorous the driving may be, such
a result could not be attained if the Society did not offer
what manv people want.”*
* * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tf.nax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other bi£ mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, which is common slack, being
less than l£lb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.* • ■
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Bunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
■**-<■*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sidberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * » *
Of the various “Sarco” fuel-saving appliances,
for which Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are agents,
that in most general use is their 002 Recorder, which
has been installed in many factories and power houses.
This instrument speaks in’a very definite way against the
amount of fuel which is wasted in smoke, and a user
states that, by installing a “Sarco” Recorder, his fuel
consumption was reduced from 9751 b. to 8941 b. per
hour, although more power was actually being demanded
from the steam plant.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating' &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 14.
£4 ss. 31d., the expenditure £1 17s. 6Jd., and the profit
po 7s 9d.—all per ton. For the last two months the re-
venue has been only about £2 13s. per ton. In May the total
profit was £1139; in June, £599. Previous half-years
monthly average was £2387, and it tabes £1250 to pay the
monthly sixpence. The co. charges up ss. per ton for
development as it goes along—this is included with costs
—but as the co. wants more faces of ore, development
has actually cost more than that lately. The rises above
No 4 level have generally given poorer results than were
looked for ; and that is chiefly responsible for the present
cheerless figures. The shaft is down to 648 ft. No 5
level would, under ordinary circumstances, be at bUUIt. ;
but it hasn’t been decided to open out there, though
that may be necessary if thing's don’t improve at the
No. 4 (480 ft.) Some winzes will, however, £0 down first.
The new mill, which should increase the output about 50
per cent., will be ready in a month or so. The straight-
ening up to get ready for this increased output accounts
for some of the recent reduction in grade of ore treated.
Up to June 30 the goldmining cos. in Westralia
had distributed £19,694,192 among shareholders, and the
20 million mark should be passed by the end of September.
Nearly three-fourths of the cash came out of seven mines,
and as four of these are now producing considerably less
gold and paying much smaller dividends than formerly,
and as the other three props cannot keep up present
distributions much longer, the dividend figures of the
future are not likely to be nearly so imposing as those
of the past. Meanwhile the State is on the look-out for
another KalgoorJie, but it is a long time turning up.
„ * * *
Results of the past three years at the Great
Boulder (W.A.): —
1906. 1907. 1908.
Receipts £557,419 £566,537 £580,998
Expenditure .. .... 255,962 261,707 276,542
Depreciation .. .. 35,000 45,000 45,000
Available profit .. .. 266,457 259,830 259,456
Dividends 262,500 262,500 262,500
Balance forward.. .. 9,105 6,435 3,391
Ore treated (tons) .. 149,943 152,116 165,428
Return per ton . . .. 73/11 74/2 70/-
Oost per ton .. .. 29/1 29/6 29/-
Profit per ton .. .. 44/10 44/8 41/-
Ore reserves (tons) .. 548, 650,8/0 731,426
Average (dwt.) .. .. 18‘3 17'2 16‘3
This year’s results will probably show a further increased
tonnage, but another drop of a shilling or two in the
grade ; and the receipts will probably be a little higher.
* * * *
Those who looked for an increase in the Boulder
output will be disappointed. Addressing shareholders
from the chair, at the annual meeting, G. P. Doolette
said that the question had been carefully considered by
the Board, and, after consultation with the manager, it
had been “ turned down.” To largely increase the plant
would involve an outlay of anything from £lOO,OOO to
£150,000; and, even if they were willing to face that
expense, an attempt to force the mine beyond its present
output of 200,000 tons per year might lead to disaster.
He added that the present outlook indicated that the co.
would continue to distribute 3s. a year for many years to
come, thus making the security a good 12 per cent.,
investment at the present market price. But out of that
12 per cent, sinking fund has to be provided ; for even
the best of mines is a wasting asset.
* * + *
Including pillars, the “ probable ore and broken
ore ” in the Great Fingall (W. A.) is now estimated by 8.,
M. and 00. at 240,000 tons, of a recoverable value of 345.
They make it clear, however, that the grade of the ore to
be handled must for some time be much less than the
above average, owing to the pillars which contain the
best stuff riot being available until the stopes have been
completely emptied. The 1908 accounts show a surplus
of £102,995 ; and after writing off depreciation of plant
£6270, depreciation of the co.’s interest in the Kooringa
Prospecting Syndicate £3608, and deducting £19,173 for in-
come and dividend taxes, £73,944 remains. Theco. brought
forward £81,643, so there is a total profit and loss balance
of £155,587. Dividends accounted for £131,250, leav-
ing'£24,337 to carry forward. This sum was further
reduced by payment on January 10 of interim dividend
No. 29, amounting to £12,500. Working costs, including
development, were Is. 3d. per ton more than in 1907. On
December 31 the co. stood in the following financial
position :—Assets other than mine plant and ore reserves :
Stores, £21,169 ; broken ore suspense account, £12,454 ;
shares in Kooringa Syndicate, £2890 ; debtors, £5580 ;
gold in transit (after deduction of advances and ex-
penses), £52 ; cash, £109,970. The total of this little lot
is £152,115. Liabilities: Sundry creditors, £18,032.
Surplus, £134,083. The co. is thus well ahead of it ;-and,
not being .able to effect heavy insurances on the life of its
Westralia property, it has scouts sniffing the ends of the
earth in search of a new one. Already the Board has
agreed to spend £70,000 in working the Tarquah Main
Reef on the West African Gold Coast, should prospects
warrant the completion of the option, and it is on the
look-out for other-investments.
•* ;».fj * * *
There isn’t much fear of the Oroya-Brown Hill
(W.A.) making an early move into the workhouse. At
the end of 19Q8 it had £218,400 in ready cash ; £50,000
deposited in escrow for the purchase of La Leonesa mine
(Nicaragua); £8866 lent out at interest; £51,866in Oroya-
Black Range shares, valued at about £1 apiece ; £4126
worth of shares in other companies ; and £B5lB in stores.
Besides this it had the Kalgoorlie property, with its still
valuable plant and ore-reserves. The co. certainly owed
£15,681 at that time ; but this sum is a mere trifle when
ranged alongside its bundle of wealth. The year’s
receipts amounted to £183.610 ; and after allowing for all
expenditure and writing off £21,000 odd for development
and depreciation, £45,145 remains. Dividends and profits
on shares sold, less expenditure on properties prospected
and not taken up, netted £13,037. Take that and the
£9089 brought forward from 1907 and add them to the
mine profit, and an aggregate of £66,271 is got. Divi-
dends, taxes, etc., absorb £52,450, leaving £13,821 to
carry forward.
Vivien (W.A.) toils on. but doesn’t do much
good for itself. The co. started the last financial year
with cash £153, debtors £450, and creditors £6944. At
the close the cash had increased to £l7l, the debtors had
expanded to £420, and the creditors had shrunk to £1849.
Thus the excess of debts had been reduced during the 12
months from £6341 to £1258. Ore reserves are now esti-
mated at 50,343 tons, worth 28s. 9d. per ton ; but although
the management is all right, it is doubtful if theco. can
do much more than make ends meet on this grade.
* * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) is becoming notorious.
First of all, it tried to gaol its female secretary, and now
it has fallen foul of its local director. The latter has
resigned, and reported to the inspector of mines that the
show is unsafe, and is being worked contrary to the regu-
lations. He also asserts that a “ botch ” has been made
of the plant, and predicts in an ominous sort of way that
it won’t be long before shareholders are bowed down
with financial grief if the present system of working
continues.
Coolgardie Redemption (W.A.) held another
meeting in Kalgoqrlie the other day, when the auditors
reported that certain vouchers were missing, that the
share register was not complete, and that proper duty
stamps had not always been affixed to transfers, nor were
the transfers in order in other particulars. Some one
wanted to know what the Board was going to do about
these things ; somebody else asked how an item “ sundry-
expenses, £ll4 375. Id.” was made up ; while a third in-
quisitive person requested an all-round explanation. The
replies were not very convincing, and the limit was
reached when a shareholder asked for a copy of the
balance-sheet, and was told he could have one for ss.
The co. now owes a bit for wages and fuel, and its posses-
sions are understood to be mortgaged. The directors
have just tried to get an advance from the Minister for
Mines, but that gentleman wants a little more informa-
tion before he upends his money-bag. Probably he wants
to know, among other things, whether he will be charged
ss. for a balance-sheet too.
* * * *
The industrial agreement between the miners
and mineowners at Kalgoorlie expired on June 30 ; but it
holds good until one or both sides give a month’s notice
of retirement. Both parties, however, seem contented ;
and the industrial peace which has reigned in the district
since the agreement was signed two years ago doesn’t
look like being fractured.
* * * *
From mine-owner H. E. Rowe, on the subject
of searching the Victorian miner:—“ln ‘Wild Oat’
(B. 8/7/’O9) there is a paragraph which reflects with undue
severity on my recent speech to the Minister of Mines.
It appears to me to have been written under a misappre-
hension of the facts. The second sentence says that the
personal search of a miner would enable a ‘ mate ’ who
has a down on him to put him away. Now, that
is utterly impossible, No miner could put gold
into, say, the mouth or any other part of the person of
his mate without his knowledge. It is just possible,
though scarcely probable, that he could put it into his
pocket; yet, I understand, it isn’t the pocket search,
but the search of the person, that the miners
object to. In the old alluvial mining days personal
search was invariably adopted. It was taken as a
matter of course, as merely' a business precaution against
dishonesty, and no objections were raised. When alluvial
mining waned and quartz mining took its place, the cus-
tom was allowed to fall intodisuse, because it was thought
that in quartz mines there was no chance of gold being
stolen. The experience <>f the past few years has unfor-
tunately proved that thissupposition was quite erroneous.
The Chamber of Mines, the Bendigo Mine Owners’ Associ-
ation and the Ballarat Mine Owners’ Association, who
among them represent all the great mining interests in
this State, joined' in a deputation to ask the Minister
(amongst other things) to legalise the personal search of
miners ; but they only' want the right to search men of
whose honesty they are suspicious. As I was the first
speaker on that occasion, I have since been made the sub-
ject of a lot of personal abuse and vituperation ; but I
may say that the presidents of the Bendigo and Ballarat
Mine Owners’ Associations both pressed the same matter.
“ Referring to your other remarks, the Chamber
of Mines is aware that in some cases directors have
abused tbeir positions by selling tbeir own machinery
or stores to the mines, and by taking secret commissions ;
and it bas recently sent a letter to the Minister, asking
him to insert a section in the amending Mines Bill dealing
with this. If any companies, as you suggest, report a
less quantity crushed than actually goes through their
batteries, the Chamber has no possible check
on it. The only way' in which it could check it would
be to have three detectives on every mine
(one for each shift), and get them to count
every truck of quartz raised. This would be a truly
Herculean task, and then probably the mine managers
would resent it as an unwarranted imputation on their
honesty, and would order the detectives off the mines. I
believe, however, that the companies publish the true
tonnage. Ido not know one which does.not do so. It is
admitted that the passing of the Victorian Gold Buyers
Act has checked the stealing of gold ; but there is no
doubt that it is still going on to a very considerable
extent. This is proved by the quantities of gold sold by
buyers in the N.S.W. border towns during tbe past
12 months. Plentv of stolen gold can be bought
in Victoria now at from 40s. to 50s. an ounce provided no
questions are- asked. We look to The Bulletin to use its
powerful influence to help us to suppress the contempt-
ible crime of gold stealing ; and if you can show us any
means of doing so, other than the personal search of
miners, we shall be only too pleased to give it our most
favorable consideration. I would like to add that I did
not address the Minister in my' capacity- of Chairman of
the Long Tunnel Co., but as Vice-President of the
Chamber.”
Mr. Rowe’s letter puts his case no further ahead.
He admits that mine managers would probably resent a
check being put on their tonnages “ as an unwarranted
imputation on their honesty”; but an unwarranted
imputation on the honesty of a manager isn t
any more serious than one on the honesty- of a
miner. And if the miner, why not the direc-
tor? Directors visit mines; they are always shown
the choice specimens ; they very often finger the gold.
Mr. Rowe admits there are dishonest directors. Why
not, then, give shareholders the right to make a personal
search of directors as they leave tbe mine ? The Bulletin
deplores gold-stealing; but it wouldn’t stop it by picking
out one class of workmen (a fine, brave, hard-working,
ill-paid class on the whole) and fastening on to them an
indignity which people wouldn’t dream of fastening on
to other'classes—managers and directors, for example.
What this paper wants to do is to increase
respect of miners, as well as others ; and you can’t do
that by such measures as personal search.
* * * *
Daylesford (Vic.) is on the boom more than ever
as far as jobbers, brokers, and hangers-on of mining can
make it. Ajax pays its way-. So does Nuggety, but no
one boldly says how long the happy day-s will last. Ajax
has been judged by more experts than ever sat on Caesar’s
wife. Their verdict is from 255. to 40s. in sight, assuming
the mine to be worked in tip-top ptyle. Nuggety isn’t a
sure shot. A rich spur—or, as it is regarded locally, a
flat make—gives the best gold ; so there isn’t an expert
of any quality who doesn’t shirk the job of telling how
much stone is in sight, or the value of the mine from the
dividend standpoint. Nothing else at Daylesford is paying.
Vet float comes out on top of float. Plenty of contributing
shares ; of course, a whack of paids to the vendors, and a
mite of working capital. Brokers generally gobble up a
bit of the cash on the way. If the Stock Exchange re-
fused to quote a stock till the co. had been mining for 12
months, half the promotions would go by the board, and
the public would devote its spare cash to shows that are
not made specially for the market. Pitcher’s Reef is
the latest effort. Working capital under £5OO, of
which £lOO goes to pay for poppet legs and other trifles.
This is a revival of the Swiss Morent and Pitcher’s Reef,
which flickered out almost as soon as it was born, two
years back. This second advent promises to be about as
ill-favored as the first, despite the attempt to introduce a
new strain of blood.
* * * *
James Hayes, of the very successful Junction
dredge, has got a firm hand on the Mitta Mitta River
(Vic.), and the Eskdale Co. is his latest float, in 12,000
shares, of which the public gets 8000—5000 now
and 3000 later on. Practically there has been
no test made of the property, except the bores
put down by - the Government; ,but the other Mitta
Mitta dredging co.—the one in Peacock’s office—found
that the gold was there all right, and is now getting out
an average,of about 290 z. a week. As Hayes isn t likely-
to run a dredge at a greater cost than the average, and
as the Victorian average last year was £57 a week, the
first; Mitta Mitta dredging co. ought to be showing now
£5O a week profit.
» * * *
Briseis (Tas.), including the Brothers Home
No. 1, puts up this record for the last four years :
1905. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Overburden (c. yds.) 551,548 519,262 523,800 076,000
Drift sluiced (c. yds.) 481,350 615,990 664,600 539,300
Tin metallic(tons).. 712 1,032 1,032 1,021
Briseis output (tons) 643 912 911 915
Net price metallic
tin (per ton) .. £149’6 £184‘5 £166 £133
Proceeds of tin .. £96,327 £168,123 £151,222 £121,815
Tin is a jumpy metal. Up £35 in 1906, down £lB in
1907, and back £33 in 1908. Even at £133 it is £3O above
what any safe, long-dated estimate ought to be based on.
When a dozen or so dredges are at work in Tongkah and
other parts of Siam, bringing out the reputed millions of
hidden tin, the fact may strike home with a solid thud.
New Brothers Home No. lis about done. Briseis proper
has 906,100 cubic yards to treat. Roughly, this is two
years’ work ; but only 650,000 cubic yards are in
the ancient drift from which the tin comes. Currie
and Lake estimate that at least 1000 tons of tin
remains, or 750 tons of metal. At £l3O per ton, this
means that £97,soogross is in the mine. Deduct £27 per
ton for expenses, and the total shrinks to £77,350. That,
added to £85,000 cash in hand, makes £162,350, or, say,
ss. in divs. The co. owns beyond the almost-exhausted
Briseis : (1) the Ringarooma ciaim, (2) Wallace’s dredging
sections in Victoria, and (3) the option over the Morinna
claim, near Derby (Tas.). At Ringarooma big progress is
being made with sluicing the overburden ; but neither
Currie nor Lindesay Clark is game to risk an estimate
of the tin there. At Wallace’s leases Clark estimates
that there are 19,300,000 cubic yards to be worked
at a profit of l£d. to 2Jd. per cubic yard. Assum-
ing this estimate to be correct, the co. has £160,000 more
profit to add here—say another ss. profit per share. As
the scrip is worth about 75., it would seem as if the
market discounts the Ringarooma estimates, or allows a
good deal for the risks of the metal market. If the Ringa-
rooma were to pan out even at 31b. of black tin per cubic
yard, scrip at the present rates would be very cheap,
because of the extent of the claim and the abundance of
cheap water-power available —always provided that
nothing bad happens to the tin market. But nobody
will guarantee that erratic factor in the calculation.
* * * *
, The financial record of the Mungana Co. (Q.) for
the last few years is summed up in this: —
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. off. Reserves.
1905 .. £5,743 Nil Nil £11,361
1906 .. 31,609 Nil £lO,OOO 32,970
1907 .. 32,940 Nil 10,079 55,831
Loss.
1908 .. 2,153 Nil 2,094 51,584
Mar., Profit.
1909 .. 8,214 Nil 4,114 55,684
Of the net profit of £4lOO, however, £2989 is derived
from surpluses on ore shipped prior to June, 1908; still
it is a fair thing to count that in with the nine months’
revenue, as there may be surpluses to be received next
year from this year’s shipments. On the other hand,
although £11,1i.3 has been spent on development,
only £3876 has been charged to profit and loss;
in other words, if all the money spent on the mine
during the nine months had been charged against the
revenue, the gross profit would have been reduced from
£8214 to £977. The result of piling up development as
an asset in this way is that it now stands in the books at
£69,287 ; and whether it is worth that or nothing at all
only the future can tell. It certainly is worth nothing
at all if it cannot lead to profits, for a shaft obviously
isn’t of any value unless there are dividends at the bottom
of it. The co.’s surplus of so-called liquid assets on
March 31 was £7491 ; but £2649 was represented by stores
and firewood, which are only worth that much to the co.
* * » *
Some past Hampden Cloncurry ore estimates
have been so much of a joke that those which are put
forward now don’t sink very deep into many minds. The
situation is, however, alleged to be :
Hampden. Duchess. Total.
Reserves, July, 1908 .. 10,636 20,024 30,660
~ Feb., 1909 .. 69,034 19,024 88,058
Hampden ore averages 7’4 per cent, copper, and the
Duchess 15 - 6 per cent. ; and the total value, on the basis of
copper at £55, is £443,709. The later developments at the
Duchess are reported to have been good ; and as the rail-
way is rushing along now (this co.’s contribution to the
cost is £40,000), there won’t be much longer any excuse
for delay in proving whether the mine is merely an
expensive duffer or not. The Duchess is, no doubt, all
right, even if it isn’t a big thing ; but as to the Hampden,
though it has been 10 years before the public, very little
is really known as yet, notwithstanding that almost
enough money has been frittered away on it to pay for a
Dreadnought.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, crushed 1370
tons for £5289, and a clean up of the plates gave £6566 ;
total, £11,855. No. 13 level is being driven east again
beyond the 843 ft. mark. A reef more or less mineralised
has been followed, but nothing decidedly payable has
been struck. The reef cut in the New Brilliant Freehold
No. 2 crosscut is not such a good thing as was at first
believed ; and so the market feels sick. In sinking below
the Brilliant formation a number of small reefs and
leaders were cut, but none can compare with the Day
Dawn reef. No. 2 east (old No. 8) is out 382 ft. from Mills’
United boundary, and, as this level makes eastward, it
seems probable that it will have quite a number of event-
ful changes. No. 2 hasn’t been anything like so good as
No. 1, although rises connecting the two levels have
proved some payable stone. The output of stone should
increase now the regrading of crosscut and No. 1 level
has been finished.
Charters Towers is becoming interested again
in the Brilliant Extended’s No. 3 underlay shaft. This is
being punched down below No. 18, and at last report the
bottom showed 3£ft. of light mineral stone. No. 17 east
has been driven 391 ft., with 2ft. of stone on the hanging
wall and Ift. on the footwall. The cyanide plant is closed
down, to allow of alterations ; when the job is finished it
should be able to deal with all the tailings. Brilliant
Central crushed 470 tons for 3250 z. A few blocks of
ground on the hanging wall and footwall branches of the
Brilliant are being worked, but the future of the mine
bangs on the 1175 ft. formation. A rise has been put up
from where the mineral stone was met in the crosscut, and
has connected with the shaft. This reef has occasionally
shown good prospects. Brilliant St. George and Brilliant
Block continue to sink in hopes of striking the Day
Dawn reef. There has been some speculation in the latter
co.’s shares, as the sink is now more than 1800 ft. from the
surface ; besides, there is a chance of the Brilliant Deep
reef being found in the crosscut.
*■* *■*
Director H. Jones, whose jam brand gave
Tongkah its first name —the I.X.L. Syndicate—has been
talking to shareholders in Sydney and Melbourne. Of
course he says that the prospects are tremendous, as
they very likely are, and he mentions that later on 50,000
new shares will probably be issued to shareholders at a
premium to pay for more dredges. First, however,
Engineer Bluck, of Araluen (N.S.W.), who has been ap-
pointed consulting engineer, will go up and report as to
the right sort of machine. Bluck came to Australia with
a good record as a dirt-shifter in connection with the
Manchester ship canal, although afterwards he did give
his blessi..g to the Araluen Steam-Shovel enterprise,
which is now very dead. The June output (35 tons)
brought in about £2BOO to the co. ; and as the total
output to that date was about 81 tons, it is
fairly clear that up to then the working profit hadn’t
reached £6soo—which makes the recently announced
dividend (£7500) look more premature than ever. The
capital is already £150,000 ; and before adding to it the
co. ought to have at least one dredge available to test the
harbor bottom outside the small dock and channel patch
to which the present dredges have to be kept in terms of
the concession. The idea of testing the area, by putting
down one bore to every 10 acres—a work which has now
been decided on —is almost ridiculous.
Following on the reports that engineers are
sending down about Tongltah, something like a Siamese
dredging boom appears to be setting in. C. H. James, of
8., M. and Co.'s staff, formerly of the Fitzroy (Q.) and now'
of the Burmah Mines, has two or three months’ leave,
which he will put in looking up some concessions he
has in view. His backers are the Straits Concessions
Syndicate, of Adelaide and elsewhere. Two other
engineers, Rae and Thomas, have gone out for the
Malaya Tin Dredging Prop., a Melbourne concern. Capt.
“ Teddy” Miles and Joo Tok, the Siamese who.is on the
Tongkah Board, are at the front of the Siam Kedah, a
mostly-Hobart S3'ndicate; and there are two other
syndicates, with headquarters at Hobart and Broken >
Hill.
* * » *
The Mount Bischoff (Tas.) has installed a
King screen, which is proving very satisfactory ; advices
from the mine say that it is screening 100 tons of pulp
per day in three grades, and still is not working up to its
full capacity.


f
It was not the CORTICELLI kitten that first made
CORTICELLI SPOOL SILK
famous —it was the remarkable length, strength
and smoothness of the silk itself.
For nearly seventy years CORTICELLI
SILK has held the World’s Record for superi-
ority and to-day the name 11 CORTICELLI ”
still stands for the very best made.
CORTICELLI SILK MILLS
ESTABLISHED 183^
- - 9la YORK STREET. SYDNEY
1
Australasian Office
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. Is. ljd.* [1
EDUCATION BY POST,
—The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping-, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering-, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine arid thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address—Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
Frenzied With Fear
Are many who develop lung trouble. Dr.
Shel don’s New Discovery for coughs and cold will
cure them. Price Is. Gd. arid 3s.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. , . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Foxes are going to
be a great trouble ere long West o’ Darling. They
have already found their way to the Broken Hill
district. Some . Outback squatters regard the
smelly little beast as a disguised blessing, because
he is thinning out the rabbits ; but, when bunny
is scarce, the imported curse will sample lamb ;
and then his very thin disguise will be pene-
trated. Already, in some parts of Further-
Out, the foxes are in thousands. Possibly in the
near and nasty future Abdul Sooghee Bhagg
will learn to sing “John Peel,” and go fox”
hunting on his riding camel.
A DISTINCTION.
THE SAINT: “Mr. MacPherson, you arc rich m
worldly goods, but are you rich in saving
grace?”
MACPHERSON: “ Aweel, Ah’m rich through a
saving deesposition.”
“Yarrum”: About 20 years ago, old
Murphy, after lighting his cutty, dropped what
was left of the lucifer into a dry tussock at
Mungerarie, on the Araluen side of Moruya
(N.S.W.). In 25 minutes, Gundary, eight miles
away, was in a blaze, and was something to
behold. That afternoon I learned how bush-fires
can travel: I saw a lighted limb fall from a
stringybark, and, carried by the wind across a
gully, I watched it flung into a gum-tree 170yds.
away. A newly-married couple, upon whose
rented house the fire was rushing, carried their
furniture out and stacked it carefully on a hill.
Then the fire took a turn and licked up that bit of
furniture, leaving the rented place intact. I
managed to get my leg broken that night, besides
meeting with other misfortunes too numerous to
mention.
“M.” speaks
A pet land-monopolist argument against the graduated
land-tax proposals of the Fisher party is the ruin such
a measure would bring, indirectly, on the raising of high-
class stud sheep. The big statir n-owner has been argu-
ing for years that the small man can’t emulate the breed-
ing feats of Widgiewa, Collaroy, and other unwieldy
expanses of country. Yet a grand champion at the
recent Sydney show was bred by one Merriman, who
holds less than 5000 acres. One result of having 100
sheep-farmers instead of one squatter, would be that
this country could carry about twenty times as many
sheep. On smallholdings, subdivided into small paddocks,
the sheep would be better provided for, and not swept
away by the first drought that comes along, as is gener-
ally the case with the squatter who has bitten off more
than he can chew’. And these thousands of extra farmers
would bring the population to start new factories, and
absorb Australian wool in Australia. They would mean
good times generally all round. The increased population,
and demand would also be ample justification for pro-
hibiting the export of our best sheep to South Africa to
build up rival industries there, as is being done by scores
of squatters to-day. Sylvan, one of the finest sheep bred
in the Commonwealth, and winner of the “Grand Cham-
pion ’’ at the Sydney show last year, is now in South Africa
with thousands of others of our best, monuments all to
our large landholders’ short-sightedness and lack of
patriotism.
■* It •* i r
“ Silas Snell ” : Young Sutton took over
Colliver’s selection, between the properties of
Yadd and Beenly at Carryup, and set to work with
tremendous energy to knock itintoshape. Carryup
watched his noble efforts with keen interest.
In fact, a fair proportion of the population of the
surrounding waste sat on logs, and spent hours
narrowly supervising the young man’s work.
Sometimes a sprinkling of the daughters of
Carryup occupied the logs ; but it did not concern
Sutton—he just hurried on, chopping, digging
delving, fencing, or building, for George had
started the erection of a two-roomed shingle
house in front of the bark-and-log humpy that had
been Colliver’s home. When the house was fin-
ished Sutton took a trip to town. He
returned two days later. Several men of
Carryup were on the siding when the
young fellow stepped off the train. He
handed a woman out. Yadd stepped up, gaping
like an empty tank. “My wife,” said George,
tersely. “Wha-a-t?” Yadd almost yelled the
query. “My wife. I was married yesterday,
up town.” “Your wife!” cried Yadd. “His
wife! ” said Yadd, addressing his fellow-
residents. “Well, if that ain’t a d—d cheek,
arsk me. His wife ! Been up to town for a
wife. Nothin’ here good enough for him—not
your girls. Beenly, nor my girls, ’n’ I’ve got five
of ’em. Goes t’ Mel bin fer his wife. No con-
sideration fer us ’n’ ours.” “ S’pose I can get
a wife where I like?” said Sutton, angrily.
“ Yes,” roared Yadd, “ yeh can ! Yeh can go up
t’ town fer yer wife; an’, damn me, yeh can go up
t’ town fer yer onyins too. Not another penn’orth
will yeh get from me.” Since coming to Carryup,
Sutton had bought one sixpen’orth of onions from
Yadd.
* ft * *
“ L’Fou ” : It is easier to make laws than
enforce them. Example: The Victorian Dairy
Inspection Act. Defendant is a dairy
farmer, whose name isn’t really Black.
Dairy inspector, accompanied by Gov-
ernment vet., calls to inspect Black’s
herd, etc. The vet. for a start, and to
try to ensure a full roll-call, inquires
how many cows Black is milking.
Now, Black is milking 46 ; but he thinks
hard, counts on his fingers, and answers
42. Then, at the request of the official,
he goes to yard them for inspection.
En route, however, he side-tracks into a
scrubby gully (a) cow that “looks as
if she had something th’ matter with
her ” ; (6) two tuberculous cows, which
are dangerous sources of infection to
Black’s whole herd and even his neigh-
bors’ herds—also to Black’s family if
they should be rash enough to use
their milk instead of sending it to the
factory; (c) cow, with well-developed
cancer, praying dumbly for a bullet. It
doesn’t strike the cocky in his blind-
ness that the vet. might give valuable
advice gratis about curable diseases;
whilst, as regards the incurable, the
cows are generally a dead loss in them-
selves, and a menace to purse as well
as health. However, since inspectors
cannot be expected to tramp all the
gullies, this inspector departs none the
wiser, and Black retains his diseases.
* « « 9
Australia’s “roaring days” are not all
done. The Never-Never correspondent of the
Southern Cross (W.A.) Times records these
stirring events in that way-out mining camp :
Only lour fights took place at Never-Never whilst the
Kev. Bray was holding Divine service there. “ The
Lizard ” and Micko Walsh left off their game of two-up to
join in the chorus of that beautiful old hymn, “Love
One Another.” David was very tactful, but it takes
more than tact to umpire four fights, gather in a church
collection, threaten to toss “The Lizard” out, watch the
bar till, and show interest in a church service at one and
the same time. Napoleon might have managed it, but—
he’s dead.
ON THRIFT.
“As for all this pinchin’ and savin', I think sometimes there ain't no use in it. An ’ I feel
inclined to chuck it all up and go the pace—like the rest."
“Sr” : “Jimmie Pannikin” (B. 3/6/’O9)
reckons he has discovered a bush freak in the
shape of a window in a chimney ; and he inquires
Whaffor? “Jimmie” cannot take much notice
of smoke flues, or he would have seen many a one
like that before to-day. The window isn’t put
there out of obscure cussedness, but for the simple
purpose of lighting the darkness over an oven or
stove. The recess of the chimney is dark, and, as
a rule, little light from the windows gets near the
fireplace opening, wherefore the cook spills much
good candle grease in finding out whether the
chop is burned or the spuds cooked. So the
window trick is now largely practised by archi-
tects.
* * * *
“ Jacq.” : Since kangaroos have been pro-
tected in Victoria they have become
very tame and inquisitive, and will
feed out of the lunch-basket. Last
winter I was splitting palings in the
Upper Murray district. I used to
carry a rifle into the bush with me, in
the hope of getting a shot at a fox.
One day, as I was eating my lunch,
I saw a ’roo come down and regard
my rifle, which was leaning against a
tree, with profound curiosity. He
hopped round and round, sniffed it,
eyed it doubtfully, and then fear-
lessly put a hind paw on the trigger-
guard and tried to look down the
barrel. He succeeded in looking
down the barrel. Then his paw
slipped and caught the trigger, with
the result that there was another
good ’roo gone. After two kicks
and a spasm he lay as dead as
Freetrade, with the rifle on top of
him. I skinned the beast, took the
skin horn'', and pegged it out. A
few day-- .ater, the constable, who was
not a t'articular friend of mine, came
out collecting statistics, and as we
strolled round, counting the pigs and
hens, he noticed the skin, and re-
marked that it must have belonged to
a big wallaby. Going over to it, he
discovered the facts of the case. Of
course, I was prosecuted, and the
two local beaks, one of whom was a
notorious cattle-duffer, refused to
believe my story, spoke of the grow-
ing prevalence of perjury, fined me
£2 with costs, and confiscated the
skin.
“ F.C.” : I trust I am properly thankful
for the variegated information vouchsafed me in
answer to my query re shade trees ; but I cannot
say I am much further ahead. “Pick’s” ideal
shrub, the booby-aloe, would seem to meet the
case; but unfortunately I have no time to wander
round “ the South Coast,” wherever that may be,
gathering baby booby-aloes, and the Melbourne
Botanical Garden authorities, though they pos-
sess some ansemic twigs answering to that name,
could not enlighten me to any extent. I was
a trifle mashed on the currajong, advocated
by “XXX” and “Don,” until “San” chipped
in with his learned dissertation about various
kinds of “kurrajongs”— hibiscus lieterophyttus,
h. splendens, sterculia diversifolia, s. buckjumperus.
and so forth —then I became flurried. “San”
says the kurrajong grows most luxuriantly on a
bleak limestone or basalt ridge; if “San”
wouldn’t mind carting such a ridge—not to be
more than two chains long and one wide —to the
paddock I wish to ornament, I will cheerfully
bog in and grow a whole forest of “ sterculia of
noble dimensions. ” As for ‘ ‘ Leo Lear, ”c 1 ■ v iously
a Bananalander, I have some slight acquaintance
with the Moreton Bay chestnut, the ditto fig and
the Port Jackson fig ; but I wanted a shrub that
wouldn’t want a whole acre to each tree, and
would reach years of discretion inside a century.
So I am reluctantly thrown back on my first
choice, the Queensland sugar gum (I don’t know
its trade name, but I can get it from almost any
grower in Victoria); though if anybody has any
further information to offer, I will accept it in a
subdued and respectful spirit.
“C. 5.,” from Shepparton (Vic.), where
the floods have been :
The recent leakage in the big overhead water tank
caused the Goulburn River to overflow its banks, arid the
country for two or three miles west of the town has been
about 6ft. under water. With a couple of pals and a boat
I put in two or three hours chivvying the rabbits, which
had been driven on to log's, etc., to escape the wet death ;
and we had some sport of a kind not to be had once in
ten years in this district, and never in most districts. As
we drew near a log on which a bunny was keeping his
feet dry, he would leave it with a bound varying from 6ft.
to 12ft. The little beast can do 50,yds. in good time in
the water as well as on land, but tires soon after covering
that distance. Apart from his slackened pace, bunny
always informs you when his petrol is giving out,
by a roll of his hindquarters and a bob of his
tail. One old boy, when tiring, climbed 6ft. up a tree that
IRRIGATING THE DARK INTERIOR.
The impossibility of irrigating the dark interior stands
as a barrier to extensive settlement in Australia. — Eng-
lish Critic.
“ Impossibility of irrigating the dark interior!”
What nonsense.
rose direcbfrom the water line, before tumbling: back ; and
another ascended a tree about 20ft. to the first floor, but
was assisted by an oar prodding his posterior and a slight
bend in the back of the tree. I climbed the tree after
him ; but he didn’t hesitate about diving into the water
from that height; he evidentlv considered a wet skin
better than no skin at all. Ai'J he was right, for he beat
us in the end. He was a Ti. jmarck for tactics. As we
drew near him he feigned weariness, and we easy-oared,
making sure he was ours ; but when an arm was stretched
out to grab him he darted away in a different direction
and escaped, as it was difficult to turn the boat owing to
the current and the number of trees. He deserved to
live if any pest ever did.
A MEETING OF SOCIALISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A long 1 discussion took place on a proposal by the Rain-
bow Agricultural Society to request the Railway Com-
missioners to allow a 50 per cent, rebate on profits earned
by special show trains.
Mr. D. Smith, who responded for the Legislative
Assembly, said he saw by the business-sheet that the con-
vention was going to appeal to the Government for this
and that. Well, that was quite right.
Mr. Sternberg, responding for the Legislative Council,
hoped that legislation would not be passed to hamper or
deter the men who had been all their lives on the soil.
- Melbourne Argus on Farmers' Convention.
Now the stout Socialists who grow the grain,
Gather and plot in conference again
How best to wring the last blade from the earth,
And get a rebate on the special train.
In order that our Jane may go in silk,
The cow must be induced to give more milk.
(So Jones, of Gippsland, counsel takes of Brown,
And Smith, and Green and others of that ilk.)
As tenderly as any clinging vine,
The farmers round the public purse entwine ;
They comfortably lean upon the State,
Leaving no room for your elbow—or mine.
Oil ! would that I had been a husbandman
When with this world to wrestle I began!
My only need to holler in the waste
For Socialism ! ’Tis a simple plan !
The primary producer is the one
Who fells the forest—gets up with the sun,
Milks cows, and ploughs, and tells the M.P. that
The country by the town is being done.
The brand of logic that these farmers use
The plain taxpayer tendeth to confuse ;
And, if in argument they are engaged,
Straightway their tempers do they rashly lose.
They cry : “ We heed not folks of any sort.
Of this fair land we are the main support 1
So, lest it fall, tee bid you hold us up 1 ”
To which Old Euclid hath left no retort.
The farmer shouts he is the good backbone
Of ev’ry nation. Freely do I own
He is a largish part. (But first-class spines—
Like props and walking-sticks—can stand alone I)
Freetrade’s his easy creed—and the good State
Must aid him when he calls. Early’or late
The city-worker, single-handed, fights
And pays his road tax and his water rate !
The pioneers that take the forest down,
Like good scene-shifters by the sun burnt brown,
When the work’s done put on their Sunday clothes,
And do the same sad office for the town.
N.S.W.
FOE.


SAID TO RELIEVE ALL RHEUMATISM.
This simple prescription is said to perform remarkable
cures, in many cases after years of suffering.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound, one
ounce ; and Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Mix by shaking' well in a bottle, and take in teaspoonful
doses after each meal and at bedtime. These ingredients
can be obtained at a moderate cost from any good
chemist, and are harmless, and will not injure the most
delicate stomach. ,
It has a peculiar effect upon the kidneys, assisting
these most important organs to filter and strain from the
blood the uric acid, urea, etc., which cause the pain and
misery of rheumatism. As a blood cleansing agent and
system tonic it is of unusual merit.*
When Autumn comes with golden ripening sheaf,
With glow’ring skies, and days becoming brief,
If from asthmatic pains you’d find relief,
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
When Winter’s chills are at our very door,
And daily falls of rain give mud galore,
If consequential ailments you’d ignore,
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The“Fx.#R.”
WATCHES
are J-plate Levers.
They have Brequet hair spring's.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order for two years (break-
ages excepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
Write for Catalogue.
M
%
/
%
0 Ws*
IONOON
m
Gent.’s Oxidised Open Face, J-plate " Fx. and R.” Lever Watch,
15 jewels, 33/* 5 with 7 jewels, 28/*
Plain Figures'
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ W.D.” : Following are names of some
stations on the railway line from Perth to
Albany (W.A.). To a stranger they are rather
confusing :
Youraling, Kulyaling, Karping, Popanyinning, Your-
naning, Woodanilling, Moodjebing, Katanning, Perrin-
[rillup, Tambellup, Tingerup, Pootenup, Kendenup,
(Jarbarup, Malikupp, Marbellup.
The wholesale drowning of rabbits in the
recent Murray Valley floods should knock some
of the gas out of a sect of nature students who
foretell weather by the conduct of birds, beasts,
and reptiles. There is no reason why birds,
beasts and reptiles should know more of the
weather of next month, or the month after
next, than men know. On the contrary, they
seem to know less. Droughts and floods repeat-
edly kill them in legions. If they knew as much
about future weather as man, they would have
crowded him off the planet long ago. Man is able
to compile histories, and reason from analogies,
and provide against visitations ; and, unsatisfac-
tory as his conclusions may be when looking
months ahead, his knowledge is still a long way
before that of the rabbit or his kin.
« * * *
“ Hassam ” : “ Yarrum ” (B. 24/6/’O9) de-
clares that curses go with whiskers. Passing the
unkind inference as regards Editor'Ward, E. W.
Cole, and other heavily-timbered Australian
fauna, I humbly beg leave to differ. One of
the finest exhibitions of brilliant all-round the-
wieket cursing that I remember was that of a
friend of mine—a beardless boy of 18 who had
gone down to the sea in wind-jammers and studied
under the professorship of a Scotch mate, also
whiskerless. The occasion was a fishing ex-
cursion; the place, /Watson’s Bay, Sydney.
A troop of anthropoid persons from Surry
Hills had fouled our lines with an erratic
starboard oar, and my friend let go. One of the
hoodlums got in a weak obscenity edgeways, and
the resultant flow of rich Oriental tapestry knocked
him down on his seat. As the time wore on, the
dazed and admiring larrikins waited, with their
eyes bulging out, for the youthful orator to repeat
himself; but he never did. The pilot steamer
heeled over before the blast, and dead fish came
to the surface. After it was over, the one survivor
of the anthropoids rowed the corpses of his erring
brothers to the pier. I applauded the artist.
“ That ! ” he said. “ You ought to hear
old McDougal w'hen he lets go ! ” After
this, “Yarrum’s” samples fade into insignifi-
cance. Nor was the exhibition “only mud.’'
The score was from clean, crisp, vigorous hitting,
compiled in under 10 minutes, and included 40
boundary hits, and seven sixers. No ! —whiskers
are not necessary. My friend is now a first mate,
and still whiskerless. He swears with equal
fluency in Chinese, Spanish, Hindu, and Con-
necticut. For technique and variety I will back
him against anv of nine whiskered blasphemers
of the South Coast, the Castlereagh butcher, or
the Monaro champion, for £2500 a side.
A CASUIST.
THE TOUCHER (conscientiously): “If I didn't take 'em, probably they'd fall into the
hands of a thief.”
“ Pick ” : If “ Dandalup ” and “Milky
White ” have not yet ceased clutching each other’s
throats over their fire-sprint argument, I desire to
arbitrate between them. Firstly, wind is an
important factor in the bush-fire business, and
flames that scurry along at about “ Dandalup’s ”
fastest record with a hot westerly, will suddenly
flag to “ Milky White’s ” bullock-team gait when
a cool southerly buster turns up. Heat creates
heat, and that truisnj explains the whole thing.
On a sweltering summer day, fire will flv across
country where there is apparently nothing to
burn, and; will spring across roads and creeks as if
the air itself were alight; but on a cold, damp
. day the moisture-laden atmosphere exerts a lower-
ing effect on the spirit of the fire-fiend. Also,
where there is inflammable material: like , dry-
grass, stringybark or certain gaseous,leaves in the
forefront of a fire, the flames go ahead in gigantic
leaps ; but they proceed tardily and incline to die
out when confronted by green herbage or foliage.
ALF WOODS AND SOME COLLEAGUES.
The co. was ‘playing at One One , Rhodesia (Africa), and stayed at the best hotel.
(Best hotel in background.)
The Cow-Worshippers of Bemboka (N.S.W.)
declare that the visitation of Hell that descended
upon them in.’o4 swept along at the rate of three
miles in as many minutes, the flames appearing to
fall in a sheet from the mountains into the valley
below; and the same summer, at Cobargo
(N.S.W.), I saw the Devil-element taking tree
after tree in a sparsely-wooded and ring-barked
paddock wherein there was nothing but the dead
timber and an occasional ’possum to be scorched.
Verdict for “ Dandalup.” No award as to Costs.
* * * *
“No. 3”: Can sympathise with “D.M.W.”
in his trouble about the growing propensities of
pumpkins. When I first went “on the land,” I
tried an experimental plot of them, and, as far as
growing was concerned they were a great success.
Oh, yes, they grew all right; for when I went to
see how they were getting on, they had grown out
of the paddock, crossed a river, and were well on
their road to B -, a distance of nine miles. It
was only by returning for a horse that I was
enabled to reach the end of them that day. Hav-
ing done so, I started them off again in the direc-
tion of iny estate. Inspected the position of
affairs in the morning, and found that they had
all reached home with the exception of one that
had wandered on to the railway line and been
killed by a passing train.
“ Gundy ” : Allow me to put a wedge into
the controversy re tree-felling and splitting (B.
17 and 24/6/’O9). I have contended with various
brands of our vegetables, and I don’t object to
any of them—for a consideration. There is some
difference, though, between battling with a stubby
old red-gum on the river flat and with the lofty
woolly-butt which grows on the mountains. Good
wages can be made splitting the latter into posts
or rails at £1 per 100 at the stump, all the tools
required being a saw for cutting up, and two axes
to do the rest, splitting included. When a log is
sawn off you stick an axe into the end, which
springs open slightly; follow, up the crack with
the other axe, and the first one falls free, to be
used again. Red gum is worth about £3 a hun-
dred to split into posts. Blasting powder is
mostly used for halving the logs, and the rest can
be done with maul and wedges. Never heard of
a cocky who wanted red-gum posts for £1 a hun-
dred. A splitter’s chief occasions for profanity-
are when the falling tree becomes entangled in
one or two useless neighbors, which must also be
brought to grass ; or when the trunk settles down
suddenly and jambs the saw. This often means
chopping the saw out and starting afresh, after
you have used up a lot of useful breath in violent
language.
THE ENEMIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia, British ship, which sailed from a Mexican
port for Sydney seven months ago, has been posted miss-
ing at Lloyd’s. —News item.
R.M.S. Australia wrecked at Port Phillip Heads (Vic.).
— History.
The sea-god, blue, terrific,
The hidden, swimming foe
Who rules the wide Pacific
And all the winds that blow,
Hath cursed the ships that wear it
With pride on bow and stern,
And through all dangers bear it,
Men’s daily bread to earn.
The reef, black-fanged and deadly,
That lurks where sea-ways meet,
Foams when the good light, redly,
Guides well her tripping feet;
With haze the sea-god blinds it —
The bright, cliff-posted guide—
Till morn a traitor finds it
Above a traitor tide.
Afar upon their journey
The cloud-winged vessels fade,
Nor dream that for a tourney
The powers are all arrayed;
Like butterflies to battle,
Right daintily they float,
But in the block’s soft rattle
Death sounds its warning note.
He preys in ev’ry season,
Our ocean enemy ;
We can but guess the reason
For his great jealousy-;
Mayhap in bygone ages
This land —its hills and plains—
’Neath seas where now he rages,
Made part of his domains.
The cliff-edge swiftly crumbles
And, thro’ the gale’s fierce scream,
The landslide roars and rumbles,
So they that lie and dream
Rise from their rest affrighted
With faces drawn and pale,
For stormers’ shouts excited
Are sounding in the gale.
A gauge to that vast Power
Is ev’ry ship that sails ;
The giant waves that tower
White-lipped above their rails,
Like robbers seeking plunder
In some secluded way.
Spy ere they burst in thunder
And spring upon their prey.
With mist and shoal new-moulded,
With current, reef and gale ;
By coasts with fog enfolded,
All ships doth he assail;
But all his strength horrific
With age-long hate he flings,
When on the wide Pacific
Australia spreads her wings.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of cl hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Queensland Correspondent (no name or ad-
dress): If, as you say, you are tired of everything in The
Bulletin, including: the leaders, and the theatrical
notices, and the tales, and the verse of “ Den ” and Colies
and Brady and Whitney and Grant Hervey and the rest,
you had better see a skin specialist. The chances are that
you have grot leprosy. That feeling: of general weari-
ness and disgust is one of the first signs of leprosy.
J.E. : “Lullaby” passed out after hesitation.
Idea not new (that can’t be helped); treatment not new
(that can be helped) B. McL. : Who wrote “The
Haunted Picture”? Don’t know. Don’t know what
book it’s in. Does anybody ?,.. .E.E. : Yes, fair promise,
though in this case somebody else got in first... .N.C. :
You must supply dates... .Languid Lucy: Tame narra-
tive of deadly festivities... .T.B.S. : Stale imaginings
pelted with rocky verses.... Reval : Sentiment unim-
peachable; verses execrable H.M.A. : Good of him to
“leave the morn in his cheery way.” Other schoolgirl
poem also useless... J.F.S. : “Deserted” too reminis-
cent J.B.S. : These women with hearts of gold grow
monotonous with much repetition... F.R. : Your
“ pants” tale is one of the anecdotal standbys of London
Pink ’Un L. White: Your handwriting is fairly
horrible, but we made out one verse :
The pluvned Cavalier is no dding
Tu the Yephers gruth segh
Indiffeiruthy she hooks eipen
The Red Rose growing nigh.
. .. Roy Rede : Your theme is that this a prosaic age and
romance has fled. Man has been saving that sort of
thing since the days when Adam told his son, Cain
Adamson, that things weren’t what they used to be, and
that Mesopotamia was played out. ..W.E.W. : Unification
article falls short in(l) brightness of style, (2) novelty of
argument.... L.L. : Tried hard to . make rubbish
rhyme with “publish,” but gave it up.... J.G.D. :
Verses “To Henry Lawson ” handed to that gentle-
man. They are hardly good enough for print.
...G. Ryan: “Holy Smoke” died an unnatural
death [.Vera L. : “Reflections” too vague for
everyday use... .Spencer P. : Patriotic poem about
Shetland blown into outer devilment....L.B.C. :
Write for particulars to Secretary, Incorporated Law
Societv, Sydney P. Butler: Impossible to judge
the value'of picture 200 miles away G.W.B. :
Nothing ne!w in gaol par. ..Prof. F. : You can “coin-
pose one like that every week ?” Think of the thousands
who could “ compose ” dozens better every day, and who
wisely refrain... ,H.A. : Whilst we were deliberating
whether “ Patriotism” was sarcasm or merely bad verse,
the poor thing gathered up its superfluous feet and
crawled into the basket... J.D.: Tired of poems which
solemnly assure the world that “ Golden minutes fleeting
by Will bring a heartache soon.” Why not make it
“ toothache ” for a change?... .R.H. : Each stanza is as
bad as it knows how, but perhaps the last is the worst.
C.M. : Weak imitation of “ Englishman’s Home ” and
similar literature.... Millicent: Pretty, but it doesn t
quite get there. Vagueness of diction is the main fault.
W.P.Y.: Calculations as to what it costs per head to
salvage souls on the Chapzander plan are of no interest.
John F. Finlay : Unacquainted with the whereabouts
of Charles Alf K. : Drawings amateurish, and the
don’t touch acceptance level... .Mr. Snark : Note
that Randolph Bedford has a bald and shining head, and
will be a great playwright when he learns stagecraft.....
Athu : A drunk peers out of an open grave, into which
he has fallen, and when a passing milkman observes his
(the drunk’s) “ bloodshot eyes—described as balls of
living fire ” he flees gibbering. Diverting to witness, no
doubt, but it refuses to build into a par... .C.A.W.:
Three flagrant chestnuts. The “take two chairs, Mr.
Smith ” gag appeared in an early issue of London Punch.
J.P.: An ounce of correction to 141 b. of verbiage,
wherefore your screed has been regretfully accorded the
ehuck Barry W.: If each of them had sat occasionally
on the other’s camp-stool, things might have been differ-
ent, and you needn’t have written a poem about them....
J. Edwards : That tired joke wants a rest, not a song...
Lubra: Schedule of things you love not of general
interest Murphus : The duchess who came out as a
domestic too unscientific a lie Verax : Don’t shoot the
Chow-worshipper—throw your poem at him....M.L. :
That story first told of Mrs. Shem and Mrs. Japheth
PC. (Tas.): Evans not worth a funeral ode—even yours.
E. O’Toole: Well, if poets will weep over a fire, it s
bound to go out. “ Once” is also drivel....R.R. : Glad
“ the rovstering knave isdead.” 8.M.11. : Temperance
tract firmly declined L.E.D. : Same old rhapsody ;
same old basket Anteros : First attempt missed the
’bus.. ..Mary May : Don’t know “ where is that land of
dreams forgotten long ago.” Also,, don t care .... 1,. M. .
Always make a long story short... .H.O. : Your girls
legs get on our nerves.... P.J.G. : Dejected song about
the “secret death” inflicted on still living Australians
returned for repairs. Also your “boyish ears cant
“ cling to hear of Edward Lawler (now dead) who rose to
head that gallant Ballarat patriot few,” for he didn t
“ rose.”... ..B.P. : Length weakens your screed.....
H. Murphy ,: Know no, book on the subject you mention,
and it isn’t vital enough to call for discussion. ~P. : A
demented person hanged himself on an almond-tree, and
the next year and ever since the nuts were bitter as aloes,
and the limb which suspended the suicide withered and
fell. Not even from an old and trusted Abo-ite will we
accept a yarn of that calibre... .Sandy Grain: Your
screed rambles over-much, and the point re the need for
filling Australia’s emptv spaces has been made often-
times before..;.Tyro: Rather solemn and complicated
idea.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
K.C.B. : Drawing 1 is as devoid of merit as Joe Cook ; it
is also devoid of stamps for return, wherefore the basket
has digested it.... It.K. : Nothing hopeful about drawing.
Joke good enough.... Fred N. : Pictures are not up to
much, and jokes are distinctly awful Shaw: ltather
a poor 10t.... Brad: Very hopeless.—Viva B. . rhere
is some promise about them, but single figures
are of little use to us Gus : No present demand
for another theatrical artist.' Besides, you re not the
right individual ... Back Pay : Not recklessly hilarious.
Boondi: Declined. Notice that you give neither name
nor address. Why this reticence? M.M. :Of no earthly
value .. .F.D. : They aren’t art. Don’t know for certain
what they are ... Bob S. : Four pictures all no good. If
there had been; five, they would probably have been no
good just the same W.M. : Gags thin, illustrations
below pari.. .Matilda : Drawings hopeless, gags so little
better as not to matter Sinokei-: Drawings not up to
publicatipn mark... .Julius Caiman : Picture of human
being, sex unknown, milking animal of a breed that has
hitherto side-stepped the natural historian too unusual
for publication.


y\K o dney rey<Az*>T
'for'ft&rded £>■
Conscience, money
-fo'+he
'for "
"he ComMv>+"
re s+'."
"7v/o
-loilVe.
w
Veih« iff* chance oP^ch«Aj> Job, we
Oya_v- Co^ckjocC- buT *
W« <%ohoat'of hji*o
"Boo+fful n«c.k’'A Bribery j
CovrujjfioV) be did .
' 5 Takers.
b(ZK't'ion&l
U&PUZ Should O<L
enc. %
lhe>v loyajfy mhj "be
dcjiznde <d af>on i*} ,
\
(A^s)
7be FeAtr*} CJov?" \
limi"se Sije
Should &Js© -to ~
Stojs inferior Comingij}X'
( Ah+i ■frclero.l
As s^ohs
eneapti to rfe. li«Ws |,.
Of* R>^)ters ; — ifieyl l do !
A\ r Pr«
J>ottTc© far' doQY*f&rj
of- iff* new locK’-uJ» only
jar \ koup /
lnrjoVAvlTon .
out' joy tfye. WKi ic'tcijtrf ~
V*""'
S r S° •"
•to st-o}. h'V .
.-’’ W ® ll do S «rc
bre«r>t-|y.
} n{ &^l'
K we. i>iM*nbstKew'
Y\cK Ihiro &r h®*" iron
V«tv> &-I>ooT^hi»v> —
t\n ~
heads’enelated m
■se Vicmify of" 0i II Ly*ic.
irjce "Hfe ion,
"been oWe*Ved do shrivel
-me
machine <*S be wiv
HiS whereabouts in nc
b«i/ditto be diy
Covere<# by
Ip 's bor
H® ”^ G
AV-Melville (vYc
Council) if"
Hot to Saw
= ni«c\) arbour" $e
S c<4 Lv?d Taw
Bill Uhtl if~s iUctk «(s
were IC>roWr) #
fh eno\rje.ri^
POLITICAL HAPPENINGS.


FUSED FINANCES.
Treasurer Forrest: "Well, we'll have to get to work on the Financial Statement. What are your ideas?"
Alfred the Affable: "Well, these are the leading features of the case. We're pledged not to raise money by a land-tax. We've not to on any
more duties. We've promised to be liberal with the State Government. We've offered Britain £2,000,000 for a Dreadnought, and teh country seems to
object to us floating a loan. Now, you've got the money and the unpaid bills before you, and with these few points to guide you you should get on very well."


GAE LIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
NO man is a hero to his
valet, but a valet is a
hero to his man if he
uses Cherry Blossom when
polishing the boots. Anybody
can use Cherry Blossom—
everybody will find it good.
You try a 3d. or 6d. tin—Black
or Tan—and see how it adds to
the good appearance of vour
boots, and makes them delight-
fully easy on the feet. Write
to us if your dealer does not
Blossom Managing: Airents for Australia—
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 C’Connell Street, Sydney.
That Incessant Tickling
In the throat, and all throat and chest troubles,
promptly relieved by Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
r
Weak
Lungs.
The unique healing properties of our
special petroleum, combined with the
tonic effects of the hypophosphites,
make Angier’s Emulsion superior
to all other remedies
for coughs and lung
affections. No other
Emulsion has the
same soothing, cough-
allaying, lung-healing
power nor the same
tonic effect upon appe-
tite and digestion. It
is the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send 4d. postage.
Of all chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4 16.
atf
LORU
ttnfflt
LUI
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
flngier Chemical Co., Id., 7 Barrack St., Sydney^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
JOHN VERRAN, M.P., leader S.A. Labor
party, and a quaint Cousin Jack.
Daniel Prentice, one of the men who
helped to make Burns, Philp and Co. the big
concern that it is to-day, died a week or so back.
After James Burns had called in “Bob’’Philp
to do the affable, and thus help to extend the
young business, two of their first lieutenants were
Daniel Prentice and Adam Forsyth. The former
first managed the business at Cairns, and after-
wards at lownsville, where the headquarters were
in the beginning ; and he was kept in that billet
until a few years ago, when he was called down to
Sydney, practically as a pensioner, and appointed
a head-office director. “Bob” Philp has long
been out of the business; but Adam Forsyth
remains the dour right-hand man of the managing
Colonel.
The “King of AVaiou ” is again giving
trouble. Some 70 years ago, a loud-voiced U.S.
mariner was camped at Coromandel (M.L.), and
when the British took possession be offered his
own unsupported testimony to the effect that he
was the legal owner of almost all the country
thereabouts, partly through purchase and partly
through marriage with the daughter of a leading
cannibal described as Hooknose. He got some
land, but not the huge province he demanded,
and his descendants are still clamoring for
£500,000 compensation. The U.S. Committee on
Foreign Affairs, whose manners are not those of
the best society, has twice decided, on the unsup-
ported statements of the heirs of Hooknose’s son-
in-law, that the claim is just; and once it
threatened “ reprisals ’’—bombardment, perhaps
unless the cash was forthcoming. Now the row
has become so violent that a Maoriland law-official
has gone to England to see what it is all about.
“Liber ” gives a send-off to a bookworm ;
This week’s obituary includes J. H. B. Curtis, aged 80,
secretary ot the Melbourne Athenaeum. A worthy gentle-
man, universally esteemed, and profoundly learned in
Greek, Latin, French and Italian. He was one of Cape’s
boys in Sydney, and kept a school himself afterwards.
There is a general impression that J. H. B. was once a
Catholic priest. Anyhow’, he studied for it, and was inti-
mately acquainted with Rome. The Athenaeum was
founded over 60 years ago as the Mechanics’ Institute.
Early secretaries were Paterson and Gilbert, succeeded
by W. Thompson, father of the City Treasurer. When
W. Thompson passed out there were 150 candidates,
Garnet Walch got the billet, and he caused the mildewed
place to hum with new members. Whose fault it was
that Garnet left I don’t know'. Curtis followed, and held
on for a whole generation—3o years. He was even too
old in 1879—a square peg in a round hole. You don’t
want the learned pundit as secretary of an
Athenaeum! Curtis had w’on his spurs by showing some
energy as secretary of the Early Closing Association ;
but he never energised as Athenaeum secretary. The
place steadily waned, and three years ago it really seemed
that there was nothing for it but burial. Then came
salvation by the biograph—hall rented every night; entre-
preneurs tumbling over one another for it. Yet the read-
ing room continues usually a collocation of half a dozen
venerable and snoozy Struldbrugs, like those who hung
out in Luggnagg. Arcadian Cole’s second-hand depart-
ment is a Paradise to the library.
Denny, M.L.A., once sat with Kingston
in the Liberal interest for West Adelaide, but was
defeated by the block Labor vote in 1905. At the
declaration of the poll on that occasion he said he
saw he must join either the Labor party or the
National Ass. in order to get a seat. He did join
the Labor party, and was re-elected for Adelaide
in Nov., 1906. Recently he wrote a “limerick”
about Premier Peake, who, with the help of
Attorney-General Mitchell, retorted with this
effort of genius :
There was a young lawyer named Denny
Who once on a time tossed a penny
To find down which side
Of the rail he should slide
That was likely to best suit Bill Denny.
By the Oldest Inhabitant; —
Apropos. Chambers’ and Seymour’s Corner, Melbourne
(B. ]/7/’O9). On November 1, 1837, the half-acre on the
south-west corner of Swanston and Collins streets W'as
sold by auction, John Batman being the purchaser at
£6O. He also purchased the half-acre at the rear corner
of Flinders Lane for £s9—and invested £lOO in the half-
acre on the corner of Flinders-street and Swanston-street,
the latter at the punt, which was superseded by Princes’
Bridge. The old-time sign was “ Whitney, Chambersand
Co.” In 1888 the oppooite half-acre corner, known as
Nicholson’s, and for which Henry Howie gave £45 at
the first sale (June I,’ 18371, was valued at £493,500.
Henry Howie had a little history. He was a Goulburn
man. His brother, John Howie, had taken over one of the
first flocks of sheep from the Sydney side, and had
selected a fine run for himself south of the ranges, near
the present site of Gisborne. John then went to Sydney
to bring his wife and children to their new home; but
the schooner in which they sailed was never again heard
of. Henry Howey, as the name was originally spelled,
went from Sydney and took possession as heir-at-law. At
the first land sale he bought three half-acre lots—the
corner at £45, next at £29, and the next at £2O. The
three half-acres adjoined, and in 1888 they were valued
at £890,500.
Bananaland’s new Speaker, “ Jaw ” or
“Joey’’Bell, has twice been Chairman of Com-
mittees in the Assembly, and has for many
years had his eye (the one he wears the
monocle on—George Reid wears his Dry
Dog in the other eye) directed towards the
more lucrative job. His drawback as a
Minister in the Morgan and Kidston
Governments was his hatred of office work.
While he ran the Lands Office he dis-
played unprecedented energy outside the
building in hunting up settlers and inspect-
ing desirable country; but the officers of
the Department were always at their wits’
end to know how to get; him to reduce the
pile of papers which for weeks on end rested
on his table with all the solemnity of a tomb-
stone. A peculiarity of Bell’s is his Oxford
bleat, which he imbibed while at the Cold
Country’s great seat of learning, though
he is a Queenslander by birth. He has
been in Parliament for 16 years, repre-
senting Dalby, a place which his father
represented before him.
At last one British aristocrat is going
to do something for his cheese and beer)
The new governor of Worcester Gaol is
Harold Edward Fitzclarence, great-great-
grandson of William IV., and brother and
heir presumptive of the Earl of Munster.
The N.S.W. Premier struck bedrock last
Saturday, when he “ dedicated a horse-trough ” at
Lindfield and made a speech.
Laurence J. Harnett, who has just retired
from the job of Sergeant-at-Arms to the N.S.W.
Assembly, helped to “remove the honorable
member” at the bidding of six Speakers and ten
different chairmen of committees; and he removed
the honorable but disorderly member out of 18
different Parliaments.
The Australian Steamship Owners’ Federa-
tion lost its president last week, when “Dave”
Prosser died in Sydney, of septic pneumonia—a
trouble which began with a small carbuncle.
Prosser, who was still under 45, had battled his
way up from a junior clerk’s place in the Orient
office until he was chairman of G. S. Yuill
and Co., the people who, among many other
things, manage affairs for the Adelaide Steamship
Co. in N. S. Wales.
THE EARTHS BURDEN.—TOO MUCH
ROTHSCHILD.
Mr. Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer, said
he considered that the speeches made on the previous
day were only “the same drivel about Socialism.” Pro-
ceeding, he remarked, “ We are having too much Roths-
child."—Recent Cable.
This was the poet Samuel Rogers’ epigram
on Mr. Ward, afterwards Lord Dudley, the Aus-
tralian Governor-General’s ancestor :
They say that Ward’s no heart, but I deny it,
He has a heart and gets his speeches by it.
It was provoked by a way-Ward remark at the
table. Rogers explained that his carriage had
broken down and that he had been obliged to
come in a hackney coach. Ward whispered loudly,
“In a hearse, I should think”—in allusion to the
poet s corpse-like countenance. Rogers never for-
gave the remark, and spent a week coining the
retaliatory epigram. Sydney Smith said : “When
Rogers produces a couplet he goes to bed, and the
knocker is tied up, and straw is laid down, and
the caudle is made, and the answer to inquiries is
that Mr. Rogers is as well as can be expected.”
The father of the Tasmanian Bar, Charles
Butler, died at Hobart op Thursday, aged 89
years. He was a native of Tasmania, and his
father was the first solicitor who: pursued the six-
and-eightpenee in the Apple Isle. It is now 69
years since Charles Butler climbed the upper
branch of the profession after the same profitable
animal; but, after all, there isn’t much 6s. Bd.
in Tasmania, and what there is roosts pretty high,'
and even after 69 years a lawyer may not be
wildly affluent. C. Butler was the second father
that the Tasmanian Bar has lost in two years,
Adye Douglass being the other one.
A connecting link with the long past
snapped at The Cedars, Epping (N.S.W.), on
July 6, when Euphemia Catherine Hume died.
She had been the wife of Andrew Hamilton
Hume, and daughter of Captain Richard Tasker
Furlong, of the 80th Regiment. The regiment
arrived at Sydney in 1838, and Captain Furlong
was appointed police magistrate at Mudgee in
1840. He died and was buried there. Rightly or
wrongly, he was accused of being a hard master
and an enthusiastic flogger. So there was trouble
to get a grave dug for him, and even then friends
had to guard the place for a week, beause threats
were made*that the corpse would be dug up and
thrown away.
Horace Bastings, who passed over at
Auckland (M.L.j a few days ago, at the age of
78 years, started pis Australian life at Brunswick
(Melbourne), where his father ran a shoe business.
The father, who was almost a dwarf, came from
Islington (Londdh) in the, early ’fifties with the
family; and the son, recently dead, engaged for
a while in mining. He attained in the ’sixties to
the giddy eminence Of being Mayor of Brunswick.
Then the wanderlust came on him. He moved to
New South Wales-, returned to Victoria,, and then
went to Maoriland, where he bought an interest
in Cobb and Co. In 1876 he settled in Dunedin
as an auctioneer, land-dealer, agent, odd-jobber
in finance, and generally useful mercantile man.
In the very small days, when each province of
Maoriland ran its own government, Bastings held
many portfolios amid the little backyard politics
of Otago. The wanderlust took him again, and he
came back to Australia and built the North Sydney
cable tram. Finally—still wandering—Horace got
to Auckland, and died.
Garvin, N.S.W. Inspector-General of
Police, who has received thel.S.O. leather medal,
was a mounted trooper in ’62, nearly 50 years ago’
and has been in the force ever since, rising through
all the ranks until now he stands at the top. His
declining years are being filled with worry on
account of a persistent agitation to get the local
bobby an occasional Sunday off. Such liberality
was unknown when Garvin was earning his
stripes, and he can’t be got to see the sense of it
now. But in his young days the police didn’t
have votes, which should explain things to
Garvin, 1.5.0.
Maoriland begins to suspect that Joe
Ward has a “yellow streak” somewhere. When
a howling mob of Wellingtonians turned up to
protest against Joe’s intention to close down
Parliament while he strutted in the Imperial
slushlight, Joseph pleaded pressure of business
and shut himself up. In similar circumstances
old man Seddon would have stood on a gate post,
and ranted and roared until the multitude was
moved to cheers—even Loud Cheers. Also,
when Joey embarked he was surrounded by
cohorts of constables, lest some barbarian should
push him over the end of the wharf; and now it
“leaks out” that Detective Cassells went to the
Cold Country in his shadow, presumably to
protect him from assassination by some infuriated
tourist who had been enticed to Maoriland by the
seductive official pictures of Ward’s innocent
Maori maiden, and on arrival couldn’t find her.
A heroic English suffragette, who had been
gaoled for public disturbance, has cut her sentence
short. She refused all food for three days and 19
hours. It was ob\ious that she meant to perish as
a haggard skeleton in her cell, and no Government
could hope to last after a woman had starved her-
self to death on its hands. So the prison doors
were opened, and the captive tottered forth to the
nearest food emporium.
It was the first Earl of Dudley who wound
up an eloquent tribute to the vir-
tues of a deceased Baron of the
Exchequer with this pithy perora-
tion : “He had the best melted
butter I ever tasted in my life.”
In the cemetery attached to
St. Stephen’s Anglican tabernacle
at Penrith (N.S. W.) is a weather-
worn tombstone, on which may be
read :
John Jamison, M.D., R.N.,
H.M.S. Gordon,
- Physician to the Baltic Fleet,
Died at Regentville, 29th June, 1844.
The knight was a distinguished
colonist, who spent money right
royally. At Regentville Henry
Parkes had his first Australian
job as a laborer, with small wages,
short rations, and a leaky hut to
Jive m. Jamison also owned con-
siderable town property, which he
cut up and sold in 1831, Jamison-
street being opened up through
it. Jamison left many sons and
daughters, one of whom, R. T.
Jamison, sat in one of the very
early Parliaments as member for
the Nepean.
“Pindar” gives an idea of one
of the jobs that the Commonwealth
Government has to undertake
Over here in Westralia, Deputy-Commissioner Green
has to see to it that the public service adds up two and
two, and makes the result four, and that means a lar°e
contract in the way of travelling. Met Green recently in
Broome when he was completing a 3000-mile trip extend-
ing from Shark Bay to Hall’s Creek, and down to Derby.
Dressed in khaki, he looked like a bullocky down for
the races. He had made the long- journey per buckboard,
with only a native to look after the houses. Every post
office and custom house had been inspected, and the most
distant outposts of civilisation in the Far Nor’-West had
been visited. He gathered in some interesting- specimens
from natives on his tour, and seemed to g-et on well
with the nomadic but infrequent Black Brother in that
part. Hall’s Creek, which was the end of his journey
was, in the days of the Kimberley rush, a busy mining
camp with ten or twelve pubs, pianos, barmaids, billiard
tables, and other allurements ; now it has a solitary
drinking- shop. Long'-bearded goats, empty jam tins,
dead marines, and buck spinifex are its chief character-
istics ; and but for a few drovers, who make it a camping
place, Hall’s Creek would go light back into the desert
again.
Thus The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
Me Mossman’s purchase (B. l/7/’O9). By a slip of the
pen br a temporary lapse of memory, I said that Mossman
Duut The Rangers.” The house was erected about the
year 1840 by Oswald Bloxsonte. A few years later Mr.
Oswald Brierley, the artist, was a guest there, and
painted “ The Rattlesnake in a Hurricane ” on the dining-
room wall. It is there still. Later on Mr. Henry Stuart
Russell, a Queensland pioneer, spent a small fortune on
the place. The grounds now attached to the old house
are limited in extent, the old “ broad acres” having been
cut up and built upon. There is a tower wherein did
hang a bell (I think it hangs there still) which called the
people to work and (possibly) to prayer. Later tenants
used to say that the house was haunted, as the bell tolled
sometimes at midnight. Tradition says that Mrs.
Bloxsome would not have any prisoner-servants about
her; she stood out for free labor.
THE DREAD-
NOUGHTER
AS PICTURED
BY JOSIAH
SYMON.
He read from his notes the following opinion upon the
offer of a Dreadnought to the British Government: “It
was the outcome of hysterical emotion, not the con.
sidered proposal of sane minds”—a statement which is
nothing short of an insult to the large majority of Aus-
tralians who enthusiastically supported the movement.—
Argos on Josh Symon.
THE LAY OF THE ANCIENT RESIDENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Friday last Mr. D. M'Leod, M.L.A., presented to
the Daylesford State School a large framed record of
incidents connected with the loss in the bush near the
town, in June, 1867, of three little boys, and the recovery
of their remains in September of that year. They had
taken shelter in a hollow tree, where they perished from
cold and exhaustion. The record is illustrated by photo-
graphic views and portraits. At last Friday’s gathering
at the school, several ladies and gentlemen were
present who had been among those who took part in the
search 42 years ago. Interesting speeches were made,
and the school children sang. “Dear Are the Memories
of Childhood.” — Vic. news item.
The tragedies of olden days
To me are ever dear,
Upon the treasured past I gaze
And bless each bygone year.
With trembling hand my harp I touch.
As back to mind I bring
The sad events which pleased me much.
And feelingly I sing—
All the things that happened in the long, long ago
Seem fresh to an old, old man,
Whose feiv remaining hairs are as white, white as snow;
Die cakes which to-day are invariably dough
Were sweet when my life began,
To whatsoever happened in the wayback time
My memory delights to cling ;
So I put my recollections in a rambling rhyme,
And give ’em to the kids to sing—
Ting, ting —
The chubby little kids to sing.
In ’46, the month of May,
A flood came swirling round ;
It swept my uncle’s hut away,
And Auntie Jane was drowned.
The blacks, who found her body, stole
Her clothes and wedding ring ;
So with the fervor of a ghoul
I now proceed to sing.
A bush-fire raged in ’4B
And burnt my father out;
The awful fate of sister Kate
Is shrouded still in doubt.
The girl went mad and fled from sight,
But didn’t long survive—
She either died of mortal fright,
Or else was baked alive.
My Bertha was a bonnie lass,
A prize and no mistake 1
In ’59 it came to pass
She trod upon a snake.
The Varmint turned and bit her leg,
Her bonnie leg—poor wife !
I had some whisky in a keg—
It didn’t save her life.
Our boy grew up and went to sea—
He shipped in ’74 :
He never said good-bye to me,
I never saw him more.
The gallant vessel struck a gale,
And of its human freight
Not one came back to tell the tale,
Except the second mate.
I’m thinking whilst my pipe I smoke
Of friends among the dead,
Who made a pile and then went broke
And had to beg their bread.
The past is bright, the future blue,
And Time is on the wing ;
The man who would his youth renew
Must look behind, and sing :
AU the things that happened in the long, long ago
Seem fresh to an old, old man,
Whose few remaining hairs are as white, white as snow ;
The cakes which to-day are invariably dough
Were sweet when my life began.
To whatsoever happened in the wayback time
My memory delights to cling.
So I put my recollections in a rambling rhyme
And give ’em to the kids to sing—
Ting, ting —
The chubby little kids to sing.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


19*
(<S>
a-a
■?r<r
&
4
&
d
s<>
A
&
i
%
l>4
rrn
<r
=
«
y
PILCK
SA
~K
It
It
h
ffi
If
i
'
lii
ih*
lift
nmTm
TOUCq
ARIJ. |
. r^-^jwßßsa^rfO
uaarv\e
3W
She with a subtle smile in her mild eyes, £
The herald of her triumph, drawing nigh,
Half-whispered in his ear, “I promise thee
The fairest and most loving wife in Greece.”
-TENNYSON.
99
©
Read Carefully.
1. —Send in your idea of
the best line to finish the
undermentioned Limerick,
together with your name
and address, and name of
tobacconist.
2. —Address envelope to
“ VENUS,” care of THE
BRITISH AUSTRALA-
SIAN TOBACCO CO.,
Stewart St., Melbourne,
on or before TUESDAY,
AUGUST 31.
3. —A competitor may
send any number of en-
tries, provided ‘VENUS’
SEAL and WRAPPER
contained in EACH
2oz. TIN, or TIN TAG
from PLUG of‘VENUS’
TOBACCO, is enclosed
with each.
No. 4
The fairest of Goddesses three,
Paris judged peerless Venus tobe;
Of tobaccoes, a score
Greet the smoker, or more,
Read Carefully.
4. The names of prize-
winners and winning lines
will be published in the
daily papers on THURS-
DAY, 30th SEPTEMBER.
5. —The names of the
competitors will, as hith-
erto, be withheld from the
judges, who will adjudicate
from a list of all the
“ lines ” sent in.
6. —The decision of the
judges shall be final.
Special Prizes to
Tobacconists.
£S 55., £3 3s. & £2 2s.
will be awarded tobac-
conists whose names
appear on Ist, 2nd, and
3rd prize Limericks
respectively.


On the railroad you hear of their fame,
If you cross the wide ocean the same ;
Our Pills Laxo-Tonie
Cure ills that are chronic, t,
And thousands are blessing their name.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
Walter Bradley & Go
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Diningf Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
What Woods have the suburbs
Of Sydney? Who’ll tell ?
There’s Chatswood and Eastwood,
And Burwood as well.
And several others,
Some older, some newer ;
And each wood is taking
Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” bv C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory. Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD.
Health, Hope and Happiness are three insepar-
able blessings—and yet few possess them. Excess
is the tyrant that destroys them all with one
stroke. By impairing the digestive organs, excess
destroys the perfect circulation of the blood. The
blood is the carrier that conveys nutriment to
every cell in the body. Let it be disturbed
by ever so slight a cause and the entire organ-
ism suffers. Have you a healthy circulation ?
FRANZ JOSEF Natural Aperient Water will
assist you to get it. A dose taken before break-
fast will tone the stomach, awaken the liver,
clear the intestines, and send the rich, new blood
bounding on its travels, carrying with it Health,
Hope and Happiness.
A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept on hand for immediate use,
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
Sciatica’s Siarp
Shooting Pains.
*
The Trouble is in the Sciatic
Nerve.
To Cure, Restore the Run Down
Nerves—This Man Cured
in this Way.
Sciatica, with it's dreaded, sharp, shooting pains
in the thigh and legs—pains like red-hot needles
in tender flesh—is a nervous disorder. The
trouble is in the sciatic nerve. It begins when
the nerves are run down and out of tone. Nerves
become run down when the blood becomes too
thin ; they do not get a proper amount of nourish-
ment. Therefore, to cure sciatica, build up the
blood; the impoverished nerves are fed and the
sciatic pains disappear. Absolute rest is the best
aid to proper medical treatment.
So many severe cases of sciatica have been cured
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, that every sufferer is
justified in giving the treatment a thorough trial.
A recent cure is that of Mri Arthur Ernest White,
64 Rosehill Street, Redfern, Sydney.
“ I was ailing for about four months off and on
with sciatica,” said Mr. White. “I got a chill at
my work, and it brought on a severe pain in my
back, just across the loins. It would ease off
during the day, after I had a little exercise ; but
it was bad at night time. I could hardly close
my eyes. I’d be twisting and turning all ways to
try and get some relief. It was like a toothache
with the constant nagging, gnawing pain. The
skin would be very red and tender. I rubbed
myself with liniments, but found them no good.
The pain extended down the side of my left leg
and the back of my thigh. For about an hour
after I’d get out of bed I could only limp about.
It would start about five each night and last for
hours. I’d always be worse when warm in bed.
I couldn’t bend my back without the pain catching
me like a knife. The pain only seemed to settle
deeper as time went on. At last, on a friend’s
advice, I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I felt a
shade of ease with the first box, and so I got
another, and then I really began to feel distinct
benefit. My back began to get supple again. I
could bend down with less difficulty. I was
working on the railway line at Belmore then. By
the time I had finished the third box I was better
still. The pains had lessened so much that I
could sleep quite easily. The darting spasms of
pain down my leg went away, as did the stiffness
on rising. I took two more boxes, and they
finally drove away every sign of the sciatica, and
now I’m as supple as ever.”
Insist on getting Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They are sold by most chemists and storekeepers,
or, if not locally obtainable, will be sent direct by
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney, for 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
rt
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bell Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
1 (ovp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Meagher’s reception by the N.S.W. Labor
party has had its double in Westralia, where
J. W. Clydesdale, a barrister, who ran a few
times as a Radical Independent, has signed the
pledge, and is making a bid for the Perth seat in
the House of Reps.
LIKE THE SITE ITSELF.
The Advisory Board views the prospects of a satisfactory
water supply at the Canberra site with serious alarm.
No. 1: By the way. old chappie, what do you
think of the — aw — aw—arguments in favor of
Canbewwa as a Fedewal capital site?"
No. 2: “ Why, simply this: They won't hold
water! ”
Irrigation Mead, the Victorian cold water
expert, went to Strathmerton to lecture on irriga-
tion, the other day, and found Strathmerton eight
or ten feet under water. The lecture on irrigation
had to be postponed till Strathmerton was some-
what less excessively irrigated. Graham, Minister
of Water Supply, visited Strathmerton at about
the same time, and discovered himself to be the '
object of a bitter prejudice. The inhabitants, who
were living in the open air mainly—on the roof—
seemed to think the Minister of Water Supply
had overdone it. Strathmerton is a settlement
four years of age, and has now suffered three floods
and two droughts.
Poor old Dreadnought was again heard of
last Saturday. The unfortunate person was then
up to £81,143 17s. 6d.
There are in Victoria, according to
Premier Murray, 45 persons who own an average
of £158,000 worth of land apiece, and all the violent
effort which Murray is making to dislodge them
would hardly suffice to shift a cat off as much soil
as goes into a flower-pot.
“Henry Phelthatt” : Snakes aren’t dying
off, as “XXX” imagines. They are merely
moving out of the bush and into the boots of loan-
drunk Treasurers. The extra scarcity just now is
owing to the fact that the boots of the Fused
Government seem as if they would soon be open
to receive snakes.
The annual conference of Chambers of
Agriculture assembled at Bendigo demand that
the Federal Government should tackle the sparrow
pest, the State Governments having proved their
inability to even hit the imported bird with a bit
of road metal. And the State Premiers, for once,
will not object. They will argue that the sparrow,
as a dispute extending over more than one State,
is one of the few things that come within Federal
jurisdiction.
The Westralian Labor party counts on
winning all three seats at the next Senate elec-
tion, and is just now picking its bunch—a ballot
is being taken this month all over the State.
Sitting Senators De Largie and Henderson and
eight others are running, including State Labor
members J. B. Holman and “Mulga” Taylor.
The most ancient battler of the crowd is Joseph
Fabre, who did a lot of bullocking for the N.S. W.
Labor party just before it arrived in ’9l.
Thus “Vado” in the Fortnightly Re-
view, advocating an Australian fleet: —
If unhappily we ever become involved in a great war,
our brethren in those British Dominions Beyond the
Seas will cnafe and fume to be up and doing something
towards helping us in our hour of peril. But without the
instruments of war, without even the elementary know-
ledge of the art of those that go down to the sea in ships,
of what avail will be the brain and sinew of our kindred
fighting men to the Mother Country ? The sea-warrior’s
duties cannot be learned in a day.
“ Harrison O.” : The Shanghai Saturday
Review, in a recent issue, had some remarks to
make about the state of affairs in Manchuria.
The writer states :
So far as my experience goes, the Japanese are the most
cruel and the most brutal people on the whole earth. . . .
By far the biggest legacy of evil that came to Man-
churia was the crowd of Japanese women who found
their way to all parts of the province during the war, and
that legacy abides with us still. Japanese immorality, so
übiquitous, so bold, so brazen-faced, obtruding itself
everywhere, as if it were a specially-privileged member of
society, has lowered Chinese morality very seriously. In
fact, the Chinese, who are by no means sensitive upon a
subject of this kind, are disgusted with Japanese prosti-
tution, and they express their disgust openly and
strongly. And the strangest part of the whole vile busi-
ness is the utter absence of shame on the part of the
respectable portion of the Japanese community. To them
it seems a perfectly natural element of Japanese social
life.
From the fertile Western wastes of Vic-
toria :—•
While the Age, newly converted to the land-tax, is
prodding John Murray forward, the Argits keeps holding
him back with the yarn that the big estates are being cut
up “in a natural way”—whatever that is. Every now
and then the Tory paper prints a list of the big estates
that have been subdivided, and triumphantly shouts that
there is no need for “a confiscatory land-tax.” Butthese
voluntarily subdivided est ites are only a drop in the
bucket, and the subdivisions often simply mean that a
slice is cut off one big estate and added to another. For
example, the Argus made a lot of the subdivision of some
of the Currie estates, on the Western plains. Only small
slices from two out of the five Currie estates were, how-
ever, sold, and the buyers included only half a dozen real
farmers. One huge block was actually bought by an
adjoining brother Currie. Another was taken by a neigh-
boring squatter, and others were grabbed by people who
alreatty owned more land than they could use to advan-
tage. It is all very well having legislation to compel
land-owners to cut up their big- estates ; but what is just,
as badly wanted is legislation to keep them cut up, and
the best legislation for that purpose is a graduated land-
tax.
From “ Invasion and Conscription,” a
recent British publication, by James Anson
Farran :—■
I would entrust the defence of India mainly to Chinese
and Japanese mercenaries under English generals, and
if either country prohibited such service to its subjects,
I would obtain the same by payment of a direct sub-
sidy to their Governments. 1 ,.
Which is suggestive. India is “ the most precious
jewel in the Crown of Empire,” and so forth.
When the motherland’s war experts are impelled
to start talking of defending their country’s best-
loved asset by means of hired Asiatics, it is surely
time Australia fell to, jettisoned the gang of
reliers-on-England that disfigures its politics, and
waded in to defend itself.
Some of the richest land in Victoria is to
be found at Kooweerup Swamp, but it has its
drawbacks. When eager land-seekers first cast
hungry eyes on it it was subject to heavy floods
every winter. The State drained it, and the
settlers got to work, only to find their blocks
steadily sinking. Delving into the earth’s innards,
they found and rooted out a heavy crop of ti-tree
stumps. -But the land continued to sink, so
further explorations were made, and another
stratum of ti-tree stumps came up. The soil re-
mained stationary for a while ; but latterly it has
been falling away again, and a third crop of
stumps has now come to view—red gums this
time. Of course, with all this sinking, the drains
have had to be deepened, and still some of the
country is under water ; but if the crust will but
stay where it ought to be for a few years, the
plucky settlers still hope to “make a do of things.”
Meanwhile, the equally rich lands west of Mel-
bourne, where no floods come nor any sinking
happens, are locked against the men who spend
their lives and break their hearts in trying to
“ make a do of things.”
THE FRA N KEN STEIN DEAKIN HORROR.
Mr. Wilks said the Fusion wasan experiment.—Parlia-
mentary Report.
AUSTRALIA (catching sight of experiment): “Oo!
No!! Don't!!!"
Though the Butler party has decided to
support the Peake Government in S. Aus., the
Fusion will have a majority of only one vote in a
House of 42 members, That one vote is Bur-
goyne’s. He is 83 years old, and his son is editor
of the Adelaide Labor paper. So, one way and
another, the Peake party is still afraid to draw a
very long breath for fear of upsetting the balance.
From N.S.W. Pastoral Union secretary’s
annual report:—
As a result of the rates for shearing and shed work
fixed by the Federal Arbitration Court, yielding higher
wages than could be earned in any other pursuit, a large
amount of labor had been attracted to the industry, and
the season’s shearing operations had been carried through
expeditiously and satisfactorily.
In short, the pastoralists have made the amazing
discovery that it pays to pay good wages.
Good old Unearned Increment was in great
form when the Cleveland-street (Sydney) tram way
was opened the other day. For years past the
residents had been agitating for a tramway ex-
tension, and at last they got it. There was a
great shivoo at the opening ceremony, when all
the people who had done the agitating got up and
made speeches and subscribed for champagne out
of pure joy. Having cheerfully paid the bills for
the celebration, they went borne feeling like giants
refreshed—to find on their mantelpieces notes
from their landlords, informing them that, owing
to the additional facilities provided by the new
line, their rents were to be raised. It was not
only the big houses that were blackmailed in this
way. Nearly every residence within walking dis-
tance was assessed by the owner at something
extra. Even the occupiers of little three-roomed
terrace blocks were called upon to weigh out six-
pence a week more than formerly, as a result of
having stirred Parliament to action.
The Melbourne City Council wants a
tar-spraying machine, and has decided to
import one. To the few inquiring council-
lors who wanted to know why the foreign
workman should have the job of making it
in a foreign factory, and -thus help to pay
rates to a foreign municipality, the usual
vapid yarn was told—the £2OO machine to
spray tar was “too complicated” for
manufacture in Victoria, Victoria being
evidently an aboriginal country, which about
reaches its limit when it makes a wooden
skewer. And, of course, the committee that
worked the job was so sure the machine
couldn’t be made here that it didn’t trouble
to call for tenders, so as to be certain
about it. Or else it was so sure that it was a
poor, muddy, disreputable liar when it said
the machine couldn’t be made locally, that it
daren’t run the risk of being exposed. Is
it unpatriotism that makes men do things
like this? Or is it something else? Which-
ever it is, every voter ought to mark those
men. They are dangerous, anyhow.
While Wade, and Wade’s Minister for
Lands have been flattening out the N.S.W.
Labor Opposition with tales about the
thousands and thousands of settlers the
Government has put on the soil, out came
the Government Statistician’s agricultural
statistics. These show that in 1906 the area
under crop in N.S.W. was 2,840,235 acres,
and in 1907 it was 2,826,617 acres, whereas
for the past season it was only 2,716,871
acres. That sort of thing may mean settle-
ment, but it doesn’t exactly look like it.
N.S.W. has lately been reorganising its
prison system, with the result that the following
“permanent and reproductive works” (that is,
gaols) have been pitched on the waste dump:
Berrima, Wollongong, Deniliquin, Young, Trial
Bay, Mudgee, Forbes, Tarn worth,. Maitland,
Hay, Wagga, Yass, and Wilcannia. The special
retreat for shocking females at Biloela will also be
added to the list within the next few months, and
now the removal of the huge Darlinghurst pile is
mooted. The building of these now-useless
“jugs” ran away with very much borrowed cash,
and, while they themselves become little more
than glorified rat-holes, the interest on the loan
drunks that begot them, like the brook, runs on
for ever. In fact, it beats the brook hollow, for
even the driest weather doesn’t dry up the loan.
THE TRANSFORMATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is a tremendous current of feeling against com-
pulsory training.” —Premier Ward, September , 1908.
“ I have prepared two separate schemes for compulsory
training.” —Premier Ward , June , 1909.
“ There is little doubt that if a referendum were to be
taken on Mr. McNab’s proposal for compulsory training,
it would he carried by an overwhelming majority.”—
Daily Paper.
Last tear it seemed impossible that ever it should be
This soldier talk of bearing arms to hold our country free
No cash was in the project, nor stray Iv.C.M.G.
Now
Ward is off to London
A tinsel crown to bring,
McNab is teaching Maoriland
The song- that she should sing.
Up and down the windy coast
Hear the chorus ring,
We’ll all go McNabbing in the spring.
We’ll all go McNabbing,
So we’re all right,
Nab-nab-nabbing,
Till we learn to fight.
We’ll all go McNabbing, hear the chorus ring,
We’ll all go McNabbing in the spring !
Last year we felt too tired, too worn and weak with toil,
To learn to use a rifle to guard our patch of soil,
But, Lord ! the gleam of tinsel has taught our blood to
boil.
For soon
Ward comes back from London
Garlanded with tin,
The soldier tramp of Maoriland
Is ready to begin,
Round and round the crooked coast
Hear the chorus ring,
We’ll all go McNabbing in the spring.
We’ll all go McNabbing,
So bang the big drum,
Nab-nab-nabbing
From now till Kingdom Come,
For glory, Ward, and Cohen, hear the chorus ring—
We’ll all go McNabbing in the spring.
MAORIIiAND.
D. M. W.
MUGGA MUGGA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The spot chosen by the “Advisory Board” for Aus.,
tralia’s Federal City is described as beimj somewhere near
the Mugga Mugg-a Mountain. The watersupply is doubt-
ful.
Candidly, I do not hug a
Wish to go to Mugga Mugga ;
To the Mugga Mugga Mountain by Yassberra’s desert
place,
Where they’re planning—more’s the pity—
To erect Australia’s city,
To upraise a drouthy city—monument to our disgrace.
’Tis proposed that we shall lug a
Myriad pipes to Mugga Mugga—
Water-pipes to get the wetness to the city’s thirsty crowd
Water to ablute and bathe in ?
Nay ! The language will be scathin’
When the Mugga mugs discover : “ Notice—Bathing Not
Allowed.”
Wearily, with jar or jug, a
Citizen at Mugga Mugga
Will await his turn for water—wait with bucket, billy-
can,
Kerosene-tin —any vessel
That the Cotter’s muddy mess ’ll
Safely keep in—O, the weepin’ of the Mugga Mugga man !
I can see a future Mugga
Resident arise and tug a
Show’r-bath chain without result, then curse aloud and
thirst for blood—-
Curse the crawling Cotter trickle.
For he will be in a pickle
When the Cotter isn’t cotting and Molonglo’s mostly
mud.
I’ve a yearn, within, to plug a
Jaw whenever Mugga Mugga
Mountain’s mentioned in my hearing, for it makes me
very sore.
When I realise Dalgety
Was thrown over for the petty
Claims of parish politicians I’m inclined to rage for gore.
I’d rejoice if someone dug a
Deep, wide grave at Mugga Mugga,
And interred all Canberranters, minus service, sob or
stone—
All nefarious State-Frighters !
Yassinine old nation-blighters !
Nay ; I’d lug a Mugga-fighter there and plant him on my
own !
DEN.


TD
,\:s
• v
N? LB. 101.
Enamel Kid
Shoe
BuCKLEYeNUNN.Lt?
MELBOURNE.
Pump Sole
17/6
Welt Sole
•I 8/6
BEST
VALUE
TN
Australia,
Postage
Extra
9“
Fine
Shoe
Dealers
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question* of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU U SED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the shin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that-
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
-EDUCATION-
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence CsUas
Can Train You —Bj^Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes EIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A IVIINA T/ONS ! EX A MINA TSONS !
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 Collins Street, Melbourne ; Union Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney ; 172 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
BrooKman’s Chambers, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
"■At F. J. Palmer 8 Son’s Two Stores’"
oS HALF-YEARLY SALE
Starts July 10, ends August 15.
A Month of Rare Money-Saving Bargains.
Our Entire Stock of Men’s High-Grade Clothing, | Pql a 7Col
Hats and Mercery, at Genuine Reductions of l 0 |Q VV jo
EXCEPTIONAL VALUES in High-Grade OVERCOATS
40 Styles and 200 Patterns represent the ** Best
Showing;" of Well-Cot Overcoats in Sydney,
REMARKABLE OFFER.
pST" Six Styles and 200 Patterns at 24/9.
Here’s the Greatest Value ever offered. Illustration shows the
■‘Paddock”—but assortment includes the “City Cut,” “Shower-
proof.” “ Dudley,” “Dawson,” “ Chesterfield,”, and the “Chelms-
ford,” made of fine quality Scotch and Australian Tweeds, Irish
Friezes, Indigo Blue Meltons, English Showerproofs in New Stripes,
Fancy Checks, Herringbone and Over-
plaid effects. Green, Brown, Grey,
Blue and Myrtle shades. Former
Prices, which remain on garments, are
35/-, 32/6, 30/-. 27/6. Sizes to
fit any Youth or Man.
SALE
PRICE,
24/9
All 37/6 Overcoats, Sale Price • 31/3
All 40/- Overcoats, Sale Price - 34/6
All 45/- & 50/- Overcoats, Highest Quality, 36/3
FREE.
Stylish EXTRA PAIR OF TROUSERS cn/. g 3- 70/-
or Handsome FANCY VEST with~- V/ ’ ' ’ ' »
every “To-Measure Suit” at 75/-, 84/-
Send for Free Sale Catalogue. It illustrates and describes FULLY numerous
Bargains (all sold with our usual “Money Back Guarantee ”). Also Patterns
of our Suitings, Vests, and Overcoats. Carriage Paid on all Purchases.
F. J. Palmer & >Son
Largest Exclusive Men’s Outfitters in Australia,
(Two Stores), Cor. PITT and PARK STREETS,
also 726=28 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.


/
Vintage 1904.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK’S
I CHAMPAGNE /
“SILVASHEEN”
Women who have once bought it,
and who mate their own dresses,
will never use any other lining.
If their dresses are being made for
them, they instruct the dressmakers
to be sure to use “SILVASHEEN.”
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
See “SILVASHEEN” name on selvedge.
/A - ■
Z
\
w »V'« K ''
P s |siy«'
t'-rti?/
-FJi
Z 5
I’ve been handling tea since H
was a boy—of course 1 always
say my own’s the best —perhaps
it is and perhaps it isn’t —anyhow
it’s the best for me to sell.
Putting aside personal interests,
1 find a lot of pleasure in selling
tea, and when l can’t sell my
own, 1 don’t mind selling any
of the packed teas —the thing
that annoys me most in business
is for a customer to buy
groceries from me and tea from
somebody else
I’m not going to blow about
the quality of my own tea, but
I’ll swear it isn’t possible for
any house-to-house canvasser to
sell tea equal to Rob u r, for
the same money—he couldn’t do
it, and make enough to keep
himself in shoe leather, let alone
tucker—l suppose you wonder
when there’s not much profit
on “Robur” why 1 sell it—
well, you see it’s like this,
if l didn’t sell it my customers
might go to another shop and
the chances are they’d buy their
other groceries there too, and
I’d rather sell an article for no
profit than lose a customer.
Talking about Robur, there’s
never been a tea that has given
such satisfaction —my people
like it —it is nicely packed and
the quality is always the same,
and once customers get used
to it, it’s the devil’s own job
to get them to take any other
tea if you happen to run out.
Some people like the No. 1
grade, and others the No. 2.
I’d say give an extra 3d. and
get the best.
The Grocer.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sidney, July 13, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
Last week my morning daily tbld me that
“ several schools of whales have been seen from
the South Coast, passing north.” The news gave
me a rush of poesy to the head :
“ What are the wild whales learning?
And have they a rule of three ? ”
I asked with tender yearning
An old, old man of the sea.
“ What are the young whales learning
Par out in the howling gale,
As all the school goes churning
In line with the teacher’s tail?”
“ Learnin’! ” the old man mumbled,
And his voice was deep and hoarse.
“ Learnin’! Lord ! ain’t you tumbled ?
Learnin’ to blubber, o’ course ! ”
The Dudley Countess has gone on the ice of
the Glaeiarium, and is learning to cut the frozen
substance leaning on the wing—both wings—of
Mr. Jimmy Osborne. He would seem to be not too
expert an ice-pilot, but the Lady in White is an apt
pupil. She has the right type of figure to look
well at the Polar-bear exercise. The surprise of
certain of our native-born at seeing her Ex. learn-
ing to skate was comical. A few of the native-
born have an idea that Englanders have to skate
to and from their homes during their winter ; but
that’s nothing to the mistakes the Englander’s
make about people on this patch of the planet.
Possibly some of the Countess’s own friends in
her own country will be amazed at hearing that
“dear Rachel has found some ice in that torrid
country ! Hand-made ice, of course ; but things
down there can’t be so sunstruck after all.” Yet
if you go up to Gippsland’s Buffalo Lake in winter
you can get real ice—more of it than any one
human can ask for.
Mrs. Hore-Ruthven and Captain Gilliat are
part of the vice-regal atmosphere at the glacial
place; also a Madden girl from Melbourne. The
grey front lock in her dark hair signs her. She is
a plump and pleasing little party, and skates well.
Her sister, Miss Ruby Madden, is, or was, at Kosci-
usko. Some of the skaters, whose practices date
from the inauguration of the rink, are nearly as
awkward to-day as they were in their first week,
whilst others have taken to it as the duck’s eldest
egg-daughter takes to swimming. One damsel,
Miss Lyn Maclurcan, whirls with the waltzers,
and only a few have sufficient courage to waltz.
She was a beginner on this winter’s ice.
By the time these lines meet your eye the
Governor-General’s establishment will have trek-
ked Brisbane-wards, there to abide for a month
at least. It returns to this city in time for the
September revels, and stays for a couple of months.
It is remarked in the halls (likewise in the parlors
and two-pair backs) of our mightiest that, to date,
the Dudley’s have “made no mistakes.” Previous
Governors and their dames were constantly for-
getting the faces of awful-looking but socially
important people; also they were liable to start
friendly chats in re gyves or dungeons or gibbets
with the wrong aristocrats. And then those con-
cerned started as though they had been stung,
and wandered round in a distraught fashion for
weeks afterwards, and said harsh things about
the National Anthem, and even went so far as to
cast aspersions on the Flag. Some asset —whether
natural genius, or the amazingly adroit, know-
ledgable, and experienced Lord Dick Nevill, it is
hard to say—has shielded the latest gubernatorial
pair from any lapse of this sort. And the achiev-
ment is a notable one. Take him (or her) for all
in all, your average member of the indigenous
noblesse is about the most easily slighted, and
when so treated the most infuriated circumstance
to be found outside the London suburb of Balham,
not to mention Peckham Rye.
Artist Arthur Streeton may now hang a third
Paris Salon medal upon his chest. Award is for
his “Australia Eelix,” painted at Mount Macedon,
and shown in Sydney two years ago.
Judge A’Beckett and his consort, of Melbourne,
and the Erank Gavan Duffys, are in Sydney, at the
Wentworth Hotel; and the heavily-gilded Senior
Horsfall, of Widgiewa, is here for the sheep time.
Speaker McCourt has let his pastoral home at
Berrima, and has taken root with his wife and
family at Vaucluse, that historic water-frontaged
estate out Rose Bay wards.
Mr. Frederic Manning, youngest son of our
W. P. Manning, would seem to have achieved con-
siderable fame with his book, “Scenes and Por-
traits.” “Six episodes,” says Paris Daily Mail.
“ taken from the dust of the centuries.” The first
occurs in the garden where Adam lived ; the last
is an interview between Renan and the late Pope
Leo. The book is said to reveal scholarship, and
force and originality of intellect. The writer
abides in the older, colder land.
The Misses Ingiis Clark, two daughters of the
late Judge and eminent constitutional law
authority of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, are
at Petty’s Hotel for a short stay.
The committee people of the Hospice ball have
most likely collapsed, exhausted but triumphant,
into a rest-cure place. None of them has been
seen about Sydney since Wednesday night, when
the ball rolled merrily and successfully into the
morning of another day. The Chelmsford Excel-
lencies arrived early, to see the tableaux and hear
the singing that preceded the dancing. When
they had seen and heard, a beautiful aide was sent
forth into the densely-inhabited hall to track Mrs.
J. C. Williamson, who was vice-president of the
committee and responsible for the gallery attrac-
tions, and bring her to the dais for vice-regal
congratulations. On the dais Mrs. Allen Taylor
and committee members Mesdames Deery, John
Barlow, Macneil Simpson, J. Kearney, Boesen,
J. J. Smith, Muller. Hayes, Snell and Mac-
Elhone, saved their Excellencies from splendid
isolation. The galleries were packed and the hall
so crowded as to make any committee feel vain-
glorious.
The committee of the aforesaid ball is getting
one grey hair apieceas a result of the very success of
the function. Not dreaming that all the gallery
tickets sent broadcast would be sold, numbers
of persons were admitted by paying at the
doors. When late ticket-holders arrived they were
denied admittance, as the galleries were full.
Hence complaints from the turned-down and the
grey hairs for the committee. An Act which came
into force just seven days earlier forbidding stand-
ing exercise (or overcrowding) was enforced on the
ball night by the Town Hall officials. A general
refund of moneys to the disappointed is being
arranged.
Mayoress of Waverlev, Mrs.R. G. Watkins, was
“at home,” away from her home, on a day last
week in the -new pavilion at Waverley Park.
Guests attended in such numbers that the popular
Mayoress’s right glove wasn’t of much account at
the end of the festival, and the hand that it had
encased badly wanted the rest cure.
A hat authoress showed me some of her latest
originations and importations last week. The
models will make her spring show, but as it’s
months too early for that epic time the exhibition
is to remain a dead secret. That’s why I’m tell-
ing about it now. “The big hats are smaller,”
asserted the authority, “and the little hats are
bigger than last season.” She upreared a creation
closely related to the Gainsborough in shape, but
the gradient of its acclivity is much steeper, not
to say more precipitous, than the turn-up of the
hat Gainsborough piled on the head of his Duchess
of Devonshire. The hat under mention was of
white Leghorn straw on its upper surfacb and
black underneath, and it carried a wreath of
nearly full-blown pink roses with all their foliage
separate and standing up above the flowers like a
green hedge. Some sort of an un-precious stone
finished the up-turn of the brim.
Hat 2 : “This,” explained the lady, “is the
‘ cabriolet ’ shape. It really reminds of the shape
of a one-horse Chaise. Notice the huge crowns on
most of the newest hats. And the coarse Straws
—not coarse in texture, but in size. These straws
are quite ornamental in themselves, often shading
opalescently, the strands nearly an inch wide.”
This “cabriolet” was decorated with wide, pale-
green velvet ribbon and daisies —big marguerites,
and the ordinary garden-border daisies, down at
last to tiny, gone-wild daisies. “Ribbon
velvet,” remarked the priestess of the hattery
(just now she was an authoress, but let it pass), as
she directed an inspired gaze at a certain card-
board box, “ ribbon-velvet will be a feature of the
new season’s hats. You see, shades that would
give one neuralgia of the eyes if worn in any other
material, look exquisitely soft and becoming in
velvet. Shades of cherry pink, for instance—
almost anyone may wear cherry pink in soft,
miror velvet ribbon. And wide strings—not
to tie under the chin—but to loop across in any
old becoming way.”
Her eyes grew misty and she seemed to sleep-
walk towards the cardboard box. As in a dream
she opened it, and from under layer upon layer of
tissue paper she withdrew a Something that
might have been named Trophy de Paris. “ This ”
murmured the hatterina, “is a cavalier shape
with tapestry roses. These tapestry flowers will
be largely worn, and the roses in this shade of
mauve pink are beautiful. This is oazrtle straw —
a warm shade of reddish brown. Yes, of course,
I suppose it is named after the deer thing.
Gazelle straw is in, anyhow.” But the next
creation the lady raised aloft on one hand was
the startler—the hat of my troubled dreams.
It was a grey beehive. The greyness was
due to grey silk cut into millions of
petals, and into this rustling mass—this
thicket of petals—were embedded sundry tight
little bunches of pink moss-roses. It was the
cutest thing in head lids, a joke in millinery,
and I hope I’ll see it again—at the spring races.
She is a friend of mine, and her normal appear-
ance suggests that she is the sole daily care of a
hairdresser, a ladies’ tailor, a shoeing artist, and
other experts. She came to where I was seated
on the ferry steamer and asked if she might read
“ Daphne,” Mrs. Humphrey Ward’s latest. “I
am taking it back to the iibrary, ” I answered,
“ but you may come with me and capture it.”
She protested that she would read it in five
minutes. “In fact, I never waste more than 15
minutes over any book.” After studying the
picture of Daphne on the cover, she quickly
hit upon the page whereon the hero
is admiring from a distance the (costly)
simplicity of the heroine’s frocking. Then
as she restrapped the book mv friend remarked :
“You’ll see me turn out in a ‘Daphne’ get up
when summer comes. Mrs. Humphrey Ward
doesn’t go in much for gowning her characters, but
when she does mention the thing, she does it
prettj' well, but without details. You guess that
she’s seen some titled debutante at a garden party
or dance, and has noted her frocking for future
literary use.” The “ Daphne ” girl in the picture
was in white (as she had millions of dollars it must
have been expensive white), with a rose-colored
sash and a wide black hat with white flowers.
Having noted this in five minutes’ inspection
of the book, my friend of the impeccable
appearance was heard, at a tea-lap next dav,
criticising Mrs. Ward’s latest. Someone said,
“A ou do keep up to date. I didn’t even know
the book was out.” And the glossy one swallowed
the compliment as easily as she drank her tea.
In this book, which I wouldn’t be surprised to
hear the critics call “ pot-boiler,” the hair of Mrs.
Ward’s heroine “ tumbles ” but once. In “ Diana
Mallory ” its immediate predecessor, the principal
girl s black hair is “ tumbling ” in every chapter.
It is interesting, if hypercritical, to spot the way
various writers repeat themselves in unimportant
points. Miles Justus Forman, whose last book,
The Quest,’ is now here, has a great weakness
for making his engaged and married lovers walk
up and down in the moonlight in a peculiar
manner. The girl leans her head back on the
man’s shoulder or shirt front, and walks
at an angle in front of him. It sounds a tiring
attitude for both persons, and must suggest that
the man is shoving the lady ahead of him; but
probably Mr. Forman himself has tried, and liked
it, for he introduces it in several of his stories.
Whilst carping it may be mentioned that an
American reviewer has entreated writers to give
up the “twisted smile.” Numerous bookmakers
have been afflicting their men characters with the
twisted smile, and the reviewer simply commands
them to pleat the smile in future, or frill it, or
merely cut it plain smile—do anything with it but
twist it.
Mrs. Robert Brough’s marriage to Mr. Bell, an
electrician in the same company in which she was
recently playing, was a very quiet one. Besides the
two principals only the mother of the bridegroom
was present. National Park honeymoons the
happy pair.
Miss Nellie Stewart, wrapped in white furs and
with her golden hair encroaching on her face, took
the air (she didn’t take it all, of course) at Manly
on Sunday from the vantage of a brougham, and
all beholders vowed that she might be nineteen
next birthday.
Misses Ethel Warwick and Dorothy Grimston,
the two principal feminines in “ The Flag
Lieutenant,” alighted upon this city last Satur-
day. One promptly took her couch with an attack
of bronchitis, and the other spent the Sabbath
fishing for the wary and frequent-limbed octo-
pus. Strange how our distinguished visitors
run after strange saltwater monsters first
thing. The Countess of Dudley is supposed
to be unhappy till she hooks a shark. Any-
way, both imported charmers, Warwick and
Grimston, turned up dimpling to rehearsal
on Monday. Both are tall, very slight, and un-
commonly good-looking, and neither has monkeyed
with her hair; so none will be able to call them
Chemical Floras. Miss Warwick has been limned
by Whistler. Some Pointer —whether Potts or
Darling or Piper I now know not, but it wasn’t
Glebe—once showed me an etching of the famous
painter’s Green Girl, a mysterious-eyed damsel
who in the original picture is swathed, hair and
body, with green, wave-like drapery. The
girl inside the drapery is our visitor
with the early-English kingmaker’s name.
She is dark, with long, full-lidded hazel eyes
and an oval face. Her dramatic record is good,
and if she had not come hither she would have
taken the Nathalie rdle in “ The Merry Widow ”
from George Edwardes, which was hers for the
not asking. A voice is an extra.. Miss Warwick
is a Mrs. ; the wife of Mr. Lewis Waller, junior,
but neither she nor Mrs. Grimston has
the worried married look. They have quite the
debutantish air, although they possess a dimpled
infant or two apiece. Miss Grimston is a daughter
of the well-known Kendalls, and is married to Mr.
Oscar Asche’s general manager. She is a brown-
eyed American-like young party, and will play the
millionaire widow in “The Flag Lieutenant.”
She looks as if she would do an all-conquering
(stage) relict to perfection, and give the Sydney
women palpitation of the heart with her dressing.
Miss Grimston made her debut with Rejane.
Hurrying through Melbourne, hitherwards, the
trio saw “The King of Cadonia,” and Mr. Waller
(whose salmon-colored charmeuse shirt and big
black satin tie are an education in color sense) re-
lucantly acknowledges that, in comparison, it
made the London production look shabby.
Miss Madge Titheradge must be making good
in London. She has been engaged as leading
feminine for the new Repertory Co. A most
affluent person, Lord Howard de Walden, is said
to be the bulwark and sheet-anchor and main-
deck of the enterprise. He had an ancestor who
helped to discover the Gunpowder Plot. Now the
latest of the line has done a nobler feat; he has
discovered Madge Titheradge.
Baronet Rupert Clarke went through to Mel-
bourne on Sunday night, hurrying over to say the
pleasant thing to his valuable imports, Oscar
Ascheand Lily Brayton.
Margaret Anglin’s wallaby died on the voyage
between India and England, but her rosella
parrot is alive and chattering. They were the
only Australian live stock she took from here, and
Americans are sympathetic over what they call
“both little animals.” The star told her inter-
viewers that nothing is too good to say about
Australia and its people.
The brothers Martin, barristers-at-law, vindi-
cated the liberty of the cab-hirer in heroic fashion
last week. It appears that on June 18 Mr. C. B.
Martin hailed, at the witching hour of 11.30 p.m.,
one Thomas, a licensed steerer of cabs, and bade
him drive him (C. B. Martin) and brother (George)
to Durno’s chemist’s shop in Pitt-street. The
varlet did so without demur. Outside Durno’s
lingered a lady (name unspecified), who en-
tered the vehicle and was driven with the
brothers to Phillip-street (portion, etc., unspeci-
fied). And here the conveyance discharged its
human cargo and trouble began. Mr. C. B. Martin
proffered 2s. in full discharge of all liabilities in-
curred on the trip. The driver rejected the same
with scorn, contumely and loathing, and set up
a sordid clamor for “three bob.” The brothers
essayed spiritedly to compromise for half-a-crown.
In vain. The fellow proved himself insatiable.
The position was now extremely strained, and
diplomatic relations were in danger of being
broken off. In fact, the Martin brothers nearly
recalled their ambassador from the cabman’s
court. A chill blast howled down the deserted
street; vagrom dogs, desisting for a space from
their fossickings among the rubbish-bins of the
Phillip bailiwick, gathered inquisitively about the
little band and yelped eerily ; and amid it all rose
and fell the passionate heart-cry or scream of the
horse-controller—“My fare’s three bob, an’ I’m
goin’ ter have it ! ” And at last, since an infuriated
cabman in a lonely thoroughfare at midnight or
thereabouts is an intolerable circumstance where-
with to bandy words, the three bob was unloosed.
Butlater —aswasonly meet and just—thedemander
of it got a writ, and at the Water Police Court
(6/7/’O9) the Mill of Retribution, turned by the
practised hand of S.M. Macfarlane, ground 40s.
out of him, together with 7s. costs. I only knew
one man who had the front, hide, rind or what
not to habitually hand cab-propellers the mini-
mum wage at a late hour ; but he was a speedy
and tireless runner, never drove with ladies, and
was almost stone deaf, so that he did not hear the
howls of surprise and so forth that the jehus in-
variably emitted on discovering the exact legality
of his payments.
Miss Decima Moore and her Major Gordon
Guggisberg—she married rather recently—are
pictured in a late Book Monthly over the inti-
mation that they have written a volume about “We
Two in West Africa.” The environment of the
pair is a West African village, but the warrior is
so beautifully groomed that his dressing-case was
evidently not a day’s march in the rear, or else
the heathen, despite his alleged blindness, as
mentioned in the hymn, must have been a good
valet. The picture suggested evening dress in the
Sahara.
A bitter cry from the “Servants Wanted”
column of the Otago (M.L.) Daily Times
■TyANTED, Young- LADY just from Home; no
washing ; no children ; the mistress cooks and
the boss cleans the boots.—North End, Times Office.
It’s always “the boss” who drafts advts. like
that. “Do remember to put an advertisement in
to-day,” Mrs. Can’tgetamaid says as she dishes
up the fried sausage in the morning; and the
satirical wretch, who doesn’t know what a serious
business he’s fooling with, goes and does things
like that!
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Ww*4m
O
mm
Mffmm
rCjl
u
M
i i
r
r*
m
£
iar* s*fj f ■ t
i if,
Iks J.
m
niM
X ;
V
' r £W)
X
%
V
VX
£
«f
fC
XX
&
so-
#>■
rV
>7.*'
Xr.
m
\r&
#H©3r
->^3M, mm?' ”*<
N.L
y&--
«P’
'X>XP-
_3
C-O-B-R-A Boot PolisK!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the World
At boot-time due,
Hitches up
His team and drives,
Ev’ry morning
He arrives.
He has time
And cash to spare,
“COBRA” takes
Him ev’rywhere !
All the other '
, ' >*' i v . .. • ;i; I
Sorts he loses!
“COBRA” Is the
Stuff HE uses 1


A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
hould always he kept on hand for immediate use,
s Chamberlain's Cough Remedy.*
\
IN
IT
A
i V s
v>
j
—3®
/ /
i
will I
%I y %
/ 1 »-
fl'f - Mil'
/ ~^ y
if W
eL-*
Dunlop
Are Solid Tyres of Pure Pubb6f
that absorb all vibration on
Vehicles. Ensuring Comfort to
yourself and doubling the life of
your Vehicle. We fit Tyres in all
sizes to all classes of Vehicles—
ranging froin £5 a pair.
Illustrated List On Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. crfAust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane and Christchurch'. N.SL
7
SSs
To MINE MANAGERS, etc.
We now make, a speciality of
entering fc r all Rubber Mining
Goods,',and ean, recommend oar
CONVEYOR and VANNER
BELT S, AIR DRILL and
SUCTION HOSE, PACKINGS,
VALVES, etc., as being the equal
of any imported article. Our
Goods have the great advantage
of being fresh and free from
perish, and being specially made
to suit your own requirements.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
* * *-*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch, FkZ.
KflIW KQDtf
Have you voted for the
KANDY KOOLA Com-
petition Girls yet?
Watch the Voting
Returns.
aSS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 12, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
Wednesday, at Flernington. was grisly weather
—grisly enough to frighten off the butterfly section
of society. But, all the same, the sports among
the people called Best turned up briskly. Mrs.
Alistair Clarke, cosily tucked into a squirrel coat
and turban, looked a match for the chilliest winds
that blow. A tall, thin bridesmaid Power,
dressed in drab, elbowed the new bride, Mrs.
Reggie Power, who trotted about in a short blue
frock, and held court among spinster pals. Sport-
ing Nancy Price topped her slender length with a
pink-and-grey lid like a Galah parrot. Maggie
Nihil, another lengthy spinster, chummed about
with a small Purvis maiden, in brown. There
were a power of tall women. Mrs. Cecil
Fisken lengthened her blue-clad self with
a monster blue turban, and played about
with Mrs. Donald Currie. Another Mrs.
Currie (warm entrees to be scattered about on a
cold day) floated an expensive, cruel and fascinat-
ing Bird of Paradise, tinted to a mermaiden bl ue, and
matched herself against a six-footer —Miss Box. A
daughter of the Douglas lady, from the Southern
Island, challenged the weather with sportive pink
roses in her hat. “Tiny” McKean, of the
six-feet-seven gear, brought his small wife and a
big woman dragging a tailored tail. Mrs. George
Russell was a pale lady. She is just venturing
out after her lengthy iliness. Mrs. Irquhurt was
briskly saying farewells preparatory to her gad
abrawd. She is a favorite dame. The Spinners,
those haw-ty fore-gatherers, who claw together
clothes for the Heathen, are passing round the
plate for a farewell present. The Raleigh beauty
pair were up to the starting point, as usual. They
never miss a butterfly flutter. Widow Durant
•clad herself in clinging black, and coupled with
Mrs. Montgomery’s white feather hat. All the
ladies ran in couples tucked under each other’s fur
wings for warmth, the sporting males having
abandoned them and rushed to back the slow
horse which leadeth unto destruction.
Pretty Mrs. George Chirnside has not 'put in an
appearance yet this winter whirl. She is another
convalescent after a lengthy illness. There was
nothing gubernatorial in sight on Wednesday.
The Box shivered desolately, wrapped in its blue
•and white toggery.
Flernington on Saturday was made up partly
of races, and partly of people looking at Lily
Brayton. The Brayton husband was there —a
bulldog, assertive, dominant type of man—but
the wife was the star in the ascendant. She is
beautiful in the fair appealing beauty that turns
the he person into a jellyfish ; and she is smart
in the frocky way that drags a woman’s admiration.
A woman may be beautiful as an houri, but if her
clothes don’t pass she’s done for feministically.
Lily Brayton has the air for clothes. Her amethyst
colored coat hung to perfection, and her ankles
and shoes and skirts were above reproach. It
matters not what they were made of —they had
the air. Her hat was a shovel—an ugly, beautiful
thing crammed on her head like an extinguisher,
and made up of the last two colors that have been
driven to harmonise in the face of long opposition
—pale purple (an anomaly in itself) and a striking
blue. There was a blue rose perched on her lid,
and she looked like Browning’s perverse maiden
who “ bid me gather her blue roses.” Sep. Miller
did the honors and showed the lady abroad,
whereat the men chuckled. Trust Sep. to
grab the beautifullest lady! Also a drab-
colored she of the clan made herself a constant
foil. Sep paraded his prize in the birdcage. He
trotted her behind the barrier railing to see
Workmaster—the horse to whom his whole soul
(and pocket) had gone out (then he carried off the
mummer lady to the far wilds and out toward the
Footscray Gate—why, Heaven only knows, unless
it was to introduce her to the Smell family.
All the admiring crew buzzed over to Grafnax,
the favorite, parading in superb indifference.
Tom Hogan was almost weeping on its shoulder.
Grafnax is such a replica of his horse Lomond,
which was grandsire, or granduncle, or some such
ancestral connection of Grafnax, and ran second
in the same race (some years ago) that Grafnax
should have won on Saturday, but didn’t.
The Malcolm McEacharns, of mayoral and
other fame hereabouts, are establishing themselves
with all due pomp at Galloway House, an estate
in Wigtonshire (Scotland) that the lord of
Goathlands has recently acquired. With great
outpouring of money the old place has been
modernised almost out of all decency and recog-
nition, and the old Scotch ghosts have trekked
away from it in disgust. Preparations are going on
for the wedding of the McEaeharn chicken and
her freshly-skewered legal M.P. Malcolm him-
self has been a sick man. His latest heart-attack
was so severe that he was for some time in a
hospital at Edinburgh. The latest news is that he
can now be moved to Galloway House, there to
finish his physical repairs.
The Art Students’ Evening last week, Was a
earnivalistic song and dance in the Guild Hall.
It was a sort of baby-understudy to the gorgeous
Mask Ball of the artists that rips up things in
Melbourne early in September. The youngsters
took the Guild Hall, raked out what fantasy they
could in dress, and prepared—with the help of a
particularly weak and aneemic orchestra—to be
devilishly wild in mask and domino. The balcony
was packed with spectators, lured there by a
passionate hope of the lurid. Assiduous Bohem-
ians, who pursue the Latin-Quartier idea with the
devotion of a Wagnerite for his cult, arrived with a
most anxious yearn for devilry. Architect-student
Synot exploited himself as pantomime Mrs.
Drinkwater. “ Baby ” Boyd, who made history
in the penniless push by selling £6O worth of can-
vas and paint in a “private view,” got himself
into his sister’s best nightie and kimona. Colin
Campbell showed plump nether limbs below a
short skirt, and used his pink cheeks as a girl gag.
Ettie Dyson hid herself behind the winkers of a
pair of gigantic Moorish earrings, and Brother
Bill strode defiantly in a black villainish cloak
and mask. Nell Mackenzie had Souter’s cat
careering madly over her white satin gown. Will
Moore did an imposing Napoleonic stunt. Hugh
Patterson’s pretty daughter, the youngest student,
Greenaway-ed with MacGinnises. The crowd
kept up its giddy gaiety till cockcrow—as is
written in all Bohemian precedent.
A poster carnival drew a swarm of human, and
some inhuman fantasies to the South Yarra Skat-
ing Rink last week. Quite the best part of the
suburb packed the somewhat exaggerated shed to
watch the revellers, but it was patent that sheer
revelry for its own sake had perished from ex-
posure to the chill night air. Scarcely a monster
smiled—the most deliberate nightmares could not
even laugli at themselves—and the mirthless mien
of the spectators was more in keeping with a Dead
March than with the pretty, sparkling lamps, and
the ruui-ti-tnm of the hired orchestra. Still the
serious beings in gay attire spread out and whirled
their best for the prizes, soon to be presented by
a reckless management. A damsel with scarlet
lips, brilliant clothes, and a coat 'of artificial sun-
burn, chased through the throng as an ad. for
a well-known boarding-house beverage. She was
closely followed by a skeleton. Then came an equine
oddity with Hackenschmidt legs and a bray. A
Beelzebub, in hopeless, moaning black, lost his
terrors beside the elegant and familiar vision
of The Lone Hand beauty winner—Miss
Buckridge. The lady, garbed in frugal white,
might have been a sorceress from a cool
store or a Polar region, and was the simplest and
most attractive figure on the rink. Australia
and Ireland were badly represented, the
first by the red shirt peculiar to War
Cry almanacs; and the second by the green
swallow-tiiil coat and knee-breeches of popular
fancy. An interesting set of freaks was a com-
munity of black bears. Near by was a bunch of
footballers, a Dutchman crowned by a whirring
windmill, and a Spanish hidalgo like an illus-
tration on a piece of music. Also there was a
creature, half man and half donkey, which Was
probably a parable, or a believer in the giving
away of Dreadnoughts.
Mrs. Best is breaking into the political ranks
alongside her energetic senatorial hubby. She is
laying the foundations of a political salon. The
idea will be a “musical programme, interspersed
with the discussion of current politics,” and the
first brawny and sky-towering attempt was to
occur on Monday, July 12th, at the Best mansion,
Oratava, in East St. Kilda. Recently, I men-
tioned “ tramless East St. Kilda,” and an unkind
printer made it brainless. That printer evidently
doesn’t know the finesse and mental capacity
which collect in that subbub. Both these
qualities are about to be let loose on “current
politics.”
A granddaughter of one of the most imposing
chiffon stores is darkly suspected by her girl pals
of cunningly concealing an engagement. They
watch eagerly to pounce on the sedate public
announcement which the maiden tantalisingly
delays. Moreover, they can’t understand why
they are kept waiting. Schemes for kidnapping
the suspect and extracting a confession by torture
are rife, but it is impossible to decide whether to
stick hot needles into her or to stick them in cold,
and this dissension in the camp of the supposed
fiancee's best friends prevents anything being
done.
One of the last of “ Bijou ” Wilson daughters not
yet bagged matrimonially has promised to slip her
graceful form into the noose. Flo Wilson, a
handsome Amazon who has been an inseparable
pal to her sister, Mrs. Softgoods Butler, has
promised her excellent tennis and golf hand to
Maoriland squatter Poison. Poison boasts several
inches over a fathom, so he towers even over his
tail fiancee.
Matrimonial noosings float about, like so many
spider gossamers on a frosty morning. Roland
Church, son of philanthropist Church, has toed
the chalk line and laid his fortune and quantity
of good looks at the feet of Irene, daughter of
Donaldson, the magnate of the Widows’ Fund
Life Assurance lookout.
There is a big crowd getting its smile ready for
a welcome to the Ward company of comedians.
It is not only Hugh Ward who is a spanking
favorite, but there are also our own local Rosie
Musgrove and Celia Ghiloni, and the extra load
of “how do” that will come to the Palotta. The
crowd arrives on Friday and opens on Saturday,
so the big reception—the real event—is postponed
till Monday. Then the Grand is to be turned
topsy turvy. Mr. McPhairson, who is husband to
the Ghiloni, is already in Melbourne strutting the
streets impatiently until the arrival of his bride.
Manager Goldie has lost hold on his girl
also—she rushed over to Sydney to her people,
but returns before the First “Night. Duicie
Deamer Goldie and her husband intend to live in
Sydney and simply knock things with their house.
They have collected 183 J cases of goods—tapes-
tries and bronzes and rugs, from the black-yellow
portion of the world whither they have been
wandering.
The ballet in “ The King of Cadonia” is purely
Slavonic and most picturesque. It is decked with
short, soft, parti-colored frocks and high (so-called)
Russian boots of red leather. On the first night
there were eitrht girls—eight little ballet girls all
in a row. They danced the Slavonic dance and then
there were six. Jennie Brennan went to much
trouble teaching certain steps in this most strenuous
dance, and two girls, not quite perfect, strained
sinews in their legs. They were carried off the
stage, and are in the doctor’s hands. The
management cut out the worst movement, and
then ordered the rest of the ballet to be massaged
after every performance at its (the management’s)
expense. The stock theatrical joke about grand-
mothers in the ballet does not get a look in with
this lot. They are all very young girls—charm-
ingly young and fresh—who take their dancing
very seriously.
The University took itself frivolously on Thurs-
day, and had a night out at Her Majesty's Theatre.
The whole theatre was theirs for the time being
—also, the King of Cadonia and all his minions,
who interlarded their lines with University jokes.
Students packed the gallery, and behaved as well
as could be expected, while other students got
themselves into the current uniform of black
and white gear, and behaved as proper
escorts for their prettily-dressed mothers and
sisters. They are a handsorne well-groomed
lot, on the whole, the womenkind of Pro-
fessordom. One Prof, had apparently been
dining with too red a wine. The students near
by wreathed his neck in hero fashion with some of
the vegetable festoons that adorned the balcony,
and then stuck red roses in his crush hat. It
looked quite effective when he floundered out at
the interval. The Chief Justice and his lady, with
a party of youngsters, had the manager’s box,
which was packed in with violets. Wattle and gum
leaves hid the staple support of the balcony, and
scarlet roses were.-wreathed round the gilt posts.
All the mummer ladies wore the purple and black
of the University colors somewhere about their
toggery. The students had the stage and a drop
curtain to themselves in the interval, and ex-
changed the giddy song with the still giddier gag
of fantastic students “in front.”
Spent a gladsome afternoon lately, perched
up on a heap of coke in Web Gilbert’s foundry,
watching Melbourne’s own sculptor cast a bronze.
It was the head of John Shirlow, the well-known
etcher, and it was a successful cast—a bit sand-
burnt, but wonderfully good, the expression
being marvellous. The company kept at a
respectable distance whilst the handsome sculptor
raised aloft in a great clay vessel 901 b., good
measure, of molten copper, and poured it into the
sand.
Web Gilbert is a genius, and he makes an im-
pressive figure in his foundry. He is a study in
copper color—a beautiful blend of the Village
Blacksmith in his young and j^bd-looking days,
and an alchemist of old. His pretty Titian-hailed
wife is a golden talker, and an ideal hostess.
Saw a model of Gilbert’s Hew statue. It has a
remarkable and dramatic motive—a man terrified
at the approach of Death —and the attitude is
'that of a man with a strange fear upon him.
Our Greeks, including the pedlars of the bounty
of Pomona (one must live up to the language of
Pericles and Oleon, the tanner) and the acolytes
of Flora, are jumping on their greasy caps with
delight because their community has been per-
sonally smiled on by their Queen, Olga of Hellas
has sent a valuable present of church Vestments fed
be worn by the Greek parson here in Melb'Oiir’rie.
The present person who is Greek for pars'Oh
wallows in the simple battle of th'e Rev.
Archimandrite TheophilosPapacobstantino, and if
your Johanna is sweating unbeknownst, she hopes
to be forgiven. Probably Olga was so pleased at
being able to leatH all that off by heart that she
sent the gorgeous robes just to show off. Mr.
Archie Theo P. Constantine has the honor to be a
personal pal of the royal lady of Athens.
Majah Bargrave Wilson gave the bride away,
with a charmeuse frock and a lace veil and a
coupon. The new Mrs. Henniker Wilson went
off honeymooning to the Isle of Wight in Polar
furs and a Venetian blue frock.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Between dances our new Admiral-Governor has taken
train to Oodnadatta ; not because there is anything par-
ticular to see at, Oodnadatta, but simply because you
can’t go any farther than that by rail, and his Ex. wanted
to make a complete jolt of his northern explorations while
he was about them. How he got there and what he did
after the local publican had shaken him by the hand and
asked him to give it a name, I don’t know; the farthest
we have got in the way of news is that, on the long road
up, numerous flags and addresses were waved at the
party ; and at one place his Ex. was urged to come again
and bring the girls with him.
The Exhibition building is a big barn to fill; yet the
Seamen’s Mission Ball did it on Tuesday night. The
dancing populace had its work to get round in comfort,
and even then there were several tiers of wall flowers in
the lower galleries all the evening. As for the common
or Sarah Ann galleries, they were let out at 2s. a head,
and were filled at the price. A big batch of fancy sets
had been arranged by an energetic dame or two. Mrs.
Lendon had a Dutch set, with her own damsel, Alice
Campbell, the Arthur Rymills,' and a dozen more in it,
and everything about that garden was lovely. Mrs.
Herbert Rymill’s Early Victorian dames had ringlets and
poke bonnets, and little tight satin bodices, flounced
muslin skirts and short mittens. They looked demure
and twenty, though there were only two unmarried
maids among them. Another set that took the eye for
its beauty was devoted to “The Merry Widow.” Miss
Waite, as hon. sec., put tons of energy into the organising ;
and for once in a lifetime the Seamen’s Mission will be
almost affluent.
The Alexander Hays, mother and daughter, having
been burned out of house and home and Victor Harbor,
sailed off by the Waratah last week to see how England
feels about it. Since their homeful of statuary and
beautiful things was cremated, they have lived at the
South Australian, and it’s nob likely they’ll go back to
Port Victor. They have always been persistent gadders,
with a fondness for suddenly darting off to the small and
(in patches) crowded Isles of Edward.
Adelaide ’Varsity has long been in need of a Sports
Ground of its own, as befitteth its dignity. And it is
going, to have one at last. Hitherto the undergrad has
had to do his morning sprint on alien soil, and to wipe
some other oval with his enemies ; but soon a special
portion of the earth will be dedicated to these rites. It
is down in the picturesque neighborhood of Frome-road,
and its proximity to the Zoo is said to have no signifi-
cance. A pavilion is already being erected on it to pro-
tect the best millinery of Mrs. ’Varsity and the girls.
Ola Jane Humphrey wept her way out of Adelaide on
Thursday by the Macedonia, and a select and sighing
audience laid flowers in her cabin, and hoped that she
wouldn’t he too long absent from Australia. In return
Ola Jane, who knows she has made many friends in these
parts, held out some misty promises.
The H. C. Swans are on their way back to the Kan-
garoo country after two years spent in looking for some
foggy islands mentioned by Julius Caesar in his despatches
to Rome—it was some time ago ; I forget the date. They
—tiiat is, the Swans—found the islands all right; so now
they are drifting back, pausing a moment in Singapore,
where the eldest son manages a dock or some unwieldy
thing like that.
Ex-Agent-General Jenkins bustled in from England the
other day, and said that if he had come a minute sooner
he’d have had a run for his old district; for the late
Premier Price was a colleague of his. Having come too
late for that, he darted on to Melbourne and the other
States for a glance round before settling down in S. A.
The musical drought is being broken by some Chamber
Music matinees, given by those two ardent musical p ds,
Willie Silver and Eugene Alderman. They happen in the
banqueting-room of the Town Hall, and the musical Elect
go to them and listen in ecstasy to Pvzqrstyhmntrswhkb-
ski and other dead but living composers.
Talking of noise, though, we are soon to get it by the
furlong; for the Cliapinan-Alexander missioners are on
our front-door mat, and the advance guard is already
asking us to sing hymns.
Adelaide, scribbler Beaumont Smith, who went to
Britain as private sec/to Win. Anderson, the gentleman
who provides Australia with its theatrical thrills, had
some excitement in Colombo, where a fierce stallion
seized him by the chest and waved him round the island.
There were hysterics from the women of the party, and
all manner of thrilling accompaniments to the adventure,
including some d ys under the eye of the doctor.
There is a good deal of the comic opera about us in
Adelaide. When we go forth to rob and plunder, we
always do it decently clothed in our Sunday masks and
.other villainly accoutrements. The other evening two
frightful desperadoes climbed up into the Fred Scarfes’
house, while the owners were out at a ball. The timidest
maid heard a noise, and going up-stairs confronted the
masked villains, who fled without stealing so much even
as a diamofid tiara.
Little Salisbury has had its day out, and has been
jubilating in the presence of many members of Parlia-
ment and much roast pig and fowl. The little township
on the Northern line has a rather curious history.
Fifteen years or so ago it had visions of being one great
undertaker’s shop and monumental mason’s yard ; fora
new and vast cemetery for the city was laid out there,
and planted with mournful trees. Then suddenly the
Government changed its mind, or the State changed i's
Government, or something, and it was decided that Salis-
bury was too remote from the city. But just when it was
thinking over the chance it had missed, somebody poinled
to a solitary garden which was flourishing amazingly, and
asked why they shouldn’t plant oranges since they were
forbidden to plant corpses. Apparently nobody could
tell why they shouldn’t; so orange groves sprang up by
the dozen, and the very finest fruit sold in S. Australia
(and we can grow fruit) comes from the banks of the
Para. Ih'fadt, hj*reht traveller, who perietrkted as far as
Sydney the6ther week, tells me thkt “Salisbury oranges”
a're how g‘i veil the honor in Sydney shops—arid
Pm wondering ivhpt has become of Parramatta. ,
Austrhlih’s Crossley got a new brother-in-law last
week, When one of the Muecke girls—a sister of Ada's 'tall
doctor—was married to Voss Smith, who general-managed
one of the Broken Hill mines.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


KODAK’S NEW HOME
IN SYDNEY.
Opened Ist July, 1909.
JHE consistent (development of a business is a
sure sign of its character, and the splendid
growth of this Firm is ample testimony to the care-
ful organisation and business methods back of the
Company. Not only that, but it is significant of
the great popularity enjoyed by the “Kodak"
goods—Cameras and Photographic Supplies that
have a world-wide reputation for high quality.
The new building will enable us to give even
greater consideration to our customers.
The Shop Floor is intended for General
Selling purposes, and is handsomely finished. The
main portion of the First Floor will be given
almost wholly to the interests of Professional
Photographers. The Second Floor is a Stock
Room. Demonstration Rooms, splendidly equipped
and fitted, are provided on the Third Floor ; and
the lop Floor is filled with Reserve Stock, and
provides room for a Camera Repairing and
Building Workshop.
Many amateurs entrust their developing and
printing to us, and we have made superior accom-
modation for this work in the New Building;. A
Gallery for the display of Cinematograph Films is
also installed ; and we have, in fact, done everything
we could possibly think of to make the Establish-
ment convenient to our Customers.
This is the Finest Building wholly devoted
to Photographic Work in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and we extend a cordial invitation to you to
call and go through the building.
The famous Kodak, Brownie, Premo and
Graflex Cameras are well displayed, and samples
of the work they can do are freely exhibited. Any
day will do for a visit ; but make a point of
inspecting the handsome building and viewing the
interior arrangements.
i
'V'
>\v fc
p
VA# S
a' \\Y
ijjj X t j j giSii j: ji J 1 J JJ .J JJj •-
JJJ
EU" iS^t
■ w
w
\\ x
U\
a
i,
v<^
ai
j=4
KUN
y V :
ffm
j
j
ahwp
ii^ f
WJT
-1
fjjl'/
f J ]_ I|€lczzJ iiQjtmi
t rlOf
\v
1:
««r,
\-
IjVa'' t-~
i
The No. 1 Brownie
is a well-made little camera, covered with fine
quality imitation leather, with nickel fitting’s.
The pictures it takes measure 2|in. x2J;in., and
the total weight is only 8 ounces. It has an
Eastman Rotary Shutter, a Meniscus lens, and
a capacity of six exposures.
Postage 6d. extra
in N.S.W.
This Camera was 50/- Now 21/-
The No. 3 Folding Austral
is a splendid camera, taking pictures 3£in. x 4|in. It
is well made, and covered with morocco-grained
leatherette, and has an aluminium base board, a rising
front, and an engraved focussing scale. A rapid
rectilinear lens, iris diaphragm, and an automatic
shutter are other features. It takes time, bulb, and
instantaneous exposures, and we present with it two
single or one double dark slide. Usually 30/- ; but
now, to commemorate the new building, 217-
Postage extra, 1/-
BaKer & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS for Australian KodaK Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Wellington, N.Z.


E
0 TjJ R ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE SHOWS A
SPLENDID ASSORTMENT
OF ALL THE NEWEST
DESIGNS.
WRITE FOR A COPY
to-d!ay.
qpHE GIFT that carries a lasting and grateful remembrance of the giver is pte-
eminently a Dainty Piece of Toilet Silver. Nothing that you
can send will ensure a more lasting appreciation —-nothing a more certain mark of good
taste and refinement. Here are a few Suggestions, also some very useful Gift Ideas for
a Gentleman, that will serve to convince you of the splendid values we offer.
WE SEND ANY OF THE
ARTICLES HERE ILLUS-
TRATED CARRIAGE
FREE TO ANY AD-
DRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Hundreds of Others in Stock
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver, Embossed, Floral De-
sign Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME.
1 10/6-
Other Styles, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-.
A. SAUNDERS. .
Gold-mounted, Scroll Pattern. Ladies Back
COMB. Imitation Tortoise-shell,: Secure Mount.
15/-
Other Styles. 8/C, 10/, .12/6. 20/, 2a/.
Set with Brilliants, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Seal
Leather, Green, Black, or
Brown, French Calf-lined,
Pure Silver Mounts.
15/-
Other Styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Real English Enamel BELT BUCKLE, Gilt Finish, in
Different Shades, Extra Strong Clasps and Loops.
3/6-
Other Styles (Silver-plated), 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver, Hand-engraved Gent.’s
CIGARETTE CASE. Size, 3x2.
15/6.
Other Styles, 17/6, 25/, 30/, 40/.
i''
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Travelling
INKWELL, Screw Top.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE tyIIRROR, Solid
Silver, Iris or Cherub
design. SJze, 2 x IJ.
3/6-
r fl
i
■
A. SAUNDERS'-
Pure Silver HAIR-
BRUSH, Iris Design.
Fine White Bristles-,.
Size, x 3.
30/
Mirror to match,, £s*
A. SAUNDERS.
Real Mother-of-Pearl TRINKET STAND or ASH
TRAY, Solid Silver-mounted, Ebony Base.
4/6
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver Mounts, 6 pieces,
Richly Embossed, in Silk-lined Case.
25/. .
Other Styles, 8/6, il2/6, 15/6, 17/6, 20/, SO/, 35/,
up to £B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER, Silver-
plated Mounts and Pegs,
Solid English Oak.
15/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 20/, 25/.
K
I !
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Hand-
somely Engraved, Cradle Design. Silk-lined,
9in high.
£2.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/,
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Patent Silver Screw,
Bent Stem, Vulcanite Mouthpiece, in case.
12/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 13/-, 20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDKERCHIEF BOX, Pure Silver-plated
Mounts, Velvet Finish.
4/6-
GLOVE BOX TO MATCH, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver WAIST BELT, Embossed Design.
10/0-
Other Styles, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6. Any Length.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Silver, Richly Embossed,
Long White Bristles.
10/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6,
12/6, 15/, 20/.
. v" J
HR
2
lIP
if
A. SAtjNDERS.
HAND MIRROR, Cherub Design,
Pure Silver. Size, 10J x 3.
30/
Hair Brush to Match, £3.
m
ip
m
iiiaP
A. SAUNDERS'.
Solid Silver-mounted'
SCENT SPRAY, Fancy
Cut Glass,
±5/6.
In Nickel Silver,
4/0, 5/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT or CLOTHES BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size,
Embossed Design, long White Bristles.
8/6-
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated PLAYING-CARD BOX, A 1 Quality,
Handsomely Embossed.
15/6-
Other Styles, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver, P 1 ted Design, TOILET SET, compris-
ing 2 Full-size Hair Brushes, Real Tortoiseshell Comb,
complete in Best Morocco, 'lk-lined Case.
£3.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, to £l5.
A. SAU-NDLRS.
Pure Silver-mounted Ladies’ COMB, Embossed Design.
Imitation Tortoise-shell, Full Size.
5/6
Other Styles, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
8®
Jg,
A. SAUNDERS. '
JEWEL CASKET. Handsomely Embossed and Orna-
mented, Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined. Size, 4Jr x 2£ in.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut-
glass Head Salts
Bottle, Solid Silver,
Joint Top, Richly
Embossed, 2Jin.
Larger, 7/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 Qeorge-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


CAPILLARINE
An Amazing
Invention
The Thermos Flask keeps hot liquids
hot for 24 hours —and cold liquids cold for
many days. External temperature does not affect
the contents of this marvellous flask in any way.
THERMOS
No chemicals
No spirits
FLASK
No attention
No worry
Indispensable to travellers, doctors, sportsmen,
mothers, nurses, invalids, &c. a boon
in office, nursery and sickroom.
27/6
Infringers are being prosecuted.
Price
from
Beware of
imitations
Of all Jewellers, Silversmiths, Ironmongers,
Stores & Wholesale Dealers
\
The MAN WHO WANTS A MOUSTACHE
and finds a difficulty in growing one, can get grand
results from one jar of
CAPILLARINE. Price, 10/6,
Post Free
Anywhere.
A little rubbed on the lip each night will produce a handsome
moustache that will remain with you permanently.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Tears.
a
1
as
BOOMERANG
PSJUE
AWARDED
MAM) PM
ATT TIHLE
FMMCO -BBITISH EXHIBITIOM
A
FOR LIVER TORPOR m CONSTIPATION
Rheumatism and Uric Acid Ailments.
An Antiseptic Aperient
Kutnow’s Powder is a delightfully
refreshing health-regulator, pleasant to the
taste, painless in action, and infallible in
keeping the system clean, clear, wholesome,
and efficient. Its reputation has been
acquired by merit, and has been enhanced
by the recognition and endorsement of the
most distinguished members of the medical
profession in all parts of the world for liver
torpor, constipation, bad breath, backache,
languor, rheumatism, and kidney troubles.
Guard Against Fraud.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists through-
out the World. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. KUTNOW & CO., LD.,”
and the registered trade mark, “ HIRSCH-
ENSPRUNG, OR DEER LEAP,” are on
the carton and bottle. You then get
GENUINE
Kutnow’s Powder.
Remarkable Remedy.
A CIVIL ENGINEER
WRITES—
“Mr. W. BARNS KINSEY, M.lnst.C.E.,
F.G.S., having received a bottle of Kutnow's
Powder at Dundee, Natal, some time back, has
pleasure in stating that his personal experience
■•fy■ . ■, .
of it for the alleviation of rheumatism and
allied complaints bears out fully what Messrs.
Kutnow (S' Co. claim for their preparation.
“ Southsea, May 9, 1907."
Arthur R. Prior, Esq.,
WRITES
“New Clare, Transvaal, S. Africa,
7th January, 1908.
“Gentlemen, —I consider Kutnow’s Pow-
der splendid. I am a rheumatic subject,
liable to constipation, but I certainly find
an improvement since using Kutnow’s
Powder. lam obtaining a further supply
of your Powder, and have recommended it
to a friend of mine who suffers from liver
complaint, and he assures me that he has
derived great benefit since using the
Powder.’’
A Clergyman’s Wife
WRITES
The Manse, Blennerhasset,
“ Bray ton, 5.0., Carlisle,
“March, 9, 1908.
“ Sirs, —Thank you for your bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, which I find very effica-
cious, pleasant, and agreeable to take.
Yours very truly,
(Mrs.) A. POTTS.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER rouses the liver.
Sole Proprietors: S. KTJTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
itching, blind, bleeding or protruding piles in 6 to li
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept on hand for immediate use,
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
REWARD.— Information whereabouts Thomas and
Matthew Wood, arrived Australia from Manchester
about 27 years a<ro. Communicate with A. R. Bluett,
Solicitor, Market Street, Sydney, property in England.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SBTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
Missing: Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of WILLIAM
ARMSTRONG, who left Hawkes Bay,
N.Z., in 1886, please correspond with
W. ARMSTRONG, Settler,
Kaitkike, Owhango,
Main Trunk Line,
North Island, N.Z.
CH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE anti COOLOARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Bribery’s victory at Flemington last Saturday
places the Malvolio gelding second to Redleap in the
Grand National records. Redleap won the Hurdle Race
twice and the Steeple once, putting: another Steeple to
his credit at Caulfield a month after he had scored the
double at Flemington. Bribery has now won both a
Hurdle (in 1907) and Steeple. With the phenomenal
Redleap exception, this new hero is the only jumper that
has won over the little sticks as well as over the fences,
and, moreover, his weight last Saturday was within 61b.
of the heaviest that ever was humped to the fore. On
his best days Bribery has no rival at the game, and
Saturday must have "been one of his very best. The
allegation that Grafnax was bound to have won if he had
“ stood up ”is only a surmise, anyhow. The favorite, as
it happened, came to grief at the second last jump when
he was leading- the field, but the top-weight was then not
more than three lengths behind. And it is more than
likely that Grafnax was beginning to have enough of it
when he hit a panel.
A said-to-be-dangerou 3 light-weight in Ripon
(9st. 51b.) blundered early in the race, as might have been
expected. Ripon was the unhappiest customer of all the
crowd. Before he left the “ birdcage” he was trembling
like aT jelly on a jaunting-car, and before he faced the
barrier the nervous novice was in a sweat. Of the 10 nags
that stood up nothing had a chance against the winner,
the most conspicuous failure being Pilot, who probably
hurt himself somehow. On the day of the race Pilot was
the popular fancy, and 200 admirers, more or less, stood
around him in a ring to see him saddled up. After the
race Bribery had the circle of admirers, and then it was
wisely remarked that he was far and away the hand-
somest steeplechaser in the business. He has only one un-
handsome characteristic. Like many other good jumpers,
the level-backed son of Malvolio is rather pigeon-toed in
front.
* * * *
A good while ago, that irrepressible identity,
Bob Sutton Sievier, in his audacious Cockney sporting
paper, the Winning Post, made some lamentably truthful
references to what is called “sport ” in the most sporting
districts of this country. Mr. G. G. Stead, the Maori-
lander, had been remarking that the big or small race-
courses in England are not nearly such well-appointed
show-places as the principal enclosed courses in Aus-
tralia. Mr. Bob Sutton, without directly contradicting
what he knows, from personal experience, to be a fact,
went on to “draw Mr. Stead’s attention to those dis-
graceful, ramping places which, in the colonies, are
designated ‘up country’ courses.” Bob’s utterances
on this point can be commended to the thoughtful
consideration of all the honest horse-loving Jugginses
who Suffer for their annual gamble at a petty race meet-
ing. “ Can Mr. Stead,” he asked, scornfully, “ name any
racecourse in England where similar surroundings pre-
vail? It is common knowledge that all sorts of nefarious
practices take place at these gatherings, and that
trickery reigns in place of sport when a ‘double’ or
‘treble’ has to be accomplished by hook or crook.
‘Cutting up’ is too delicate a term to apply to the
majority of up-country meetings, ‘ chopping up ’ would
better express the common situation.” Although Bob
Sutton has been 20 years away from Australia, his know-
ledge of his subject is quite up to date. The ramping-
places he speaks of have doubled in number since he yelled
the odds at Flemington and Randwick, and the rampers
are twice as brazen as they were in his day. The extra-
ordinary thing is that folks, like Australians, who really
have a keen liking for a good horse-race should find any
sort of pleasure in witnessing these choppings-up. They
wouldn’t waste their time and money on any other kind
of notoriously “cronk” contest, but because horses are
concerned in'the rogue meetings they cheerfully submit
to be robbed. If, perchance, they back a winner they
haven’t even the satisfaction of supposing that the losers
were having a go. The Lord only knows where their
notion of “sport” comes in.
i m * * *
In some respects, the sculling match between
Messenger and Kemp on .Parramatta River on Saturday
was unique. During the week both scullers were laid out
with influenza, and at one time Messenger saw the Pearly
Gates quite distinctly. They were in the act of being
opened for him—in other words, his condition was critical.
Yet both men recovered sufficiently to come to the start-
ing post;. Veteran -Beach was referee, and N. J. Macdonald
was judge. There were two false beginnings, but at the
third time of asking they got away to a good start,
Messenger going to the front. Then Kemp came with a
great rush, drew level, and presently was a little way
ahead ; but Messenger hung to the stern of his rival with
grim persistency. At the mile he again drew level. At
Gabarita Messenger was a good five lengths to the front;
but at Gladesville Kemp began to fairly rush through the
water. On shore and afloat the spectators went
absolutely mad ; and howled to the Deity to say
had He ever seen anything like it. So fast did
Kemp come that the gap was soon reduced to just
half a length. This was the crisis of the race. Messenger
pulled himself together for the final spurt, and sculled
for his life, gaining about half a length at the first. Kemp
made frantic efforts, but Messenger just managed to
drive his shell across the winning line about a length to
the good. Then he collapsed. Kemp saw his distress,
and grasped the rigger of the boat just in time to prevent
the fainting victor falling overboard. After that the men
shook hands, and the defeated sculler held his conqueror
up till a motor launch came along and took him on
board. Kemp was badly done up also, but was able to
paddle back to his father’s shed amidst thunders of
applause. As a matter of sober fact, neither man was
really fit to row, though the time was 21min. 35sec.
That final rush will be long remembered.
* * * *
The Pearce-Mitchell sculling match takes place
on the Parramatta River (Syd.), Saturday next. The
chief incentive is the £lOO a side and the championship of
Australia: and as both men have made the final deposits
everything in the garden is beautiful. A minor item in
the struggle is “ The William Beach Cup,” which will
serve to keep the memory of the veteran green after he
has ceased to take an interest in the sport. At present,
he is going strong. *
Just how much reliance can be placed on the
average newspaper statement as to form was very ap-
parent in the Kemp-Messenger race. On the Wednesday
before the race Sydney Tklegraph announced: —“Both
scullers have undergone a thorough preparation, and are
toned up to ‘concert pitch.’” And just at the precise
moment that statement appeared in print both men were
bad with’flu’.
The news that sundry Webb backers have in-
timated that they are ready and willing to put up a third
stake for James of that ilk, if he desires to have another
contest with Arnst, suggests several things. One is that,
to certain minds, the athlete becomes a fetich. Webb has
been thoroughly beaten by Arnst on two occasions, and
even though he should win at the third time of asking it
would not prove that Webb was the better man, but
merely that he had luck for once. This same blind
worship is probably one of the secrets of the long run of
some politicians.
* * * *
After severe wallopings on the previous Satur-
day and Wednesday, Queensland Inter-State Rugby
Union team showed an amazing and unexpected improve-
ment of form on Saturday last. In the first half it gal-
loped over the astounded N.S.W. men, and scored 11
points to the home team’s five. Being tired of walk-over
games, the public was almost unanimous in keeping away.
A miserable 10,000 only rolled up—less than trots along
to see a Test cricket match in the Cold Country. The
speed and ferocity of the visiting forwards was good to
see ; and right through the first half it looked as though
Queensland had arrived at the end of the long lane. But
the second half saw it peter out badly; and, to crown
disaster, that sterling half-back, J. Carmichael, received
a bump that resulted in temporary concussion, and he
had to retire. This was the last straw ; one man short,
the struggling team had no chance, and the Waters, who,
all through the second spell, had been gaining steadily,
now rolled the Northerners right up, and finally won
by 21 points to 11.
That there was the makings of a first-class team in
the Queensland XV. was obvious by the way the men im-
proved. Apparently they were quite raw when they
arrived in Sydney, and had had no practice together.
Which reflects considerably on the management of the
Queensland Rugby Union. The result was that after the
first match public interest dropped, and after the second
it died right out. Queensland’s reputation suffers; the
pockets of the two Unions suffer ; and the men are made
a holy show of because the Rugby Union consists of
muddlers, who send practically untrained players against
a veteran force. Queensland should speak severely to its
Rugby Union.
• • * *
The Soccer competition for the Rawson Cup
raged, as usual, on Saturday, with the result that the
same old Pvrmont retains its position right on the apex
of the heap,, with 21 competition points; having, this
week, fulfilled the saying of the local prophets that
Ultimo would have no blanky hope. And it hadn’t. At
half-time, Pvrmont had one goal to nil, and also had
Ultimo about dead to the world. In the second half the
foredoomed team cracked right up, and the Pyrmonters
added six more goals, and won by seven goals to nil.
Next in the competition is Rozelle, with 17 point*. On
Saturday it also won its match, downing Western
Suburbs by three goals to one. This game was specially
attractive, for both sides indulged in some very pretty
dribbling, and did it under difficulties. But it was
superior shooting that won the match for Rozelle. Syd-
ney occupies third place in the competition, with 15
points; it did not play in the competition on Saturday,
but filled in the time by walloping a team from the s.s.
Moldavia by three goals to one. Granville downed
Northern Suburbs by three goals to one. Of course, there
is no question about the destination of the Cup ; barring
a miracle Pvrmont has it, with its 10 wins and one, draw
out of 11 games, for the season. The only miracle, even,
that can affect it is the death of the whole club.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union did a climb
down with the Svdnev Cricket Ground Trustees, and
swallowed the Trust’s terms wholesale—ls per cent, gross
takings and all exes, paid by the Union. It also agrees to
provide one first-grade match there every Saturday during-
the next three seasons. Of course, the Rugby Union didn’t
really want the ground—it has more grounds now than it
can use ; but it did want to stop the League getting it,
and the fear that the League would get it caused the
Union to swallow the whole leek. There are nine
district clubs in the Union and it controls a whole
host of grounds, chief of which are Sydney Cricket
Ground, the Sports Ground, University Oval, Rushcutters’
Bav, North Sydney Oval, Hamnden Park, Upping Ground,
Erskineville Oval, St. Luke’s Park, besides grounds
at Parramatta, Mosman, Manly, Randwick and other
places. This huge grab is going to bring trouble one of
these days. Sooner or later there will be a revolt against
a system which allows any single body to get a monopoly
like this of the public recreation areas, for the purpose
of preventing rivals supplying the public with amuse-
ments.
* * * *
The Rugby League matches on Saturday last
were worthy "of better public support than they
received; the ga,mes at Sydney Agricultural Ground
being first-class exhibitions, especially that between
South Sydney and Eastern Suburbs. Both teams
were in the pink of condition. The forwards played
admirably, and, although the game was fast, both
teams were in such excellent order that the slightest slip
on the opposing side meant disaster. South Sydney had
the extra pound of excellence, and finally won by 16
points to five. The score would indicate an uneven game
to watch ; but it wasn’t; it was all excitement from the
jump to the finish. The wreckage of North Sydney by
Western Suburbs on the same ground was also an ex-
citing struggle ; West won by seven points to three.
Across at Wentworth Park about 500 people rolled up to
watch Glebe just scrape out on top of Newtown with 10
points to eight; and at Birchgrove, Balmain fell on New-
castle, and rolled it up by five to two, after a game which
bristled with deeds of derring-do.
As to Melbourne’s ’ball, there was as much play
of a different sort through the week as on the half-
holiday. Those “ points ” that a ring-referee would have
counted—referred to last week—were duly noted, where-
fore four Richmondites and a Carltonian were cited
before the delegates to excuse themselves. Some suc-
ceeded, others failed hopelessly. One Riehmondite was
passed out of the League “for all time,” another was
suspended for a month, and a third cautioned; one was
acquitted and another remanded, as it were. This is
about the stage in the football season when a couple
of defeats, sustained by an inferior team, mean the
loss of all semi-final chances, consequently the
players rush into the fray something extra, and the
barrackers lose their heads entirely. Unfortunately for
themselves the League’bailers have overlooked the recent
formation of an Umpires’ Association, the effect of which is
now beginning to be felt. Nevertheless, this writer has
no congratulations to spare on either umpires or League
delegates for their judicial performances. There were
other ’bailers besides the four from Richmond who badly
wanted reporting, and the permanent disqualification of
a man with a hitherto unblemished record only serves to
call attention to the recent remission of a sentence passed
on a player with a much worse football past. A sentence of
suspension for the rest of the season would have satisfied
everybody, except the culprit.
There must have been some pugnacious element
in the atmosphere of the Cabbage Garden, Saturday
week, for, besides the Richmond-Melbourne disturb-
ance, the discussion between Newtown and North Gee-
long, at the Sleepy City, was capsized by barrackers,
who smote all and sundry and kept three Johns busy for
a full half-hour. Also at Benalla, one of the locals
“jobbed” a Burramine ’bailer, whereupon the latter’s
old man jumped the fence, biffed the assailant
in the eye, and started a gorgeous free-fight. After
that the valiant barrackers chased the umpire to
his hotel and thence to the train, and the air was full of
eggs. Also, at Bendigo, Eaglehawk and California Gully
teams got into holts and set out to slay each other. As
for North Melbourne, of the Ass., that club’s ground will
presently have to be disqualified. The players are all
right, but the gangs of young hoodlums who call them-
selves “ supporters” require grape-shot. The blue metal
the City Council puts on the roads disappears so fast that
it is no Wonder the tracks in that locality are a disgrace.
For nearly all these outbreaks the blastiferous
“ barracker ” is responsible, and on Saturday lie let him-
self loose with fearful violence at the Carlton-South con-
cussion ; but the calamity of Richmond had impressed
itself on the ’bailers, and they heeded the fool-barracker
not at all. The performance drew a 33,000 “ house,”
worth £619, and turned out an episode worth}’ of deep
thought. There was considerable betting through the
week at evens, but on Saturday morning South’s backers
were asking for 5 and 6 to 4, or they would take a couple
of goals, though on form the odds should have been
reversed. Anyhow, the South men went off with
a rush, and the first change saw’ them with 20 points
to Carlton’s four. Then they slowed down a bit,
but at the interval the board remarked : South 4 goals
4 behinds, Carlton 11 behinds. Up to then the latter
team couldn’t kick a goal to save its life ; but even allow-
ing for that, South was more than holding its own in the
play. Returning to the fray, Carlton took complete pos-
session of affairs, Skinner’s Hirelings being apparently-
lost. In 20 minutes it potted nine straight goals, scoring
56 points to South’s one in the quarter. Then it was that
the staggered barrackers raged and blasphemed, urging
their pets to “get to them,” and so forth. The flaunted
red-and-w'hite flags were torn dowm and trampled in the
mud, the cabbage-sized rosettes snatched and tossed
away in anger; but the South men heeded not.
They were beaten and done. There wasn’t a kick left
in them till within five minutes of time ; then a couple of
goals made the disaster look less awful than before.
The final points—6B to. 44—are nothing out of the way,
but that 20 minutes, when nine goals were scored against
the mighty South, remains unaccountable. Beside this
tragedy the collisions of ’Wood and St. Hilda (84 to 44),
’Roy and Geelong (87 to 61), and ’Varsity and Richmond
(81 to 50) were mere details. The Essendon-Melbourne
encounter was interesting inasmuch as it indicated the
improvement of the “Same Old” and the decadence of
Melbourne—4o to 30 being the tally. Each of these two
clubs is now’ doing its darnedest to keep the other out of
the semi-finals ; while ’Varsity still has hopes of outing
both of them.
The Association collisions were mostly of a
placid order, though the meeting of ’Town and Port w'as
the ciuse of much “blime” and fervid expectoration.
Most of ’Town’s team crossed to the Port by the Gem or
Queen or whatever Deadhorse it is that now sails the
wintry seas of the soup tureen, and when they started
bogging-in unpleasant memories of their sea voyage over-
came them, and they couldn’t bog worth tuppence.
Consequently they never got sufficient of a lead to swear
bv, and though they finally placed three more points on
the board than Port*—37 to 34—they were glad when the
upheaval was over. Melbourne’s soup tureen is not a thing
to be trifled with by an athlete about to undertake an
afternoon’s toil. Brighton tasted the bitterness of defeat at
th ■ feet of Essendon (42 to 57); Brunswick polished off
Northcote, 8S to 24 being the notification to all whom it
concerned ; and ’Scrav genially spread itself over Pres-
ton’s ground. and casually acquired 71 points to the locals’
39. North visited the mighty P’ran and put up the best
game it has played this season, scoring 70 points to 92.
North is understood to have no bought players, but to be
training the local youths in the way of the good ’bailer ;
and though that way is long and rocky, the club is here-
by adjured to get into the breach and to continue there,
in the sure and certain knowledge that there is more
virtue in one day’s hard play than in ten victories gained
by bought players.
* * * *
The interesting feature of the Maoriland Rugby
League team in N.S.W. and Queensland was its record for
the trip. Of 10 games it won five and lost five. It scored
181 points against its opponents, and they scored exactly
the same number against it. What are the chances of
that sort of thing occurring again ?
■* * * *
The Maori team, which is to play in Sydney
under the banner of the League, is now in being; and
last Saturday it went down before Auckland by 14 points
to 24. The Auckland team was a particularly strong
one, containing several of the All Blacks who toured
England ; and the Maoris are credited with having put
up a good strugglement.
■*** *■
N.S.W. Rugby Union has invited Wales to
send along a team to get a head put on it. Welshmen
rarely let an invitation like that go by, so there will pro-
bably be a band of Taffies here next season.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League is standing up and
hitting out from the shoulder this season. It has written
in blood that any Leaguer who applies to the Union for
reinstatement shall be disqualified for life —and also in
the next world, if possible.
* * * *
With the advent of fine weather the Children of
the Suh who are playing cricket in England began to
buck up to considerable purpose. Since England rubbed
the Kangaroo’s nose in the slush in the first Test the XI.
has not lost a match, and the record now stands: Of 19
matches played eight have been won, three lost, and
eight drawn.' The team is now exactly half way through
its appointed tour, and if the sun continues to shine, the
first Board of Control XI. will probably do as well asmost
of its predecessors.
* * * *
In the Worcestershire cricket match, Ransford
(138) added another century to the long list of similar
performances. This is the twelfth occasion on which
Ransford has reached three figures since he started in
1904 ; and it is his third century in England. His highest
score was 182 against N.S.W. for Victoria at Sydney in
the 1908-9 season.
*• * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association is still keeping the
bristles on its back fairly stiff when it looks at the Cricket
Ground Trust. The Trust demands 10 per cent, on gross
takings, all exes, to be paidby the Association, free seating
for all ground members, and an agreement for two years.
Rushcutters’ Bay asks five per cent, on gross takings
for five years; no members. Wentworth Park asked for
five per cent, on the gross, and agreed to share proceeds
of booths with the Association. It asked for the right to
issue 200 members’ tickets, and offered the same right to
the Association, five per cent, of the money to go the
Trustees or the Association from each others members
tickets. The executive committee of the N.S.W.O.A.
recommended that the offer be accepted ; but the
Association decided to give the Cricket Ground Trust just
one more chance. The Trust, however, apparently still
believes that the Cricket Association is only bluffing, and
doesn’t seem to want any chance.
* * * *
“Silas”: The Vic. Amateur Athletic Ass.’s
boxing competitions have drawn well at the local
Athenaeum, and up to time of writing had. produced a
couple who should make large black marks in Common-
wealth competitions. Robinson, a bantam, is a Ballarat
product, with professional neatness of execution, and he
plugs with the jov of a heaven-born pug. The other is
Fullalove, a middleweight of 18, with remarkable dash,
and a pair of good hands. On the third night of the com-
petition he beat McGuinness, a heavyweight with a bonus
of two stone and a great reputation as a rougher-up of
things. The heavyweight was swiped out in less than
two rounds,\and then Fullalove looked hungrily around
to see if there were any more giants on the horizon. It
will take a man with some zeal and strength and a fair
amount of science to stop him.
* ■* * *
Bill Squires, writing as an aspiring Hayseed to
one of the Porter brothers, asks to have a battle arranged
for him in Melbourne at Cup time. He says he is bigger
and stronger and fitter than he has been for a long time,
and moreover he has GOT his poncii back. Bill got Ins
punch back in most of his recent fights—with interest.
Ttys healthy state of Melbourne pedestrianism
was Shibited on Saturday, when 78 enthusiasts had a
run over four miles of the Bulla-road, North Essendon.
The pack included the two Marathonians, George Blake and
W. V. Aitken, who both fled over the course in fine time.
Blake ate up the distance in the record space of
21min. 7sec., while Aitken consumed it in 21min. 37sec.
Two or three others, all belonging to the Essendon
Harriers, by the way, and numbering among them A. W.
McMicken and J. A. Stillwell, completed their trouble in
times varying from 21miij. 47sec. to 22min. 7sec.
* * * *
N.S.W. Hockey Association is not going to
take any chances over the invasion of Victoria. Four
practice matches will decide which players will be picked ;
and then only those who are in a position to promise to
go without fail will be chosen. When the choice has been
made the team will' be properly exercised together; so
that if it does get walloped it will not be the fault of the
Association, but the malign conduct of the Victorians in
selecting a better team. The Hockey Association might
lend its managers to some of the Australian Rugby Unions
—they want men of foresight very badly.
* * ■* *
H. D. Mclntosh is bringing ancient warrior
Bob Fitzsimmons to Australia with an idea of finding a
few budding world champions. In his pictures, Robert
looks like an up-to-date stockbroker, or something of that
sort; and Mrs. Bob is just a dream. When Bob fought
O’Brien and got beaten, Mrs. Bob had temporarily left
him ; and Bob explained after the battle that he couldn’t
hit O’Brien because he could not see the prancing man
from Philadelphia ; he saw only his wife’s lovely face ; and
to hit that, although it was only a phantom, was imposs-
ible. After gazing on the photo, of the lady, writer quite
understands how Robert felt.
* * » ■*
“S.S.”: The Bulletin has printed the sad
story of Joe Grimm, the Italian pug from Chicago, who
was recently exhibiting his ability to withstand assault
and battery in the Australian ring, being carried howling
to a lunatic asylum in Perth. From the first it was ob-
vious that there existed a kink in Grimm’s mental make-
up, and I hinted that the game was doing itself black
discredit in putting a crank between the ropes merely to
discover if bigger, stronger, and saner men could possibly
belt him into unconsciousness. It would have been more
humane and as good sport to have hired Joseph to be
kicked out by a horse. Grimm’s is not an isolated case ;
I know of one other minor pug who is notoriously dotty,
and who is borne with in the ring only because of his
eccentricities.
* * m *
“ He who to be an expert motorist aspires,
Must first learn all there is to know about his tyres.”
—Proverbs of the Barnett Glass Rubber Co*
Let us take the little cuts—the little cuts that spoil
the tyres. They are of ter} quite insignificant in appearance,
but if neglected they will destroy the tyre. They collect all
manner of tiny trifles and form them into a hard mass,
which soon bores right through the rind, divides the rubber
from the canvas, and ruins the whole show. So to avoid
this, at the.end of each run look for the little cuts. Clean
them out and fill them with mastic ; and the days of that
tyre shall be long in the land. But do it properly. Apply
benzine, prop the edges of the'-cut apart with a match,
and wait till the benzine has dried the surface of the cut.
Then smear the wound with the mastic. Allow.it to dry
(10 minutes), then finish off by completely filling up the
cut. In six hours the tyre will be ready to make another
start—although a longer spell will not hurt. These
things are done while the tyre is fully inflated. But of
course, to get the best results, use Barnett .Glass Rubber
Co.’s mastic.* 1
•* * * *
“ Skull ” : A private word from New York tells
of an injury to Jim Jeffries/sustained in a boxing bout
incidental to his show business. Jim took a clout on the
chin when dreaming of better things, and nearly bit his
tongue off. This is expected to put the meeting with
John Johnson still further into dim distance. In America
an injury to the tongue incapacitates a pugilist quicker
than anything else. For months Jeffries has been hurling
opprobious epithets at Johnson ; and he is now assumed
to be incapable of following his calling, as it were.
“ On these rude islands, among the simple
natives, I found something of the caste of Vere de
Vere,” says a Melbourne missionary. The
Bulletin would not be surprised if he meant
the half-caste of Vere de Vere.
AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
For the past five years Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have been manufactured in Australia, and
we believe they are the only purgative pills on the
market that are made in this country by the pro-
prietors. Most other pills are made by manu-
facturing chemists, and sold in bulk to the
speculative pill companies to be boxed and
labelled. We take no chance of this kind with
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pill, and we know that
the formula does not vary one-hundredth part of a
grain. We also know that the ingredients are up
to the standard, both in strength and quality.
The crude material is imported direct, being
ground by our own machines in our American
laboratory, where the greatest care is observed in
the selection of the roots and gums from which
this crude, material is made. We have both in
Sydney and Wellington (New Zealand) up-to-date
plants for the manufacture of these pills, and
should any of our friends be interested, we will be
only too pleased to show them the process of
manufacture.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a safe and reliable remedy for
biliousness, constipation, indigestion, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils, and for female ailments.


THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT—
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2£ hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
THE
HEART
«r
OF MELBOURNE
MOTORING \
INDUSTRY.
We make special
arrangements at. our
garage for the convenience
and comfort, of all visitors
from any part of Australasia.
The Tarrant Garage is fitted with
all the latest modern improve-
ments, and is right up-to-date in
everything appertaining to motoring.
Huge stock of latest accessories.
Repairs Department under most capable
management.
We have lately added several latest
nodels of 1909 Fiats and F.N.’S to
our Hire Department.
Write us for full particulars.
Your patronage
invited.
; SOLE AGENTS
|»8 FOR.
MOK
ARGYLL,
F.ltk
ROVER
FORD
CARS.
4
TARRAKT MOTOR C°
, 106 RUSSELL ST MELBOVRNET—■ *%%o\
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Si"/ sY 0 e r t e e . rinary
SA-VO-LA Skin Salve
THE SURE CURE FOR SKIN INJURIES.
I
T
•:/
V'V-
\
Wr
W,:;.
'tihr'"'-
/;////
-r-
-m
'SA-VO-LA 5 in a few words is best described
as “the Greatest Skin Healer of the Century.”
All medical experts declare the great skin salve, SA-YO-LA to be the most
reliable of skin doctors, and invaluable to all persons in every grade of life
wherever accidents may happen. It is a disinfectant, antidote to blood poison,
and a skin-healer combined. It prevents blood poison arising from sores,
wounds, cuts, abrasions, etc., by reducing heat and inflammation and leaving
the injured parts soft, sweet, and cool. Workers in factories, warehouses,
or on farms, cattle-sheds, sheep-stations, mining camps or shearing sheds,
should have SA-VO-LA always handy, because it heals magically.
SA-VO-LA IS THE POCKET SKIN DOCTOR FOR ALL SKIN ILLS.
SA-VO-LA is a sure cure for cuts, sores (chronic or acute), barcoo, rash, itch, burns, scalds, festers,
chilblains, sun-burns, pimples, eczema, skin-cracks, whitlow, scalp sores in children, ulcers, piles,
muscular rheumatism, lumbago, boils, nerve pains, chapped hands, etc.
For Piles it is a most remarkable cure, and, when applied to the part, should be slightly heated to
reduce the balm to a liquid, then saturate a piece of cotton wool, or some other soft material, and
apply. Stubborn cases have been cured in this way.
SA-VO-LA may be obtained of all chemists and grocers, price 1/6 the pot, or 3/6 large size,
containing four times the quantity. If not supplied locally, send direct for a pot, post free on
receipt of price.
The ‘Ray’ Chemical Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney, n.s. w.
m
KM
ll
The Longer a Man is Married
the less talking he does. But the longer you use the
B. AND B. MODEL 3 CYCLE
the better pleased you’ll be. It’s a beautiful little mount, right
at the top of the tree for every-day work. We fit it n .
with first-class tyres, and guarantee it for a year. PflCCj ill.
DESCRIBED FULLY IN OUR 1909 CATALOGUE.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BILLIARDS LIMITED. T^r
perpetual tournaments for bona fide amateurs.
ALL COMPETITORS TO BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF COMPANY.
Prizes every fortnight, or as soon after as any Competition is won.
BILLIARDS : Break of 50, or biggest over 50 .. .. .. .. .. Order, value £2 2s.
Break of 51, or biggest over 51, off red ball .. Order’ value £3 3s.
SNOOKER : Break of 30, or biggest over 30 .. .. .. .. ... Order, value £2 2s.i
PYRAMIDS: Break of 8 or over .. .. .. .. .. .. £2 2s.
BILLIARDS LTD. NOVELTY SNOOKER to be run monthly.
Three prizes—Orders value £2 25., £1 Is. and 10/6 for the largest breaks made during the month. Entrance fee, 3d.
Competition started 7th JULY. Morning, Afternoon and Evening Sessions.
Full particulars from HARRY GRAY, Manager, 630 George Street.
- Ajmv e>
O'** * *V 0 ,
/
%
aiona<
THE
O™STOOKE
k From WDiNT.TOiHEm
Or IHeeItoIFDW
PbiVirMe
Only
WitK.tKe
m
TRADE
ORLfY |DEA|RA2DR
ENDS'ALL TROUBLES OF SHAVING
GET A CURLEY SAFETY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
self! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post Free.
Denyer Bros., 281 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
** AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc,, it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d„,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
JL Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Business Notice.
Messrs, william cooper and
NEPHEWS, proprietors of the famous
Cooper’s Sheep Dips, who were also almost the
sole proprietors of the Cooper Sheep Shearing
Machine Proprietary, Limited, have decided upon
winding up the Company, which was practically a
department of their business, and to carry it on
entirely on their own account under the name of
the COOPER ENGINEERING COMPANY.
The Cooper Shearing Machines and Fairbanks-
Morse Engines, for which the firm is also the
agent in Australia, have now been installed on a
large number of stations throughout the Common-
wealth, and the business, for the present, will be
carried on at the premises, 16 Young St., Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Nights of NELLIE STEWART in
AS YOU LIKE IT.
FOR FIVE NIGHTS AND ONE MATINEE ONLY
(the Last Nights of the Season),
NELLIE STEWART as ROSALIND.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BRIEF SEASON OF EIGHT NIGHTS AND
TWO MATINEES.
Re-appearance of the WORLD FAMOUS TRAGEDIAN,
WALTER BIUNTLUY
AS “HAMLET.”
“THE BELLS,” Saturday, July 17.
Plan at Elvy’s. Prices—3s., 2s. & Is. (Booking, Is. extra).
Stanley McKay, Director.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
■ (Under the Patronage of HIS EXCELLENCY
the GOVERNOR and LADY CHELMSFORD,
also the LORD MAYOR and LADY MAYORESS).
THELMA HANLON CONCERT,
THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 22.
TICKETS —3s. (Reserved), 2s. and Is.
Plan and Tickets at Nicholson & Co.’s Ltd.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
CANNOT BE DESCRIBED. MUST BE SEEN.
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
IN
THE GREAT RESCUE.
A Play the old folks love and the young folks enjoy.
Australian Life and Character Admirably Portrayed.
Box Plans at Elvy’s.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is, No Extra Charges.
1* HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is Od, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
QLACIA R I U M, SYDN E Y.
REAL ICE-SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.m., 3to6p.m;,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 25.; CHILDREN, Morning- and Afternoon
onlv, Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLAOIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbar. Poolk, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYD NEL
* Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
MERTON and ItYDON, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
THE THREE LAURELS, Leading Specialty Artists.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Specialty Artists.
IDA BERRIDGE. HARRY LINDEN.
IRVING SAYLES. DEVENIA CLINTON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
/-JPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Greatest Juggler Living.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS.
LAWSON and NAMON, Trick Cyclists, Ball Punchers.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
VAUDE and VERNE. MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
ARTHUR HARRIS. WILL G. JAMES.
MALVENA MOORE. MAUD FANNING.
ARTHUR and VIOLET ELLIOTT.
Plan at Allan’s. X3T PRICES—3s, 2s. Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 17,
First Appearance of OSCAR ASCHE and
LILY BRAYTON in
The TAMING oe the SHREW
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
|_JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
The Romantic Musical Play,
THE KING OE CADONIA,
BY A NEW COMPANY OF EXCEPTIONAL
EXCELLENCE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 17,
HUGH J. WARD and his Company of
Comedians, including Miss Grace Palotta,
Miss Rose Musgrove and Miss Celia Ghiloni
—IN—
A BACHELOR’S HONEYMOON.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager —William Andkrson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 17,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the London Dramatic Success,
A SAILOR’S SWEETHEART.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.4.N.TAIT
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
A Complete Chancre of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
C E SKATING.
THE KING OF WINTER SPORT,
Melbourne GLAOIARITJM,
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
■MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
,T 1 ARCTIC DISPLAY ON THE ICE,
THURSDAY, 22nd JULY, at S p.m.
The Spectacle in Brilliancy and in Design will Surpass
Anything: Hitherto Attempted.
EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING.
HANDSOME PRIZES will be Awarded for TEAMS
COMPETITIONS, WALTZING COMPETITIONS,
EDGE SKATING.
ADMISSION, TWO SHILLINGS ; Reserved Chairs, 2s.
extra; Reserve Gallery Seats, Is. extra.
W l R T H’ S O L Y M PI A.
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES ™ B SRll
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s,


Doctors of Two Continents Could
Make No Impression on Torturing
Skin Disease —All Treatments
Failed for Nineteen Years,
THEN CUTICURA CURED
SWIFTLY AND EASILY
41 1 contracted my disease at school
in London, England, when I was four-
teen years old I am now thirty-
three. My father put me under the
. care of our family physician who diag-
nosed my disease as itch. But after
several months’ treatment without
receiving any benefit, I was advised
to go to a hospital. I attended the
Hospital, London. Then and on
two other occasions, without my get-
ting any benefit, they treated me for
eczema. My next attempt was trying
different ointments from doctors and
druggists. Then I tried patent medicines,
including , and .
“I passed examinations for govern-
ment situations but was finally re-
jected at the medical examinations.
After three attempts to enlist in the
British army I succeeded at last but was
discharged on account of my eczema.
The disease was confined to face, arms
and legs, my face being actually raw at
times. I came to America thirteen
years ago, but my face became worse,
if possible. When in New York City I
was advised to go to Hospital,
whence I was sent to the Hospital
in Brooklyn. I was put under the care of
Professor but this also added to the
number of unsuccessful attempts. I
returned home to England and tried the
Hospital, Liverpool, the
Hospital, London, also the world-famed
London Hospital, but without get-
ting cured. I came back to America
five years ago. I had overlooked the
Cuticura Remedies dozens of times,
but three months ago I decided to give
Cuticura a trial and I can safely say I
am cured of one of the most torturing
skin diseases a man ever had. Richard
Curley, New Canaan, Conn., U. S. A.,
Jan. 10, 1909.”
“I am familiar with Mr. Curlev’s
case and his cure and believe his state-
ment to be true. John F. Burke, New
Canaan, Conn.”
Note. All the names left blank
are given in full in Mr Curley’s letter.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney
Cuticura Remedies are sold wherever the British
Flag floats. Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney: India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta; U. S. A„ Pot-
ter Drug & Chem. Corp„ Sole Props., Boston.
®3J“Post free, 32-page book on. skin and scalp.
WANTED
EVERY NERVOUS MAN to trv the OLD
ENGLISH HOME REMEDY. Best in the
world for the speedy RELIEF and CURE of
NERVOUSNESS and allied troubles. WRITE
TO-DAY for Free Particulars.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 5, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES’
STYLISH SHOES.
This smart Derby Shoe is one of the
most stylish models in Glac6 Kid,
Pump Soles, with Patent Caps and
Cuban Heels, in two grades.
Price, 10/6 and 12 6.
Postage 9d. ext ra in Victoria : other States, 1/2.
If cleaned with Leeming’s Cazeka
Shoe Paste (6d. per tin).
SEND FOR PRICE LISTS—FREE.
LEEMINC’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
eA Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Soaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“Redness’’ are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing- and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
BY APPOINTMENT |0 H.M. THE KING
MichelW
5? TYRES'
BARNET <SIASSiRUBftER<£I?
234 CLARENCEST., SYDNEY;
Swanston St., near Lonsdale
St., Melbourne ; 10 McHenry
St., Adelaide. And at
Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
PEOPLE
WHO
ARE
FAT
COPiLD TROM ACTUAL* .PtIQXQGHAPiIS
often fail to fully realize what a tremendous
burden they are carrying. A body intended
to carry ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, excess
weight. Dead weight, useless tissue. Why
do you carry it? Obesity ruins the health.
‘"Fatcure”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity.
It reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It
rids the body of five pounds superfluous fat
per week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless and pleasant to take.
Improves the general health and restores a
good figure. The fat, once removed, does
not come back Send 2d. stamp, or
CALL for FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Watworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
TORLICRJ
Halted mjlK
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for - use -in- Soda
Fountains.
Horllck’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples - 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
CEREBOS
8 ALT
o
Agents—Harrison & Attwood , Sydney .
PATENTS
Collison&Qo.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
f>That Have Caught On!
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover —full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia—you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E.Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/6
postage, sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure,.' by
“ Steele Rudd ” ;
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two com-
bined) ; price, clpth,
3/6 ; postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection,
by “ Steele liudd ” !
price, paper, 1/- ; pos-
tage 3 i.
From Selection to City,
by “ Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/-:
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “ Steele Rudd ” : price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/6;
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by
Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/-; post-
age, 3d.
On the Fringe of the
Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James
Green ; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by c. D.
Websdale; price, cloth,
1/-; postage 3d.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by A. Pratt;
price, paper, X/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AH Branches and Booksellers.
Briar
Pipes
GBD
Briar
Pipes
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
You buy
and you buy
the Best.
(GBD)
“PL’SMON is the
BEST part of Nature’s
BEST food— MILK,
and increases the food
value enormously”
— Lancet .
IOUS
COCOA
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT
PLASMON is USED
toy the
ROYAL FAMILY.
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem.
1 ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sample bottles and full partictttars , by po§t
18.4 d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
di Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
r <Bni<s
T: '
* Muhin
The ‘VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific foi* obesity#”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CADTIOJL
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor.
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
The Inky Way.
Adelaide Critic, which struggles to earn its sixpence
chiefly by chronicling- the “very pretty wedding-” and
the pink chiffon worn by Mrs. H.vphen-Jones, has had
four editors within twelve months-—surely a record for
a fairly flourishing paper. The first was Conrad Eitel,
formerly (and since) of the Advertiser ; he took over
the show on the death of Alfred McKain, who founded
the paper twelve years ago. Then Holtze, of the Garden
and Field, tried to run the odd pair in double harness,
hut soon gave up the attempt. Next was Moore-
Robinson, a free-lance who also tried to bring off a
sporting double ; his second string was a financial paper
with the hopeless title of Money, Limited. The last is
Illingworth, who is rather stronger on the balance-sheet
side of the question than some of his predecessors. But
under all of them the Critic serenely goes on recording
the things that don’t matter for the benefit of the people
who don’t signify.
* * * *
. -fiho increasing rigor with which Australian editors
insist that literary matter must be cheerful is perhaps an
idea derived from Turkey, the land of outrage and assas-
sination. A Press regulation drawn up by the last Minister
of Instruction there threatened ruin to any newspaper
that disseminated distressing information, “as it tended
to make people sick.” Officials, if named, were always
to be referred to as enjoying g*ood health and happiness.
‘ If the harvest is good, say so,” ordered one clause ; “ but
if poor, avoid hinting at the fact in anyway.” Floods
and droughts are hard to bear, but the Minister
pointed out that published accounts of them make for
general gloom, and general gloom isn’t allowed.
As for fiction of a sorrowful character, the regulation
implied that the punishment for such a monstrous offence
was Death —either plain decease or burial with trimmings.
* * * *
“ Oudeis ” : The Comet is the title of London’s newest
penny paper. Bernard Espinasse, late of Australia, sees
that it lifts its fiery tail once a week, in an attempt to be
“ shorter, brighter, and better” than anything else of the
kind. Like M.A.P., and one or two more of the same
kind, it issues from the office of Pearson’s Ltd.
* * * *
When John Winthrop Hackett, formerly lecturer on
dry bones, sawdust, or something of that sort at Mel-
bourne University, put up for Sandridge against Dr.
John Madden and finished a bad second, he decided to go
West. On arriving in Perth he made the acquaintance of
Charles Harper, owner (or nearly so) of the West Austra-
lian. They struck up a partnership—Harper finding the
money, Hackett the brains or a colorable imitation. For a
long time the paper had asevere struggle, but the Coolgar-
die rush put the owners on their feet, and now profits are
anything between £lO,OOO and £15,000 yearlv. Hackett
went to Ireland—his native place—some years ago, and
was given an ad eundem degree—D.C.L. He was so
proud of this distinction that he had a brass plate affixed
to his office door, “Dr. Hackett,” and should any re-
porter fall to give him that title when writing up his
copy he had better look out for another billet.
Sometimes one is tempted to wonder if there are really
any short-story writers in England, or if the whole supply
of brief fiction is dishonestly acquired. As a stealer of
tales, verse and pictures a certain class of English paper
is the earth’s record. The ordinary thief borrows the
tale, or verse or picture, and acknowledges it to the paper
it was stolen from ; also, he gives the writer or artist
credit for his work. The English thief-paper, of the Ally
Sloper or Bits, or Snips or Horse Items variety, makes no
acknowledgments. It doesn’t mention that the tale or
picture was lifted from any other publication. It omits
the writer’s name from the literary matter, and it care-
fully cuts the artist’s name off the picture. Then it sets
its cheap hired lout to work to “localise” things, with
remarkable results. For instance, a London paper once
took hold of one Of Henry Lawson’s far-western
tales, and made the events occur on Holborn
Hill, London ! And Ally Sloper, of April 3, annexed
Alp Brascii’s tale, “ A Yellow Terror,” out of last
Christmas Bulletin, and shifted the scene from Mel-
bourne to anywhere in England. The central figure of
the story was a Chinaman, and Chinamen are scarce in
England, but if the central character had been an Aus-
tralian aboriginal with a boomerang, that would have
made very little difference to Sloper.. He would have
sloped away with the proceeds of his steal just the same.
* * * *
The cry of the overworked journalist. “Dagonet”
Sims describes in London Referee how, happening to be
at the window of his club one Saturday afternoon, when a
procession passed by, he was greeted with a veil of
“ Loafer 1 ” The banner of the processionists proclaimed
them to he “ Yiddish-speaking Anarchists.” And “my
average of hard manual labor,” says Sims plaintively, “is
from 14 to 16 hours a day ; and I have only had three
days’ holiday in four years.”
* * * *
“P.S.” writes: Victorian Labor-Leader Prendergast
showed me recently an interesting relic of Victor Daley.
It is the original of “ My name is Labor, but they call me
Christ.” This was written on the hack of two baker’s
bills. Daley was very hard up at the time, and, chancing
in the Tocsin office, he was pressed to write verses.
Those were struggling days both for the Tocsin and
for Daley. After he had finished the lines, an
exploration of the till resulted in the discovery
of 2s. • 6d. At this period, Dalev lived in a cot-
tage in Bog Terrace, Collingwood Flat. His furniture
consisted almost solely of packing cases. A friend visited
him one Sunday and found him making a railing screen
for his front door. “I’m trying to keep the darned
fowls out of my drawing-room," he explained.
THE TURNIP PRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MONSTER MUSHROOM.
Circumference of 22 Inches.
Egerton, Saturday.—The largest mushroom known in
this district has been picked up at Mount Doran. When
measured, it was found to be over 22in. in circumference.
—Melbourne Argus.
The little wars go whirling' on—the big wars threaten,
yet ;
The King to Marienbad has gone, by rheumatiz beset;
The marvels of the passing show are one-day wonders all;
But, though the Chief be rushed —although celestial
ramparts fall,
Big type will he,
Undoubtedly, \
Not fail to use
For Turnip news.
When fagged and worn from gabbling for the aged Tory
cause,
Though Labor does not cease to score, the editor will
pause
From pestling blends of deadly myth to blast the
Socialist,
And scare-head Turnips boldly with a firm yet gentle fist.
When Labor shoves
Too far, he loves
To drown his blues
In Turnip news.
The splendid phrase, the massive word condemning all
things new—
The Tories heed them not whan the vast Turnip heaves in
view.
They read the news of Slowgress, and they certainly
approve
Of what they have at egg-time scanned—how Turnip
matters move 1
When Tories eat
Their breakfast-meat,
This does amuse
Them—Turnip news I
Although Australia’s Parliament be loud with party strife,
Though tecs be hot upon the scent when evil deeds
are rife,
The premier place is not possessed by Politics nor Crime ;
For news of solid interest—why, Turnips, every time !
The Chief does not
Approve of rot—
His faith he glues
To Turnip news !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


o
'K
H§|
M§
&
o
>
.'l*
1!^
*MJf|
1820 M)T OUT
“The Whisky with
the Little Label and the
Big Reputation,” which
keeps on scoring.
Wi
' '
mHMI
.
a
Alcock^cq
PT
LTD
Melb
Elizabeth
S T
155
AMD
■Jfdmz
3
7Georde
3
BesP rid/
• Tb-D&/- * •
Dee: ..Are He Hay’ Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
y»g|f| Given away in sums of £l each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If Jess than 50 correct answers, the £5O will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
THE FASHIONABLE
from 6/6 to 12/6
per 100.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLA VORED.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
VC
*3r.
A Good Shave!
To get a GOOD, easy, satisfactory shave you
want a GOOD Razor.
VJ» O Plum PnTAr does the trick every day in the
1118 alum IVtUUI year. Try it against any other
razor, and note the difference in the quality of steel —
in shaving, in comfort, in durability.
THE PLUM
R o A o Z st°s ß lo/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
■
m*
mm
All progressive Hardware and Sporting
Goods Merchants handle STEVENS.
If you cannot obtain please let us know.
Send for 160 Page Illustrated Cata-
logue. Replete with STEVENS and
general firearm information. Striking
cover in colors.
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.,
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.


A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept on hand for immediate use,
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
%'i'r
NEW ART PENDANTS.
IT is impossible to give here
more than a faint idea of
the many beautiful effects
in these New Art Pendants,
which are so popular at the
present time. This illustra-
tion represents one Of a
number which A. Saunders,
me well-known Je.weller, of
809 George opposite
the Railway Station, has
just received from his
London House. There is
style, quality, and the best
of workmanship in every one
of them. The setting is of
solid gold, artistically de-
signed, set with white Pearls
and a beautiful diamond cut
Amethyst of rich color. 30/-
is the price asked for this
beautiful design by A.
Saunders, who will send this
cnnniMe in a nice velvet-lined case, postage free to any
qiliiri?' in Australasia.*
A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept on hand for immediate use,
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
The Latest and the Best
Remedy for chest complaints is Dr.
New iiiseovery for coughs and colds,
when all else fails. Price Is. 6d. and 3s,
Sheldon’s
It cures
SALE TIME!
Need we Say More with Values
like these?
SERVIETTES
> The measurements given are
the sizes when hemmed:
19 x 20in., hemmed ready for use, guaran-
teed all pure Linen, good designs;
reduced from 7/11 to 5/11 doz;
22 x 21in., hemmed ready for use', guaran-
teed all pure linen, fine Damask;
reduced from 10/11 to 8/6 doz.
19 x ISin., hemmed ready for use ; reduced
from 4/11 to 3/- doz.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
North Queensland —where the white man
can’t live—has got another industry. During the
reign of the crowd that wanted to get rich by
using cheap colored labor, the North was a plane
where only sugarcane, cocoanuts, bananas and
crocodiles could grow. Now Atherton, back from
Cairns, has got its butter-factory, and the chief
dairies are getting in milking-machines. Not ten
years ago, if a man had said that butter could be
made in the North he would have been howled at
as a mere clumsy liar ; to-day the industry is well
on its feet, and is being run on such up-to-date
lines that within the next 10 years Cairns will,
almost for a certainty, rank among the biggest
butter-shipping ports in Australia, with a first
call on the grease-trade with Asia.
The oldest officer in the Queensland Rail-
way Department, Mr. H. Horniblow, completed
45 years’ service on June 28. When he arrived
in Queensland from the Cold Country, in 1864, to
be foreman in charge of tools, no railways were
open for traffic, and he helped to build the first
four locomotives, which were employed in ballast-
ing the section between Ipswich and Grand-
chester. This was opened eight months after his
arrival, and was the pioneer railway of Banana-
land. He also supervised the erection of the first
machinery in the Ipswich workshops, and most of
the work since done there has been under his eye
in the capacity of locomotive engineer.
“ Itan ” : Senator McColl has come back
to talk about the priceless boon which prickly
pear is in America. McColl’s yarn is that on
some of the ranches the pear is treated to a gaso-
line flare, which scorches off the prickles, where-
upon the cattle chase the operator until he burns
off more prickles from more pear. It was after
it had heard the same yarn some years ago
that Queensland tried pear-feeding on scientific
lines at Gatton Agricultural College, and proved
conclusively that if stock got nothing else
they would die in a few weeks. Still, on
the strength of McColl’s new “discovery,”
there is an idea in some quarters that Burbank’s
“spineless” pear should be planted broadcast.
The only trouble about this wonderful creation is
A FRUIT ITEM.
REV. CODLIN: “ Let us pray !”
YOUTHFUL ORCHARDIST ( first time in church): “ What's he goin’ ter spray , dad?”
that, when put out to give an account of itself on
the American ranches, it quickly degenerated to
the common whiskered original. Four years ago
Botanist Bailey, of Brisbane, after a lifetime
spent in trying these newly-developed freaks,
predicted this failure, and warned Queensland
against monkeying with it; so McColl has arrived
too late with his wonderful yarn.
“ Flinderino ” : Two very remarkable
specimens of marine life are the johnnie-jumper
and the rifle-fish, both of which are plentiful along
the North Queensland coast. The johnnie-jumper,
or mud-skipper (I don’t know its scientific name),
is a thing with lungs, and is as much at home on
land as in the briny. Jack jumper, when fully
grown, is about a foot in length. With the aid of
two side-flippers it works its passage about the
mud along the banks of the creeks and rivers,
seeking flies and other dainties. The rifle-fish
also feeds on insects; but, not possessing lungs,
it is unable to leave the water as does the mud-
skipper. It shoots its victims. The shooting
fish swims leisurely along the stream an
inch or two below the surface and close
to the bank. It is ever on the watch for a fat fly
or a juicy mosquito. When one of these items of
food comes within reach the rifle-fish fires a small
ball of water. The liquid shot seldom misses its
mark, and the insect falls into the stream, and is
straightway gathered in by the shooter. And
considering the smallness of the fish—it is only
from 3in. to lOin. in length—it is wonderful what
a long distance it can shoot, often scoring its
dinner at 3ft. and more. This fish is known in
some of the northern rivers as the spotted bream.
Owing to its habit of swimming so close to the
surface, the rifle-fish falls an easy prey to the fish
hawk and other sea-fowl, which are also good
shots.
Lost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN I was a child I thought of a song
that some day I should write ;
’Twould be read by the gleam of a
gibbous moon, or by star-lantern
light.
’Twas to be the song of a bushman’s life, of cattle
upon the move,
Of the traveling sheep in the dust-white lane —
the lilt of a leafy love ;
A tale of the camp fire by the track, the stock-
horse on the rise,
Of the wallaby in the underbrush, and the way
the goshawk flies.
Of the orchid clustering on the stump, the bloom
on the prickly pear,
Of the thudding of the brumby’s feet as he scales
the mountain stair,
Of the dingo pup by the hollow log, the plover
upon the plain,
Of the water-hen by the shallow creek, and the
lashing summer rain,
Of the cloud-white ibis along the pool, where
chaliced lilies lie,
The splash of pink on the Floors of God, when
day has left the sky.
Oh ! I had a song for the men to hear who know
their country’s heart,
Who lift their eyes to a roof of blue where gold
dawn-banners start.
Oh, I had a song of the ready hand, the quick,
courageous brain,
Of the trail of buds from the dew-dark bough, the
loosened bridle rein;
Of the stockwhip bird in the cool, still green, the
doves with a dreamy croon.
The hurry of crowded morning hours, the linger-
ing afternoon. . . .
For my brain was full of the hush of stars, the
twitter of the day.
When birds swing up in the silky oaks and
branches creak and sway ;
Oh, I had a song for all men to hear—played on a
pipe of reeds,
And my pen was dipped in the oozing sap where
the stricken bloodwood bleeds.
I wonder where it has gone to-day—the song I
thought to sing ?
Did some spirit harry its web away, a floating,
broken thing?
And though it was never a rhyme of price, but
only a simple song,
How I miss it out of my heart to-day where it lay
hid so long !
I went to the park this morning, where the tulip
tree pricks red,
And I caught the sound of my song’s frail wing
far drifting overhead.
And I strained my arms to the tulip bloom, like
flame against the sky,
But only a shadow touched my cheek, and the
song went voiceless by.
I sought it deep in the river tides, under the bridge
they sang,
And I heard no sound but the rush of cars, where
great steel girders rang,
At night, while the brain of the city slept, and
houses shut their eyes,
I looked for my song in the empty street and in
the smoke-grey skies.
But it did not lurk in the silent lane, nor under
the murky eaves.
My song was a-tune to the clean grass blades, or
ripple of summer leaves,
And this morn, in the Gardens' sunlit slopes,
where circled pinangs throng,
Came a sudden clashing of pixie bells—a murmur
of my song !
But I never shall find it all again—when I take
up my pen
I frame but words of the chaffering world and the
devious lives of men ;
Of the silken ways and scented air, the lights on
a polished floor;
Of gold and tinsel where hearts should be—trinkets
arid nothing more.
I went forth at noon with a leaping hope, where
blossom ways stretch fair,
To show all my grief to your limpid eyes—to find
my music there;
For over your head was an arch of green, under
your feet were flowers,
And all about you was lilac-gloom from the jaca-
randa showers.
And I searched your soul with my yearning gaze ;
I held you close and long ;
And I read your heart in your tender eyes—but I
did not find my song!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, .July 10, 1900.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Already there is a flutter in the air. The
Dudley menage will arrive at the vice-regal shanty
on the 15th, and rumors of a Government House
ball are in the air. A garden party is likely to
follow, and Mrs. Speaker Bell is said to be con-
templating a big dance on account of her pretty
and lately-fluffed daughter. After that come the
political conference and chaos.
Already, too, the Lady of Dudley is being sought
by charity committees, and she has promised that
her pale-clothed figure will grace the chair at the
annual meeting at the Woman’s Hospital. The
committee of the kindergarten and crbche is also,
I hear, on her tracks. Even as the Siberian
escapee is supposed to listen to the wolf in the
distance, so does the fleeing modern Governoress
hear the baying of the charitable committee afar
off, and though she may run at her utmost speed,
with her hair flying in the wind, it overtakes her
in the end.
The death of A. W. Compigne, last survivor
but one of the original Queensland Legislature,
happened on Sunday, the morning of the glorious
4th. A.W.C. was a kindly soul, whose worst
friend was himself, for he had no idea of business.
He held a commission in the first infantry bri-
gade in N.S.W., and for that matter held it to
the day of his death, for, by some curious over-
sight, he was never formally retired. He saw
service as a police magistrate for 22 years,
at Gayndah, Mount Perry, Blackall, Beenleigh,
and Southport, and had reached the ripe age of
91 years and seven months when the call came.
His chief interests lay in yachting and shooting.
He was a fine shot, and would neglect any work
he had on hand for the sake of tackling a wild
duck at long range. Even the wildest and most
infuriated duck usually became his prey.
The Chapman-Alexanders, of hymn-yelling,
Bible-banging fame, are in our midst, and a sec-
tion of otherwise sensible citizens is indulging in
an orgy of penitence. At a recent mass meeting
for men. Archpriest Chapman was paralysed to
find, in response to his demand that social sinners
should rise, the whole of his congregation on its feet.
It was probably the most unanimous upheaval in
the Chapzander experience.
However, even these lugubrious gatherings have
their humorous moments, one being when Chap-
man gravely announced to some 3000 aged, halt
and blind folk on Thursday that he knew all about
babies, having had three himself. To which an
elderly dame was heard to murmur “Justice at
last.”
This saving of souls is, no doubt, a very laudable
occupation, but it seems to entail a considerable
deal of tripping round the world, lodging at the
most expensive hotels, and being generally fed
and feted between whiles. But then these
Christians, liberally endowed with the earth’s
goods, are so self-sacrificing.
The ladies’ gallery at the local talking-shop has
been thronged throughout the week, for storms
are rapidly brewing. Mistress Ividston sat out
one whole afternoon as a moral support to her own
overlord, and Mrs. Joey Bell is yet a faithful
watcher, despite the fact that an occasional
“ Haw. Order ! Order ! ! The hon. gentleman
must address the chair ! ” is all that is left to Joey
of his silver oratory.
Heavy is the hand of Providence upon
the Ministry. One day last week no less
than three Parliamentary rooms might have
been mistaken for private-hospital wards.
’Flu’ and other vague complaints had laid
the scanty Ministerial majority low, and with
their opponents mostly in good health, the whips
(there are three of them these rocky times)
are taking no chances. So the victims were
gathered in from the various private hospitals to
which they had fled in their anguish, and were
put to bed within the precincts of the House, so
that they might be hauled even from the bunk of
death if necessary to save the situation. Politics
are strenuous these days.
Lieutenant-Colonel McLaughlan, who is to wed
bonnie Winnie Hickson the 20tb, descended upon
this city per mail train on Thursday. The in-
tended bridegroom is a strapping defender, not-
withstanding that the hand of Time has been laid
upon his wool. How early these military heroes
go grey.
The onslaught and retirement of the “Jack and
Jill” co. has left the hearts of many local males
empty. I hear that the telephone lines between
Toowoomba and here were blocked for hours dur-
ing the short sojourn of the Jills in the Highland
city. One big mercantile potentate is said to
have Bought up his own junior clerk’s “ turn ” on
the wire for a guinea. Which was fairly decent;
some men would have taken it by rapine and the
strong hand.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Bananaland Lands Department has been
working overtime lately, and will shortly have
ready for settlement 30,000 acres at Atherton,
38,000 at Bowen, 30,000 at Bundaberg, 22,000 at
Gayndah, 7000 at Ingham, 23,000 at Inglewood,
118,000 at Nanango, 40,000 at Jimbour, (50,000 at
Proston and Cumbanga, 37,000 at Roma, and
45,000 at Wallam and Albany; and there ought
to be enough in that lot to satisfy the appetite of
a few hundred hungry farmers.
William Henry Warman, an 80-years-old
compositor in the Brisbane Government Printing
Office, is said to be the patriarch of his craft in
Australia. He was born in Cumberland-street, Syd-
ney, but was apprenticed in Melbourne to George
Cavanougb, and subsequently worked in the
Patriot office. He moved to response
to an advt. in the Argus for 20 comps. It
was inserted by Robert Nichols, who had
some notion of starting a daily paper.
The project, however, fell through, but War-
man got a job on Parkes’ precarious Empire.
In that office he was implicated in the so-called
Parkes Conspiracy Strike, and got a week’s gaol
for his share in it. When he came out he worked
on the S. M. Herald, and later on the Melbourne
Morning Herald. In 1861 he went to Brisbane,
and snatched type for a while on the Guardian,
then owned by Belbridgeand Fairfax. Belbridge
was appointed first Queensland Government
Printer, and Warman joined him, and off and on
has been there ever since. He has worked under
every Government Printer in Queensland, and
still has no use for spectacles.
“ Twig ” : Out in Central Queensland the
rabbit has not yet found his way, but when he
does he will be there in millions—that is, if the
pig, who is there before him, allows it. As yet it
is only on some stations that the pig is alarmingly
numerous. In dry times the pigs keep well to the
water-courses, and a few shots can be got in before
they all disappear. In case of a litter, we shoot
the old pig, and knock as many of the young on
the head as possible, but if they are very young,
and get away, they soon get weak and fall
victims to some of their hungry relations. It
was just after a big slaughter that our
old collie Lubra left her four pups to
take a run in the scrub. We saw her coming
home. She would walk a few yards and stop and
look back, and when she came closer we found
that she had adopted a motherless sucking pig.
The carpenter had had a week off in town, and
arrived home some days after the pig was installed
in Lubra’s kennel. He was evidently recovering,
but he looked particularly bad when he went to the
storekeeper next morning. “I’ve done it this
time,” he said ; “I wish you would keep an eye
on me for a day or so, and not mention it to any-
one. I’m willing to pay you for your trouble.
Look there ! I know as well as you that it’s a
pup, but I could swear it was a pig.’’ The mean
wretch of a storekeeper did keep an eye on him
for two days at Is. per day. And then he crowned
his infamy by killing and eating the adopted pig,
for which the carpenter, now fully recovered,
belted him severely.


A SYMBOL OF PROGRESS.
The Queensland State Railways supply the want of
river and water communication with the in-
' terior, just as artesian ivater corrects the sur-
' face aridity of the Western areas, and makes
the West of Queensland a garden.
The Communal railways of Queensland are a mili-
tary necessity for the Commonwealth.
The principle of national ownership of the Queens-
land railways was at one period in doubt.
It is now settled finally, so that a bold
policy of railway extension is in the
programme of every Government.
The Queensland State railivays are a visible symbol
of the innate energy of the Queenslander, and
of his determination to open up the country.
Through these lines the wealth and trade
of the great State pulsate as the life
blood through the veins and arteries of
the human body.
Soon the whole State will be linked up, and the lines
will extend from sea to sea.
This will develop internal trade and ex-
change of the wonderfully varied pro-
ducts of the State, while it makes pos-
« sible a huge foreign export trade.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXVIII.
THE RAILWAY SYSTEM.—IV.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
The gauge question for the Queensland railways
was not one to be decided by rule of thumb. It
had been eagerly debated both in England and in
the Southern Colonies (as they were then). It
had been the subject of a despatch from the late
W. E. Gladstone when he was Colonial Secretary
of England. In that despatch the Colonies were
ROMA STREET RAILWAY STATION , BRISBANE.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
advised to adopt the 4ft. gauge. An Act
was passed in N.S.W., which adopted the sft. 3in.
gauge, and that gauge was made compulsory upon
all railway construction in the mother State.
This determination was communicated to the
colonies -of Victoria and South Australia, and
they both adopted that broad gauge. But in the
meantime N.S.W. changed its own mind, and
began to construct upon the 4ft. B|in. gauge.
Victoria and South Australia continued construct-
ing upon the broad gauge principle, though the
latter State departed from it in regard to
some of its later lines. Whether the mistake
made generally .in not having uniformity,
THE RAILWAY ON THE BLACK ALL RANGES.
A zone of scenic bexuty.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
especially in view of military exigencies,
will be corrected by adapting the main lines of
connection to the medium or N.S.W. gauge, may
be left to the future. This mode of securing uni-
fortuity would probably be far more costly than
the reduction of all gauges to the Queensland
3ft. 6in., because immense sums would have to be
spent in reconstructing or altering tunnels, cut-
tings and bridges on the narrow gauge railways,
which have now a greater mileage than either of
the other gauges.
The gauge having been decided upon, construc-
tion was begun. From the moment of the turning of
the first sod of the Queensland State railways a
new path of progress was opened out for the State
—a path which has been steadily trodden, through
many vicissitudes, until it has debouched into the
splendid road with the magnificent vista of to-day.
These were vicissitudes, and serious ones. One
early mistake
cost a high
price; but the
men in com-
mand had their
m i stakes to
make and their
experience to
gain; and the
generations and
Governments of
to-day are the
gainers. The
line was begun
at Ipswich in
February, 1804,
and in a little
over a year the
first section to
Grandchester,
28 miles, was
opened. Th e
Main Range
had then to be
climbed, and
this was suc-
cessfully accom-
plished, and that
splendidly fer-
tile tableland,
the Darling
Downs, was
brought into
communication
with the sea-
port—and with
the world.
Shortly after
this a financial
crisis came upon
Queensland,
which stopped
railwa.y building for a while, as the Government
was unable to find the funds to continue. Advant-
age was taken of the necessitous condition of the
Government to attempt again to introduce the
“land-grant” system. But again the grit of the
pioneer statesmen was shown. They steadfastly
rejected the private enterprise proposal; and also
a second proposal to give them financial accom-
modation on condition that they should give up
their public works policy. Meanwhile, immigra-
tion proceeded apace ; but land settlement was
not properly provided for until 1868 ; and then
the State begun to go ahead. The line was ex-
tended from Toowoomba to Dal by, and from Too-
woomba to Warwick. In 1867 the Central line
was opened from Rockhampton to Westwood.
The Townsville line was begun in 1879, and
opened in 1880, while a line from Cooktown to
Laura was begun in 1884 and completed in 1887.
Again, in the years 1874 onwards, the struggle
of public ownership of railways as against the
land-grant system was renewed, and after a fierce
struggle, we may safely assume, finally settled.
We find associated with this final struggle one of
the big personalities of Queensland politics—Sir
Thomas Mcllwraith. Mcllwraith was certainly
one of the boldest and most masterful statesmen
that Australia has produced. He was a man of
big ideas, and often rash in his methods of carry-
ing them out. His period of power was marked
by some of the most sensational episodes that
have occurred in the history of Australia. He was
on several occasions in conflict with the Imperial
authorities; and, whether right or wrong,
usually got his own way. In the one case in
which he did not succeed in getting his own
way, an Imperial blunder resulted, which lost
a rich island to Britain, and gave a foothold
to neighbors (now happily in friendly relations
with us), whose presence near our coasts may
some day cause us embarrassment. Whether right
or wrong in his policy, Mcllwraith is one of our
great political figures.
Mcllwraith, during his tenure of the portfolio
of Public Works, revived the land-grant railway
ROBB’S MONUMENT, CAIRNS RAILWAY.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer
scheme with a
gigantic project
fora transconti-
nental railway.
He had received
a proposal from
a syndicate of
Melbourne capi-
talists who, in
consideration of
grants of land
along the line,
proposed to
build a railway
from Roma, in
the Southern
District, right
through Queens-
land to the
shores of the
Gulf of Carpen-
taria. Mr. Mac-
alister was Mc-
llwraith’s poli-
tical chief, and
upon inquiry,
and behind the
back of his col-
league, the chief
publicly an-
nounced that he
had rejected the
project. Mcll-
wraith resigned
and waited. In
1870 he came
into power as
Premier, and
without delay
passed through
Parliament a
bold measure,
which ran directly counter to public opinion,
which was then slowly but surely crystallis-
ing upon the subject of State ownership of
railways. Mcllwraith’s measure was called
“An Act to Provide for and Encourage the Con-
struction of Railways by Private Enterprise.”
It provided for land grants in alternate blocks
to be given to individual capitalists or syndi-
cates that would come forward and construct rail-
ways. There was a power reserved to the Govern-
RAILWAY STATION YARD, CAIRNS. The star tiny point of the mountain railways,
which run through lovely scenery.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
ment to purchase each railway after it had been in
private use for five years ; or, in the alternative,
the private syndicate could run it for 21 years,
and at the end of that time it automatically
became the property of the Government.
The working out of this scheme was watched
with intense interest in the other States. Cer-
tainly the great Northern State has been the cyno-
sure of all eyes on many occasions ; and in the
working out of its problems it has had a large
audience. Being a self-governing State, no
interference was possible by the people of the
other States, except that of public discussion
in the press. In this crisis. The Bulletin
proved itself a power. By its attacks
upon the new scheme, and by its powerful
SPRING BLUFF.—A BUSH STATION ON THE QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS.
The focus of the bushmen’s communication with the world’s markets.
Photo. by C. E. S. Fryer.
cartoons—which embodied some of Hopkins’
most pungent satire—the continuance of the
scheme was rendered impossible. The mind
of the Queensland elector was aroused. The
Opposition leader, Sir Samuel Griffith, made the
question a test, and the country declared for him,
and in favor of communal enterprise in railway
building. The transcontinental railway project
was killed, the “ land sharks,” as the railway
syndicates were termed, defeated ; and Sir Samuel
Griffith came in with a majority and a
proposition to borrow £10,000,000 to carry
out a bold State railway construction
scheme. There was a later period at which,
on the coalition of Mcllwraith and Griffith,
these leaders asked Parliament for and
were granted power to negotiate with syndicates
for private rail way construction ; but, doubtless,
speculators knew better than politicians how
strong a feeling existed against the abroga-
tion of the principle of public ownership,
and they wisely refrained from risking the fruit-
less toil which General Fielding expended on
the transcontinental railway scheme of the Mcll-
wraith regime.
Since that time, Federation, though it has not
taken the railways over from the States, has given
the people in the other States a voice in the affairs
of their neighbors. Reinforced by the strong
opinion which exists in the other States, the feel-
ing for communal ownership of railways in
Queensland will be fanned into higher flame. It
is not merely in regard to railways that this
feeling exists. There is an objection to the ex-
ploitation in any way of the great opportunities
afforded in the Australian waste spaces by large
aggregations of private capital. As an instance,
though the necessity of peopling and developing
the Northern Territory—Queensland’s neighbor on
the north-west—is strongly felt throughout the
Commonwealth, as a measure of self-preservation,
a strong resentment is always expressed at any
colonising scheme which is associated with large
grants of the public lands to private syndicates.
It may be confidently said, that the two greatest
problems of public policy yet decided in Australia
were associated with the politics of Queensland.
The prospective immigrant may well rejoice that
the White Australia policy will bring to Queens-
land thousands of industrious white yeomen,
working their own small estates, instead of a few
planters and overseers, or perhaps absentee capi-
talists, employing factors on their huge estates,
with a horde of servile colored laborers. And he
may rejoice equally that State ownership of the
great railway service of Queensland means de-
velopment of the lines for the benefit of the
settler, and of the country generally, rather than
a private monopoly interested only in earning
dividends for the shareholders and fees for the
directors.
I have dwelt on the railway question at some
length because, in this great national service, the
magnificent energy of the young State is seen in
action. In these articles I have refrained from
making comparisons detrimental to the other
Australian States ; but in one respect it cannot be
helped. The distribution of the railway system
of Queensland with a view to the opening up of
the country, the encouragement of settlement,
production, and transport to the markets, is far
superior to that of any of the splendid systems of
the other States. Centralism has been carefully
avoided ; and, so far as access to markets is con-
cerned, nothing better could be devised than the
plan in operation in the northern State. In time,
too, some of these lines will become transcon-
tinental. The line now under construction from
Cairns to Georgetown, when completed, can
easily be extended to meet the line running from
Normanton, in the Gulf, to the Croydon gold-
fields. The Burketown to Camooweal project will
in time be extended to Cloncurry, and, in a
measurable distance of time, the “grey Gulf
waters ” will be connected by rail with the
eastern coast. Above all, the building by
the Commonwealth Government of the trans-
continental railway to Port Darwin will
prove a substantial benefit to Queensland, and
will open up millions of acres of magnificent coun-
try in the western areas of that State. The
Queensland railway system is a magnificent
object-lesson of the energy of the people ; it is a
living token of the confidence which they have in
the future of their State. It is an instrument of
development and of progress which must encourage
any person in Europe who is looking abroad for a
suitable field for his labor or his capital.


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklbournk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Frkmantlb Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
file Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154 —Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hoi.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank if |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Bauk-ing Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72,500 0 0.
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. :
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.:E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
5'
<s>
&
WE
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3NT-S.A7V7.
H|OBt deplete Co., £td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; lion. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW M AN .Manager.
FItEOK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham Co.,
LADIES’ TAILOSS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKEKS.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to E<rvpt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Rest Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Comjjanies, &c.
|ank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710,998
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chajr-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Cami>bkll-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 4.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 1.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamvhlets, I'imetabies, and all other Information
on Anrlication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JDalf/eti/ and Com panij. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn. JPli/rnouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Glass.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Gape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hisrhest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
> HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. S
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining' a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(i e ) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are: — (l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without assoc.ated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Crant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
, SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &C.
B^l
im
HMS
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
F#
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales . Government.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c 0
Owbridge;
£ungTonfc
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
Tung Tonic could not have been won t
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
L remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “OWBRIDGE"
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
M
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. ljd.,
2s !>d.,4s. 6d.,.&i15.
COPYRIGHT.
LLER 5
-
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ _ Length, 12 Inches.
/ - POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Milleii.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhinpinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yon<rala, July 31 and
August 28.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North bo Oairns.
S.S. Gran tala, July 24.
S.S. Innamincka, July 31.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing-, the new twin-screw steamer, “TOFUA,”
July 20, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
LAND, transhipping- at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ ATUA,” leaving
Auckland on July 20 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” August
3, thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and
TAHITI, returning from the latter port to Wellington
per “ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 10 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, August 12,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 20 days, arriving at
Auckland September 23.
For further information to the various offices
and descriptive booklet in Australasia of
apply— the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE. BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
INCLUDING HOTEL
EXPENSES.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-sweet, Sydney.
F.—H.—<S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For- London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - - 17th July
(To Port Said Direct.)
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
UVEIM*OOL d J- £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antisepticaily cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng
4 LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.


Let Edison
Furnish the Music.
Yes, that’s the plan. Never
mind worrying about an expensive
orchestra or an unreliable accom-
panist. Just get an Edison Phono-
graph with the latest records, and
you can enjoy a good homely concert.
You supply the dancers; Edison
will furnish the music. And it’s the
best dance music, too —the music
that the world’s leading bands have
played for the phonograph.
Write to-day for booklets of
machines and records, including the
famous Amberol four-minute records
—the longest made.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
‘COAGULINE,’‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
-Dements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
aXUSTARIMI
Bird’s
Custard iqhh Srult
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish With BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
k
LOOKFORTHE
WINCHESTER
CD
TRADE
MARK
*
1.l ill,
WHEN BUYING
Rifle or Pistol
Cartridges
Winchester Cartridges—
the Red W Brand are
sure fire and accurate. In
Winchester and other
makes of guns they al-
ways give the best results
and results are what
count. They cost a few
pence more than inferior
makes, but they are
pounds better. §, §»
Solo by Dealers Everywhere.
"KURLO”
produces beautiful curls or waves in
a few days without the aid of tongs or
pins. Makes the hair soft and silky,
strengthens the roots, and prevents
hair falling out. Curls the straightest
hair if not cut too short. Pleasant,
perfectly harmless. Not affected by
sea air, damp weather, or heated rooms
Price 216 PER BOTTLE
(Post Free anywhere, full directions)
Send Postal Note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go.,
JOSEPH B. CORCORAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
“ With one of these ‘Wolseley 9 Sheaitflnphis Pst, knd on
‘I.H.C.' Gasolene Engine driviri it, a
that hell make a good cheque and make \ quick. N ' v " ] /
This ‘I.H.C/ Engine's a fair ‘knock oht'-only a bit of a
thing—a 3-horse—but it works this six stand show as dasy/
cs winkin', and never gives a bit of trouble. I /
One of the kids starts it in about 15 seconds, and then
never goes near it, except to give it a drop of oil 'J*
Heard the manager telling the shed bost
that the whole ‘turn-out'—engine, six stand _
shears, and a heap of combs, cutters, and extra parts-onlyran into H l4s'.
If this isn't a ‘chuck in' I never saw one. Why when shearing's over
teres
as many jobs to keep the engine goin' as a man has fingers \ and iods.
A man with a bit of a run a few miles o| f, rides
over yesterday „ and tells me he's thinking of sitin' a
small shearing plant. \ ||
Says he was offered three stands ‘ W6lsel^ } shears
with extras, and a 2-horse ‘I.H.C.' Engine far*£92-10-0
cash, or £lOO on terms up to two years 4
Asps me what I/i thinks,
//t says / lake] it
W 7/
/ /
/f
e\get <m darlyl
/
tj.
r 275)
m
IHC
Si
Send to International Harvester
Company of America, Brisbane or
Sydney , for pamphlet giving full par-
ticulars of remarkable Special Offer
“Wolseley”-“LH.C” Shearing Outfits.
RUPTURE
CURED RY ELECTRICITY Dr. McLaughlin's Electro-Plastic Truss
VV 1 “ 1 1 r » iva H " 1 is a positive cure for all forms of
liupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
\\
!/
vP.
&
Pi
I \
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system —not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force —and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. W T e have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
The McLaughlin go., Dept, 10,
Linden Court, Sydney®
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES-IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. Packet of Ten, sd.


Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know.of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com
pany guarantee to returnitihr6TiAl>amount paid if
Wright's
)ur
//roubles/'/OKcourse, 1- this
e many failures,
iere have been only
cure, does .hot
lu ,
bsi/done i,
and, As-A matter
thrde instances in in which the refund
was claimed. I-fyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
gjjffigfeht to cure a severe and long-standing case.
A POLICY FOR thk COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inf] animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
I which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’SMEDICATOR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’ treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE GOULDS MFG. CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.SA.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
GOULDS
New Diaphragm Suction Pumps
The simplest form of pump known
for handling muddy, gritty water or
sewerage.
For General Contractors Use,
for pumping out excavations, sewers,
cellars, bilge water on vessels, etc., there
is nothing better as the foreign substances
in the water cannot injure the pumps.
They will handle an enormous quantity
of water with little labour. Built in three
sizes with capacities from r,Boo to 6,000
gallons per hour. Bottom or side suction.
Best material used throughout.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI,
Packet of Twelve ... ... Gd
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
ANDREW McGEE,
The Auto-Strop Safety Razor is the most ingenious shaver that ever removed
stubble from a chin.
It can’t cut the flesh or tear the skin; and the patent stropping convenience
which is part and parcel of the Auto outfit strops the blades for you.
SIMPLE RELIABLE ECONOMICAL.
Auto-Strop Safety Razor, 25/- Extra Blades, 3/- per dozen.
Posted to any part of Australia, 4d. extra.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, cr. HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
A B. 1 - A
Cinematograph Showmen
Throughout Australia !
0)0
0
CZZ3
ffi
«•
0
Q)
©
a®
We’ve a New List of Specially
Priced Films on All Subjects.
Write for the list—the prices will be a
revelation.
Over Half a Million Feet of Films
to Choose from— all in good con-
dition, and subjects not hackneyed.
Films Sent on Approval to any of
our Customers, and if you are not
doing business with us, we will return
your money if the films are not
approved of.
We are the Largest Cinematograph
House in Australia.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET, royal^hotel,
SYDNEY.
PROFIT to FLOCKMASTERS. NO TROUBLE to EXPERTS . EFFICIENCY and COMFORT for SHEARERS.
The FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING
MACHINES and GRINDERS are Unequalled.
Please write for Catalogues and full particulars to
YOUR PROFIT lies in utilising ELECTRICITY.
You need to realise the vital importance of
guarding against the loss of power in trans-
mission. Inefficient equipment means waste of
time and money.
THE FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE CO., Head Office, Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 175 William Steeet, Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address : “ FALKINER-BOLL,” MELBOURNE. Code Word: “TRIUMPHANT.”
[«
■p
%4
1
ip
G%
J
sF
4
U
X
y
1
«l\
t
5 1?
•/
r
=*J
M-
_ /
n
<£►>»
■
wgf/
For
o>
%o
n
WEDDING PRESENTS of EXCELLENT QUALITY and VALUE.
STEWART, DAWSON & CO. (Australia), LTD., Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Large Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free.
No. G472l—Silver-plated Sauce Boat and
Tray, 18/6.
No. 347 —Silver-plated Gong,
with Striker, £l/15/-
No. sS4l—Silver-plated Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Stand, with
Butter Knife and Cheese Knife, £l/17/6.
No. G942B—The Thistle Sugar and Cream, Embossed
and Silver-plated, £2/10/-
No. F29s4 —Very Handsome Hin.
Chased and Silver-plated Fern
Pot, £4/15A
No. G3B22—Full Size Engraved and Silver-
• placed Teapot, £l/5/-
No. 370—Silver-plated Bead Edge Entree Dish,
with Detachable Handle, £2/5/-
Other Designs at £2/15/-, £4, £4/4/-
No. H 4609 —A 1 Quality Silver-
plated and Cut Glass Butter
Dish, 14/6..
No. G 51.18— Silver-plated
Candlestick, Thistle
Design, 13/6 pair.


“ DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria. ’ '
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
J&.TAHT.T*.™ ißio For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TO T.TiTVm °. n Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
HAS MONET
, _ _ *■ " oMUMruciII r ropertieSi or o
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mort<ra<re Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaving-
up to i-O per cent, of the loan during* any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. it. J. Black. M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe M.L C. •
HFAd'oefipf S7 E PTTT street wnwv 1 - Mana?er anft Aou,arv : Richard Teece. F.1.A.. F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD 01J ICE, Si PITT STREET, STDNET. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
3 u,
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. YVrite for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing'
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
jor Great Britain and Ireland—Me.-sis. J. C. Plimpton & Co.. Liverpool.
"RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE “NEVER-STOP ” HUMMINC TOP.
TH»
MUWC*L3PINaIii
TOP
Wm
This new metal hum-
ming- top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and hand-
somely painted in five
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal and the spring
of tempered steel, is
practically indestruc-
tible. Spins about
'hree minutes, bum-
ming all the time.
Price 9d. each post
free anywhere, o r
i hree tops posted free
to any address for 2/-
PUZZLE POCKET
KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket.
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzletoshut
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
directions, 2/2, post, free anywhere.
' S6c-
U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL
will stop the most
vicious dog' (or nisi is)
without permanent
injury Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, niglit-
w ate h men, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 2r> feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New .Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H, L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Ha.vmarket Post Office.
IMO. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
£2OO FO^^WORDS.
[GAN YOU
i WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
I intend to give away for correct answers to this
| puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
. words that the picture represents, write us at
> once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
| are right we will at once send you the prize.
[ If more than one correct answer is received
!the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
for reply. Only one reply from a family
allowed. National Publishing Co.,
> t’ o A'h Street, Syduev, N.SAV.
BY LETTER. Reliable inform-.-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning' the obtaining- of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention anr| wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it
(including drawings, etc.). ‘ No charge made for such re-
port, and allcommunications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
“ Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
DO N’T LOOK OL D.
DARKEN
TOUR
£53) m
WITH
M
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bnttlp<: 1 /fi 0F ALL CHEM,STS
111 DiILLIUOy I/O. AND STORES.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficiwy for chest complaints.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
B
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Ahenburys”
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN HANBURYS Ltd*, and Fridge & Loftus Stra
Foods for Infant.'
ets, SYDNEY.
CURES
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has been the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by all Qdemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland —Elliott Eros., Sydney & Brisbane.
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
CURES
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford,
writes :—“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED ’ was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubles,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years;
I take that when nothing else will give relief.. One
or two bottles invariably set me up. It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bottle to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You may make what use of this
you like. ” —December n th, 1907.
COUGHS
*
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.:
“The Song of the Cheap,” by G. It.
Sims, reprinted from London Referee:—
Wife to Husband.
“I’ve saved a penny on the toy
I bought for baby Anne,
And fourpenoe on the pair of boots
I bought for little Dan.
I know that England’s task is hard
Her Unemployed to keep,
But foreign goods are cheap, my love,
But foreign goods are cheap.
“ Our home was ‘ made in Germany,’
One sees it at a glance ;
Our food comes from Ameria,
Our ornaments from France.
I know that to their foodless homes
Our starving workers creep,
But foreign goods are cheap, my love,
But foreign goods are cheap.
“ The shops are full of all the things
That come from foreign lands,
It’s hard to find an article
That’s made by English hands.
Of course it’s very sad, but then
The benefit we reap
By buying foreign goods, my love,
For foreign goods are cheap.”
Husband to Wife.
“The shops are full of foreign goods
While English workers starve,
Our pasture lands are desolate
While foreign beef we carve ;
The works where British goods are made
Are closing fast, I hear ;
So foreign goods are dear, my love,
So foreign goods are dear.
“The children of the Unemployed
Upon the rates are thrown,
And we must feed them every day
As well as feed our own ;
Their fathers cannot find them food
If out of work, it’s clear ;
So foreign good* are dear, my love,
So foreign goods are dear.
“The trade by which the English lived
Has gone across tne sea,
The State must kill the little left
To get its £ s. d.
A crushing rate we pay to help
The idle workers here ;
So foreign goods are dear, my love,
So foreign goods are dear.
“ Each foreign thing you purchase robs
A Briton of his bread ;
And we must pay in rate and tax
That still he may be fed.
Our toilers to the workhouse go,
Their end a pauper’s bier ;
So foreign goods are dear, my love,
So foreign goods are dear.
“ For every penny that you save
The State must pay a pound,
Because the wage our workers lose
By State aid must be found ;
While work our toilers seek in vain,
And starving women weep,
No foreign goods are cheap, my love,
No foreign goods are cheap.
“ I Itnow you have a frugal mind,
My best of gentle wives,
But are the paltry pence you save
Worth English homes and lives?
When Labor frets till angry threats
To lips that famish leap,
No foreign goods are cheap, my love,
No foreign goods are cheap.”
Geo. R. Sims.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.iS.W.
&he LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
Fishing' Tackle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
THE MAINE
f?)Fle
Sheu/ing Pifle flparr
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
ICAN’T
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore. arm. The action used, on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple,'consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with Vfre same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2|lb., fitted with plain Y back sight -g q f
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W . 2s 2d. Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiif, Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is6<l.
CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.**
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How' to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fld. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established S 5 I ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
KEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOR ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage; Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book ok Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet ’and Gamble and "Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Tine Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic/nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 26; Large Size, 46. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
r W£ OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REIVIEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion M
the only macliiae on the
market covered by a
written Guarantee for
five ven’-s.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of exoense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
' among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pav on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
re liable machine on the market, backed up by a .5-vear guarantee by the makers, and a written
grarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
A NOLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., OPP.0 PP . C.P.0., Sydney, R.S.W.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Po6t Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 g G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES 1
mmbhm—wan—am—bmwwu'wmi m
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,'NorvousCongfcti,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s IK MAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Rn d by all Chemists.


HEUMATISM
Sciatica, and Kindred Troubles.
Rub Zam-Buk IN to Rub
all Deep-seated Pain OUT.
As an embrocation for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Neuralgia, and all deep=seated pains, Zam=Buk possesses
many superior merits. The refined vegetable juices and
essences of which Zam=Buk is composed are so pure that
they penetrate right through the tissues, get at the very
root of the trouble, and, once there, simply drive the pain
out. With Zam=Buk there is no waste—one of its many
advantages over a liquid preparation. With a liquid, half
of it is wasted through running off the part to be massaged
on to the floor. With Zam=Buk you take out with the
finger the exact amount you may require. Under the
friction and heat of the hand it soon liquidises, forming
an embrocation of unequalled efficacy. Rheumatism and
similar excrutiating pains usually occur about the joints of
the lumbar region, and may be caused through cold or
damp. Neuralgia effects the nerves of the head and face.
Zam°Buk should be freely and vigorously rubbed in for
several minutes each night and morning, when any swelling
which may be present will be reduced, the pain soothed,
and the muscles will be so stimulated that in future
they will be better capable of resisting cold and damp.
Rub Zam=Buk in well and often.
4f
71
For all winter |
skin-troubles
Zara-Buk is invalu-
able. For sore-throat
anri chest-cold,
rubbed well in, it is
unequalled ; and by
rubbing- Zam - Buif
between the hands
and inhaling the
pleasant and power-
ful antiseptic fumes,
a finer remedy for a
cold in the head
could not be found.
Zatn-Buk is a house-
hold necessity a
family safeguard—
its wide range of
utility making it al-
ways in demand. Of
all chemists and
stores at 1/6 per pot,
or 3/6 family size
(containing nearly
four times the 1/6).
Mr. G. Parkinson, of the Maylands Dyeing and Cleaning Works,
North Avenue, Maylands, Perth, W.A., says:—“l suffered from
rheumatics and stiff joints for a number of years, especially in the
winter time. I was hardly able to get about, and resorted to the usual
home remedies in the way of hot baths and rubbing with sundry lini-
ments and embrocations, but all to no avail. Some months ago a friend,
knowing how I suffered, recommended me to give Zam-Buk a trial,
which I happily did. I derived great benefit from the first three or
four applications, the wonderful soothing and easing effect being very
gratifying. Persevering with Zam-Buk, I am most glad to say the
pains and stiffness disappeared.”
Doctors Enthusiastic Over New Discovery.
DR. HARTMANN SOLVES NEURASTHENIC MYSTERY.
Explains the Brilliant Success of the New Treatment for Nerve Wrecks.
How Nervous Disorders are Cured by Brain Feeding.
“Neurasthenia has been the Central Africa of medicine
—an unexplored territory into which few men enter.”
These words are eloquent testimony to the great mystery
that surrounds the most common of human ailments.
VVe are able, however, to chronicle the fact that at
least one scientist has penetrated to the heart of that
mystery, and has brought us back a warning and —health.
There can be no more fascinating study than the study
of that great mysterious force the ordinary worker is
content to call “ the nervous system.” The hidden force
that guides our every action, that controls our hopes,
that decides our ambitions and aspirations—it is this
power that we desire chained down and shielded ; then
we “ know ” our battle is over.
When it is remembered that the percentage of illness
grouped under “nervous weakness” or neurasthenia, is
higher than any other class of ailment, it will be realised
how serious a matter is dealt with here, and this will lend
an added greatness to Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant discovery.
The cure for neurasthenia, says Dr. Hartmann, is food
—brain food,
In these days of high-pressure living, with fierce social
and commercial competition, there is a strain put upon
the nervous system which not one man in a hundred can
healthily withstand.
The effect of the strain is shown either in extreme
irritability, lack of concentration, irresponsible thought,
and finally insanity. The story of the neurasthenic is,
perhaps, best told in the following chart, which shows
clearly the descent and how swiftly we are taken to the
end :
Sensitiveness
Restlessness j Irritability
Melancholia | Nervousness | Pessimism
Hysteria I Fearfulness I Inaptitude for I Dizziness
| | Steady Work |
Brain Fag | Insomnia
Mental Derangement
Suicidal Tendency
Somewhere in that chart the trouble of nine out of
every ten men and women is placed. It is the neurasthenic
chart, and once a person can recognise his symptoms
thereon, he should know that -within him is the worst of
all diseases, a disease that unchecked can but lead to one
end —total collapse.
Dr. Hartmann’s cure for the neurasthenic is brain-feed-
ing. That this treatment, under Dr. Hartmann’s
method, is effective is proved by the splendid testimony
voluntarily affirmed by medical men in the highest
position.
This method of treatment, that Dr. Hartmann has
proved to be truly successful, may be thus detailed.
Food, when taken into the body, is used in various
ways for general nourishment. Certain foods are used for
fat production, others for the manufacture of bone ; and,
yet again, other parts of food are used up in the produc-
tion of brain tissue. Now, since all nervous affections
arise in the brain, and are caused by malnutrition— i.e. ,
its starvation—the cure for neurasthenia lies in the ques-
tion of supplying- the nerve centre with proper food to
allow due strengthening-.
Now, in all foods—in some more than others—there are
brain-forming materials. They are scientifically known
as Mylene or Lecithine. Under natural conditions the
best food contains but a trace of this wonderful substance,
and, therefore, it is impossible in the ordinary way to
absorb into the system a sufficient quantity to effect an
appreciable improvement in a neurasthenic case.
“ It is, in brief, a question of administering a sufficient
supply of nerve-feeding elements to balance the rapid
waste of nerve tissue, caused by the unnatural strain of
present day life, by a rapid repair.”
The result of Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant experiments has
been to prepare a nerve food in which the brain-forming
element is sufficiently strong to at once have a beneficial
effect.
To his new discovery Dr. Hartmann has given the title
“ Antineurasthin,” and already most remarkable cures
have been effected by its administration.
Antineurasthin is a preparation which contains all the
nerve-building materials “Lecithine,” in a highly con-
centrated form ; it is easily assimilated, and the benefits
it confers are lasting. It has, therefore, nothing in com-
mon with medicines, drugs, or other stimulants—it is
the natural nerve food which nourishes the nerve system
independently of the body. To everyone requiring a
genuine tonic—to the man whose nerves have become
unstrung through business worries, to the woman who
has become supersensitive or morbid—this simple remedy
will prove an inestimable benefit.
The following testimony will certainly interest those
who are nervous patients. It comes from one, of the
most brilliant physicians in Europe—Dr. Guiseppe Lap-
poni, Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness the Pope :
. “ Rome.
“ Dear Sir, —I made trial in my private practice of
Antineurasthin, and shall prescribe it henceforward, as it
is an admirable agent for toning and strengthening the
nervous system. I take the liberty of congratulating,
you on your discoverv.
(Signed) “Dr. GUISEPPE LAPPONI,
“ Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness Pope Pius X.”
This is praise indeed, and the most satisfactory feature
of Dr. Hartmann’s success is that the congratulation of.
his medical confreres is overwhelmingly supported by the
testimony of actual users of Antineurasthin.
The fact cannot be too strongly impressed upon the
minds of readers that nervous disorder, no matter how-
slight, must not be neglected or played with. The small
worry of to-day becomes the morbid melancholia or break-
down of to-morrow. It is useless to endeavor to seeli
temporary stimulation in chemical or so-called tonics,
which can have but a serious after effect—a Loss or
Nervous Force.
Nervous disorders must be cured, and if, on once
glancing at the chart given, you recognise your trouble,
we advise you to at once investigate the claims ,of
Antineurasthin.
On sending one shilling in postal note or stamps of any
Australasian State to the wholesale distributor, 11. A.
Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane, Queensland, a sample
supply of Antineurasthin, and in addition a copy of an
interesting treatise on “Nervous Disorders,.” as well as
Dr. Kuhner's pamphlet, will be forwarded
The Fatherland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W W HA Tis the Australian’s Fatherland ?
M/jfy' Is H England .?
r r Is it Ireland ?
Is it where the haggises bloom ?
Or where the distant Taffy waves his whiskers in
the breeze?
It is where the great Pacific beats with Titan
strokes terrific—
It is where the tall hills loom ;
And the Toilers and the Thinkers shape the
Nation’s destinies !
It is where the axes swinging psalms of hopeful
strength are singing—
Where the choir of rolling hammers chants of
mighty Days ahead.
It is Here, in our great Lone Land,
It is here within our own land
Where we raise old Freedom’s standard, calling
Peoples from the dead.
Where is the Australian’s Fatherland l
Back in Europe l
Or in Britain ?
Is it far beyond the sea ?
Not in Deutschland, France or Denmark, or the
Netherlands or Spain ;
It is Here where Toil is blessed, and the skies are
cirrus-tressed—
It is here where men are free,
And the gods that humans worship are not ghastly
gods of gain !
It is here where blazing forges fling their chal-
lenge to the gorges—
Where the mountain-heads are humbled and, are
withed with bolt and rail;
It is here, O sons Australian,
Where we face the countless alien—
It is Here, O Young Republic—hail, Australia !
Homeland, hail!
What is the Australian’s Fatherland ?
Is it Queensland ?
* South Australia ?
Is it Vici or New South Wales ?
Is it Groperland or Tassy—north or south or west
or east?
’Tis the Continent United, where the wrongs of
men are righted—
And where superstition fails,
And the free man fronts defiant unto diddering
king and priest !
Where the forthright word is spoken, where the
ancient lies are broken—
Hoary falsehood’s helots bowed to in the tortured
Long Ago;
Where the White Man’s Commonweal is,
There a Nation strong and leal is—
’Tis the Fatherland we strive for, hearts a-phant
and souls a-glow !
Who builds the Australian s Fatherland l
Do the paltry ?■
Do the Insects ?
Is it raised by little men ?
Wades and Moores, and Philps and Kidstons—,
puny creatures of the States ?
Nay, the Builders are the Toilers—they who feed
the engine-boilers,
They who work with brain and pen—
Those whose anvils clang exultant where the
, foundry palpitates 1
Not the idlers and the shirkers—hail the Army
Corps ,of Workers,,
Hail the blacksmith and the plumber—all who
toil with patient zeal;
Where the steelworks’ furnace brightens,
See the Builders —hail the Titans !
Hail the Bismarcks clad in basil who uplift the
Commonweal 1 , (
. Who serves the Australian’s Fatherland l
Do the Fatmeh
Or Importers % » , , ~ j
With their flapping cargo-lists—
Those who drag the foreign shoddy from the lands
beyond the sea ?
Do the sainted thieves and sweaters, binding men
with bitter . , . \
Do the land-monopolists,
Those to whom the sheep ;is sacred far above
humanity ?
Nay, the helpers are the strivers—are the blue-,
clad engine-drivers,
They who turn the wheels of Industry and rush
j the looms of trade ;
\ Those whose steam-impacted pistons
Smite the miles of rail-linked distance— ■'
These are hauling White Australia up the Future’s
shining grade !
Whose is the Australian’s Fatherland t
j Is it Asia’s ?■
Is it Europe’s ?
Unto whom does it belong ?
It is Ours, and we are stewards for the White
Men yet to come;
It is ours to toil and graft for, turning wheel and
crank and shaft for—
It is ours to fill with song,
Till the armed and strong Republic beats its
world-defying drum !
Here the hearts beat true and eager—we shall ;
face the battle-leaguer,
We shall roll away all evil, cheering noble deeds
and right;
All the small mean things abhorring,
All the greater things adoring,
If our Fatherland be threatened, we shall dare to
keep it White !
Hail ye the Australian’s Fatherland!
’Tis the White Man s !
’ Tis the Toiler’s!
k Home for White Men, brave and true —
Home for all who sigh for freedom, fighting- want,
and dull despair ;
Sweated serfs of; distant Britain; see‘thcPathway''
splendor-litten—
Here is elbow-room for you ;
Here is refuge for the White Man fleeing forth
from pain and care !
’Tis the Fatherland for free men, from the Thames
,J unto the Niemen —
Here is Hope—yea, strength and promise of the
Blazing Days ahead.
- Leave the dead lands, cold and dreary,
Ye in Europe, bent and weary,
HeAr the war-song of Australia calling nations
from the dead.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
Apiti.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A PITI slid from the bush, and crept to
the water’s edge. At his feet the Pacific
caressed the white sand of Mono Bay ;
overhead stars infinite diffused a subtle light. In
the marshy ground on the left of the bay a bittern
boomed loudly and persistently. Apiti was an
outlaw. That was what half a dozen daily papers
journals, shameless in their ultra-
respectability—had termed him. Being journals
with a stake in the country and reputations to
match, their readers believed in them implicitly.
It was a slack day when a wire from Gisborne
first introduced Apiti to their august notice, and
a shoal of callow youths with reputations to
acquire were turned loose to write up the phe-
nomenon. At the end of six months, Apiti, still
at large, had evolved from a bushranger into an
outlaw. Then the callow youths clamored in
united chorus for Danby.
Thomas Brookham Danby was plethoric. Also
he knew the private history of half the vagabonds
in the Dominion, and with them he was mostly on
friendly terms. Hence his success. But Danby
had limitations which none realised better than
himself, • As a city sleuth, a frequenter of frowsy,
disreputable urban districts and a demolisher of
two-up schools, he had no equal. This Danby
knew. Outside that environment he had had
little experience. The papers which had made
his reputation, and the people who accepted the
papers’ opinions as they never accepted the
Gospel, did not recognise this fact. To them
Danby was invincible —a combination of Sfherlock
Holmes and Buffalo Bill. Therefore let Danby
the Great go out into the wilds and capture the
desperado that the people might fall down and
Worship him some more. It was a great chance for
Danby, so the dailies said.
Apiti stood with the Pacific laving his bare
feet, and waited. As he waited he thought.
Mostly it was of Marama the Moon-child and
Marama’s baby, little Mere. It was three months
since Apiti had seen them. With the coming of
Danby, Apiti had been obliged to leave the
kaingas, which had given him temporary sanctuary,
and take to the bush. Twenty miles to the south-
ward of Mono Bay was the kainga of the
Ruarangis, which sheltered Marama and little
Mere. Somewhere between those two places was
Danby the Sleuth. This Apiti knew. Two years
before Apiti, then a peaceful dweller in the land
of his people and a mighty shearer of the palceha’s
sheep, had first seen Marama. Flushed with
success and flush of money, Apiti was good to look
upon, and Marama—well, she was Marama the
Moon-child, Only Haere Tutiki, the half-caste
trooper who had marked Marama down as his
own, objected. Perhaps his objection fanned the
flame of passion. At the end of a three days’
spree in Gisborne, Apiti, his blood afire with
waipiro,, had heard a story of trouble at the kainga
—trouble between Marama and Haere Tutiki. It
was then that he took another man’s horse and
rricie hell-for-leather to the kainga, only to find
the story false. Apiti was a horse-thief. The
respectable daily papers were short of copy, so
they outlawed him.
Apiti, with a tryst to keep, crouched at the
water s edge and waited. Two days before, Tame,
the Thin One, evading the searchers in the bush,
had found Apiti in the old whare at Mono Bay.
And Tame was the bearer of bad tidings. Winter,
the bete noir of the brown people, had fastened his
relentless fangs in little Mere. Apiti had heard
the news stolidly, with indifference, seemingly;
but he was going back. It was useless for Tame
to point out the danger, the vigilance of Haere
Tutijki, the cleverness of Danby the Great.
The creak of oars in rowlocks broke the silence.
A boat with two figures in it loomed up and
the beach. Apiti pushed off and
climbed in. They pulled out of the bay, hardly
exchanging a greeting, and, catching the breeze,
hoisted sail. The boat sped southward.
Ttie kainga of the Ruaringas formed three sides
of a square, the south end being curtained off by
greejfi bush,; In the centre was a dusty compound
strewn wiih garbage and other insanitary matter.
Ganges drawn up by the shore end of a skeleton-
like 1 jetty; indiciited that the Ruarangis were
fishefr folkv Oyer everything hung the stench
of decaying fish.
Old Tamatea ran the boat alongside the jetty,
and! Apiti climbed out. An oar silenced the
‘dozen curs which yelped a greeting, and Apiti
saw, on-the far side of the compound, a light in
.Marama’s whare. The rest of the kainga was in
darkness. With fear in his heart, he walked
boldly across the dusty .space. Outside the door
he paused a second, then pushed it open and
stepped in. The whare, illuminated by three
candles, was empty./ To Apiti’s brain/ quickened
by fear, the emptiness spelled treachery; but
vyhose—Marama’s—Haere Tutiki’so-r ? With
a mighty spring he was through the door and
facing his enemies. In his hand was a heavy
manuka pole. He met the first charge valiantly,
and old Tamatea went down with a broken head.
They came again, and Apiti drove them back,
blind berserk. . The dust rose.in clouds, biting the
lungs of the combatants and obscuring one from
the other. Thrice he drove them back, and each
time someone' bit'‘the'dlist. The fourth time there
was only Tame and Haere Tutiki and Danby.
The smell of ancient conger was suffocating.
Apiti was close to the bush now, and Tame was
down. Apiti turned. Danby’s revolver spoke
The outlaw stiffened a moment,
them tumbled forward, loosely. Over the kainga
a great silence settled. The red blood was sucked
up. by the fast settling dust. And after that
Danby’s reputation rose in the daily papers till
-the-greatness of it blotted out the horizon.
MAORI MAC.


“THE, WINTER IS AT HAND!”
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand ; _
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night ?—Richard 111. 11., 3.
Nature never takes us by surprise ; she always gives a clear signal when change or danger is near. A sharp pain or dull ache
in the back is Nature’s warning of Kidney Disease. Is it any wonder that the sufferer from Kidney Disease is short-tempeied
and irritable, nervous and despondent ? His back gives him no peace, day and night; the least change in the weather tells on
him, and he is afraid to venture outside the door if it’s damp or cold; he can’t stoop, can’t walk far, can t collect his thoughts,
has no appetite, no vim. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills give tone to the kidneys, and expel from the system the uric acid
and kidney poisons that cause Backache, Bheumatism, Sediment, Gravel, Dropsy, Urinary Disorders. During the winter
months you are mA’e likely to get colds. And colds very often affect the kidneys ; therefore, at the first sign of backache or
any other symptom of kidney derangement, take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Bead the following testimony .
Cold in the Kidneys
caused Severe Backache .
Cured by Doan's Pills*
Mrs. F. Reardon, Goodman Terrace, off
Hart Street, Sydney, says About six
months ago my husband took cold in the
kidneys, and he began to put in a bad time
with an aching back. It was so severe that
he could not rest at night, and through the
day he worked in great agony. He should
have knocked off work, he was so ill, but
managed to keep on. A friend advised him
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He
obtained a box, and used the medicine with
first-rate results. He has become a great
enthusiast for Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. He recommends them to everybody
he hears complaining of a sore back.”
Four years later Mrs. Reardon says :
“ We have still the same good opinion of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as when the
above statement was made four years ago.
They are the finest kidney remedy to be
obtained. In the trying winter weather
people should use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and there would be less suffering.”
mnv
\vV\
Xk
W
v \\
v.
M
8
$
\ x '
Severe Chill; No Rest from
Backache .
Lasting Cure by Doan's Pills*
Mrs. Yerhay, 56 Grose Street, Camper-
iown, Sydney, says “ Six years ago I got
a severe chill, and from that day I have had
no rest from backache. It hampered all
my movements ; I could scarcely turn in bed
and could not stoop. I got little rest, and
consequently always felt tired out, and
could not do my work in the day. I tried
nany remedies, but they did me no good,
and I was hopeless, and thought I would
never get my back better. However, I was
advised to use Doan’s Backache • Kidney
Pills, and this wonderful remedy cured me.
I feel sure lam permanently cured. There
is a lot of backache among women, and I
hope many will benefit by my cure and get
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Two years later Mrs. Yerhay says
“ Yes, I am still well to-day, and have been
ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me two years ago. These pills so
strengthen the kidneys that they are fortified
against cold.”
' Every Picture
Tells co Story/*
DOAN’S,
Remember!
DOAN’S
Bacßache
Kidney
PILLS
At all Chemists &
Storekeepers, 2/9
per box; or from
Foster - McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Evasi.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS spot wherein the weeds abound
Is called unconsecrated ground—
Yet on it shines the sun as fair
As on yon sanctified parterre.
And softly falls the gentle rain
Upon these graves of men self-slain,
As on the blessed quilt of sward
Of those who perished in the Lord.
Come good, come bad, come great or small,
The kindly earth cares nought at all—
She has no feud with Live or Dead,
She keeps for each an equal bed.
And Mother Nature, frank and free,
Is full of strangest irony,
And from the ashes of a Pope
May grow a hangman and his rope.
The proud Archbishop, on whose fine,
Eat fingers white a ring doth shine,
May, some day, with his amethyst.
Become a howling Atheist.
The old Egyptians knew right well
This irony, and would compel
The Grey Ape Time to lift the lids
Of Everlasting Pyramids.
In Boulak, in a case of state,
Stands Rameses, whom men called Great ;
But what Museum has in store
The frame of William Conqueror?
God made, and may His worlds destroy,
But Helen—Helena of Troy !
His fairest work He dare not mar,
And of her dust He made a star.
And if He had no larger scope
The promise keeps, and keeps the hope
That He will, in His gracious way,
Our enemies—God bless them !—slay.
The bitter laurels brought the scene
Again. A god he must have been
Who stood amidst that coward clan
Erect. A god ? By God, a Man !
I spoke to him—and then said He,
“ I know —I died at Thirty-Three.
Then came the Cross which ye adore. . .
I trembled on the Mount before. ”
I saw a cripple half-alive,
Yet blithe and keen at sixty-five.
“ What could that youngster know? ” said he,
“ He chucked the game at Thirty-Three,”
“Evasi!” It was well to say,
-Yet, when we meet on Judgment Day,
You’ll lightly throw a rose to me,
I shall not miss it. .. you shall see.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Jobling’s Topometer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PEOPLE who have travelled much at
night by train will have realised the want
which Jobling tried to fill with his top-
ometer.
It was designed on similar lines to a cyclometer,
and was intended to show exactly where a train
was at any given moment. One machine was to
be fitted in each carriage, so that a drowsy pas-
senger for, say, Ashburton, could, by lifting his
eyes to the dial, read that Rakaia, say, was the
next station, so that he would be safe in sleeping
for another half-hour.
The topometer was worked from a sprocket
wheel on the axle. The model Jobling had in his
office was very neat and compact, and Jobling was
most serious about its capabilities.
He made it to suit the requirements of the Christ-
church-Dunedin express run, and was constantly
interviewing the railway authorities, urging them
to have it 'installed on a trial trip.
I often amused myself, when I visited Jobling’s
office, by turning the wheel and seeing the dif-
ferent names appear on the dial. At every 10
miles a bell rang. Supposing I started it from
Christchurch ; after-1 had turned it one mile, the
words “ Addington—don’t stop ! ” sprang into the
space marked “ Next station.” The instrument
always gave the name of the next station when
the train was one mile from the last one.
Eventually Jobling obtained permission to
instal a machine in the mail-car on the express,
and his delight was positively childish. His cal-
culations proved correct, and the machine was of
great service to the mail sorters.
On the return trip the instrument revolved in a
reverse direction, and showed considerable judg-
ment in giving names to the stations.
Jobling was triumphant.
I said, “ Put not your trust in machinery.”
In reply he showed me a letter from the rail-
ways ordering two dozen topometers for use on
the mail trains between Christchurch and Dun-
edin. Despite my scepticism, I began to think
that, with care, this thing might prove a gold-
mine to Jobling. That was in September.
Travellers became interested in the topometer,
and relied on it to apprise them of the names of
stations, paying no attention to the porters’
unintelligible cries; and the name and fame of
Jobling were a by-word in the land.
It was the Christmas traffic that brought woe
to Jobling.
Long trains pulled out of Christchurch and
Dunedin, and there were some carriages which
were not fitted with Jobling’s topometer. But it
was arranged that every second car should contain
one.
I left Christchurch by the 11 p.m. train on
Christmas Eve for Dunedin. I forgot to notice if
a topometer was attached to my carriage till we
were nearing Rakaia. On looking round I saw
there was one, and it was informing travellers
brazenly that the next station was Timaru.
Timaru was 64 miles distant, due south.
After we left Rakaia I watched the dial. It
said, “ Norman by—don’t stop.”
The next station was Chertsey, and we did
stop. I began to wonder what the other machines
were doing.
I found the one in the car ahead of mine just
running us into Dunedin. It was so palpably
wrong no one noticed it, and when it reached
Dunedin and started from Christchurch again, no
one was surprised.
Further ahead a topometer recorded the fact
that the next station was Oamaru —it bore the
legend “ Running North.”
We were running south. It turned out that this
car had been shunted on a Y switch, and had been
turned in the process. Presumably, the porters
were too busy to adjust the instrument.
As I stood watching this meter an American
approached.
“ Pretty cute affairs,” he remarked.
I agreed.
“ But Christmas don’t seem to agree too well
with them,” he said.
“Seems not,” I replied.
“I guess not. According to these machines,
this is the longest train I ever was on. The front
car is near Dunedin, and the last one is just leaving
Addington.”
I went next into a second smoker. When I opened
the door a babel of sounds reached my ears. A
stout German was just completing the mutilation
of Jobling’s topometer.
“I vos asleep,” he explained to me, “ und I
voke und look to see vat time my station come.
I vant to go to Ashburton, and that dam clock
say ‘Rakaia nex’ station.’ So I vant to sleep
again, und now ve are at Vinchester —t’irty miles
past Ashburton.”
Matters were becoming serious.
At Timaru I saw a young fellow and his girl
pacing the station platform, arm in arm, most
affectionately. Later on at Studholme Junction
I saw the same man rushing wildly along the plat-
form, evidently greatly perturbed.
“ Anything wrong ? ” I asked.
“Look here,” he said, “is this a blessed night-
mare or not? ”
“ 1 hope not,” I replied.
“ This is Palmerston, ain’t it ?”
“ No. Palmerston’s 60 miles ahead.”
“ Thank God ! ” he breathed.
Our engine whistled.
“Get on here and tell me,” I suggested.
He came.
“It was this way. You see my girl and myself
are going to Maheno to spend Christmas with her
people. After we left Timaru we both went
to sleep, and when I awoke that thigammy-bob on
the wall said the next station was Palmerston.
It knocked me sideways to think we had passed
our station. But I didn’t waken her. Glad I
didn’t. I’ll go and tell her now.”
He went; but he returned presently.
“ She’s gone,” he gasped.
“What?”
“Got off here, thinking it was Palmerston, I
suppose. Well, she has friends at Studholme,
and I’ll wire her from Waitaki. I wonder if I’m
mad, or what ? ”
I did my best to reassure him, telling him there
would be a train in the morning.
Then I started back to my car. As I passed a
bird-cage compartment, someone rapped on the
window. 1 looked in and saw Jobling !
“You?” I cried. “I thought-.you were at
Waimate. Where are you bound for ?”
“ Christchurch.”
“Hell !” I ejaculated, forgetting myself.
“Possibly, later. At present, Christchurch.”
I should explain that at Studholme the north
and south through trains meet, and the train from
the Waimate branch meets them both, and returns
to Waimate.
“ You’re on the wrong train,” I explained.
He pointed triumphantly to his topometer. It
read :
NEXT STATION,
Hook.
Don’t stop.
Jobling had, by a strange chance, got into the
carriage which had been reversed in shunting.
In his hurry he had taken the wrong train. Any
doubt he may have had was dispelled on looking
at his invention, which showed the legend,
“Running North.”
Jobling was angry when I explained the state
of chaos his instruments were causing.
“ Train hands dam’ fools. Soon set them right.”
He moved a lever and set the machine running
south. Then he visited each car and adjusted
them all.
The second smoker, before mentioned, he took
last. His face, when he saw the battered instru-
ment, was a study.
“Who did that?”
The fat German, who had stayed on the train
and was now pugilistically drunk, claimed the
honor.
Words followed, then higher words, finally
blows, from which Jobling emerged triumphant
but bleeding.
Despite the fact that he was being whirled far-
ther and farther from home and Christmas, he
was soon his old jaunty self again.
“After all, I’m glad I took the wrong train,”
he said. “Exceedingly glad.”
“ You always were optimistic,” I replied.
But even his optimism could not prevail against
the carelessness or stupidity of a certain mail
clerk.
It was in the winter, when the trains reach
their destinations in the dark. This man had
become accustomed to rely on the topometer.
Jobling says it was the man’s fault; the man
says it was the fault of the machine. I am
inclined to agree with the man.
At any rate, after Palmerston, no station save
those at which the train stopped got a mail on
this particular occasion.
It was discovered at the inquiry that the Sea-
cliff mail was.thrown into the Waitati Stream, and
that the Waitati bags had been heaved over the
Puketeraki cliffs. Other bags had flown off at
equally absurd places.
As the topometer, when examined at Dunedin,
showed that the train was then at Hornby Junc-
tion, near Christchurch, the clerk was not dis-
missed, though he was warned to see in future
that the mailbags were thrown at something
solid.
Jobling says the instrument was tampered with.
That is what I expected Jobling to say.
WILL LAWSON.


“I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the onestion
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order:”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poisons and im-
purities -which. a?e quickly absorbed into the blood.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T hen send lor particulars
of our perfect fitting
Automatic Air Cushion appliance
The Best Rupture Appliance of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fres
WINSLOW GO., 261 Collins St., Melbourne,Vic
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Jr\. Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
the same
diseases without
inconvenience
Each
48 hours.
bears the name
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES '■
Australian Blight, Failing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
”| F you don’t: read THE LONE HAND you
JL can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches'. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office'. 214 George Street Svdney.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY HILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to crrrv home—
in dining.room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
«rmong wnom are
are troublesome.
Clean, neat arid
ornamental, will
not foil or injure
anything, rh.e
lasts the entire
season.
told by
Wholesale
uriiggists,
Groce, s and
Hardware
Healers,
O’Connell St. ; F. 11. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayero Allport
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hofihung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &Co. Ltd.
i by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A,
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport
Remedy’ for Co-ughs and Colds. Of 40 years proven efficacy.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
coliectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J
COLLES BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/14-, 2/9 & 4/6
arrests Fever.
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DtARRHQEA , and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Gaffy’s Patent ** Keen Blade ”
PRUNING SHEARS.
PRICE,
6S« Each.
Postage 6d. Extra.
PRICE,
6S. Each.
Postage 6d. Extra.
■
merit of these Shears consists of Both Blades having Cutting Edges, hence a
y clean cut of even stout twigs can be made. The bark is not crushed,
nor are the buds injured.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
mmrn 11 rm
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price I\l\ {56 pills) <£ 2/9 {l6B pills).
Sr^lss
>*
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
ThujaLLT. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
ON THE HOP”—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale —2/(>; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, .Sydney.
is BritishJfMStralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
posl FREE, £1 per year,
r 1 in advance, ali over the world.
Australian's visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Heading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Biutish-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
BE4
yu bi a nu Windmil inspekt the
“STEEL WINQS
It runz az ezy az water oph a duk’s bak,
bekawz it’s got a baring On eech side of the
windweel, and this feechur, kombind with
the Balanz Geer and the large sail area,
■will make the pump gush water like a wale.
You can rest ashured they ar the cheepest
in the long run, az yu haven’t got enny
renuuls to provide for.
Trawfing, piping and pumpz are supplied
by the yard also bi
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEKST BAY ROAD STASHUN, NORTH SYDNEY,
at loest rates konsidering the state of the
wether weer havin.
Rite to Dept. 0.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price.. .. .. .. ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners..
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
The Bulletin
O
✓o 00
D H
oo
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in Ins Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “ Splash.”
j Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - 6d.
Packet of Ten - - - - sd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
SIU George Street, Sydney.


Perdriau’s 30/- Macintosh.
/JJiin r<
i / \
For 30/- you couldn’t pos-
sibly secure a better grade of
Macintosh in Sydney than this
one we offer. It is splendidly
cut to give a dressy effect, and
affords ample protection.
The materials are varied, but
all are specially treated with
Tropic-proof Rubber, and you
can rely on its wet-resisting
qualities. There’s a liner grade
of coat at 45/-. Call in arid
see them, or write for our
book of samples to be sent.
We pay freight, and ensure
correct fit by mail, if you
give your height and easy
chest measurement.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO,, LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL. AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADi^
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a euard ajjainst inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS— New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, 6d.
WOLFE
Buy Whole
Bottles.
Its Action on the Secretive Organs
is at once Stimulative and Curative.
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS.
For Steam, Gas or Oil Engines. Adopted by the British Admiralty, and Used fey the Largest Power Users of the World.
“Sentinel" AIR COMPRESSORS, HIGH-SPEED ENGINES & FILTERS
(SIMPLICITY, ECONOMY) (LOW STEAM CONSUMPTION) (EFFICIENCY)
Send for Catalogues. J. WILDBIDCrE & SINCLAIR, LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MfNJMG
DICK KERR U CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office : E. S.‘ & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
SOLICITED.
TEL.
/
\5221
ELECTRIC,
MININ
WARBURTON, FRANKI &
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON
CO.
TYNE.
■
THE WISE ADVERTISER
Will notice tHe increase in tine number
of advertisements in tHe June issue of
THE LONE HAND. Magazine advertising
is a new thing in Australia. .See what it
Has become in America! And tHe pre-
eminence of THE LONE HAND—its steady
improvement in maKe-up and contents—
maKes it tHe ideal advertising medium.
It goes into tHe Home. And its price
ensures tHat it is bought by tHe people
you want to reacH.
GET THE HABIT !
Even the best magazine-agent is mot
always able to judge bow many copies of
THE' LONE HAND will be bought in any
given month. It is annoying to miss a
number, especially now that each issue is
a feature number devoted largely to some
insistent topic of tbe hour. The safest way
is to become a subscriber. For 12s. THE
LONE HAND will be delivered for twelve
months post-free in your borne—tbe place
wbere THE LONE HAND is appreciated.
.
N. QUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George St., Sydney; 456 Collins St., Melbourne
AIR COMPRESSORS.
ROCK DRILLS.
