

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—
•9
107 Kent Street,
FOR—
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
S37*c3Lxxey 9
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL 'IRONMONGERY.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR,
Korting
2-Cycle Gas Engines
See Wild Cat Column.
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
I.QNEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludovvici & Son. L*d., H 7 York St., Sydney
back
it
Take
have
must
s
n
SHOBi’S DIAGONAL lILT
FIT PERFECTLY.
A Paying Investment
FOR
<£loo
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
wm ■ i
U
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE,.
Accumulators and Dry Cells for Ignition Purposes.
•S Keep in stock large supplies of those wanted Electrical Accessories. We repair and re-charge Acc*
and stock all Electrical Requisites. Prices o» application.
THE. VERT OWN RUBBER CO.,
STREET
-SYDNEY.
DRINK
&
BECK’S LASER
IP
FOR THE
DEAF!
PATENT POCKET HEARING TUBE.
By means of this scientific instrument most sufferers from Deafness will be able to hear any
ordinary conversation, besides affording free movement of the head and hands.
To any. address in Australasia we will forward our instrument -on trial. For Sydney and
suburbs it can be inspected and tried at the Office of
THE HEARING TUBE CO.,
Telephone, City 417. De Mestre Lane No. 1, off 308 George Street, SYDNEY.
MALTHOID ROOFING
still increases in popu-
larity all over the world.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE t SYDNEY.
MALTHOID is an ideal
Hoofing for those who
desire comfort always.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY-
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U[
Locomotive Builders
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
ff
SIMPLICITY
c. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA possesses bright and sparkling
virifh of^<»vPcrAnrp
QOLLIM & CO.,
*
The Bulletin
VoL 30.—N0. 1514.1
[Thursday, February 18, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


>. Prop. Lid,,
71 CASTLEREACH
SYDNEY.
New Books, Including those reviewed on this week’s Red Page.
Oollins, W. E., An Old Cricketer’s Diary, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hill, Dr. E., The Body at Work, ilius., IDs, postage Is.
Morgan, Ben H., Trade and Industry of Australasia,
fully illustrated, 7s 6d, postage Od.
Modern Art, The McCuHOek Collection, Speeial Number
of Art Journal, many Ulus., Is 3d, postage 4d.
Flaaimarion, Mysterious Psychic Forces, XOs 6d, post 6d.
Thomson, Brain and Personality, fresh supply, 6s, p. 6dL
Wallas, Human Nature in Politics, 6s, postage 6d.
Brander Matthews, The Short Story, 6s, postage 6d.
Cona.n Doyle, Round the Fire Stories, Ss 6d, postage 6d.
Merrick, The Man Who Understood Women, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Morris, The Footprint, cloth 6s, postage 6d.
Weale, Putnam, The Forbidden Boundary, 6s, postage 6d.
Clarke, H. A., Browning’s England : A Study of English
Influences in Browning, ill us., 9s, postage Bd. °
Worcester, McComb and Coriat : Religion and Medicine
7a 6d, postage 6d. ’
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Larteet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes at an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says Proved to be as effective
baetericidally as is creosote.”
TO
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of VB stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE
The Short Story
PUBLISHERS will tell you that
volumes of short stories do not
sell—unless you have made so
great a name as a novelist that if you
wrote a menu it would sell. But the
lending libraries have another tale to
tell; and the volume of short stories
contrives to get published with a strange
frequency. There is Kipling to hearten
the short-story writer; and Jack London,
as many another, made his name as a
teller of short stories. The truth seems
to be that the volume of short stories is
growing in favor. The last decade has
seen a development of this form of fiction
beside which the novel seems to be
standing still. The novel appears to
have explored its furthest limits, while
the short story is year by year showing
new intensive possibilities and a more
subtle technique. The next decade pro-
mises to be devoted to the triumph of the
short story. Evidence of the growing
popularity of the conte is furnished by the
publication of some recent collections.*
W
Not all these books contain short
stories: the contents range from
novelettes to mere narrative, yet there
is enough variety in the short stories here
mentioned to prove the adaptability of the
conte to every form of literary expression.
The Forbidden Boundary is an example of
narrative—which consists of telling a tale
without troubling over-much about plot
construction—and the only excuse for
Putnam Weale’s collection of extended
narratives is that he writes of an in-
teresting period and of a strange locale
which he knows admirably how to pic-
ture. As was evidenced by his previous
works upon the Russo-Jap war, Put-
nam Weale is familiar with the
North, and his graphic pen now finds
new value in realistic fiction. His book
is to be read, not for its style, but for a
further comprehension of the Asiatic
mind. Here, for instance, is a picture of
the fate that overcomes the white man
who passes the forbidden boundary, by
marrying a Japanese :
The men were dragged to the women’s
level, and, after many years, they even
looked different. ... It was shown in their
clothes, in their manners, in their very pas-
times, but most of all in their faces. Their
Westernism seemed to belong to the mid-
Victorian era—to the time when they were
free men; its development had been sud-
denly arrested and something alien substi-
tuted, something which had been pushed in
behind aij<| under. It was like a shadow of
things which must inevitably come in the
offspring—the half-white soul looking out
piteously and a little ashamed through the
half-yellow masks, the curious atavistic
tastes.
And Putnam Weale describes with a
very dreadful realism the hotel that was
tacitly given over to these white men
who had married Japanese :
They were so different from other white
men, and they felt it. They could stand
motionless by the hour leaning up against
the walls of the bar-room and drinking very,
very slowly, _ or perhaps not drinking at all.
The drinks in any case were only an excuse
for standing like that; the men did not really
like drink. They liked nothing very much
because they had become enslaved. In the
bar-room was a small orchestrion which placed
forgotten music-hall jigs and light French
opera of the days of the Second Empire.
And these men would play the same tunes
hour after hour without a change, and with-
out a word, merely waiting for the time when
they .would change into their kimonos. They
seemed to be merely listlessly bridging over
the. time between the mid-Victorian era and
their end. All the rest had been taken by
their wives.
Only in “ The Fever Bed,” a gruesome
story of the attempt of a Chinese “ wife ”
to poison her white husband, do we get a
true conte. All the rest is adventure,
interspersed with psychological studies
of White and Tinted. Here the story
ends with a true French touch. You
follow the efforts of the Chinese girl, in-
stigated by her hag of a mother, to
poison the man, and only in the last lines
do you learn that she had been all along
unfaithful with “ the Kiangse boy.”
Perhaps (the “boy” reflects) he would
rejoin the Hakka girl if she found a new
master. He enjoyed her sleek body ; for
being of a water-people, she was very clean.
W
But there is interesting stuff in his
narratives. His picture of the famous
Fourth Road House, the street of vice in
a great Chinese seaport, is done with the
true Kipling touch. Interesting, too, is
his study of the effect of China upon a
missionary :
The more John Lynch pondered over it,
the more did he slowly become possessed of
an alarming idea—that Christianity had not
made Europe, but that Europe had made
Christianity. That is whilst, of course, the
knowledge had been entirely drawn from the
brooding East during the curious time of the
decline and fall of the Roman Empire, it had
been the white man’s vigor and the white
man’s climate which had permitted a bor-
rowed idealism to become enshrined—which
had in the end systemised and stereotyped
it. It had been a necessary step in the
forward march of rude and uncultured fair-
skinned barbarians. If Christianity in the
first centuries of its era had attempted to
move south-east instead of north-west—that
is, into the sweltering lands of Asia—it
would have perished and would have been
shrivelled up by the mere action of the sun
and by encountering certain elements against
which it could never have struggled with
success.
Ml?
We come a little nearer to the short
story proper in Conan Doyle’s Round the
Fire Stories. These purport to be stories
concerned with the grotesque and with
the terrible; but the ghost stories are
pale apparitions beside Henry James’
The Two Magics, and the terror is a
mechanical effect, less gruesome than in-
genious. Really, these are detective
stories in Conan Doyle’s well-krown
manner, with characters that are mere
puppets required for the solution of the
tob neatly constructed, too palpably in-
genious, plot. These stories are dry and
hard and lifeless : not once does Doyle
even suggest an atmosphere.
Ml?
Turn we, then, to 0. Henry, the in-
imitable. His Voice of the City contains
further variations upon the theme of
New York romance ; and he is as humor-
ous, as compact, as delightful as ever.
He has reduced the short story to a
brief formula. He does not spill one
unnecessary word: he is incapable of
slopping over. And in the short story
you must never slop over—except in the
English illustrated magazines, where all
is slops. But, simply because O. Henry
is so invariably expert in his art, he
begins to weary : Jus yarns begin to show
their underlying bones. You learn to
guess how the figure will work. For
this O. Henry has only O. Henry to
blame. But for the short story at its
“slickest” “The Complete Life of John
Hopkins” is worth study. “There is a
saying,” he begins, “that no man has
tasted the full flavor of life until he has
known poverty, love, and war.” And
John Hopkins tastes the whole of life in
half-an-hour. For as O. Henry remarks,
in the Big City large and sudden things
happen:
You travel the streets, and a finger
beckons to you, a handkerchief is dropped
for you, a brick is dropped upon you, the
elevator cable or your bank breaks, a table
d’ hote or your wife disagrees with you, and
Fate tosses you about like cork crumbs in
wine opened by an un-feed waiter. The
City is a sprightly youngster, and you are
the red paint upon its toy, and you get
licked off.
It would not be fair to tell of John
Hopkins’ breathless half-hour of life.
But—in short and sudden doses—O.
Henry is to be read. Too much O. Henry
is apt to cloy, and 0. Henry’s fertility of
invention and overflow of humor unhap-
pily seems inexhaustible.
« .
Leonard Merrick, in The Man Who
Understood Women, sets for the short
story a slower pace. He is Eng-
lish. His work is more subtle,
his art more French. As a character-
istic example “ The Child in the Garden ”
encourages analysis. This is a story of
an English lady who breaks her engage-
ment with a curate in order to continue
her studies of archaeology in Greece. She
is carried off by a brigand, and the vir-
ginity in her is shocked to find that a
brigand’s embraces are not altogether
distasteful. He offers to let her go,
admitting that he loves her. Then :
“Oh!” she faltered. “Did you really
love me then ? ”
He opened his arms, and Miss Netterville
gave herself to them with impetuous lips.
“All is ready for the lady!” came the
shout from the men about to take her back
to safety.
“They are waiting for you,” said the
brigand, sadly.
“ There—there’s no hurry for a minute,”
Miss Netterville heard herself reply.
Before she left him he assured her that
her escort might be trusted ; and no further
mishap befel her on the road. But she had
lost her nerve ; a few days later she returned
to England, and—perhaps because she no
longer considered protection so superfluous—
she married Aloysius (the curate) the follow-
ing month, though she did not deem it
necessary to inform him of her adventure.
They have been married for some years
now, and get on together as well as most
people. Aloysius has obtained an excellent
living, and the eldest of their children is a
little son, who engrosses his mother’s atten-
tion to the exclusion of archaeology. If it
were not for her son’s favorite game, the
vicar’s wife might think less often of her
strange experience ; but the boy tilts his
straw hat like a sombrero, and sticks a pop-
gun in his sash, and pretends that the
summer-house is the “brigands’ cave.” At
such times, Aloysius remarks that “a little
brigand is inappropriate to a vicarage gar-
den.” And the lady’s eyes are wide.
There it is—essentially improper ; but
an ideal short story. • Unfortunately,
there are few as delightful as this in
Merrick’s collection.
It is, however, in The Footprint, by
Gouverneur Morris, that the modern
shorjt story can be found almost in its
perfection. Here is a collection of stories
that*, apart from their excellence, betray
no sign of having been written by the
same hand. That is to say, each story is
a work of art, each has its own atmo-
sphere, each makes its special stylistic
appeal. “ The Footprint ”is an essay in
cynical horror, and the effect is cleverly
achieved by the contrast between modern
American humor and the gruesome inci-
dent of the little grey snake. Then there
is “ The Execution,” a grim Maeterlinck
incident of terror, in which a boy, con-
demned to be hanged at sunrise, escapes,
and, feeling his neck reassuringly at'in-
tervals, breaks into the house of his
parents, and is killed by his blind father 1 .
The art of this story is almost as great
as that of Poe. And ’ for rollick-
ing humor and the true adventure
the stories of “Bill Ballad,” of
the pirate “Captain England,” and
of “ The Explorers,” are as absorbing as
his character studies. This is a book for
the short-story amateur as a counsel of
perfection. And, bracketed with The
Footprint, the short-story writer should
read The Short Story : Specimens Illustrat-
ing its Development. Herein are collected
twenty-three examples of the best short
stories in the world, the authors ranging
from Pushkin to Poe, from Hawthorne
to Halevy, from Boccaccio to Kipling.
It is a text-book of the art.
Tennyson was ever careful not to shock the
Nonconformist conscience. At times he
wrote lusciously, but on the appearance of
his verses in book form, the purple patches
were discreetly blotted out. An example
has recently been brought to light. “Lu-
cretius,” first printed in a New York maga-
zine, contained these lines :
And here an Oread (how the sun delights
To glance and shift about her slippery sides
And rosy knees, and supple roundedness,
And budded bosom-peaks) who this way runs
Before the rest.
But this would never do for England, and
it appeared there thus :
And here an Oread, and this way she runs
Before the rest.
Who knows if Swinburne had been equally
discreet he might not have been poet
laureate ? Happily, he preferred to be
Swinburne.
From America, as is seemly, comes a
quaint anthology called Heart Throbs (Chap-
pie, Boston). Fifty thousand persons con-
tributed to this book, and it reflects with
precision the heart of the American people.
The National Magazine asked for “ heart-
throbs.”—clippings from the old scrap-book in
prose and verse, and paid £2OOO as prizes to
the contributors who sent in the most throb-
bing throbs. And from these scraps the
editor built his book. This collection of
poems, essays, anecdotes, apothegms and
stories represents the personal taste of the
mob. It ranges from “ The Lost Chord ”to
“ The Lord’s Prayer,” from “ The Star
Spangled Banner ” to “ Lincoln’s Rules for
Living ” and “ The Declaration of Indepen-
dence,” from “The Old Arm Chair to
“The Death of Little Nell,” from “The
Man With the Hoe ” to “ We Are Seven.”
But, as was natural, it never gets far away
from Mother. There is “The Bible My
Mother Gave Me,” and “The Songs My
Mother Sang,” also “ Have You Written to
Mother?” and, furthermore, “Nobody
Knows but Mother.” There is also “ Send
Them to Sleep with a Kiss,” and “If I
Should Die To-night.” The humor that
appeals to the mob is weak and dyspeptic
and bald. The American heart throbs more
energetically to the notes of broad pathos
and obvious piety. For the student of the
psychology of the mob such a throb as this is
worth throbbing about.
*The Short Story: Specimens Illustrating its
Development, by Brander Matthews. (American
Book Co., New York.)
The Voice of the City, by 0. Henry. (McClure,
per Sydney Book Club.)
Hound the Dire Stories, by Conan Hoyle. (Bell.)
The Forbidden Boundary, and Other Stories, by
B. L. Putnam Weale. (Macmillan.)
The Alan who Understood Women, and Other
Stories, by Leonard Merrick. (Hodder. ver
Sydney Book Club.)
The Footprint, and Other Stories, by Gouverneur
Morris. (Scribner’s.)
Facts from the Fog
The par. on the Bed Page (22/10/’08)
counselling Australasian writers to send
“short stories and sketches” direct to such
papers as London Daily Telegraph, Morning
Post, Leader, Standard and Nation, reeks
with mischievous and discouraging advice.
It was probably unfair of the writer to quote
the authority of Louis Becke, who knows
that the Telegraph, Post and Standard, from
one year’s end to the other, publish nothing
that could be called a “ short story or
sketch.” The Leader might publish an oc-
casional Australasian sketch, if there were
a news-peg to hang it on ; and the Nation,
in its conscientious Freetrade way, is honestly
interested in Australasian affairs. But the
London morning daily no more wants short
stories and sketches from Australia than The
Bulletin wants 200,000-word serial novels.
Four years freelancing in Fleet-street
taught me that the best markets for Austral-
asian sketches are the evening papers of the
Gazette type, the Westminster, Poll Mall,
Globe and Evening Standard. Among maga-
zines, the old-fashioned Chambers’ is very
partial to Australasian stories and sketches,
while sporting and natural history sketches
are often accepted by the Field. The best
openings for short stories will be found with
the weekly illustrated papers, and the
monthly magazines,; but the demand for
Australasian stories—even good ones—is
strictly limited in London. I know some
magazine editors who will not even read an
Australasian story.
Australasian writers who come to London
—I have met very many in my time here—
are also under the impression that the
salaries paid by the daily papers are much
higher than is really the case. A competent
reporter or sub-editor gets £5 or £6 a week,
and is not overworked in earning his money.
The usual complaint about Australians is
that they like their own ways best, and are
slow to conform to the varying standards of
London dailies.
How is it that so few Australasian writers
supplement the pen with the camera ? A
series of photographs will often carry an
article, especially in magazines of the Wide
World variety. I never yet met an Austral-
asian writer who had come to London with a
good stock of home photographs, though
they are wanted every day in Fleet-street.
When the new Labor Ministry took office in
Australia the other day, there was not a
photograph of Mr. Fisher to be got in
London. Nowadays a pressman who can
make good use of a camera is at a great
advantage in Fleet-street; indeed, there’s
more money to be made that way in a month
than in a whole year’s peddling of Austral-
asian short stories and sketches.
Fleet Street.
OUDEIS.


JL
The Plantation Standard Feed Cutter,
j£l°.
J. wo knives, 9in. long'; cuts 1, li and 2in. Three men can easily put
through 85 bushels per hour of dry feed. Weight, 5001 b. At 350 to 600
revolutions per minute 1 or 2 horse-power will do a great deal more.
Our Illustrated Price List of
Requisites for the Farmer
and Agriculturist makes
profitable reading for the
Man on the Land.
Send for a Copy, posted
FREE on application.
Pony Hand Feed
Cutter, 1 knife, ll|in.
lon s 555. 6d.
This machine will cut hay,
cornstalks, and all kinds of
rough feed. One man can
cut one bushel of hay in 35
seconds. Cuts from 3-16 in.
to 2in. Weight, 1651 b.
A
No. 11—Ohio Standard Feed and En-
silage Cutter, equipped with Blower Elevator, £2O.
Capacity, 3to 5 tons per hour. Power required, 4to 6 H.P. Speed 650 to
700 revolutions per minute. Pulley, 12in. x 4in. Weight, 7601b.’
Takes 7in. Tube. 1/8 per foot.
No. 12 Ohio Monarch Self-Feed En-
silage Cutter, with Blower Elevator ... £32.
Capacity, 8 to 10 tons per hour. Power required, 6to 8 horse-power.
Weight, 14251 b. Speed, 650 to 700 revolutions per minute. Size of
pulley, 12in. x Sin. lOin. Tube, 3/3 per foot.
Nos. 12 and 14 are Self-Feeding.
No. 14 Monarch Self-Feed Ensilage
Cutter, with Direct Blast Blower Elevator, takes lOin. Elevator
Tube. Weight, 14751 b., cutter and blower ... £,.sB lOs.
Will cut and elevate feed at the rate of 12 to 15 tons per hour. Has
4 knives and cuts and lin. lengths. Engine power required
Bto 10 horse-power. Provided with set of wheels for transport!
lOin. Tube, 3/3 per-foot ;
The OHIO Farming
Implements, illustrated
on this page, possess
advantages not to be
secured in many other
makes, and we invite an
intelligent comparison,
THE OHIO name
stands for the highest-
grade construction, sim-
plicity and maximum
efficiency, and the ele-
ment of economy is
introduced by the in-
fluence of
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES
acknowledged to be the
lowest in the land.
We offer three-quarters of
a million pounds' worth of
the World's Choicest Com-
modities, and the goods are
TOP QUALITY at
BOTTOM PRICE.
We are Family Drapers,
Complete House Furnishers,
and Universal Providers,
and our unique system of
trade presents attractions
not to be found elsewhere.
Our Illustrated Price Lists
place the vast resources of
The New Palace Em-
porium at the command of
the most distant settler.
Write for copies, posted
free anywhere.
No. 11 —The Ohio Standard Feed
and Ensilage Cotter, 4 knives,
13in. long, £.ll.
With 4 knives will cut J, J, §, and lin. Size of pulley,
12 x Gin. face; speed regulated 450 to 600 per minute.
Will cut 4 toG tons of ensilage, or 25001 b. to 35001 b. of dry
feed per hour. Weight, 5001 b. 4to 6 horse-power. Take
off two knives and it will cut J, 1, IJ, and 2in.
The Ohio Lever Chaff Chatter, 20s.
The Cutter is llin. long, oil tempered, sickle shape. Will
cut hay, straw, corn stalks, and all sorts of rough feed.
Particularly useful for cutting green food for poultry.
Weight 55ib.
M
No. 13 —Ohio Standard Feed and
Ensilage Cotter.
Without Elevator, dt.l3.
Power required, 2 to 4 horse-power. Capacity, 4 to 6 tons
ensilage per hour. Weight, 5901 b.
No. 16 —Without Elevator. Capacity 6 to 10 tons.
Power required, 4to 6 horse-power. Weight, 6201 b.
Speed, 450 to 600 revolutions.
Without elevator, d£,lB.
Shredder Blades, for 11, 12 and 13 inch
machines, H/« each j for 14 and 16 inch machines,
oach.
Prices of Elevators quoted on application.
ANTHONY HORDERN &, SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
S "5T 33 UXT T«3 ~y
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
.Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to IfiTHEAT growers for free storage of
their gram. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Passenger Agents for P. & O. S.N. Co.’s Royal Mail Steamers.
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism
and
Clairvoyance
An illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
describing the various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mesmer, and
showing- how the mystic
power may be developed.
1/-, post free 1/2.
“Jim Jeffries in Pull
Action,” and 30 other
splendid Photo-Illustra-
tions, showing the Fight-
ing Positions and Blows of
the World’s Professional
Pugilists, appear in
Donovan’s Art of Boxing,
price 1/3, post free 1/3. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
LET T E R W RITER. 1 /-.
ISLAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
i L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing 1 at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 21-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
Tiik Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Kotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price .£1 7s 6d ;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2to Queen St., Brisbane
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lOd
natural
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COMFBTITIOKr.
WINES The Best Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
B T h^
tO«St T S
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
)
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious. Affections.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS’
magnesia;
GSEmkISB
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
DIGESTIVE ORGANS
DISARRANGED.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
Mr. James Bell, bootmaker, of 16 Parramatta-
road, Petersham, is not one of the fortunate ones
who escaped the invasion of influenza, which was
experienced; in this country a few years ago. Speak-
ing on the subject to our reporter, Mr. Bell said
“Influenza is a complaint that has singled me
out for attention more than once, as I had an
attack when living in New Zealand, and again in
this country. If there is anything worse for com-
pletely making a wreck of a man, I would like to
know what it is. So far as lam concerned, it
made a thorough hash of my health, and a pretty
tough time I had before I made any headway
against it. The heavy burning pains in my head
were something terrible, for they had the effect of
making me so despondent that I could find no
pleas*ire in life at all. If a man’s head is not clear
and free from pain, all the money in the world
would not make him happy, and I was far from
it, believe me. As each day dawned, so were
those wretched aches in attendance, as if for the
purpose of casting a gloom over my life. My mouth
was dry and parched, and there wa{ a fever-
ishness right through my body, which was most
distressing. Not one of my limbs was free from
aches of a very tiresome nature—aches that were
positively painful, and when I stood upon my feet
my legs felt as if they would collapse beneath me.
Together with these discomforts was a feeling of
restlessness which served to intensify my unhappi-
ness, for I could not rest contented anywhere for
any length of time, and completely exhausted my-
self in moving about from place to place.”
“ It would not take much exertion to tire you,
and you’d be glad to get to bed at night?”
“Well, for all the sleep I got, I might just as
well have been up and about, for that was one of
the peculiarities of my sickness. Although I felt
so feeble and tired that I could have dropped any-
where, yet when I retired to rest I found muqh
difficulty in getting to sleep. And I had gone on
m a very bad way for a considerable time when I
happened to be put on to a medicine that altered
the whole aspect of my affairs. An old employer
of mine from Melbourne saw me one day and
explained how ill he had been from the same com-
plaint as mine, and said that he had been quite
fixed up by Clements Tonic, at toe same time
strongly urging me to get some.”
And you put bis advice into effect?”
“I am pleased to say I did, and I consider it
about the best step I ever took in my life, for the
unpleasantness I was laboringunder began to vanish
from that date. I don’t think I said anything
about the dizzy feelings I used to have when my
head seemed to spin round like a top, neither did
I mention the unsettled state of my nerves, which
had become quite unhinged, and my appetite had
left me long ago. And the longer my sufferings
existed the greater the feeling of depression became
The lowness of spirits was something terribly
and I hadn’t enough energy to try and shake it
off. Sickness always fetches one down, and, my
word, it succeeded in doing so in my case. My
digestive organs were altogether disarranged, too,
in consequence of which I endured no end of dis-
comfort after swallowing any nourishment. Pains
affected me about the shoulders and the loins, and
in the chest there was an unusual heaviness that
testified to the undigested condition of my food.
But I came to the turn in the road when I began
to employ Clements Tonic, which is easily the
best medicine I have ever had any experience
with. And I think that, as influenza and the
other ailments I suffered from are so frequently
encountered, it is only my duty to tell my fellow
citizens how they can be cured, as I was
Clements Tonic is the thing. It added strength
to my enfeebled system with each dose, it invigor-
ated my nerves in a way that astonished me; it
brought sleep to my hitherto restless nights; it
provided the appetite that enabled me to eat; and,
finally, it restored my internal organs to that state
of healthfulness which enabled me to digest what-
ever food I did take. Report these facts for
others’ good.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JAMES BELL, of 716 Parramatta Road, Petersham,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth oi
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cur
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way ray statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of t£e Oaths
Act, 1900. r
Subscribed and declared at Petersham, this eighteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
3]
ALEX. SMITH, J.P.


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
knows about
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
mm
■M
A
ard cough medicine for children.
yhfer’s
'Cherni 9eetoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co.j Lowell, lusss., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
Vfe despatch direct from our Coventry factory
h%hcst on grad 0 eM e E n AD ayS ’ aPPr ° Yal> °«
Coventry Flyers
at leas than lowest manufacturers' prices,
i Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
models
&3.10 to M 9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Doiivorod
free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each dis-
trict. Larne i iroflti
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
e>n sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ ®«.280 LIVERPOOL
H
ORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
\ ALL
\cLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
\ upwards, Korliek's Malted
\Milk is an ideal food-
\ beverage, easily digested,
\ nourishing, invigora-
\ ting. It is indispens-
\ able to invalids
\ and the aged,
\ and provides
\ a full diet
\in sick-
\ ness.
\*
fast
time or
supper time
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and "Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &e. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd., Slough, Bucks., Eng.
PERFECT
MfIIHEB
are not flat-chested
and thin-limbed.
Nature intended
every woman to be
decently developed,
with a full, well-
rounded bosom.
Don’t stay thin.
[5
FIS.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
will increase your weight bv as much as five
pounds a week, and will add inches to your
measurements. It is a scientific bust
developer, a medicated tissue food, harmless
and efficacious. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Descriptive Book.
FALLIERE
Dept. 5,
ft
FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Linden Court,
Castlrreagh St.,
SYDNEY
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Svdney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES=
&
■s
MOSS
IRISH.
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonningiws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
s ohiexn--
M 0»
IRISH
XjJcjty! w e n tried!
*sun Indoor —-
Sunset* Wind proof—
3ativia -%&—
IX2 Canals Power.
/View TWencenf
Kerojene Incandescent*
Jumers&Lamps^
/fo Joot- Ho smoking
Uoht once-
mm
SU3
mu
jtrrnill Wimi
:—i
vwg yi.«
INVERTED
Burner, cow p/e re
7SC.P
of Australasia Limited
441 Kent Street,Sydney.
230 Flinders Lane,Melbourne.
Perry Bros. Brisbane*
MARK
Underwear
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is th’e “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only j
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘BIRD MARK ’ ME7INO UNDERWEAR
Hade in
England
TRADE
MARK
THE BRAKE ON YOUR BICYCLE
sno less important than the Free Wheel. The perfection of both
Brake and Free Wheel will be obtained if you decide upon having
your bicycle fitted with the latest improved
Eadie Coaster Hub.
The demand for these Hubs is simply enormous and has greatly increased
since they have been made at the famous B.S.A. Works. The hadie
Coaster Hub is now practically perfect, it can be fitted to any
bicycle by any dealer at short notice, and no bicycle can be considered
fully equipped for the road that is not fitted with this device.
For absolute luxury the cyclist can go one better by having
his bicycle fitted with the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster.
This is the only combination of two speeds, free wheel and brake in
one hub, that has satisfactorily passed the test of time. Write for a
B.S.A. Handbook and read all about these goods and where they
are made. Post free from —
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
f m
m
i mm
V,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two Buildings.
Oh, mighty are the works of Man
To men’s unseeing eyes.
Self-blinded by the pride which can.
Unmoved, behold the Skies,
And some unworthy artisan
With praise immortalise.
Now, opposite the cottage small,
Where, weekly, twelve and nine
I pay in rental, just to call
Its humble shelter “Mine”
There stands a mansion, proud and tall,
And, at its gates, a pine.
Some solace for my low estate
Ofttimes it brings to me,
To note how mean that mansion great
Appears beside the tree ;
How little Art and Nature mate ;
How far from God men be.
For, brother—in your building grand.
That overshadows mine—
No palace in the peopled land
Displays the skill divine
Of that Great Architect whose hand
Upreared the lofty pine.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Kerguelen.
Sweet odors of Australia,
Of gum and wattle trees,
Blow ever to the island—
Kerguelen’s lonely island—
Across Antarctic seas;
From banks of brown boronia,
And fields of native thyme ;
From hills of eucalyptus—
The honeyed eucalyptus—
And orange-grove, and lime.
As once from old Arabia
The soft Levantine breeze
Brought balm to men of Naxos—
The exiled men of Naxos—
Among the Cyclades.
Till shepherds on the mountains,
And fishers by the floods.
Breathed blended scents of cassia—•
Of myrrh, and balm, and cassia-
And aromatic woods.
And wearied of long waiting,
And fain to cross the foam,
They wept to smell the spices ;
The spikenard and the spices
That spoke to them of home.
And so on lone Kerguelen
The exile breathes once more
The balm of tree-clad mountains—
Of plains and streams and mountains—
From his own native shore.
And dreams of far Australia,
Of gum and wattle trees.
Upon the lonely island—
Kerguelen’s lonely island—
Across Antarctic seas.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Age of the Girl.
“ This is the century in which one would choose to be
born a girl,” said Mrs. Runeitnan, the wife of the Minister
for Education, in distributing the prizes at the Hotting
Hill High School for Girls, at which she was once a pupil.
—English paver.
Never, oh, never in all the years was there a time
like this,
When a maiden’s waist was so good to hold, and
a maiden’s lips to kiss ;
Never her eyes had a softer light in all the years
that are dead,
Never her neck had a whiter curve to carry a
prettier head ;
Never in all the ages gone had her hair such a
dainty curl,
There was never a century found like this in
which to be born a girl.
Jephtha’s daughter, and Sheba’s queen, and
Black-Eyed Susan, too,
Cleopatra and Joan of Arc were not in the least
like you ;
Boadicea, and Good Queen Bess, and the beauti-
ful dead Jane Grey—
For the glint of your eyes and the sound of your
laugh we would pass them all to-day.
Oh, the red of your lips and the wave of your hair
have set my heart in a whirl—
There was never a century found like this in which
to be born a girl.
The paths of the world are wide for your feet, the
schools of the world are your own.
The necks of slaves are under your feet, the hearts
of men are your throne,
Careless and glad as the birds that sing, and free
as the winds are free,
With a smile and a jest for the other man, and a
smile and a kiss for me;
Let him who fails in his worship due be marked
as a sordid churl'—
There was surely never a time like this in which
to be born a girl.
Never, oh, never in all the years was there a time
like this,
When a maiden’s smile was so good to win, and a
maiden’s lips to kiss ;
Never her neck had a softer curve or her waist
was sweeter to hold,
And never she cost such a deuce of a lot in
genuine notes and gold ;
Never in all the ages gone was her love such a
costly pearl,
There was never a century found like this in which
to be born a girl.
■ MAORI LAND.
D.M.W.


SPECIFIES
/
o
£
5
o
&L 1^
“The up-to°date architect’s practical experience has taught
him that the Wunderlich Designs embossed in Metal are
the ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
They looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms;
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showroomai
243 COLLINS ST.
B-W
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
r Ride only
BR0 4¥£ 1
SAD'
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
!fl
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The Carring'ton Hotel,
Katoomba, Slue Mountains, N.S.W.
Bs. to lOs. per Day.
£2 ss. to £2 lGs. per Week.
Ideal Climate. Matchless Scenery.
A. L. PEACOCH, Proprietor.
DOES NOT UNSTEADY
PERF
THE NERVES
THE
TOBAGGO
LIGHT and DARK
I n Pitirfs, or Cot Up in Tins, 2ois. and 4ozs.
BONDER BERRV^
THEWOHDERBERRY
'A luscious Berry ripening in three months from seed.
Buther Burbank’s Greatest Creation.
Fruit blue-black like an enormous rich blueberry in looks andtaste, Unsurpassed for eat-
ing: raw, cooked, canned or preserved in any form. The greatest garden fruit ever introduced
and equally valuable in hot. dry* cold or wet climates. Easiest plant in the world to fjfrowsuc-
ceeding anywhere and yielding great masses of rich fruit all the year. The greatest boon to
thetamily garden ever introduced. Everybody can and will grow it when known. We aretiie
solo introducers in all parts of the world.
Seed One Shilling per packet, 3 packets for Two Shillings, postpaid.
Also our Great Catalogue of Seed, Bulbs. Plants and New Emits for 1909, FREE. Nearly
150 pages, with colored plates and many startling novelties.
JOHN 3VHWIS CHII/DS, Floral Park, New York, TJ. S. A.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI,
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. PacKet of 12.
. SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. lOd. ~ 10.
ESTABP/750.
zn iot/wr/uimiy
I English Watches
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889,
London 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.^
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, j
N
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
c 1
RUBEROJO
■
MR
gliiiw®*
mm «
T*
■
nr
u
.
T
PERFECT
D
A
There are many
so=called damp-
courses, but the
ONLY PERFECT
DAMPCOURSE is
RIBEROID
Dampcourse
E. RICH & CO.,
Ltd.,
SYDNEY and
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered ac the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30. —No. 1514.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1909.
Pkioic 6d
THE BOY AND THE BOOTS.
The Commonwealth Government, having decided to tackle the big Defence problem in earnest by ordering two destroyers for a start the State Frights crowd is
urging the Government to go to the pawnshop for the money.
Australia: “The boots are a bit big at present, but I’ll have to do the best I can with them.”
State Frights: “Don’t worry about the size. Let’s fill ’em up with peas.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the 00.. 214 Georgre-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONOE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ...‘ £i <5 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly' ... ... 0 7 0
By sendina direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Sin Hinas sterling you can have. Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Iloir ti> A Ailress I,utters.
Correspondents to Tills Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Spec ini TV nt ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
tree columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tire Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it rvill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tire Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateur* in Jtlncle irmZ IF ’Jiite.
Anyone supplying to Tins Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London. I V.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central Lews Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —-Thonison Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Eorsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada .—C. B. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
A dents’ Sjiecinl Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6'iin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1909.
AUSTRALIA AND THE SPHINX.
The Daily Telegraph is the organ of the State
Frights gang in Sydney. It was a vigorous oppo-
nent of the Surplus Revenue Act; and ever since
the subject of Federal Finance became a live one,
the paper has consistently tried to reduce the
Australian Government and Parliament to the
miserable position of the first U.S.A. Congress—a
body that could declare war, but had neither the
money nor the power to raise troops ; a body that
could only suggest to the States what should be
done, having practically no revenues of its own to
do anything with on its own account. And while
the Telegraph barked with one voice to that effect,
it accused both the Deakin and Fisher Govern-
ments of starving the forces. That there was not
enough money in the Treasury to give some
cadets an encampment, or some such picnic,
was denounced as an outrage; and Australia
was invited to look upon the horrible mess
Federation had made of Defence. Then it leaked
out that the Fisher Government was tackling the
naval-defence problem in real earnest, and was
actually going to start building warships. The
Telegraph awoke with a bitter cry. *' Where was
the money to come from ?” It began to look at
Defence, and suddenly realised what real Aus-
tralian Defence means. Like a map the question
unrolled itself, and the longer the Telegraph
looked the vaster it became. The building of two
torpedo gunboats definitely commits Australia to
a policy of naval construction, as two torpedo
ships would in themselves be useless. "Where
was the money to come from? Naval defence
was a very good thing, but without proper
land forces behind it, it was vain. Did the Fisher
Government intend to proceed along the lines of
Deakin’s original proposal, and make every able-
bodied male in the community a soldier in the
national army? Where was the money to come
from ? If an Australian fleet was to be called
into existence, it would want fortified bases, dock-
yards, ordnance foundries, and a trained body of
sailors. “ Where was the money to come from ?”
But Australian Defence meant even more than
this. It meant the building of two transcon-
tinental railways, the settlement and garrisoning
of the Northern Territory, the building of arsenals
and arms and ammunition factories all over the
country. “ Where was the money to come from?”
And with this plaintive bleat, the Daily Tele-
graph shudderingly gave up the problem. But a
day later it picked up its spirits, and answered its
own query very much to its own satisfaction. The
money must come from the pawnshop. The
whole object of Defence was to keep Australia
for our children, therefore our children should
pay for it.
The problems before this Commonwealth are
tremendous. No other white race has ever been
situated exactly as the Australians are. We are
probably the smallest nation numerically that ever
faced a colored conquest; certainly, considering
the size of the territory we have to defend, we are
the smallest. When the Moors invaded Spain the
ad vantage of numbers rested with the Visi-Goths;
and the Moorish conquest was only due to the fact
that the Visi-Goths were divided among them-
selves. In any case, though, the peopleof Spain had
a chance of escape after defeat. The way was open
to other white countries ; so that, in the last ex-
tremity, safety could always be gained by flight
from the invaded country. When the White and
Golden Hordes rolled into Russia and swamped
the Grand Duchy of Moscow and the Republic of
Novgorod, the Russians could at least escape the
Tartars by withdrawing into Swedish and Ger-
manic territories. Also, although the Tartars
outnumbered the whites, the disproportion of
numbers was nothing like what Australians will
have to face if ever an Asiatic invasion takes
place. The position in Australia is different in
every way. This is an insular continent ; so
we fight with our backs to the sea; and
against an Asiatic invasion we must
conquer or die racially, if not physically.
Under such circumstances it is quite absurd for
the Commonwealth to entertain any idea of con-
tinuing the present arrangement when the Brad-
don Clause expires. Practically the whole of the
Customs and Excise revenue is required for pur-
poses of defence, direct and indirect. Australia
to-day is like a man who has pneumonia. He
must get his doctor and his medicine regardless of
who else goes unpaid. They are necessary to his
life. The States must face the alternative of pay-
ing off their own debts out of their own revenues,
or handing them over to the Commonwealth so
that by consolidation and conversion it can reduce
the interest drain. The Defence problem admits,
moreover, of no delay. Circumstance takes on
the guise of the Sphinx, and, laying down
the problem of how 4,000,000 people are to
hold a continent almost as large as Europe,
invites Australia to solve it or die. The
Telegraph’s idea of solution is to get heavily
into debt, so that in the day of trouble our
credit will be so impaired that it will be
impossible to raise money to carry on war with.
Its assertion that the object of defence is to keep
Australia white for Our children is only a half
truth, and altogether a lie as regards the financial
aspect of the matter. We want to keep Australia
white for ourselves. The money will be expended
in training the present inhabitants to arms, in the
buying of present-day rifles and modern artillery.
When our children have taken the present crowd’s
place, they also will have to be drilled, they also
will require up-to-date rifles and artillery and war-
ships. Those of to-day will be useless,-as they
will be obsolete. Even the transcontinental rail-
ways will not be enduring structures, neither will
the forts and the heavy artillery at the seaports.
Each generation will have to maintain its own
lines and fortresses, and as forts and railways are
improved abroad so must Australia keep pace
with them. The Telegraph’s idea is the extra-
ordinary and crack-brained one that an army once
created is everlasting, and the forts, artillery and
railways of to-day are immortal and immune to
the natural curse of growing old and obsolete.
To pass on to posterity the bill for defending
Australia in our time is just as righteous and
reasonable as passing on the bill for the dinners
we eat to-day. And the latter swindle can be
just as logically defended. If we keep Australia
white, our children will get it; therefore they
ought to pay for keeping it white. If we don’t
eat we will die, and have no children ; therefore,
if we keep alive by eating and give our children
life, it is only fair that our children should pay
the cost of keeping us alive 1
* * * *
It is a cowardly, miserable doctrine this of the
Telegraph and the McMillans. Also, it is un-
British. Worse, it is un-Australian ; for it is one
which will seriously hamper us if ever Australia
is invaded. The very fact that invasion is almost
certain to arrive some day is an overwhelming
reason why we should reduce our liabilities,
instead of getting further into debt, so that when
the ability to raise money may mean life or death
to the nation the credit will stand at the highest
possible mark. We are living in pregnant
times, in an isolated continent whose insular
nature makes the ability or inability to repel a
colored invasion a question of life and death. To
make ourselves, not secure, but at least capable of
putting up a bold and sustained struggle for life,
much money is required. Thatmoney has to begot,
even if extra taxation has to be resorted to. The
choiceis to pay more or risk losing all. They are not
pleasant alternatives, but they have to be faced.
We cannot defer the choice. The Telegraph and
the McMillans ask us to do that by suggesting
what looks like a middle course, but isn’t—isn’t
because it impairs our credit; for if we face the
Great Test with already exhausted credit, we face
it practically bound hand and foot.
WAT ALL EMPIRES GO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Unless she alters considerably, England will sink to be a
country of the rank of Switzerland—a hunting-ground for
American tourists. English methods are quite out of
date ; and they will not adopt new ones. They don’t
want to change. They are utterly ignorant of matters
outside England, and the majority do not want to know.
The older generation will not move ; the younger genera-
tion is worse. The English seem to me to be not merely
unenthusiastic about the colonies; they are actually
hostile to them.—Eichard Teeck, General Manager of
the A.M.P., recently returned from a critical inspection
of Britain.
Mr. Tf.ece has seen what every unbiassed observer
must perceive—viz., that the English nation is declining.
It is spent and worn out—its energy gone, its \itality
sapped.- v No. people remains great for ever, and England
must go %he way of all dominant nations in the past.
Like Persia) Carthage, Rome, Spain, and Sweden, England
must inevitably fall. England one day must cease to be
the centre of Anglo-Celtic power. It must find its
future home elsewhere—probably in North America.—
“ A Man of Balliol ” in the Argus, IS/l/’O9.
On tbe page of History Britain’s eyes the signs
may see —
Lo, the signs of blood and slaughter, and of great-
ness fallen low ;
From the fate of Empires old
She may read the warning scrolled—
She may scan the path before her —’tis the road all
nations go !
In the years that lie afar redly blazed the Per-
sian’s star,
Shone the satrap’s lights in Sardis, burned the
tires of Cyrus grim ;
By the blue Propontis’ shores
Beat the Persian’s countless oars—
O the galleys of King Xerxes! 0 Mardonius’
legions dim !
But, alas ! there came a day when the glory
passed away —
Came the mighty Alexander, striking blow on
deadly blow;
On Arbela’s bloody field
Low the Persian’s standard reeled
Yea, his Empire proud and splendid Went the
Way All Empires Go !
Alexander —lie, the son of the Arch-Amphicty on,
Raised an empire stretching westward from the
Indus to the sea ;
Macedonia’s sway awhile
Reached from India to the Nile,
But the Tomb that swallowed Persia swallowed
up its Monarchy !
Greece of old— ye know her fame, how she ruled
ere Philip came—
How the Spartans died to save her in the years
now dim and grey ;
Hero-souls long dead and gone
Vain the deeds of Marathon,
Vain the glory of Plataea and of red flher-
mopylse !
Pericles— Aspasia’s arms; where are now her
glowing charms?
Hear the voices of Dodona and of Delphi breath-
ing low;
Broken-walled Acropolis,
Tell me where Athene is—
Greece has gone the road to ruin—Gone the Way
All Empires Go !
Carthage once raised wall and spire ; came their
builders from old Tyre—
Tyre whose gateways Alexander with his
engines battered down ;
Through Gibraltar’s narrow strait
Sailed her sons —aye, daring Fate
Half a thousand years ere Pilate decked the
Christ with robe and crown !
Dead and drear seems Mago's hour —he, the
founder of her power,
He whose offspring made the nations dread the
Carthaginian far;
Gisco grim—who knows his name ?
Stript of glory and of fame—
Yea, the years thy bones have eaten, Hasdrubal
and Hamilcar !
Suffetes proud, the Punic bays saw thy galleys go
their ways—
Saw the Spain-ward fleets of Barca and the ships
of llimilco ;
Now the desert’s silent hand
Piles on thee the shifting sand—
Piles the dust on crumbling Carthage—Gone the
Way All Empires Go !
Vain, 0 Carthage, was thy pride—see ! across the
Libyan tide
Sail thy ships—three thousand galleys bear three
hundred thousand men ;
Proudly steers thy Hamilcar —
Lo, at fatal Himera
Gelo sends his galleys reeling—sends thv Suffete
home again !
Thou hast paid a bitter fee, thou who strave for
Sicily
Dost remember Lilybseum, dost recall Timoleon’s
blows?
Agathoclks the dread,
Humbled low thine haughty head—
Dost recall the strokes of Pyrrhus and the ruth-
less Scipios ?
Where thy splendor, Carthage, now?—Under-
neath the Roman plough,
Seaward yet with each sirocco do thine ancient
ashes blow ;
Hear the dead Capuans call—
Sloth hath slain thy Hannibal ;
Yea, thy glory hath departed—Gone the Way All
Glories Go !
Rome the peerless, what of thee ? —lo, I see the
Tarquins flee—
Hail ! O hail the Young Republic in the ditn,
far-distant days;
Loud each fierce hortator beats,
Hear the crash of battle-fleets—
Homeward march the great Pro-Consuls to the
triumphs and the bays !
Through the streets thy victors file, cohorts
stretching many a mile—
Marius marches with his legions—he, the Fighter
granite-hewn ;
Mighty youth, O Rome, of thine—
Days of strength, of power divine,
But, alas ! thy glory wilted—passed ere long thy
shining noon !
Came the years of bitter fate—lo, the First
Triumvirate,
Cassar comes and tall Pompeius—see fat Crassus
bending low ;
Theirs the hands that struck at thee —
At thy people’s liberty—
Theirs, O Rome, that flung thee headlong Down
the Road All Empires Go !
Great Augustus beats his drum—after bloody
Actium
Come the sterile days of drifting for thine Empire-
octopus ;
Impotent, O City proud,
With thy riches tombward bowed
Yea, thy greatness faded from thee after Theo-
dosius !
He the last to bold thy power-passed with him
thy noontide hour,
Passed the glories of Camillus arid the mighty
Consuls all ;
Thou, who ruledst once the seas,
Flung away thy Colonies—
Lost thy Spain and Ancient Britain, lost thy
Narbonnessian Gaul !
Britain lost, and shining Spain !—shall the dead
years speak in vain ?
These were Rome’s in days of vigor, ere the sap
had ceased to flow ;
When her vital strength had gone,
Fell the branches one by one —
Rome the mighty bowed in ruin—Gone the Way
All Empires Go !
When the Piets their forays made, vainly Britain
called for aid—
Rome was reeling ’neath the Vandal, ’neath the
strong-thewed Visigoth ;
To the German host then passed
Rome’s dominions rich and vast—
Rome was drifting, tombward drifting, down the
strengthless ways of sloth !
“Save yourselves!” Honorius cried —gone the
days of ancient pride,
Gone the days when mighty Sulla drave King
Mithridatks afar;
Vanished long the splendid years
When the flashing Roman spears
Won the Young Republic’s battles ; sunk its old
victorious star.
Down the sapless centuries drifted Rome, grown
rich, obese—
Thou art drifting now, G Britain, as that Empire
drifted slow ;
Wealth thou hast—aye, boldest still—
But the Empire of the Till
Passes swiftly, passes ever—Goes the Way all
Empires Go!
Rome and Carthage—gaze on these, Mistress
(once) of all the Seas !
Lo, their fleets to-day lie dreaming on the silent
ocean floors ;
Came their hour of dim eclipse—
Armies beaten, sunken ships—
Are thy fleets on all the oceans? Nay, they hug
thy narrow shores !
Gone the days, O Britain old, when thy far-flung
fleets patrolled—
When thy battleships went marching from the
Naze to Sitka’s Isle ;
Comes for thee thine hour of dread ;
Hear the German legions tread.
See the ancient Empires passing—see their grim
ghost-cohorts file !
Greece and Persia —they are gone ; Spain is dead ;
thou driftest on ;
Fast,the Navies of thy rivals for the sea’s do-
minion grow.
Where is Sweden’s day of pride?—
It took Europe in its stride ;
But the Empire passed and perished—Went the
Way all Empires Go !
Falls the Sceptre from thy grasp, Arm no more
thy Angers clasp—
Lo, thy Younger Generation rotteth inward at
the core ;
Gone thine ancient energy.
In the tomb all silently
Sleep the Men who won thy glory in the stalwart
days of yore !
Slow thy blood, O Britain, creeps—strong no more
thy heart-pulse leaps.
Spent and worn, 0 palsied Britain, thou art
drifting down the years ;
As the Empires old have passed,
Even thou must fall at last.
(Where are Xerxes’ countless galleys, where are
Alexander’s spears?)
We, the Breed Beyond the Sea, heed the Voice of
History—
We shall build as thou wert builded when the
sun of Rome sank low ;
When the coins lie on thine eyes
Shall the Young Republics rise ;
They shall stand when thou art lifeless —Gone the
Way All Empires Go !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tiger of Fiction and the Lamb of Fact.
It is a curious characteristic of the Horror
Socialism that it is only horrible in the abstract.
When it materialises it invariably ceases to freeze
the marrow of those who label themselves “ Anti-
Socialists” ; in fact, it inspires them with multi-
tudes of arguments m its favor. This phenomenon
may be observed in the case of trams, swimming
baths, electric lighting, the Post Office and a host
of other things. It is not too much to say that
there is no single industry upon which Sosli has
imposed its allegedly pestiferous paw that one
sane and public-spirited citizen out of a thousand
would willingly see handed over to private e< itrol.
The latest industry to be municipalised—or, as
G. Reid would say, “cursed with Socialism ” —is
the fish-distributing trade. For years the Sydney
and suburban householder lias been using bad
language about his fish. He hasn’t been able to
understand why, living as he does within sound of
an ocean that teems with high-class edible fish, lie
has bad to pay so much for so little, and get it in
such an indifferent state of preservation. The
fisherman, for his part, has been wondering, during
about the same length of time, down what grating
the main portion of the money-value of his catch,
vanishes. The only person who hasn’t complained
has been the middleman or agent, who has grown
fat at the expense of hotli fisherman and fish-
consumer. Now the Sydney City Council has
waded in and taken over the auctioning of fisli
consigned to Sydney, and the aspect of affairs is
changed. Worrying not at all about the infuriated
boycott instituted by the regular agents, the
Council put its own officers on to the tables of its
own markets at Woolloomooloo. It provided
the ice, sent to the railway station for the fish
from Tuggerah Lakes, disposed of it, and handed
to the fishermen the whole market-value
of their catches, less out-of-pocket expenses and a
modest 5 per cent, for market charges. It in-
sisted, in the interests of the public, that every
tail of fish arriving in time for the 3.30 a.lll.
auction should be sold, and that under no circum-
stances should fish that had been on the ice longer
than one night leave the market. In vain the
outraged agents rushed to Redfern, where, as
Sydney Telegraph notes (8/2/’,09), “in one street
there are now three private markets where fish
can be sold without any restriction whatever—
alas for the consumer ! ” Both fishermen and fish-
retailers enthusiastically abandoned the agents m
favor of the Socialistic market. Even the lele-
GRAPH, the organ of Private Enterprise, turned
and smote its ally. Actually the Telegraph said
this harsh thing about the Individualists who
were being rent and torn by the Menace :
The general public cannot help according the highest
praise to the Lord Mayor for the determined action he lias
instituted to put an end to the foolish boycott of the
Woolloomooloo fish market by the fish salesmen. For the
boycotting agents to pose as injured persons is futile, as
the public realise that the new conditions introduced
were not intended to harass the salesmen, but to protect
the consumer and the producer.
It looks as though individualism, in the fish-
distributing line were in for a death-stroke in the
near future. Which, so far as it goes, and in its
own small way, is a public blessing. But even
though Anti-Sosli may see the insanity of allow-
ing Private Enterprise to control its fish supply, a
small thing like that won’t prevent it from con-
tinuing to laud the principle of individualism in
regard to meat distribution and a hundred other
analogous lines. Still, what of that ! Anti-Sosli
always has refused to admit the futility of its
doctrine as applied to particular cases, till bosh
has butted in and supplied object lessons to the
contrary.


Another Call to the Commonwealth.
A casual sort of strike has been slouching along
in Melbourne for the last fortnight, with negative
results, so far. Briefly, the union ironworkers’
assistants employed by seven leading Yarra-side
engineers ask Is. per day increase on their present
rates—7s. per day for “inside the shop” work,
and Bs. for “outside.” They also ask a few
minor concessions which don’t matter much. The
employers say they already pay these men higher
wages than the non-union shops, and higher than
the same class of labor gets in Sydney and else-
where in the Commonwealth ; they admit that 7s.
per day constitutes no great wealth, but an in-
crease simply means that the work they at pre-
sent get will go to non-union shops, or to
Sydney. An abortive conference having left
things as they were, these seven firms have
asked Premier Murray for a Wages Board.
They point out that, even if they pay more, the
non-union sweating shops won’t, wherefore the
non-union sweating shops will undercut them and
get the work ; and only a Wages Board can meet
that difficulty—the union can’t meet it, because
it naturally can’t control the non-union shop.
They are anxious to pay a fair wage, they say,
whatever it may be; all that they ask is that
their competitors should also be required
to pay a fair wage. Premier Murray saw
the reasonableness of the request, and
has suggested a conference between delegates
from each side to adjust matters temporarily—
which is a pleasing circumstance, and shows that if
progressive legislation has driven all the capital
out of the country, it at least hasn’t driven out all
the sense. But, unfortunately, though it is some-
thing to go on with, a Wages Board to apply to
all ironworkers and engineers in Victorian cities
won’t do them much good as long as the class of
work for which the Melbourne worker now gets 7s.
and Bs. per day is carried out in the shires, or in
Sydney, or elsewhere, for 6s. and 6s. 6d. per day.
These trade-unionists, like a good many other
Laborites, overlook the fact that it isn’t sufficient
to protect themselves by Wages Boards, and the
employers by a tariff; there must also be provi-
sion against the unfair competition of States or
districts to which decent industrial laws don’t
apply. That can be done most quickly, and it can
only be done effectively, by handing over the
whole job of industrial regulation and legislation
to the Commonwealth, which reaches every State
and every district of every State. Any Common-
wealth Government might be reasonably expected
to take that logical view of things. But the pre-
sent Government is supposed to have a special
interest in these matters ; and presumably it was
put there to attend specially to the matters in
which it was expected to have a special interest.
♦
Wade, Waddell and the “Herald.”
C. G. Wade and his colleague, Waddell, fell
into print in the S. M. Herald on Feb. 10 on the
subject of land and land resumption. The con-
tradictoriness of the two Ministers’ views is
amazing. Waddell said :
There was nothing to fear from the principle of aliena-
tion.
Wade said :
No foreshores which are unalienated have been or will
be allowed to pass into the hands of private owners.
Also Waddell said
The Government intends to continue the policy of
buying up big estates and cutting them up.
But Wade said :
If the idea became current that a comprehensive
scheme of resumptions was about to be put into opera-
tion, values would be unduly inflated, and the position
of the Government would be made very difficult.
The Herald then chipped in with the following
Whenever the Government appears in the market as
the purchaser of anything, whether it be harbor front-
ages, or farming lands, or tin-tacks, the vendors are
immediately out for the last penny ; heads are put toge-
ther to financially exploit this public necessity to the
utmost.
Waddell, concluding, said :
The Government was thoroughly in earnest in the
determination to break up land monopoly [by buying up
the big estates].
But Wade said :
Great difficulty has been experienced in arriving at a
sum for compensation which was fair to the individual
owner and to the taxpayer also. Experience has shown
that the method of compulsory resumption is surrounded
with many obstacles, for although the sum asked by the
owner may be many times as great as that offered by the
State, yet if the tribunal called upon to assess the Value
awards one pound in excess of the Government valuation,
the whole of the costs of the proceedings have to be
borne by the taxpayers. Naturally, therefore, the
Government is inclined, as far as possible, to arrive at
agreement by negotiations ; but the officials have reported
frequently that they are seriously handicapped in these
negotiations owing to the unwillingness of the landowners
to accept anything like a reasonable figure.
And the Herald said
Socialists might conveniently make a note of this in
passing. It is an instance of the difficulties which beset
the practical furtherance of collectivistic projects. At the
same time, it is a position which tends to breed more
Socialism.
Thus the Wade-Waddell Government, according
to one of its members (Waddell), favors the prin-
ciple of buying up big estates, and is “thoroughly
in earnest ” in its determination to carry that
princi pie in to execution. But Wade (who is the head
of the same Government) says that the position of
the Government in its attempts to buy up estates
is hopeless. As soon as it is* known that the
Government is after an estate, the landlord—so
Wade says—puts a price on his property “ many
times as great as that offered by the State.” In
desperation the Government tries negotiating
with him. In vain. The negotiations fall through
owing to the landowner’s “ unwillingness to accept
anything like a reasonable price.’’ Apropos
of which the Herald proceeds to blither
mildly of the “evils of collectivism,” and of “a
position which tends to breed” Socialism. The
two things that stand out from the above extracts
are— (l) That Wade and Waddell should confer
in future before writing to the press if they don’t
want to stultify one another ; (2) that the best cure
for the hoggish monopolist who causes them pain
and embarrassment by refusing to sell his land,
“ unless at many times its value,” is the smashing
land-tax which the Herald denounces in a flood
of horrified bleats.
»
The Light that Arbitration Lets In.
Anti-Sosii does well, from its own point of view,
to be angry about Arbitration legislation. For the
past seven years anonj’mous “business men”
have been protesting in the press against the pub-
licity that is given to the affairs of those who
appear before the Court. It is significant that
workers have never complained about their affairs
being made public property ; and some extracts
from the evidence given before Justice HIGGiNSat
Broken Hill last week tends to explain why :
T. H. Hogan, miner, said he had worked on the Kal-
goorlie fields. There were greater risks in Broken Hill
than at Kalgoorlie, the lode being wider, more treacher-
pus, and much heavier. It was more likely to give
way. Miners suffered from the effects of fumes. His
wife was now keeping a boardinghouse in Melbourne.
He was working- night shift at the present time, and
often lost a shift through being unable to sleep in the
day-time. He smoked and drank very little.
Mr. Arthur : Do you gamble?—No.
His tobacco bill was 6d. a week.
The President: In the general run of miners’ houses
have you shower baths?—No. I have seen plunge baths ;
but not very often.
The President: Do you think that cost of water has
anything to do with it?—Yes. If water were cheaper
people would bathe oftener.
John Cakebrf.ad said he worked in various parts of the
mill. Taking all the year round he earned an average of
£5 2s. 6d. per fortnight. He was married and had three
children.
The witness gave evidence as to the injurious effect of
fumes on workmen at the sintering works.
Continuing, the witness said they had to pay more for
vegetables at the sintering works than at Broken Hill,
because when the Chinamen were asked to call they re-
plied, “No savee that smoke.”
Thomas Hawkes, a navvy, said when working in the
open cut he received 7s. 6d. He had lately worked on the
vats. -It would take a fortune to keep a man in boots on
that. One working pair only lasted a fortnight.
Mr. Arthur: What about clothes?
Witness : A shirt every week or less.
Now, these Broken Hill workers are financially far
above the unhappy Clara Oxleys of the com-
munity—the women who, as described in the jam-
trade case, slave their souls out for half-a-sovereign
a week, and must turn to charity or worse to get
enough to merely exist. The mine-hands are
almost the Carneuies of the proletariat.
Yet consider even their mode of life, with
its hardships and its pitiful economies! Till
Arbitration came along the average twentieth-
century Australian of means knew almost as little
about how his indigent next-door neighbor lived
as he did concerning the domestic economy of the
European of the Middle Ages. A fixed idea
obsessed him that the Commonwealth was a
Workers’ Paradise—a place wherein the toiler, in
the intervals of dealing a leisurely Government
stroke for a large wage, slept, smoked, drank and
gambled. The alleged luxuriousness of the local
toiler’s existence was one of G. Beid’s favorite
topics during his 190 G campaign. He contended
that labor had “got above itself,’’ owing to
the foolishly generous attitude of employers,
and was preparing to run amok. The beggar
was said not only to be on horseback, as it were,
but burning to acquire a whole stud at the expense
of harassed and desperate capital. The Anti-Sosh
cartoonist limned and still limns the worker as
an immense bestial-looking Brobdingnag; his
employer is a cowering Gulliver in a plug hat.
And the daily paper editorials take the same line.
There is a big section of voters whom these things
impress. But affidavits of the sort that are being
made before Arbitration Courts and Wages
Boards, and published in every newspaper in the
Commonwealth, must cause them to readjust their
point of view. People are not necessarily malig-
nant or heartless because they are rich or even
moderately rich. The secret of much of the
affluent person’s intolerant lie against the worker
resides in the fact that the worker is, in the nature
of things, out of the affluent one’s social orbit. On
any morning nowadays, however, the prosperous
citizen is liable to strike, first, a “leader” chiding
the workers for their greed in demanding a few
pence a day increase in wages, and alongside it an
Arbitration Court item such as—“ Tobacco, 6d. a
week.” It makes him, or some of him, think.
He recalls the multitude of sixpences he and his
friends spend on this luxury day by day. Fur-
ther consideration of the report causes him to
realise that water—the fluid he sprays over his
lawn by the thousand gallons—has to be econo-
mised in by some people. He learns of a family
of four which lives in one of the most expensive
towns in the Commonwealth on £2 7s. 9d.
per week (about a shilling per day per unit),
and thinks itself lucky to be abie to do it
—and that despite the fact that the breadwinner
works and lives in a place so overwhelmed with
sulphur fumes that even the vegetable Chows shun
it. One witness whom Barrister Kelynack ex-
amined last week said that for a certain job “men
did not need any special knowledge. All they
wanted was a big heart.” A big heart is a require-
ment with most workers; also they need the
stolid philosophy of Asiatics if they are to keep
cheery, and avoid the grim, haunted look that
comes early to the average toiler’s face. And one
of the good services the Arbitration Court is
rendering is the teaching of the fact to that section
of the public which has the good fortune to get its
butter and toast some other way.
-•
The Black Man in the Tropics.
From the Old Soldier :
Sydney D.T. gets just the sort of letters it wants. As
an example, “ White Australia ” writesabout the Northern
Territory’s small population of 1000 to its 522,000 square
miles :
“This state of affairs is a standing proof of the fact,
well known to everybody who has resided in the
that it is hopeless to expect the development of the
Northern Territory will ever be accomplished by white
labor. . . . I cannot see any objection to the employment
of contract labor from India under agreements sanctioned
by the Australian and Indian Governments.”
The man who can write such nonsense doesn’t know
either India or its people. Quite half, and the most popu-
lous half, of what is known as India is outside the tropics.
Most of the Indians in Australia come from the Punjab,
a country colder than Victoria. The ignorant delusion
that dark-skinned people are specially suited for the
tropics had better be got rid of at once. The truth is,
he wilts and withers if taken out of his native district,
and here are facts in proof. More than 40 years ago I
was on the staff of the Bhotan Field Force in the lower
Himalayas, in lat. 28 deg.. N. There were four native
infantry regiments; and, after six months’ rather hard
service, the 11th, composed entirely of Brahmans, the
very pick of the Hindu population, was reduced from 1150
men to 168 by sickness alone ; the 30th Panjabis, nearly
all Sikhs, out of a little less than 1000 had lost 12 in
action, and 870 by sickness. The other two regiments
suffered just as heavily. Now mark the contrast. The 240
European artillerymen with the force lost in the six
months’ fighting 27 killed in action, and 32 by sickness.
The tropics are not really unhealthy if malaria is absent.
Coulomb, the French engineer, who had many years’ ex-
perience in the West Indies, certainly maintains that he
could never get so much work out of the French soldiers
employed under him on public works as he could have
got out of them in France ; but then, when he had
negroes, they were a great deal more unsatisfactory, and
could not stand exposure to the sun as well as the French-
men. My own experience with regard to natives of India
is that they are very disappointing when endurance is
required (from them. European soldiers, when in good
marching condition, will march the best sepoys to death.
The Chow and His Friends.
“Henry Horsecollar ” writes: The compara-
tive emptiness of the Northern Territory lately
moved that fool paper, the London Daily News,
to recommend the importation, in a large, general
way, of Chinese to fill the blank spaces. This is
a common enough English attitude, and a whole
essay could be written on the foolishness of it if
the man who wrote the Proverbs of Solomon
tackled the job. In the absence of Solomon, his
understudy hereby tries to define the position of
the Daily News and the other advocates of
Chinese labor. Their opinions are something as
follows :
(1) If you haven’t yet enough men to adequately gar-
rison your country, the best thing is to fill it with pos-
sible (or probable) enemies. Thus, if Britain is afraid of
a German invasion, its plain duty is to import as many
German settlers as possible, so that, if the invader comes,
he will find lots of friends to welcome him.
(2) If you haven’t yet enough men to fight for your
country' when required, the simple remedy is to fill it at
once with aliens, who won’t fight for it. By thus
filling up the country with men who won’t fight, you
make it certain that there won’t be room later on for a
large population of the men who will fight.
(3) The white race has no future. It isn’t worth pre-
serving a bit of land so that there may be space for its
expansion in days to come.
(4) Therefore, if a young couple whose children haven’t
.vet begun to arrive are really using only four rooms in
the 16-roomed mansion that they have inherited, it is
clearly' their <' ty' to let Chinese hawkers take permanent
possession of i » other 12 rooms rent free.
(5) The one g at essential is to fill up. It is better to
put manure in a >lendid Gothic cathedral than to leave
it empty. Unfortunately the pro-Asiatic crowd in Eng-
land doesn’t live up to its creed. Certain of the royal
palaces, for instance, are mostly empty just like the
Northern Territory, yet that fact isn’t regarded as good
and sufficient reason why' they should he handed over to
the world’s derelicts as doss-houses, or even why horse-
feed should be stored in them.
(6) The white man and the Chow have made a failure
of the Territory so far, the great trouble being remote-
ness from a market, though as the white man is a suc-
cessful cattle-raiser there, he is the less remarkable failure
of the tw r o. This seems to be held by the Daily News
push as a reason why the white man should go, and the
Chow should remain and multiply.
(7) The Northern Territory' being a tropical country' of
great mineral wealth, and in need of money for its
development, the plain, simple thing to do, according to
the Daily News gang, is to import into it a purely agri-
cultural race from a country which is almost entirely
non-tropioal—a race which is such a failure in its own
land that it remains to this day almost the poorest com-
munity on earth.
They are curious people, these pro-Chinese
howlers, and the thing which I can’t understand
is why they don’t import Beloochese (a sturdy
race of cold-weather niggers) to fill up the waste
places in the north of Scotland. Sutherlandshire,
for instance, is far less densely peopled than
Victoria or Maoriland, and Argyleshire isn’t
much better. Beloochee settlement might do a
lot for those places.
A Victorian correspondent who appears to be in
the inside running takes his solemn oath to the
following and many other things about the Bent
Government’s Income-Tax Department:—
(1) That illiterate persons (farm laborers and such),
with no taxable incomes, have at various times been
prosecuted and heavily fined for not sending in returns.
Often these persons were nomads, whose notices were
sent to some old, abandoned address, and were never re-
ceived by them.
(2) That the muddled Department has at times lost
returns, and has had persons prosecuted and fined for not
sending them in. When the returns were afterwards dis-
covered in the office redress was refused.
(3) That one person who was prosecuted, fined and had
the bailiff put in by the Department, proved to have
nothing to levy upon ; his wife and children being almost
starving.
(4) That sundry old-age pensioners have been hauled up
at court for failure to supply income-tax returns.
(5) That in another case where the Income-Tax Depart-
ment put the bailiff in it found an empty house and an
utterly impoverished family sleeping on the bare floor.
(6) That a man who was serving a long sentence in gaol,
and whose wife was in hospital, was heavily fined for not
sending in a return (presumably of the income earned
while in gaol). Whether the amount of the fine came out
of the few assets which he had left in the hands of the
sick wife doesn’t appear, but it is difficult to see what
other fund it could come out of.
(7) That a large number of rich and prominent persons
(many names given) are either : (a) not pressed for in-
come-tax returns at all; or ( b ) allowed to make absurd
deductions which reduce the amount payable to almost
or quite nil; or (c) allowed to owe their income-tax
for years, it being sometimes finally written off as irre-
coverable. And some of the names mentioned are very'
surprising names indeed.
Also, the letter of the man who professes to write
from inside knowledge simply shrieks with other
details. If half of what he alleges is true, one of
the early acts of any new, clean Government which
Victoria can get hold of should be to appoint a
commission to hold a rigid inquiry into the doings
of the Income-tax Department, as well as another
committee to consider the discredited police force,
and a third to fully investigate the miscellaneous
doings of T. Bent. According to common report,
affairs in Victoria have drifted into such a state of
decay during the eight years of Peacock, Irvine,
and Bent, that it would be hardly possible to inquire
into anything without making some interesting
discoveries. But the members of the commission
should be brought from outside, say from South
Australia, or Queensland, or Maori land—places a
long way off, where, if there are bad influeuces and
smells, they are at least different influences and
not the same smells.
Among other things, the Westralian Government
cheerfully announces that it proposes to sell as
much land as it can, and collar the proceeds.
Said the Treasurer, in introducing his Loan
estimates :
He was well aware of the argument that the alienation
of Crown land would have the effect of reducing- the
State’s credit, but he maintained that the alienation of
Crown lands did not reduce the value of the security one
iota. It was of little moment under what title land was
held so long as the ability to contribute towards the
revenue of the State was still contained in that land.
People who contemplate buying land from the
Westralian Government will be glad that the
Treasurer has put it so plainly. “ True,” he says
in effect, “we are selling you thi3 land, and
getting the purchase money from you ; but later
on we’ll collect the equivalent of rent, too. if we
feel disposed.” It isn’t very often that a Govern-
ment has intimated quite so plainly that it is in
the uncle-from-Fiji, confidence-trick business.
Certainly the State has the right, and must have
the right, to tax not only land, but every other
form of wealth. That, however, is quite a dif-
ferent thing from selling land, and “blewing”
the proceeds, with the deliberate intention of
later on making the purchaser ''..,y over again if
things don’t go well with the selier.
♦
Johnson, M.H.R., is the man who, during
the Parliamentary tour in the Northern Terri-
tory, sat on a log and jumped up suddenly
to discover that it was an alligator. Since
then Johnson can’t see even a walking-stick
without thinking it is at least a death-adder. The
other day the Commonwealth Government de-
cided, in view of the Asiatic menace and
other perils, to make a small start on an
Australian navy; and forthwith Johnson ad-
dressed an Orange gathering, and warned it
that the advocates of an Australian defence
force had a deep scheme to get guns so as to
presently use them against the “Motherland.” Itis
hard to say what ought to be done with a man like
Johnson. Even if we feel sorry for him we can’t
help regarding him as rather a trial as well. Pre-
sumably he even warns Mrs. Johnson (if there is
a Mrs. Johnson) against teaching the little John-
sons (if there are any little Johnsons) how to use
a knife and fork, on the ground that, if she does,
when they grow up they are almost certain to
attack their parents with the weapons.
♦
The Sydney coroner who “sat” on the victims
of the naval pinnace-Dunmore disaster, in deliver-
ing his verdict, said :
With every disposition to, if possible, apportion the
blame, if any, to both parties, and after careful considera-
tion, I have come to the conclusion that the captain of
the Dunmore followed the regulations applicable to a case
of this kind, and that he must be held acquitted of any
criminal negligence.
In the name of equity, why should a coroner who
is required to come to his duties with an abso-
lutely unbiassed mmd, cherish “a disposition to,
if possible, apportion the blame, if any, to both
parties ” ? Manslaughter is a serious charge.
Already the unlucky Dunmore master has lost his
job for a mishap which seafaring men recognise to
have been no fault of his. And now at the coro-
nial inquiry he learns that the official who con-
ducted it started with “every disposition” to
cause him to lose his liberty as well. Sympathy
with the British Navy in general, and with the
luckless tar who was committed to take his trial
last week in particular, is being overdone. There
is no sense of justice in a hankering to vindicate
the Navy by giving it a fellow victim to keep it
company.
4
Australia might do worse than consider the mes-
sage sent by Roosevelt to the Governor of Cali-
fornia, for it is about the size and shape of the
despatch which may at any moment be fired in
this direction by the nation from which we pur-
chase our annual three-penn’orth of Defence. The
American President’s communication to the State
Legislature which has dared to draw the color
line was no gentle remonstrance. It ran :
The policy of my Administration is to combine a maxi-
mum of efficiency with a minimum of trouble, while the
misguided advocates of the action against which I protest
follow the policy of a minimum of efficiency and a maxi-
mum of insult and harm.
Which was pretty emphatic; but Theodore
didn’t shut down right there, for he rubbed it in
with this :
The Bill is a clear violation of existing treaty obliga-
tions ; moreover, if, in a year or two, the immigration
policy between the United States and Japan fails to
achieve what it is now achieving, then through the
President and Congress it can be made efficient.
That is to say, California must let the Monkey
roost undisturbed in its redwoods until Congress
decides whether the immigration policy is a
failure or whether it is a tremendous success.
(The time mentioned for the experiment is “a
year or so,” which may possibly mean a year or
tep.) Washington is a long way from’Frisco;
there is the width of a large continent between
the opinions of the man at New York, who
doesn’t have to rub shoulders with the Asiatic,
and the man at ’Frisco, who does. California,
though, doesn’t protest alone ; the State Assem-
bly of Nebraska has just introduced a Bill to pro-
vide for the better separation of the Jap and
Chow from the American, and, if Roosevelt
wants to get a name for consistency, he had better
draft a rebuke for that State too. The U.S. has
had a North and South butchery over the black
negro, and it is hardly conceivable that it would
have an East and West trouble about the extra-
neous and superfluous brown Asiatic. But,
whatever happens, the situation is worth watching
from this part of the world, for, where California
climbs down to-day by 41 votes to 37, a defence-
less Australia may have to grovel to-morrow.
A Ballad of Progress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A PROGRESSIVE MUNICIPALITY.
Moree, Wednesday.—At a special meeting- of the Muni-
'•’pal Council, last night, it was resolved to borrow £3900
w electric light for the streets and private consumers.—
S. M. Herald (11/2/’O9).
Reading the Herald erst I sat
Within my office pew,
Till it was borne in on me that
My trade ways were askew ;
I commandeered a near-by hat,
And called upon a Jew.
I said to him, “ I’ve drowsed too long,
In a financial sense;
. I wish to be progressive ; wrong
Or right, pounds, shillings, pence
I ask of you.” He smote a gong.
I sat in silence tense.
His partner came. I did not like
His face : it seemed to me
A predatory visage. Ike
(My Jewish friend) said : “He
Is after the spondulix, Mike”—
And indicated me.
Michael responded with a nod :
He did not seem to reck
How much I got. I murmured, “Good,
I am indeed on deck.”
I felt as though the air I trod
As they made out my cheque.
Mike walked with me to where the banks
Do mostly congregate:
He spoke in anger of those cranks
Who rail at debt. The State
He held should stop their senseless pranks,
Before it was too late.
I thought with him in ev’rything;
Right scornfully we rent
The fad of anti-borrowing.
And then a clerkling lent
His ear to us. I heard the ring
Of gold. My joy found vent.
That was some time ago. My views
Have undergone a change
Since then. In fact, cold sweat bedews
Me now when my thoughts range
iKK-wards. The mere idea of Jews
Fills me with terrors strange.
They make me brood on garnishees
And judgment-orders, and
On Ga. Sa. documents, and pleas
In bankruptcy ; a hand
I seem to see which bends to squeeze
Me from my hearth and land.
The world’s no longer gay and bright
From eve till dewy dawn ;
I sit and think with all my might
Of some fresh thing to pawn.
Face, nerves and bank account (drear plight!)
All, all are overdrawn.
Hark to my paradox : The worst
Blight of my life, the pest
That ever since has had me cursed,
Came when, at the behest
Of a strange journalist, I first
Financially “ progressed.”
N.S.YV.
10-2-4.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MA TTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE. NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
Cinematograph Films.
250,000 feet of Films for HIRE.
NEW SUBJECTS arriving: EVERY WEEK.
Instruments and all Accessories Stocked.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
At length the first blossoms of the Aus-
tralian Navy, from the long-sown seeds of press
promulgation, are about to appear. And after
the country has steadily absorbed for a few more
years, achieving impulse from D.C.L. Whisky,
the two destroyers should fructify into half a
dozen cruisers. D.C.L., as the Spirit of Peace,
ever inspires to Wise Defence.*
VrcTORiAN Premier Murray’s antipathy to the
Labor party is leading him into making a foolish
- himself. Speaking at Cobden the
u ni ®>. ’ before an audience that was pro-
bably too ignorant to argue the point with him,
he remarked on the pay allowed to policemen for
collecting names for the electoral rolls. Said he,
with his usual aspect of dominating sincerity :
What did this Labor Government allow policemen for
yoing round to get men enrolled? It gave them 3s. a
day, and no more. That was the pay of his friend
iiSHERS Government, and it was sweating in the worst
form.
Yet Murray probably did know, and anyhow he
ought to have known, that the policemen receive
V- a day through an arrangement between
liberal and State Governments made years before
the Fisher Government got into power. At
least, the Federal Government allows 3s. a day,
and the State Governments mostly collar the 3s. ;
so that, though the policemen are really doing
extra work, the States annex the money which
is allowed by the Federal Government for
doing it. If there is any sweating, therefore, it
I s r . 7 States, and not by the Federal Labor
Ministry. Apparently, however, Murray is so
hurt by Labor’s justifiable criticism of his alleged
programme, with its bogus land tax and other
furtive professions, that he must reply to fair
criticism with sneaking innuendo or silly misrep-
resentation. Yet he, like his blatant colleague,
Willie Watt, complains about the Labor Party
opposing their re-election. Presumably the
Labor Party shouldn’t oppose Murray and Watt
—out of gratitude for their mean misrepresenta-
tions.
Victoria’s new Mines Minister, Peter Mcßride,
doesn t promise to show any stiffer backbone than
his predecessor in the matter of the Coal Creek
mining lease. The Coal Creek Co., during its
comparatively brief existence, paid £27,000 in
dividends, but didn’t provide itself with even a
moderate reserve fund ; consequently, when it
struck poor country and bad times, it was help-
less, and the Colonial Bank, which had loaned it
a few pounds, took over the assets,” including
the lease. The bank then sat down and did
nothing but wait for someone to offer it a large
sum for the property. Again and again the
Government has been urged to tell the bank to
keep the labor conditions or quit; and eight
months ago Bent actually got as far as
giving it notice to get a move on inside
two months. And still nobody did anything.
The other day another deputation from the local
council of J eetho called on Mcßride, and
explained that Other parties had applied for
the forfeiture of the lease and had guaranteed to
work the mine, but had been refused. The lease,
the deputation said, contained 2261 acres, yet not
more than 10 acres had ever been used for surface
workings ; wherefore it suggested that at least
the other 3f square miles of surface might be cut
up for closer settlement, for which it was
eminently suitable. Mcßride considered a
while, then remarked that “he was anxious to
treat the bank fairly,” and that Bent had lent
the said institution £5OO in connection with the
lease, “and that complicated matters somewhat.”
As a matter of fact, it simplifies matters. For it
puts the State in the same position with regard to
the lease as the bank used to be ; and if it was the
fair and proper thing for the bank (having lent
money) to take possession, it also seems to be the
fair and proper thing for the State (which has also
lent money) to take possession likewise.
The case of Dr. Brown, of Victoria’s State
Department of Agriculture, illustrates the vio-
lence of official hostility to a man who has the
courage of his convictions, and sense enough of
his duty to the public to publish them. Brown,
seemingly in his official capacity, lately visited
the Ovens Valley, and, noting the devastation
caused by gold-dredging operations on what were
formerly agricultural river flats, wrote in warm
condemnation of what he regarded as an evil.
The author of that illuminating report ought to
have been commended for his frankness, and
for his consciousness of the duty he owed to
his employers, the public. But it didn’t
strike the Department of Agriculture in
that way. Aroused out of its torpor by the in-
ference that the Ovens desolation was due to its
apathy and indolence, the Department assumed a
threatening attitude to its Dr. Brown. The
Minister wanted to know whether Brown’s report
had been asked for ; if not, he was to be made
aware of his impertinence. Brown accordingly
was censured, as the gorgeous permanent secre-
tary to the Department was at some pains to
make known. “Dr. Brown was not asked
to report, and he has been cautioned against
a repetition of the offence.” Which is a not too
polite hint to Dr. Brown to keep his mouth
closed to the public, and, moreover, is a sugges-
tion of trouble in store if he doesn’t close it.
Meantime what is Brown’s “offence”? Seem-
ingly that(l) he has unintentionally implied thatthe
Department has not justified its expensive exist-
tence, and (2)has failed to recognise thattheDepart-
ment wants neither to see nor to know more than
it suits the Minister that it should see and know.
About six months ago the Wade Government
appointed a Commission on Sydney Improvement.
It was the Wade method of evading the Greater
Sydney question. Much time was spent taking
and giving evidence, and co-ordinating the ideas
which had been simmering in the brains of many
experts and enthusiasts for years ; also in collect-
ing plans, maps, figures and knowledge about the
big things in city beautification which had been
done abroad. The Commission, headed by the
best civic reformer the Ma State has had up to
now—ex-Mayor Hughes— toiled faithfully, and,
as a first step, brought up an interim report re-
commending that the obstructive Gas Company’s
works, in Kent-street, should be resumed and
removed—this in order to allow the completion of
the Harbor Trust’s wharfage plans, and to enable
the Broadway scheme round the wharves to be
carried out. But the awful impiety of “ interfer-
ing” with such large vested interests as those of
the Gas Co. has been too much for Wade ; where-
fore the report, on receipt, was evidently strangled
and buried instantly. Wade certainly has been
driven to say that he doesn’t oppose the scheme ;
but there is not a sign of any movement to put it
into effect, and for all practical purposes he might
just as well batter it with an axe as quietly
choke it.
♦
Richard Arthur, M.L. A., writes re the German
Peril :
The German Peril, as far as Australia is concerned, has
no existence. Assume a conflict between Great Britain
and Germany in the near future, and assume further a
German victory, with the pick of the British colonies at
the Kaiser’s disposal. Canada is ruled out straightaway.
If Germany, with half a million of its subjects in Brazil,
respects the Monroe doctrine for South America, it
would not be so mad as to try and effect a lodgment on
the North American continent. South Africa—well, Eng-
land found South Africa a very hornets’ nest even with
the people divided against themselves. What it would
be when they were united to resist an invader, Heaven
only knows. And, anyhow, South Africa is a black man’s
country, a land of sand and. sorrow, locusts and rinder-
pest, and the white man is shaking its dust off his feet,
and leaving it to the Kaffir and the Zulu.
Remains Australia —the pearl of the Empire. Alas for
German hopes if they are set on this fair land. I make
bold to state that Australia is also covered by a Monroe
Doctrine—unformulated as yet to the world, but existing
in the archives of Tokyo.
Say the German fleet has started to bear the Pax Ger-
manica to Australia, a matter of 12,000 miles. But the
Pax Japonica is 8000 miles nearer, and the children of
Nippon are noted for their gratitude. Did not the
British hold the sponge for them in their hour of trial ?
In return they will take this defenceless daughter of the
Empire under their sheltering wing. As Monroe and
Canning warned off the Holy Alliance, so the authorities
at Tokyo and Pekin would bid halt any who should come
to disturb the balance of power in the Pacific.
And of course Australia’s gratitude would know no
bounds. The Australian Parliament would vote £1,000,000
to give the Japanese fleet the time of its life, and the
veterans of Port Arthur and Mukden would make strong
our strategic points and sit down in them. And there
they would abide, because it would be dangerous to do
otherwise, and a temptation to the rapacious Teuton.
So we have no German peril.
: *
The Asiatic question rages in Canada. Britain
wants its nigger to have free admission every-
where, which is one of the curses of belonging to
a piebald empire. Britain, out of sheer pomp and
vanity, has loaded itself up with nigger posses-
sions which do very little to enrich it, and which
are liable to be a fearful danger—an armed enemy
inside the empire’s gates—when any real trouble
comes along. In its anxiety to further secure its
useless nigger, Britain has taken the most unpopu-
lar_ step of allying itself with an aggressive
Asiatic power. To placate its useless nigger it
seems willing to ruin and alienate its white
dependencies. Australia had the luck to possess
a patriotic Federal Government which argued the
point to the bitter end, and J. Bull gave way.
Canada, has the misfortune to possess an un-
patriotic and time-serving Federal Govern-
ment which is willing to gratify Bull’s
craving after his nigger, and Bull joyfully ac-
cepts the proffered service. So British Columbia,
Canada’s province in the Pacific, is being overrun
and desolated by the brindle hordes of Asia, and
the Acts for the exclusion of the colored races
which the Provincial Legislature keeps passing
are steadily vetoed. A bitter anger against
Britain is naturally growing up in British Colum-
bia—the sort of sentiment which is liable to
expand in time into a secession movement; but
British Columbia must be sacrificed to placate
Britain’s pet nigger. The curious point is that,
instead of being placated, Britain’s pet nigger
seems angrier than he has been any time in the
last 50 years, and things have become so bad that
one Indian paper lately offered to regard the
freshly severed head of a European as good value
for a year’s subscription.
“ Spring ” says that the marine engineer told him
this :
“The trouble re Chow stowaways is not. the only reason
why our company is considering the firing of the Chow
crews, although the hurried passing of the Stowaways
Act has brought the matter past the considering point.
Since the passing of the Alien Restriction Act the diffi-
culty of preventing members of the Chow crews
from escaping has got on the nerves of the officers,
from the 26th engineer to the captain. Every
new law soon has the sharp wits of the rascals
of society scheming to get round or through it.
The cunning and speculative Chow beats all comers at
this kind of business. Certain master-minds of him
carry on a regular system of blackmailing those shipping
companies that have the humble unworthiness to employ
his lofty tremendousness, John, as A.B. and sich. While
they employ his serene and jabbering magnificence in
that glorious capacity, they find themselves unable to
escape from the yellow grip of the new octopus. At
every port where we call there are two or three repre-
sentatives of this blackmailing fraternity, and in every
crew there are two or three lower-paid, but none the
less ardent and artful members of the same gang.
“As you know, the Customs officials count the crew
when the boat arrives at a Commonwealth port, and
again when it leaves. The officers don’t know and seem-
ingly don’t care whether the men they count going awav
are the same saffron horrors that they counted on arrival.
They consider them simply as (say) 20 yellow scoundrels
arrived, and 20 heathen liars departed. The blackmailers
make use of this cursory inspection.
“During the voyage their representatives amongst the
crew have enlightened the others re the benefits to be
derived from the system, and even the lowest celes-
tial mind is quick to fall in with anything, how-
ever uncomfortable, that will bring the smallest increase
to his miserable emolument. So unsophisticated skip-
pers, etc., are amazed to discover that in spite of every
precaution a few members fail to turn up some fair day
shortly prior to the departure of the boat. The gang
has spirited them away, and they can’t be found. The
skipper, if he is new to the trip, is in despair, for he knows
that for every affliction missing lie will be fined £lOO.
His despair doesn’t last long', however, for a day or so
before departure a bland and prosperous-looking Chow
comes aboard and interviews that skipper. He intimates,
in effect, that he recognises with enormous sorrow that the
ingenious and sublime skipper wants so many Chows to
make up his complement, and on the other hand his con-
temptible and unworthy self, who is but the lesser half of
a worm in the skipper’s sight, has the rare good fortune
to be in a position to supply the illustrious mariner with
enough slaves to tide him over his unfortunate difficulties.
This, with due abasement, he will do in consideration of
£2O per slave. The skipper willingly pays up when he
remembers the sure fine of £lOO for each yellowness
missing, and afterwards is consoled with the information
that the company allows a certain amount for such cons
tingencies. ”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Duchess of Dantzic.
Theatre Royal “ The Scarlet Pimpernel. „
Critfriov ... “ The Squatter s Daughter.
Palace. . ' "i . “ The Old Folks at Home.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Kings “My Partner.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
♦
After visiting the “Old Folks” at their
Sydney Palace home. The Bulletin is forced to
the conclusion that all melodramas are the same
melodrama. Christopher Kobin and his wife
Martha are the Old Folks, and in Act I. they are
discovered living an upright and honest life on a
nice, tidy farm ; they have, for company, their
beautiful young daughter Dorothy and a hand-
some, grown-up orphan boy named Andrew Boss,
who is deeply in love with Dorothy, and so noble
that the village blacksmith must have been madly
jealous of him. The author here missed a chance
of being really original. A formerly noble, but
now soured, blacksmith could have been shown
inciting his choir boys (in their surplices) to throw
dead cats at Andrew. Things could have been
squared up in the last act by the blacksmith
bursting into tears, and leaving the village to go
and grow haggis in Patagonia, But the author
didn’t do it, and the blacksmith isn’t even
alluded to. Daughter Dorothy has conceived an
unreasonable infatuation for Lord Kenilworth
(“a dissolute young nobleman”), who is lord of
the manor, and desires Dorothy only because she
looks the sort of girl who would make a docile
wife. He inherits £lO,OOO a year conditionally
on his marrying, and, as he is already un-married
to various ladies, he desires a wife who will act
generally as a moral figurehead. Dorothy, blinded
by infatuation, passes by the noble but seldom merry
Andrew, and leaves the old homestead to marry
wealth and position. Every bucolic on the premises
is filled with suspicions and dark forebodings for
the future —which is mostly Act II. —and
Andrew, instead of decently congratulating the
peer, publicly warns him to he good to his
wife or (“by Heaven!”) ’twill be the worse
for him. Lord Kenilworth, who has thus
far done the family no wrong, strides
forward to deal his disappointed rival a
deadly blow; hut, remembering he is the villain,
recoils before the cold glare of hate levelled at him
by Andrew. Also, the dumb hut unstable farm
CLARA KLEINSCHMIDT.
The S. Australian contralto whose voice has been
floated into a Limited Liability Company.
Photo, by Hammer & Co., Adelaide.
laborer, who has been pushed over by Kenilworth
for staring offensively, is seen to bare his teeth at
the unhappy nobleman, and to lay his hand on
the hilt of his knife in a threatening manner.
The experienced playgoer goes out for his first
drink with the comfortable conviction that the
dumb laborer has been specially invented by the
author and supplied with a knife in order that he
may kill Kenilworth in Act IV.
* * * *
Act 11. takes place in Kenilworth House,
London. A year has elapsed, a baby has arrived,
and Lady Kenilworth—heartbroken and with a
little more powder on her nose—droops around,
whilst Kenilworth walks rather aimlessly about
the house with one of his lady friends. The drama
hereabouts is all evening dress and footmen. A
loyal and impertinent maid who goes out of her
way to be snappy to the unregistered lady friend,
a stout and humorous sailor, and a nurse who
minds the baby, serve to relieve the spectator's
dazzled eye and brain. The act is all insults and
defiance. An artist, who was the unwilling means
of introducing Kenilworth to Dorothy, intrudes in
order to see if she is happy in her married life.
He informs her with a show of respectful grief
that he was aware of Kenilworth’s base motive
for marrying her, but that he was unable to speak
owing to his being in Kenilworth’s debt. Whilst
kissing her hand in token of his loyalty, Kenilworth
and the uncertificated lady, whohavejustcompleted
another circuit of the house, come in. There is
another scene, and the artist departs with a cutting
speech to seek out Andrew in Virginia. The
Old Folks arrive on the stage in answer to a tele-
gram sent them by the loyal and impertinent
maid ; Lord and Lady Kenilworth arrive home
from a ball, and are met by the Folks and the in-
telligence that the baby is dead; the semi-
detached lady wanders on, and by her arrival
complicates a situation that is already over-
crowded. A furious scene ends in Dorothy throw-
ing her valuables in her husband’s face and going
ltome with the Folks. Then the curtain falls, and
the scene-shifters stack the town house of Kenil-
worth against the wall and proceed to lay out
Virginia.
* » * ■*
Act 111. is the cotton plantation whereto
Andrew has fled in order that he may forget.
The nice girl-owner (an orphan like himself) has
fallen in love with his village-blacksmith nobility
of character, but Andrew is only able to be a
brother to her. The main incident of the act is an
abortive attempt by an incompetent assassin to
finish Andrew while he is sitting brooding on a
log. The inefficient murderer, when about to
strike home, is shot down by the artist, who has
hurried out from England and appears round the
side of the house at the right moment. Together
they search the wounded bandit, and discover a
letter which shows Kenilworth and the uncertifi-
cated lady to be the instigators of the attempt.
The artist brings the news about Dorothy ; he
also tells Andrew that the Old Folks are behind
with their rent. The nice girl gives Andrew a
bulky wallet of money, and he departs instantly
to hunt the wolf from the door of the old home-
stead ; he also expresses his intention of doing
something severe to Kenilworth.
* * * *
Act IV. is the usual chapter of recon-
struction. The curtain discovers the deaf and
dumb farm laborer sharpening his bowie on the
farm grindstone, and no one is surprised when,
later on, it is plunged into Kenilworth’s chest.
An opportune detective who arrives on the scene
without any fuss gathers in the uncertificated
lady and the deaf mute; and the newly-arrived
Andrew takes Dorothy in his arms almost before
the adjective “late” can be applied to the knifed
husband lying behind the garden hedge. The
curtain falls for the last time, leaving the
audience amazed at the amount of re-
joicing that can go on within a yard
or so of a weltering corpse. Beatrice Holloway,
as Dorothy Robin, is restrained and graceful, and
with her stage father—who is old-friend J. B.
Atholwood in a grey beard—gives the play a big
lift on the road that leads to success. Conway
Wingfield, as Andrew Ross, looks the part, and
contrives to elude the bathos that haunts the
hero’s lines ; C. R. Stanford is much too staid for
the dangerous Kenilworth, but acts the part con-
scientiously, and submits meekly to his doom at
the hands of the farm laborer. As Patricia
Bathurst, the adventuress, Ida Gresham has to
endure numberless insults ; and May Roberts, as
the maid, serves them up plenty of sauce. Most
of the other parts are fairly well done. The Old
Folks will be at Home until further notice.
TP
“The Scarlet Pimpernel” was revived at
Sydney Theatre Royal on Saturday night. In
the essentials it is the same old Pimpernel. Julius
Knight, in the name part, may still be described
as brave, handsome, tender and true ; also he is
sly, devilish sly—as the duped, not to say doped,
French anti-emigration officials of the period find
to their confusion. Leslie Victor, as the plotter
Chauvelin, is no less patently mysterious and
slinking than of yore. No environment, howsoever
commonplace, would prevent Leslie Victor’s
Chauvelin from being diagnosed instantly as a con-
spirator in full work. On his appearance alone he
would be liable alike to forcible ejection from an
Orange celebration as a minion of Rome, and to
injurious usage at a St. Patrick’s Day gathering on
suspicion of being a Watchman leader-writer in
disguise. Harry Plimmer is a right regal Prince
of Wales, Eardley Turner (who plays the Aristo-
crat) is palpably a man of gentle birth, Sir Andrew
Ffoulks (R. Denniston) looks his unusual name to
the life, and Miss Susie Vaughan is an impressive
Comtesse de Tournai. The principal change in the
cast is in the substitution of Miss Beatrice Day for
Miss Humphrey as Lady Blakeney. Miss Day was
halting over her lines a little when the writer
heard her, and it gave a suggestion of unevenness to
her work. In her more spirited scenes, where she
seemed surer of herself, she shone refulgently;
and in all her scenes she looked delightful.
** * *
One of the mysteries of “The Duchess of
Dantzic ” is how it comes about that young
O’Connor, who understudied Andrew Higginson
with such great success for the first three weeks or
so of the season, makes such a poor showing in
his own small part, now that Higginson is back.
As for Higginson, of course he looks just as a
lover should, but very rarely docs; and what
between his appearance and the catching melody
of his “Love, and Love, and always Love”
refrain, he is sure every night of at least one
recall that he couldn’t refuse even if he wanted
to. Gouriet, as previously remarked, is disap-
pointing ; yet in his patter song there is one very
clever repeated line—that one in which he con-
fides his own astounding genius to his assistant
bonnet-builders. It’s a small diamond ; but what
there is of it sparkles like the very best paste.
Sfc Sfc vfe-
A characteristic of ‘ ‘ The Squatter’s
Daughter ” is that when she starts running—be it
on the rough dramatic tracks of Outback, or on
the easier courses of the metropolis—she is a hard
one to stop. She is the Marathon champion of
the Australian stage; a theatrical Dorando.
After nearly three weeks she is still going as
strongly as ever at Sydney Criterion, and this
despite the fact that both Romeo and Juliet are
waiting, with the running togs in readiness, for a
chance to display their paces before the public
eye. By all appearances the Veronese cracks
will not breast the tape before Saturday week.
Sfc
Two notable events have occurred at
Sydney Tivoli this week ; the ladies of the first
part have gone into kilts, and Cinquevalli has re-
turned. Whether the ladies have gone into kilts
to celebrate Cinquevalli, or whether Cinquevalli
has returned to celebrate the kilts, this paper
doesn’t pretend to know. But it is grateful to
the ladies of the first part for having relinquished
the ancient ceremonial known as the Palace of
Cards ; and it is delighted to welcome back the
juggling genius who, despite all protests,
still performs that breathlessly dangerous
trick of tossing up a cannon ball and catching it
between his shoulder blades. Bearing in mind
that the lily needs no powder on its nose, The
Bulletin will refrain from prolonged praise
where Cinquevalli is concerned ; but it will go so
far as to mention that he is an improved artist—if
such a thing can be possible. After the comet
comes the tail, and the largest whiskers thereof
are Stross and Fellows (music makers), Mac-
kinnon’s Scottish Meisters (singers), Geoffrey and
Benson (comedy team), and Lawson and Namon
(specialty artists).


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Given a Californian gold-diggings atmo-
sphere, the old melodrama of “My Partner,”
somewhat altered for revival at the King’s (Melb.),
should pass muster in the company of more in-
genious ’Murkan plays of “The Squaw Man
class. The artless plot is very artless (Walter
Baker’s attempt to strengthen the last two acts
has not added any muscle to the tail end of the
story); but the opportunities for pathos are pro-
vided, the principal comic-reliever is a legiti-
mate comedy sketch, and the air of truth should
be there most of the time. The opening scene, in
fact, was intended to be purely atmospheric. Joe
Saunders and Ned Singleton, partners in the
luckiest claim at Razorback, are both struck on
Mary, daughter of a decayed gentleman who runs
the local pub. Joe worships Mary at a respectful
distance, whilst dandy Ned “spoons” her with
acceptable irreverence and the usual melodrama
result. Wherefore Joe, happening to overhear a
conversation bearing on the result, binds Ned by
a solemn oath to marry the girl. Also he decides
that his feelings will not allow him to remain
longer in the district. After dividing the gold
with Ned and leaving him, he comes back to take
a more brotherly farewell; but in the mean-
time a black, unnatural villain named Josiah
has' sneaked into the partners’ cabin—an
absurdly spacious domicile in the present
revival —and murdered Ned for his gold.
Joe talks to the corpse awhile ere discover
ing its deadness, and then the floodgates of
his grief are opened, and the neighbors arrive and
the innocent survivor is charged with the crime of
Josiah Scraggs aforesaid. Here the plot takes a
wildly improbable turn. Joe’s trial for murder is
somehow delayed until Mary comes back to her
father’s pub after a considerable absence. She
has been long enough away to achieve the dignity
of motherhood, and in the original version of the
drama she used to reappear with a rag baby in her
arms. In Baker’s amended production she merely
mentions the baby as having been born to
die. Her young sister welcomes her, but
the stern parent, though unacquainted with the
fact that she made him a grandpa, proposes to
cast her off because she ,;an’t justify her escape
from home. Then the.\,noble Joe, who seems
pretty certain to be hanged shortly, states that
Mary is his wife; and as he can’t produce any
evidence of their alleged nuptials, the stern parent
requires him to step into the next room, which is
probably the Bar, and get married again. The
union of Don Caesar de Bazan and Maritana was
not more unlikely to be long continued. Joe,
however, is saved from the gallows. A comic
Chow, who has been sleeping in an abandoned
mine, discovers the blood-stained shirt of Josiah,
and Josiah is dragged off to be lynched.
* * * *
Josiah is a luridly unconvincing villain
from the start. He combines the puritanical
sombreness of Deacon Skinner, of “ Struck Oil,”
with the threatening servility of an Irish rent
collector. As an old resident of a mining district
he is an even more obvious object of suspicion
than the diplomatic French undertaker who
makes all the trouble in “ The Scarlet Pimpernel.”
Yet nobody suspects him. Edmund Duggan is
not to be blamed for the striking absurdity of
Josiah, for he dresses the part according to stage
directions, and errs only in giving the gruesome
monster a touch of Irish brogue, incompatible
with the name of Scraggs. No supply of “atmo-
sphere ” is expected from Duggan, whereas the
drama demands that Walter Baker and Vivian
Ed wards shall realise the characters of the min-
ing partners ; that Bert Bailey, as Major Henry
Clay Brett, of the U.S. Legislature, shall be a
Yankee of the Uncle Sam order; that Miss Ross
shall have something of the manner of a young
spinster who lives among Californian miners and
helps her father to keep a pub; and that Wing
Lee, the servant, shall suggest the Heathen
Chinee of Bret Harte. None of these demands
are met by the performers. The miners are beau-
tifully clean-shaved; likewise the Major, who
has changed his name to O’Hara Brett, in order
to account for his vaguely Hibernian accent.
Edwin Lester’s conception of Wing Lee is very
unlike a fact, and Miss Ross is a stilted, artificial
Mary Brandon. Calling at the partners’ “cabin”
to see Joe, Mary Brandon finds Ned there alone,
and her manner to miner Ned, the father of her
prospective child, is that of a simpering
governess suffering from embarrassment. Miss
Ross is always satisfactory as an indignant
young matron rounding on her traducers, or in
any part where a little warm invective is re-
quired, but as a meek misguided girl on a Cali-
fornian diggings she doesn’t begin to fill the bill.
Vivian Edwards, as Ned, suggests a draper in
fancy dress rather than a miner in store clothes,
such as no store would keep. Bert Bailey’s per-
formance offers a slight apology for his Irish
brogue and clean shave ; and Miss Gair, as the
heroine’s sister, seems actually to belong to the
district, like Hilliard Vox, who plays a miner of
no importance. For the rest there are Gus
Franks, Edwin Campbell, Maggie Knight and
Walter Baker. The “fat” is mostly the perquisite
of Baker. Other people, barring the villain and
the stern parent, are good-hearted, but Baker has
all the rugged virtues that one associates with a
full beard and a perspiring brow. The two things
expected of him are to look the part and act it
powerfully. He can look it whenever he cares to
alter his make-up; and, although he was by no
means weak on Saturday night, he will act his
tine “fat” character more effectively when he
remembers that Joe Saunders, the disappointed
lover, is a regretful noble character, a simple
fellow whose faith has received an awful shock,
rather than a gloomy, moody man who pities
himself.
** * *
Nothing has happened to “Jack and Jill ”
at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), save the substitution of
Alma Barber for Fanny Dango, who was called
away to Sydney to take somebody’s place in
another prosperous piece. Miss Barber is a melo-
dious and charming Jill, and she appears to take
her panto, duties more seriously than the previous
little lady. If there is any other improvement in
“ J. and J.,” it is at the end of the first act, where
the irate Demon puts the ballet back into their
winter garments, and causes a lot of nice girls to
come travelling around on roller skates. After
nine weeks’ practice they have learned to skate as
fairies should—assuming that they are fairies;
it’s hard to say whether the bounding denizens of
a magic forest in a panto, are supposed to be
marriageable females or otherwise.
** * *
At the Melbourne Royal the curtain is
still rising on “ Cinderella ” at 7.45 all evenings of
the week except Sunday. Also, the broad ex-
panse of plush rises at 1.45 p.m. on Wednesdays ;
but the Saturday matinee has been discontinued.
So it may be said of the two Melbourne pantos.
that they are no longer running neck and neck.
Every, seventh day “Jack and Gill” forges a
matinee ahead.
** * *
On the strength of the accidental success
of one Maud Allan at a London music hall, two
young women are just now appearing in Mel-
bourne with their shoes and stockings off. Miss
Dessar, who goes through a number of unexciting
movements at the Athenaeum Hall, professes “ to
deal with the vision of the head of the Baptist
which appears to Salome in the Garden of King
Herod’s Palace on the night of the great tragedy.”
The head, which seemingly pops into view from
the bowels of a pedestal, is the sort of vision that
might strike any young woman in her sense of
humor; but Miss Dessar regards it with a pained
expression of countenance, and ultimately lies flat
on the stage. Whether she would have danced
but for the apparition, or was dancing when the
towzled spook popped from out the pedestal, is a
disputed question. The performance leaves
much to be desired. Even the public’s expecta-
tions of impropriety are cruelly disappointed,
and when Salome gets knocked out in the
first round they come to the conclusion that
she wasn’t properly trained for the event.
The other Salome gambols actively enough on the
little stage at the Waxworks, where the head of
John the Baptist is a comparatively artistic acces-
sory, not unworthy of a niche in the Chamber of
Horrors. Under the circumstances, there is
some excuse for the final break-down of this other
Salome, but in her case also the utter absence of
impropriety is deeply deplored. People go to the
Waxworks these times with the hope of being
able to restore the long-lost blushes to their
cheeks. The Golden Venus is a companion attrac-
tion to the young person who danced before King
Herod ; and if the mother of Cupid, shining in a
number of poses, were to rub the gilt off her
gingerbread, she would doubtless be sufficiently
undressed to suit the most exacting patrons.
** * *
A new song by Rickaby is the most
noticeable event of the present week at the Opera
House. Graham and Dent are comedv-sketching
as before; also Yeotha with her little bow and
arrow, and Winton and others repeat themselves
uninterruptedly. Some of these “turns” are
approaching their final revolution, whilst the St.
Leons are on the very verge of disappearance.
The lady with the intensely spangled skirt seems
to have gone already. Her songandance was
suddenly cut off from observation the other night,
and the subsequent advt. made no mention of her.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
WIN TON AND
HIS JUVENILE
LEAD.
THE MALE LATONA.
At Melbourne Olympia, the story picture
of orthodox sentiment seems to be a growing
force. Last Saturday night West introduced two
or three of these, and found them popular. In-
deed, it would be miraculous if he found them
otherwise, for each was simple and comprehen-
sible, and made one feel good, like a solemn hymn
or a benediction. But the most interesting
feature of the programme was the “ Cinephone ”
combination of song and picture, which worked
well at its first attempts, and promises to be a
special draw.
** * *
Tait’s latest extravagance at Melbourne
Glaciarium is a sample of flickergraphic license.
It, so to hamstrings the verities by showing
Sherlock Holmes in pursuit of Raffles. It further,
seemingly, represents the Epicurean burglar as a
lieutenant of Professor Moriarty, for Raffles’
weird chief inhabits a dungeon, and grimaces fear-
somely into a modern table telephone just as the
Professor utters horrid threats into a tube.
Judging by their exploits in the film, however,
Holmes, Raffles, and Moriarty seem pseudonyms
for Brown, Jones, and Robinson; so The Bulle-
tin passes on hurriedly to observe that “The
Bewitched Manor ” and “ A Tragedy of Shrove
Tuesday” are much superior in every way.
** * *
Adelaide Tivoli is putting up a succession
of good turns, and stands out strongly from all
the cheaper shows that have sprung up locally.
Johnson’s short season was a boom, especially
when the big fellow’s two sparring companions
went for him both at once. But the mystery of
T. Burns’ milk-can (which he left behind him)
remains unsolved. The Barnards have gone, with
their marionette-show; though it was full of
joyous low-comedy, there is also much art in the
trick of making a graven image show human in-
telligence, just by a mere turn of the head. The
two Bells are above the ordinary song-and-da,nce
sisters; they have all the “go” of their nation,
and they have the unusual advantage of good
lyrics, very American and very clever. Amelia
and Leonora, young, powerful, shapely, and
accomplished, risk their necks nightly in head-to-
head balancing; Cristofolo is a youthful and fairly
ordinary juggler ; Goodfellow and Gregson do
their best to live up to the modest description of
“ England’s representative Comedy Sketch
Artists.” At the Royal, Harcourt Beatty and
Miss Madge Mclntosh have been receiving
only moderate support from the public. Adelaide
is not very keen on revivals, and “ Jim the Pen-
men,” clever as it is, had an unexpectedly
old-fashioned air—probably on account of its soli-
loquies.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The suicide is cabled of Charles Warner, well known
some years ago in Australia. His real name was Lickford.
The son of a successful provincial actor, born in 1845,
they tried to make an architect of him, but he ran away
and' joined a stock company in Staffordshire. After
a tough struggle, his opportunity came as Charley
Burridge in “ The Dairy Farm.” Bateman, seeing
him in°that, secured him for Jingle in an adaptation of
Pickwick, in which he succeeded Henry Irving. He was
next at Drury Lane for three years with Samuel Phelps,
and afterwards at Sadler’s Wells. But his great success
was Coupeau in “ Drink,” and that is the thing he will be
remembered by—“ Charles Warner in 4 Drink, as the
bills always ran.
“0.K.”: The late Charles Warner, assuming that he
was only 62, had a singularly fortunate early life on the
stao-e. As far back as 1871 he got a good start in London,
with Bateman’s co. at the Lyceum, and before the end of
the year he took Henry Irving’s place as Jingle in a
dramatic version of “ Pickwick.” When the famous pro-
duction of “The Bells” brought Irving into celebrity,
the “Pickwick” farcical comedy was played as an after-
piece, and for a time the new “ star ” continued his Jingle ;
but the double duty was heavy, so he gave up the minor
part and young Charles Warner got his chance.
Astute manager Bateman practically discovered Warnei
in the same season that he discovered his great leading
man Warner remained awhile with the co., airing his
quick, nervous style in the curtain-raisers or after-pieces,
for in’those days theatre-goers wanted either soup before
their meat, or pudding to follow. Warner’s rise was
similar to Irving’s. After leaving the Lyceum he made a
hit in Charles Reade’s dramatisation of “ It’s Never Too
Late To Mend.” When Reade adapted the drama of
“Drink” from Zola’s “ L’Assommoir,” he nominated
Charles Warner for the part of Coupeau. Probably no
youm<- actor of his time could have played it better. He
had the appearance, the effusive manner of reckless
o-aietv and the physical force and intensity for the scene
where Coupeau dies in the horrors. It was a great per-
formance, and it brought years of “star’’-shine to the
actor. The fact that Warner’s reputation in Britain and
America was associated with “Drink,’ and that it
weakened as the world’s recollection of his Coupeau
faded doesn’t affect the fact that he was both versatile
and powerful in his acting, with a distinctive capacity for
asserting himself in classic drama. As the robustious hero
of popular melodrama —excepting, of course, “Drink,”
which had a genuinely tragic interest—or as a light
comedian in such things as “ Our Boys,” he was too strong
for his parts. But in characters which test the indi-
viduality as well as the technique of the actor
Warner was exceptionally good. Australia saw the
best of him, perhaps. His prolonged visit to this country
was the richest and most gratifying experience of his
life. The melodrama of “ Hands Across the Sea,” in
which he had the Australian rights, accounted for a lot
of his financial success; it ran to crowded houses for 12
weeks on its first production at Melbourne Royal; and
his en"-a<>-ement with Williamson, Garner and Musgrove
gave him the opportunity to tour in a varied assortment
of characters. Beginning with “Drink,” he followed it
with Holcroft’s old comedy, “ The Road to Ruin, and
“ It’s Never Too Late To Mend.” He let himself go with
great gusto in “The Fool’s Revenge,” introducing his
pretty daughter Gracie to the stage in the heroine part.
His Hamlet was a most striking performance. It might
not have been the most subtle conception of the part,
but it was certainly unsurpassable in its force and consis-
tency For his performance of Hamlet alone Warner is
respected by many old Australian theatre-goers as one
who mio-ht 'have made a great name as a Shakspearian
actor in his own country, if his early successes m melo-
drama had not restricted him in a great measure to
work which was beneath his abilities.
“Busk”: In two years Charles Warner made more
money in Australia by acting than any male star, except
Brooke and Williamson, in such a space of time.
Estimate, £7OOO. The things he did it with were
“Drink,” “ Capt. Swift,” “ A Man’s Shadow, Ham-
let ” “ Road to Ruin,” “ Never Too Late to Mend,” “ The
School for Scandal,” and one or two others.
Ooquelin, the younger, who died last week, appears to
have gone the way of poor George Lauri. His friends
put him into an asylum, but as to whether he took his
own life the cable is not very clear. Anyway, he died of
the effects of brain disease, just as Charles Warner did in
New York a few days later ; and the fact that many actors
and more than a few actresses arrive at the same melan-
choly end is not encouraging to the increasing stage-
struck minority in this country.
“Locust”: The two best-known of the Coquelin
brothers are gone. But there were three. The third is
the baker at Boulogne. When I lived there the
actors used to come down for their holidays and walk
around the town, yarning with everyone. Most of the
people of course, were old pals. The bakery is one of the
best in’France. In the same town you see a butchers,
with the inscription, “Caron, boucherie chevahne
(horse-meat butchers). That was the brother of Leon
Caron brilliant musician and conductor, who was edu-
cated at the cost of the municipality of Boulogne, and
who would have won the Prix de Rome but for the
breaking out of the Franco-German war, which spoiled
the exams, in his year. I think the Coquelins were the
best character actors I have ever seen.
“ J ” • Tommy Burns showed the business acumen for
which he is noted in side-stepping his plan of taking
Melbourne Bijou Theatre, and importing “ American
drama and American artists ” to play in it. To start with,
Australia doesn’t love U.S.A. theatrical combinations.
The two finest artists this country has seen for years were
Margaret Anglin and Nat Goodwin. Both are said to
have dropped money—Goodwin certainly did. The
Yankee melodrama show that played at Sydney Majesty s
a few years back was a frost. Ouyler Hastings was only a
genuine draw in one play-“ Sherlock Holmes -and any
presentable actor could have created a boom in
that. Besides, Hastings was supported by a non-
American co., which remark applies also to Ethel
Knmht-Mollison and her “Madame Butterfly” success.
Theatrical management, as G. B. Shaw pomted
out years ago in a London paper, is one of the most
desperate forms of commercial gambling.” The least you
can run a play on is £3OO or £4OO a week, and it may
come to much more than that. Often enough every
farthing is dropped. Most successful managers the
world over are actor-managers, who are already assured
“ draws ’’ They have their own public which comes to
see them in every fresh work they produce—conies to
see them and not the play. Tommy Burns would have
made a success of curiosity for a month or two, but then
he would have slumped, and his imported stars would
most likely have done worse. A better all-round com-
pany than the Day-Flemming combination .wherein ap-
peared such excellent artists as Beatrice Day, Herbert
Flemming, Aubrey Mallalieu, H. W. Varna, etc., it would
be hard to find anywhere. And it was controlled by
experts who had been in the profession most of their
lives Yet when it disbanded, owing to Flemming’s
death it was notoriously on, or very near, the rocks.
The stage Napoleon is an interesting theme. Notwith-
standing the possibilities of the character, it is remark-
able how few good plays have been built round it, and it
is also remarkable how few leading actors have attempted
Bonaparte I. For one thing, the personality of Napoleon
is familiar to us through old portraits, and the stage
emperor requires to live up to these. No audience would
stand a gaunt six-foot potentate. Still it is wonderful
what can be done in the way of “make up.” The
late Henry Irving impersonated Nap. in “Madame Sans-
G6ne.” He was too tall for historical accuracy, but
through some dodge of the dressing-room he managed to
look the right size. Irving was the only actor of note
who impersonated Napoleon on the English stage. In
Australia the character is associated with Julius Knight,
and in America with the late Richard Mansfield and Geo.
C. Miln, the ex-preacher who visited these parts in
1889-90. The earliest of the Napoleons has never been
treated by any English dramatist of the first rank.
From time to time, at the London East End theatres,
the “ Little Corporal ” has been made to live. Thus, at
the now defunct Astley’s, a very remarkable performance
drew all London to see an actor named Gomersal in his
life-like impersonation of Bonaparte, in “ The Battle of
Waterloo.” Henceforth he was always spoken of as
“ Napoleon ” Gomersal. His fame was preserved by the
pen of “ Bon Gaultier ” (Sir Theodore Martin, husband of
the famous Helen Faucit, the original Lady of Lyons), and
the pencil of Alfred Crowquill, in the “ Book of Ballads.”
Not long after Gomersal’s success Covent Garden Theatre
put up a great spectacle showing the entire career of
Napoleon in a series of living tableaux. Warde, Osbaldis-
tone and other old-time actors figured in Napoleonic
plays. Some 20 years ago Harry Jackson, a character
actor of ability, gave a splendid dumb-show representa-
tion of the emperor’s career at Drury Lane, while coming
nearer to our time the Corsican figures as the hero in
W. G. Wills’s play, “ A Royal Divorce.” It is a poor play,
but on its first production in Australia in 1897 it bene-
fited greatly by the tableaux, which were not included
in the original English production. Later still comes
“Madame Sans-G6ne,” identified in Australia with the
Broughs (1899-1900) and Daniel Frawley (1903). But in
Sardou’s piece Napoleon, from an actor’s point of view,
plays second lead to the washer-duchess. In the operatic
version of Sardou’s drama —“The Duchess of Dantzic ”
the Man of Destiny is mixed up in song-and-dance
parts. The Little Corporal is burlesqued in Hoyt’s
American musical farce, “ A Milk White Flag,” made
familiar to us by Harry Conor at the old Sydney Lyceum
some years ago. Tittell Brune burlesqued him in the ship
scene in “ Peter Pan ” —a realisation in a faint way of the
famous picture by Osbaldistone, representing “ Napoleon’s
last look at France ” —and she introduced him into a
tableau in “ L’Aiglon,” a play concerned with Nap.’s ill-
fated son. Arthur Roberts, the English comedian, makes
use of Napoleon in a burlesque entitled “H.M.S.
Irresponsible,” and he also figures briefly in another
piece of this class, “ Bill Adams of Waterloo,” which was
done here by Geo. Stephenson’s company at the Criterion.
But Napoleon on the stage rightly belongs to drama, and
in this respect he shines to advantage in “ Mdlle. Mars,” a
four-act drama by Paul Kester (whose “Sweet Nell of
Old Drury” is so well-known to Australians), played in
London some years ago by Mrs. Langtry. Julius Knight ■
Bonaparted with her in the English provinces. “ The
Exile ” (a Martin Harvey production treating of “ the last
phase” at St. Helena), “The Emperor’s Double,” “The
Creole,” “Brigadier Gerard” (done by Knight in 1907),
“ The Great Conspiracy,” in which Madge Mclntosh, of
Meynell and Gunn’s cos., figured in London with John
Hare, and Robert Buchanan’s ill-fated poetic drama
about complete the history of Napoleonic plays.
The plump little grand-daughter of the Simonsens, best
known in Melbourne as Francie Adler, has been making
“copy” for the New York paragraphists. Musical
America, of December 26, says : “Last week there was a
very pretty and a very angry prima donna up at the
Metropolitan Opera House in the person of Madame
Frances Alda, who has already appeared with some suc-
cess in ‘ Rigoletto,’ and the other night sang the principal
r6le in Puccini’s ‘Le Villi.’” The anger of the little
songstress was due (1) to an announcement that
she was engaged to marry the manager of the
Metropolitan Opera House aforesaid, (2) to the fact
that some of the New York critics had given her
a bad notice, and (3) to letters “ casting aspersions on
her private character.” The anonymous defamers of the
new prima donna had declared her to be one of the Bar-
roni Sisters, who made a giddy name for themselves in
Europe generally and Berlin in particular. Also they
accused her of being an ex-music-hall singer “ well known
in the gay life of London and Paris.” These latter allega-
tions have aroused the indignation of la belle Alda and
her male champions, one of whom suggests that the
attacks on her private character are inspired by an
organisation of blackmailers. Anyhow, the “aspersions”
from which Francie is suffering strike one as being not
too bad in their advertisement bearings. She is appar-
ently being more talked of than her performances in
“ Rigoletto ” and “ Le Villi ” really deserved.
The allegation that Tahmy Burns will shortly produce
himself in a drama by George Darrell (who must be
almost the oldest of living Australian playmakers)
reminds one that Rupert Darrell, a son of George, is
doing very well in the Williamson panto, of “ Jack and
Jill ” Young Darrell’s mother was his father’s second
wife—“ Chrissie” Peachey, a bright little actress who
died young. The boy hasn’t inherited the parental fond-
ness for heroics. He paints his nose red and frivols with
enthusiasm. His part in the panto, is that of the lawyer
who gets banged about by his clients ; also he under-
studies Bert Gilbert, and appears in the forefront of the
show when Gilbert is indisposed;
“ Melb.” : I referred to Mr. West’s remarkable progress
with the biographs, and his plays by crack Parisian
actors and actresses. Now he has “ The Red Hand,” the
nearest approach to Irving’s “Bells.” Pierrot is the
leading actor, clad as a French working-man, like
Coupeauin “L’Assommoir,” but yet Pierrot. The open-
ing sc ene has all the actuality, in a different way, of
Auerbach’s Drinking Cellar atLeipsic, as shown in Irving’s
“ Faust.” There is just as devilish a party of women and
men as can be crowded in. Pierrot’s mate, Brigello,
dances the Apache dance with a young lady, L’-fegout, or
“ Sewer Rat.” The Apaches are the larrikins, hoodlums,
hooligans, plug-uglies, and toughs of Paris. Well, Carrie
Bio-wood and Higginson, in “The Merry Widow,” are
fools to the Apache dancers. All the people clear
out of the cellar except three. One is Brigello,
in a whisky sleep, with his head on a table.
The other two are a fashionable dupe named Borissow,
and Tartaglia, the Captain Skinner or Spider of the
piece. Now comes something like the first Act of “ The
Silver King.” Tartaglia murders Borissow, takes an
enormous sum in bank notes from him, and puts the
watch of the murdered man in Brigello’s pocket.
Brio-ello’s hand is hanging over the edge of the table.
Tartaglia daubs blood on it. This is the Red Hand. The
company returns. Horror! Brigello is palpably the
assassin. Believes it himself. The police lead him off.
All go except Pierrot. Now comes the amazing by-play.
He finds Tartaglia’s marked handkerchief with blood on
it and figures out the whole murder. Next scene is in
Tartaglia’s office. Pierrot extracts from him vast hush-
money. Wonderful acting again. Then follows a flash cafe.
Pierrot is on the razzle-dazzle, but is tormented by con-
science. He sees the most creepy-crawly visions that can
be imagined. One is of poor Brigello under the guillo-
tine. Pierrot rushes to the police-office and makes full
confession, and Tartaglia is arrested. The police go to
the cellar, and re-arrange the whole scene of the murder.
There are furious denials from Tartaglia. “Bring in the
corpse ! ” It is brought, under a sheet. Pierrot starts
up from under the sheet —“Aba ! there you are ! ”
“D.”: J.C.W. is thinking of producing some Shaw
plays in Sydney, and has asked Julius Knight- to say
which he thinks would best suit the co. now showing at
Sydney Theatre Royal. “Arms and the Man” contains
an ideal Knight part. Julius’ cynical mouth twist, much
exploited by him in “ The Breed,” would be an invaluable
asset in the portrayal of Shaw’s scoffer at senti-
ment and of chocolate creams. Cyril Mackay would
play the handsome, posing Sergius excel-
lently. “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion” has
another ideal Knight part. Of course, he would
play Brassbound, that glorious satire on the posturing
desperado who is the same objectionable ass whether he
wears the livery of a Moroccan smuggler or the plug hat
of a bank-clerk. Miss Beatrice Day would make an
incomparable Lady Cicely. Who would handle the fine,
part of Drinkwater ? Probably Leslie Victor. “ Man and
Superman ” and “ You Never Can Tell ” are plays which
act even better than they read. They would “go " here
if capably interpreted. It is to be hoped that the Royal
co. shows in some or all of them.
A man was charged the other day in Sydney with steal-
ing the till from the shop of William Shakespeare, a fish-
monger. Polonius: “Do you know me, my lord?’*
Hamlet: “ Excellent well; you are a fishmonger!
(Continued on page 88. J
HIS GREATEST SUCCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He was a proud, cold actor inan,
A really splendid fellow,
Eyes blue, nose red, ears large, hair tan,
Complexion dingy yellow.
He talked of some sublime success
That set the town a-clatter,
Although, it seemed, the wretched press
Was silent in the matter.
He prosed, with nice respect for laws
Of ancient elocution,
About the “ thunders of applause,”
The “floral contribution ” ;
And then the simple fact betrayed
That, from their woes to wile ’em,
The old “ Dumb Witness ” he had played
Out at the Blind Asylum !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


RIDING Trousers
AT SAL€ PRK€.
Riding Trousers, as illustration, made of Canton Mole in
either Fawn or White. They are cut and made up in our
own workrooms, where attention is given to the details that
go to make them good, strong, comfortable Riding Trousers
for country wear. The seat is roomy, the fork clean, and
straps to pass under boot and keep trousers in position
wili be supplied if required free of charge.
Usual Price, 9/6 pair.
Summer Sale Price, 8/6 pair.
We send these carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth
on the understanding that, should they prove unsuitable,
they may be returned and money will be refunded.
Write for our Catalogue of Sale Bargains. .
The Sale continues until the end of February.
David Jones Ltd., Sydney
A Choice CAMERA
MODERATE IN PRICE.
THE ENSIGN Model V.
FOR PLATES OR FILMS.
J-Plate Size (4pn. x 3Jin.); Post Card Size (sJin. x3in.).
Complete with “BECK” Rapid Symmetrical Lens,
f/S, and “Automat” Shutter, Finder, Level, Patent
Infinity Catch, Tripod Sockets, etc.
Price— Plate, £4 ss.
Posi Card, £5 2s. 6d.
Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State andN.Z., 2/2.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
Premier Importers of Cameras & Photo. Materials,
386 George St. (near G.P.0.), Sydney;
179 Collins St., Melbourne; 93 Queen St., Brisbane
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Anti-Sweating League in Melbourne
last week received a letter from the father of a lad
who, in October last, entered the employ of a
carter, no doubt under the delusion that carting
was a suitable occupation for a civilised human
being. The mistaken youth of 18 agreed to render
good and faithful service to his employer for 15s.
per week ; as a further inducement for him to
deliver the parcel at the right house, he was pro-
mised a rise of ss. per week at the end of three
months. Financial preliminaries settled, he
plunged into the gaiety of a waggoner’s life, and
started to urge Blossom and Violet along the
suburban road with song and lash, like the driver
in the song who hoped to marry Dolly when things
looked up in the carrying trade. But the man in
the song must have had a soft billet —or else he
was a carrier who had got soft-headed
through overwork, and imagined Dolly and
Blossom and Violet. The average work-
ing day of the ambitious youth for the nine
days covering the Christmas season averaged
something like 17 hours out of the 24 available.
He started toil regularly at 8 a.m. and knocked
off anytime between 10.30 p.m. and 2 o’clock next
morning. He was not allowed to go home for
meals, although his home was within five minutes
of the stables ; he had to work on holidays, and
even when his hair wanted cutting he could not
get off for half-an-hour to go to the barber’s ; con-
sequently he had a choice between tearing the
superfluous thatch out with one hand whilst he
drove with the other, and letting it grow until
hairpins became one of the necessaries of life.
The strain and the want of a hair-cut gradually told
on his health, and he resigned his waggon and his
team before he got within reach of the complete
sovereign per week. His employer or slave-owner
is alleged to have boasted that he makes £1 per
day clear profit out of each van. What he was
doing to the country by ruining a unit of its man-
hood didn’t count.
A devoted and disdainful White Australian
fell foul of Jack Johnson on a Melbourne suburban
railway station the other evening. The pale-face
had been making interesting experiments with
native ales, and was holding his own with diffi-
culty. When he discovered Johnson standing in
a professional attitude, and wearing his world’s
champion expression, the pride of race swelled
the Australian’s bosom, and he no longer
hesitated to tell the image in ebony what
lie thought of him. “Cali y’self a man?”
said he. “You’re no man; yer a bag o’ soot;
thash wha’ you are—bag o’ soot. Hittin’ lil f’lr
like Burns ! Why don yell ’it some one yer size?
Hit me ! Fer two quills off a pig I’d land yeh
one, yeh black cow ! I will lan’ yeh one ! ” He
did land him one, and a furious battle ensued, in
which the White Australian raged with unimagin-
able fury for four minutes, when two porters, a
commercial traveller, a cabman, and three news-
boys tore him off his helpless victim. The
knuckles of the White Australian were a good deal
knocked about, but the advertising poster of the
world’s champion escaped serious injury.
* * * *
The loss of the turret steamer Clan
Ranald on January 31, a few hours after leaving
Port Adelaide, is likely to remain more or less of
a mystery. The S. A. Marine Board examined
most of the survivors in five long sittings, and
reports that it has “ failed to elicit any evidence
which clearly accounts” for the trouble, though it
seems most likely that the Clan Ranald was much
the same as that Tasmanian coastal boat which
went to sea a while ago with oats in the smoking-
room and potatoes climbing up the funnel. It is
admitted that the ship (1) heeled over suddenly
till the engine-room became untenable, (2) started
to drift ashore, (3) was anchored to avoid wreck-
ing on the Troubridge rocks, and (4) sank at
anchor, in deep water. The Marine Board thinks
that the anchoring was a mistake ; also it regrets
that the captain (who was drowned) was unfit,
through “indisposition,” to take command at the
moment; but as to the cause of the heeling over
it is uncertain still. On the whole, it thinks with
most of the white survivors that probably 170 tons
of coal piled up on deck, presumably because
there wasn’t room for it anywhere else, must have
made the ship top-heavy. Many a Marine Board
has thought many a more unlikely tiling.
* * * 9
The trouble is kept hot at Canon * ‘ Gnash’s ’ ’
church, Geelong. A lot of the parishioners object
to the £450 a year the new shepherd is receiving.
At a recent assemblage of the brethren the pastor
and spiritual master was yelled down, and quite a
shindy ensued, ending in the flock carrying a
furious resolution against the shepherd, amidst
threats and recriminations. Then, according to
the daily press, “the meeting closed with the
benediction.” What humorists these gentle sec-
tarians are ! They get their enemies down, kick
their heads off, pronounce God’s blessing on the
good work, and go home, satisfied that Heaven
will reward their faithful service.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
1ST MEDICO : “ How did you diagnose Brown's
case ?”
2ND DITTO: “ Cramps."
1ST DITTO : “ Thought you said it was appen-
dicitis.”
2ND DITTO: "Yes, but I found he hadn’t money
enough for that."
“H.M.C.” : I don’t think much of your
“John Tebbutt” as an authority on Judaism.
He says (11/2/’O9) anent the Hebrew Land Laws :
As the establishment of perpetual slavery was closely
associated with the land laws of Moses, and has equal
authority with them, it necessarily follows that my critic
is in favor of slavery.
I am a practising Jew, and the uninformed talk
of “ John Tebbutt ” pains me. As a fact, “per-
petual slavery ” is absolutely forbidden by the
Mosaic Law. The year of Jubilee (i.e., once in
every 50 years) was specially appointed for the
unconditional setting free of all slaves. The
punishment for disregarding this law was very
drastic ; and, as far as we can learn, the law was
vigorously enforced.
MRS. BROWN-JONES : “ There's that clever Mrs. Effingham! They say she considers she's got
an object in life."
MRS. SMYTHE-BROWN : “ Yes, but where on earth did she get him ?”
Last week’s cabled items regarding the
divorce suit in which the Laird and Lairdess of
Kippendavie (Perthshire), Lord Northland and
the famous Mrs. Atherton are concerned, indi-
cate the moral laxity that has smitten Cold Land
“sassiety” during the last decade. The Lord
A 1 vers tones of the community exclaim against it
in vain ; they are as voices crying in a wilderness
of vintage champagne, French cookery, and old
brandy. It is the swing of the pendulum that
has followed inevitably on the prim rdgime
of the late Queen Victoria. There is no narrow-
mindedness about Ed. VII.; and his temperament
reflects itself on his associates and on the com-
munity at large. The “smartest” house party
of which the current British dailies and weeklies
speak was that which assembled last month at
the behest of the Duke and Duchess of West-
minster to shoot over the preserves at Eaton.
Among the guests, Royal and otherwise, were the
hero and heroine of one of the most stirring
divorce suits of the century. The old Queen
wouldn’t have stood that. She insisted that those
who foregathered with her family should be at
any rate outwardly virtuous.
Wade’s Police Offences Act upper-cut two
young men in unexpected fashion last week.
They had been gambolling
after the time-honored fashion
of the callow local blood who
doesn’t want to lavish his
hard-won screw on alcohol,
and yet yearns to produce the
impression that he has been
having the very deuce of a
time. While they were roll-
ing about, bargeing into in-
offensive passers-by, and
generally making idiots of
themselves, a constable ambled
up and arrested them. As
they were sober (your reckless
young George-street reveller
nearly always is), and were
capable of proving it, they
and their friends looked to
see the interfering John Dunn
discredited, and possibly re-
buked for his officiousness.
But it didn’t turn out a bit
like that. The official who
presides at the Central Police
Court heard the recital of the
prisoner’s doings, and then
briskly handed down a fine
apiece or seven days” gaol;
also lie urged them to “find a
recognisance each in the sum
of £lO to be of good behavior
for 12 months, with them-
selves each in a like sum, or,
in default of such, go to gaol
for 14 days with hard labor.”
If Wade’s much-abused Act
does no more than squelch the
bogus inebriate whose painful
antics are becoming such frequent features ot
Sydney’s main streets, parks and ferry-boats,'it
will not have maddened a large section of the
community wholly in vain.
•W Jr 9 *
The Cold Country ! England last year —
taking the Midland district as a fair sample of
the whole—had 981 J hours of sunshine, or well
under thi-ee hours per day. On 90 days —one day
in every four—the sun was never seen at all.
Some rain fell on two days in every five, but the
total was only inches. (The average is 25in.)
The thermometer never went above 82° (the record
is 90°); on the other hand, it went down to 14° (the
record is B°, and freezing point is 32°!)
The governing body of Adelaide’s muni-
cipal trams feels as though iced toads were wan-
dering down its spine. One of its employees was
a councillor in a suburban municipal corporation,
and it forced him to resign that office, though it
cunningly cast the responsibility for the tyranny
on to its general manager, Goodman. Now a
small volcano has broken out. A deputation
waited on the Government, which provided the
capital and has two representatives on the Trust;
and Chief Secretary Kirkpatrick, in reply,
snorted like a war horse and declared that,
had the Government thought for a moment that
its nominees could do this thing, or allow their
servant to do it, they \yould never have been
appointed. The municipal councils outside of
Adelaide jointly elect two other members of the
Trust, and Unley, the strongest of these bodies,
has carried a drastic resolution condemning the
action, and referring to it as an unjust, unfair,
despotic, autocratic, and a few other things. The
Trust, however, says it has every confidence in
Goodman, and won’t go back on the decision ; on
the other hand, the people generally declare that
the Trust is wrong, and will have to be brought to
its bearings. Meantime, the tram service is any-
how. Electrification is still only a rumor, and
citizens are in much better health than usual be-
cause of having to take a lot of walking exon-e o.
"HOW DARE YOU!"
“ The finding of the jury is that there is no
proof against you.” Thus the Judge to Robert
Scott, recently acquitted at Melbourne, on the
charge of murdering his wife. Of course what
the jury really said was. “Not guilty,” but the
construction which the Judge put upon the jury’s
brief remark made it equivalent to “Not
proven.” The McTavish usage is a much more
reasonable one than that which compels a jury to
say definitely that a man is innocent, when what
is often meant is that the prosecution hasn’t suc-
ceeded iu proving that he is guilty.
“VIEW ABOVE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ View above ” !
That is Love !
Homeless, friendless, seeking Lova
Forty-five, or six-and-twenty,
Bachelors and girls in plenty,
Widowers and widows too,
Who refuse to court or woo,
But in lieu
Make this do:
YyiDOWER, 45, £lOO, would like to meet widow,
T T similar means, view above.
“ View above ” !
Like a dove
Comes the cooing ad. of Love ;
Sick of lodging, sick of “ batching,”
So the careless comp, goes matching,
With his “ lower case ” and “ caps.,”
Shy and weary girls and chaps ;
Then perhaps
Thus he raps :
yOUNG Man, good means, aged 22, like meet
young girl, view above.
“ View above ” 1
Desp’rate Love
Into advertising druv ;
Love, too staid for courting capers,
Flies for solace to the papers—
Cries in anguish for a mate,
At the advertising rate.
Thus they wait
For their fate :
lIVWO young men, 26, like make acquaintance two
x young ladies, view above.
“ View above ” !
Country Love,
Pining for a handsome guv.,
Posts her love-chirp to the city ;
She is loneb'. Oh, the pity !
Youths of mettle, write in haste,
True Love has no time to waste—
She can baste
And make paste:
yOUNG country Woman, 27, domestic, like corre-
-1 - respond young gentleman, about 30, in position,
view above.
“ View above ” !
Wand’ring Love
With the printer, hand in glove,
Searches ev’ry hill and valley,
Calls and coos in street and alley,
“ Eves and Adams ! lam Love !
Give me shelter ! View above ! ”
N.S.W.
FOE.


Consider Your Health,
The hard labour of ordinary washing
with ordinary Soaps, the steam from the
constant boiling, and the mischief done by
the injurious materials of which some Soaps
are composed, bring on a variety of com-
plaints. Such troubles can be avoided by
using Sunlight Soap which has the Guarantee
of Purity of Sir Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
one of the most eminent analysts in the
world.
By the use of Sunlight Soap the exhausting
strain on the muscles of the back and arms,
and friction to the skin of the hands are
reduced to a minimum, for Sunlight Soap
works of itself. It washes silently, secretly,
Shoroughly
MR. ARTHUR GRIFFITH, senior partner of the
late firm of GRIFFITH & ALLEN, Patent
Attorneys, of 163 King Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen
Street, Melbourne, announces that Mr. T. C. Allen has
retired from the firm, and that his place has been filled
by Mr. CHARLES HATTON (Member Viet. Inst, of
Engineers), late Manager of the firm’s Melbourne Office.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
m
Improved Riding Trousers.
Our large trade in these Trousers for Horsemen
has enabled us to learn just what is most desired,
and we have brought these garments to a high
state of perfection.
They are made with special consideration given
to wearing qualities of Riding Twist in Drab and
Fawn grounds, with herringbone weave and faint
colorings, and should specially appeal to the
Horseman who desires a change from the ordinary
cloth.
Bigger value for the money is hardly possible.
In Drab or Fawn Riding Twist, Herringbone
Weave, 18/-; also in Brown or White Canton
Mole, 10/6.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The farcical Postal Commission—or whafc
there is left of it—has given up the hopeless
attempt to get itself taken seriously, and, like the
played-out ac-tor, has taken to the ’alls, in a
manner of speaking. Lately it set itself to con-
sider the question of regulating telephone flirta-
tions and gossip, and next, it is understood, it
will fling itself upon the problem whether kisses
and canoodles can be passed over the wire with-
out detriment to the public service. What really
seems called for is a sliding scale something like
this :
Business communications—plain.. .. .. Id.
Ditto —highly colored and abusive .. .. ljd.
Social calls—mere How-d’-do’s (single) .. .. 2d.
(or eight tickets for a shilling.)
Gossip-, libellous .. .. .. .. .. 3d.
Love affairs, including appointments, from .. 6d.
The Commission would cover itself with glory if
it would fill in the mere details, and get the
P.M.G. to adopt the scheme.
THE DIFFERENCE.
"I heard your husband was worth a million! ”
"Oh, no—he wasn't worth anything. But he had
a million."
Some Melbourne magistrates haven’t sat
on the Bench all these years and learned nothing.
In the fortune-telling cases, one clairvoyant was
fined £5 ss. for giving a detective some extra-
ordinary information about his lost dog (which
didn’t exist); while the same person, for inform-
ing another detective that his (imaginary) wife
was frivolous, and had skipped with the lodger,
was let off with a fine of £l. Evidently the
magistrates considered the lodger yarn was truer
to Nature than the dog stories ; wherefore the
prophetess didn’t deserve to be jumped upon with
such vehemence for that as for trifling with a
man’s tenderest feelings in regard to Carlo or
Rover.
HALL-MARKED.
“ Who told y' that?”
"Never mind who told me! I heerd it in Society
that's good enough for you!”
The current London papers supply an in-
teresting example of how pathetically easy it is
for one making some show of wealth and position
to hoodwink business folk in the Cold Land. All
England was exercised the other day over the
mysterious disappearance of Miss Violet Charles-
worth. For a while it was feared she had been
killed in a motor accident; but the bottom
quickly fell out of that theory. Then came an
agonised clamor from various people with mone-
tary claims on her. The missing young woman
turns out to be the daughter of “poor but
honest ” parents. Her sister, the wife of a work-
ing jeweller, avers that
she “never had the ad-
vantages of education.”
Yet on £5OO borrowed
from Mrs. Martha Smith,
a chapel acquaintance
(the Smiths and the
Charlesworths attended
the King-street Wes-
leyan Church), this
amazing maiden suc-
ceeded in—(l) dealing
in thousands of pounds
with a well-known firm
of London stock-brokers
(they allege that she is
heavily in their debt);
(2) buying and maintain-
ing several motor-cars;
(3) renting and having
refurnished and decorated
an immense country
house ; (4) buying quan-
tities of diamonds and
expensive furs and
clothes. The most skilful
of financiers could hardly
do it on the money. The
assumption is that thein-
sanely-credulous London
traders and city-men have
been paying for Miss
Charlesworth’s jaunts. It
doesn’t look as though they
were going to get much of
their cash back again either, as
her favorite money-raising tale, to
the effect that she was coming into £750,000
shortly under the will of a dead fiance, proves to
be just a brilliant inspiration.
The terrible Penguin tragedy in Cook’s
Straits (M.L.), costing about 70 lives, and coming
so soon after the Clan Ranald wreck, shows the
utter inadequacy of lifeboats as a means of saving
life when a steamer strikes disaster in anything
like a sea. In each case the people on board
seem to have had ample time to leave the sinking
ship ; but in neither case could the lifeboats, so
carefully provided by the law, be safely launched.
It would be interesting to know how many times
boat drill had been held on the Penguin with the
late crew ; also what the drills, if any, consisted
of. Usually, boat drill means launching the
lifeboats in the smooth waters of a harbor,
and not under sea-way conditions. The use of
oil to calm the seething wave is weli known,
yet it does not seem as if any use were made of it
on the Penguin. The boats were launched in the
rough water, one at least apparently on the
weather side of the ship, and the one frail chance
of the passengers and crew was lost. The two
boats which did extricate themselves, according to
the account of the master, were so knocked about
that they did not reach safety. If the lifeboats
are to be of use, a proper system of teaching how
they are to be availed of seems imperative. Per-
haps the Penguin people did all they could, but, if
they did, the lifeboats on a vessel are a poor
safeguard in time of disaster.
Re the wedding of George Knox and
heiress Kathleen Macpherson, in
Melbourne the other week,
people with long me-
mories have been re-
marking that the
Purveses and Brod-
ribbs were not re-
presented at the
ceremony. There
was a time when
Mr. Purves, K.C.,
laid claim to the
guardianship of
Miss Macpherson
on the strength of
his wife’s dim re-
lationship to the
child’s deceased
father. He did
more than lay
claim. He tried to.
enforce it by cap-
turing Kathleen
from her step-
father, Barton.
Kathleen was
then a sweet little
kiddy three or
four years old.
Her father had
died when she
was a baby, and
her mother, who
subsequently
changed her name
to Barton, was
dead likewise.
But mamma had
left her a baby
I sister (or half-
-1 sister) to share
the nursery with
her; therefore
the fact that Mr.
Barton was her
sister’s papa must
have almost con-
vinced Kathleen
that he was her
papa as well. It
was all an amaz-
ing thing to kiddy
Kathleen, this
struggle to pos-
sess her. Th e
famous law case
that followed ended
in the ignominious defeat
of Mr. Purves, K.C. (Q.C. at that time). Under her
father Macpherson’s will, Kathleen was a ward of
Court, and the Court would have gladly given to
its learned brother Purves the job of guardianing
the heiress during her infancy had there been any
visible excuse for tearing the child from the com-
panionship of her dead mother’s husband and her
dead mother’s child. But there wasn’t. The
baffled barrister could think of- nothing worse to
say about Mr. Barton than that he was a
“Johnnie” who wore crimson socks. And
yet the .claimant was not compelled to
pay his own Costs, it is said ; the ex-
penses incidental to the Siege of Kathleen
Macpherson were, by order of the Court, charged
to the estate. Mr. Barton got the custody of the
heiress, and was granted an allowance of some few
hundreds a year from the estate towards the edu-
cation and up-bringing of his gilded charge. But
she is his charge no longer. He gave her away to
the son of Knox at Christ Church, South Yarra,
two Thursdays ago, and his daughter was one of
the bridesmaids. And, judging by all the sur-
roundings, there wasn’t a trace of evidence to
support Purves’s ancient and audacious conten-
tion regarding the unsuitability of Barton as a
guardian.
* * * *
“ Oudeis ” from out of the Fog
The British mania for building everything to last at
least a lifetime has sorely gripped the constructors of the
War Office aeroplane, which, in its recent trials, doggedly
refused to fly. I saw the contraption only a few days
after I had had a good look at Wilbur Wright’s flying-
machine. The Yank’s bird seemed to be made of bits of
fruit-case, very rough in the finish and very flimsy
throughout. The Bull machine was an iron-bound, cop-
per-bottomed, strain-proof jigger, jewelled in every hole ;
every line of it eloquent of the fact that it might break,
but would never bend. Nothing more marvellous than
the Wright machine in act) >n has ever been seen. Photo-
graphs no more convey an idea of it than of a bird on the
wing or a racehorse at fu”, gallop. It is a bird, with just
a suggestion of a huge tropical moth. It flutters, poises,
swoops, hawks—and all at an incredible speed, and with
a stupefying appearance of ease and reserve power.
Every week or two Wright makes some little improve-
ment iri the thing, and will probably scoop most of the
£60,000 now waiting to be won by the pioneer of flying.
* * * *
Ever since Federation arrived the house
“ Marly,” in Macquarie-street, has been used as a
sort of headquarters of the Commonwealth in
N. S. Wales and a meeting place for Federal
members. The rent has been £9OO a year, a very
stiff price to pay even for a historic house. Fifty
vears ago and more it was the “ town house ’ of
Dan Cooper, then Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly. In the ’sixties it was the Civil Service
Club house, with C. A. Goodchap as honorary
secretary. Later on it became the Reform Club
house, with John Robertson as the figure head.
When old Jock died the club broke up. The
Minister for Home Affairs now says that he can
provide the Common wealth with all the accommo-
dation it wants in Sydney for £lOO a year ; so
“Marly” will shortly be looking for another
tenant.
MEALS AND MORALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Hast ever noted how a city’s meals
Are faithful reflex of its character
And divers moods? Probably not.
Life is too brief, thou say’st, to waste the hours
In noting things so eminently silly
And grossly unproductive.
Ne’ertheless
To those inclining to the pensive state
A city’s meals are worth attention.
Note first the counter-lunch, whereon do fall
In splendid havoc sundry derelicts
With a pint-pot as open sesame :
The dulcet joys of doubtful German sausage ;
The bread of yester morn, and the cat pie
Culled from the roofs suburban.
Note yon man :
His face aflame with joy and beer ; his mouth
Replete with delicacies ; between
The bites magnificent he from his pot
Sippeth right unctuously. He the first —
Primeval madrepore—of the great city’s eaters,
Save the park-dwellers, searching for the crust
In tins repulsive.
Next the fourpenny meal;
A sort of missing odoriferous link
’Twixt and between, e’en to the hashing shop
Which costs one sixpence—three full courses, tea,
And toothpick. Here young thirty-bob a week,
With those who, past the prime, aspire no more
To owning motor-cars and racing yachts,
Do congregate, and indigestion’s pangs
Are known among them.
Next the ninepenny—
The same old indigestion better served,
And glossed with cleaner linen. Here the men
Of growing wage, yet careful habit, meet
To chew the adamantine beef so-called.
Here the plum pudding is dubbed “ Palestine,”
Or some such sobriquet.
The shilling meal
Is the next bead upon this living string.
The men are fatter, much more bilious ; see
The lordly way they sip their “ baby ” wine
All f’r a bob !
And thence, by divers stages,
The eighteenpenny, two bob : better wine
And fatter men, more bilious, baggy-eyed,
To the sublimity of two half-crowns .. .
Speak low, for thou art now on holy ground !
N.S.W.
WILLIAM H. ELSUM
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no Ms. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Maharg : “Prohibited Immigrants” points a
good moral, but even a moral should be pointed in a more
interesting fashion ...Talia: Heaven only knows what
the “ Summer Song ” is about. It seems to be a prophecy
or a rhapsody or a threnody or a monody or a cuddy or
something P.O'L. : “ The Ghost” is a very unaccount-
able spectre, who seems to haunt you for no visible
reason. Why not throw a brick at him ?— Paul W. : The
tale of “The Bush Kid” is interesting, but there is a
complete absence of climax. Such an interesting kid
should do something to wind up the story W. Bock :
“ Author ” rejected on the ground that that same author
has been done in prose and verse so often G.W.W. :
“The Knight Errant’s” luck was out. In a light with
the sub-editor he was knocked out in the first round...
H.L.D.: You’ve got some poetry in you, but the work is
very crude as yet. Watch your rhymes.... Maud W.:
Weak Northsider: We’ll oblige you with one verse of
your protest against the Rockhampton paper’s clamor for
a deep-sea port:
On Eupatoria’s sandfly point it nightly rides him round,
While ’skeaters bite his every joint and ’gators watch with
evil eye to catch him on the bound ;
Of horrors such he’s had enough, not even for King Billy
Will he again take on a role that makes him look so silly.
Touching the second line, we like the persistence of a man
who will keep right on till he arrives at a rhyme
Weatherhelm: But, unfortunately for your torpedo-
invention yarn, it was in 18(14 that the White-
heads got to work on the modern torpedo, on
suggestions made by the Austrian officer, Luppis....
L’Eou : Guess the idea is that you pay a shilling, and, in
return, get the smallest genuine postal note the co. can
buy ...Peter Pips: Translations are rarely useful to us.
The “Dainty Lady” verse shows poetic feeling, but the
form is too rough ... Wainford : No, thanks. In fact, if
the comp, leaves out the comma nothing heavy will fall
on him.. .A.P.W. : “Ebb Tide” ebbed; it was too in-
definite and vague Minnie 8.: Yes, The B. pays for
jokes without drawings if they’re guaranteed fresh-laid.
Golfer: The doings of Seagull are barren of interest.
”’.0. : Ten pages about -‘a tough old cow yclept
Blackberry” and a goat called Gregory are, if
we may say so, a shade over the odds .. ..
W.S.: As rhymes, fair; as poetry, hopeless Sam Spry :
It trembled on the brink; then fell in Speculator:
Don’t know the concern. The Agent-General might help
you Jonah : You have the gift of narrative, but the
allegedly insane Hebrew who trundled a_ barrow upside
down to prevent people putting bricks in it is a chestnut.
U.G. : “Lily,” together with the forget-me-nots you
mention, the “shy snowdrops,” and several “ dew-kist
buds of Paradise ” have been ploughed into Cupid’s
garden with a disc plough.... G. A. : That sort of hero has
been exploited too often.... Dolores :“ The Hand of the
Potter” is well written, but there is too much woe
already in this world. Why add to the heap?.... Whittal
Ghardiu : Too horrible. We try to avoid publishing
nightmares.... Annie B. : Aweak imitation of Kipling....
Lone Star : Clever, but confused in treatment, and some-
what unsavory .. Cosgrove A.: Spoilt by the overstrained
smartness of the style.... W.T.T.: Close up to nonsense.
... Jock: Unmitigated twaddle B.E.: Bright, but
fallacious F.W.B.: Neither point nor edge Bank
Clerk: It’s very real, but hasn’t finish enough..
The Bud : Rhymed suggestions that Dill should shoot
King Edward and stab the Pope have been dismissed as
(a) immoral, (6) impracticable....The Growler; The
tragedy of the ageing fascinator of females has been
better done by other pens Louis M. : Dainty idea,
heavily put....X Ray: Verses not up; par weak in
interest W.T.H. : One verse :
My head is numbed, my limbs are pained,
My heart is sick and sore
My pen and I shall cease to speak
To-night for evermore.
Stick to that, so far as the pen is concerned, anyway
C.A.H. : Understand the B. H. Prop’s general manager
now gets £4000, with house, water and lighting, but no
commission Bandicoot: It bumps horribly Duk :
If we printed that the sentence for Contempt of court
would be either 14 days or two years. And we can’t spare
the time just now A.V.V. : Too weak Paul Cupid :
The “ motive” has been frequently used before, and your
treatment of it is far from powerful... .Stacky': Comical
idea, but loose and sloppy treatment....W.H.C. : Mostly
unsuitable, and the rest would require re-writing....
Billo: Hardly interest enough... .V.H.C. : It neariy
scored Tama: You have a weird imagination and a
weirder notion of spelling. The horse par was good but
belated T.A.N. : Some of it is good, but the weak
patches are numerous, and you waste time at the start.
G.D.L.: A nice jest to send a family paper 1... .David
Lingard : Verse re angel-women not in our line
Reureagh : “ Morn ” refuses to rhyme with “ form,” and
anvhow the poem in which “Phoebus peeps” is fore-
doomed.... Ilex : “Is Life Worth Living?-’ Some days
it is, and some days it isn’t. Depends on the sort of
verses we get. This is one of our worst days. Wintong :
Prettyish idea; but the execution is poor S.W.M. :
Good idea, but the treatment is somewhat tame and
prosy... .F.C. McK. : The verses have not much merit....
Sandboy : Couldn’t hammer any meaning out of it...
J.F.C.: Too stilted and grandiloquent.... Woona : Syntax
is shaky r , and spelling original Blackbutt: See B.
21/l/’09 ...W.T.H.: Ridiculously unsuitable.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.C. : Drawings like wood, and jokes like lead. And
The Bulletin doesn’t like either.. ..G.G. : Drawings
that call for a col. or so of explanation are handicapped
2st. Yours could only stand 21b Clattin : Hideous—
J.R.N. : Let’s hear from the 16-year-old artist when he
has added three or four years to his knowledge
Henry C. : Joke almost imperceptible, and drawing evi-
dent! v modelled on the figures from a Noah's Ark
W.F.G. : That joke is one of. our Oldest Inhabitants.


T^e'lendei'joot-
' \Jf " We should not”
lA/ /earn on /
f V (puntry^^T^
'
4^
t\u>i$ter Fistic 7)
£cb®ol i$ bei«72>
W Conneettort
AmericAn
enjoys
bovine bis sent -$ ro»*eb
•l6e fosr of
* h""?, " T
F. S Vi«r :—" C orrfe on •**> yto«V« too Old
&, niW of- !
FOR SAIL
PAyME>iTS)
r SELECTIONS
BU»LDIHC LOTS
- * . 2* A
Ip§P VILLA/
SITES
7—'' h(ow be. eyeful of liUt—-
its yer !
1] jy Tne
llfy' WorKcr*,
/ er S Say
' l'd -to &»•>+''
eyt-a, s()tiling
2\ daw demanded
I>y 'tfe men .“
frws+&wcc
/A.Vio-tfjev .
' LocK-^t 3 •
[ me lajid |>rol>!eta in
IS due 'fd'tnfe sm&lluess of-H/e
I Stele £<-tbicXnesS of jJofwladToti .
LAtiy Und is
I xyaol*o>k W dtjer s | ”
TFe ill pi'll "Ml p
Gh| ; |ll fr sl ££_Efj~
"Kow'is 'trfe'Tjptet
"to T>nno e^>ot»l '-^C'
Utll °i - If- —7771
M>-oea,K, n J /I
Only
2Awe old^^jjfel
f fff Him,. , *W.
" 0 n wbfit' eny o*7e
Cou-je C°&J *S e j*
FACTS AND FANCIES BY THE YARRA.


FOR EVERY EMERGENCY—
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
4/- in the £ Discount
We are taking off ail Table Requisites.
The slump in Metals has enabled us to make special
arrangements with the greatest and best manu-
facturers of England to sell their Electro-Silver
products at 20 per cent, discount off their English
Wholesale Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions on ail
our Electro-Silver Stock.
BUY WHILE SILVER IS LOW.
Best Electroplate, 37/6; less 20%, 30/-
In all sizes and designs.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Nym ” : Got the shock of my life yes-
terday, If I had discovered that my best girl was
a boy masquerading in skirts I could not have
been more overcome. And why? Just because
my old cockatoo, my mate and watchdog since
fledgling days of ten years agone, laid an egg, and
thus disclosed her sex. Here have I been calling
cocky a naughty boy, and teaching her expressions
no self-respecting old maid would use in any com-
pany, and the Fates have been fooling me all the
time. Perhaps I might have guessed my feathered
pal’s sex from her loquacity and inquisitiveness,
and tendency to talk back, but is it not an axiom
amongst Abo-liars that the hen birds of our pet-
able species do not talk ? Anyhow, my feelings
towards cocky have changed. I treat her with
more respect now, and limit my vocabulary in her
presence. She is no longer my pal. That lone
egg stands between us.
PUNISHMENT DEFERRED.
IRATE FARM HAND: “ Yer kin stop me from
sayin' wot I think about yer NOW, but when
I'm out after the cows I'll call you wot I
blanky well like.”
“ L’Fou” : Be long songs (B. 21/l/’O9). 1
don’t claim a record, but a German bullock-driver
is my nomination. He sang very seriously, with
the solemnity of a funeral service ; and whenever
he was interrupted, if only to speak soft words to
a bullock, he’d go back and start again at the first
verse. He was always singing ; but I don’t think
he averaged a song a day. Once he was out a
fortnight carting timber on a bad road. Thus he
described it: “De defil of a trip I had. Flogging
de cattle from de jackass undil de jackass.” And
with the gravity of a modern prize-fighter : “Ten
days I vas singing just de von song.” I suppose
he knocked off for meals and a sleep now and
then ; but even so
“ C.K.T. ”: “ Dcindalup’s ” statement (B.
4/2/’O9) that the speed of bush fires is regulated
by the pace at which the wind behind them is
travelling needs qualification. A fire in many
cases makes its own wind. I have seen a blaze
rush through a scrub gully on a calm day at the
speed of an express train, and with the roar of a
thousand Bents. On a recent peaceful afternoon
a fire travelled to my place from my neighbor’s,
two miles away, in a minute and a half, sending
a wind in advance like a hurricane. In a dry
time let no oue trust the wind as a guide to bush-
fire velocity.
* * * *
“Sam Spry”: As sworn to by a St.
George (Q.) carrier t
I was tryin’ ter hook a cod not fur from the town, when
the river come down a flood a-suddent ; in the mornin’
tne line was goile, as I thought. It was rainin’ hard for
tiie next day oh two, an’ I ’ad to camp for a fortnight.
She wus failin’ then, and I wus on the bank oneday look-
in’ at the state o’ things, when I sees me line twisted and
held around some ti-trees. I gets in and pulls ’er hout—a
pretty stiff pull. Be Cripes, I sees a big cod at the. end.
Hout onter the bank quick and lively she domes, but the
hook seemed to be right down in the lower regions ; so I
opens up, and there sees a smaller cod with the ’ook in
’is lip. The big un ’ad swalleed the little joker;
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Me and Robinsort and
Smith was the judges at our show. There
Were three horses entered ih the blood section —a
bay, a chestnut, and a black. Smith says* “There’s
only one horse in it, and I don’t know about a
second prize, because none of the other two are
Worth it.” Robinson, he said there was “only the
one in it, and the other two were nowhere—not
Worth considering, in fact.” Robbo wondered
why they were ever allowed in the ring. I also
had an idea there Was only the one moke for the
first prize, and I agreed with the other judges
that the other two animals were not worth
thinking about compared with the bay. When
I mentioned the bay, Smith nearly fell dead.
Then he asked Robinson what he thought of
matters. Robinson’s choice was the chestnut.
Things were looking awful, but it was worse
when Smithy declared in favor of the black. It
Was what you might call a deadlock. Anyhow, I
wouldn’t budge an inch ; and so, mainly to save
time, the bay got first. After that, Smith and
Robinson decided to give a second prize, and,
after a lot of barneying, the black horse got it.
Smith is a nasty-tempered beggar, and Robbo
didn’t care to bump him—he’s in Smithy’s debt.
Besides, Smith has an interest in the dark
horse. And, mind you, all these tinpot shows
where Smiths and Robinsons do insane things like
these, despite the efforts of sane, honest men like
me to prevent them, are subsidised by the State.
“ Crow I would like to hear the experi-
ences of “Abo.” readers with regard to black
cockatoos mustering in mobs prior to rain. I
have frequently seen these birds in mobs during
a drought on the ranges of North Gippsland, but
have often heard bushnien say that when they
met in that way it meant rain. Wm. Hovvitt
(father of Dr. Howitt, who found King, of the
ill-fated Burke and Wills expedition), in his
work, “Two Years in Victoria,” published 1855,
says : —
A curious natural fact which has been pointed out to
us we found from repeated notice to be quite correct.
It is that the black cockatoo, a much larger and more
splendid bird than the white one, is a certain prognosti-
cator of rain. These birds we rarely saw in flocks, seldom
more than two together, but whenever you hear the loud,
clear call of “ Clayo ! Clayo 1 ” you may rely upon speedy
rain.
Howitt wrote this when camped at Yaekandandah,
in the Beechworth district of Victoria.
SHORT-HANDED .
SHE (scornfully): “ Ho! Yus! 1 thought yer was gain' ter deal it out ter the cop wot put
yer away.”
HE: “So I was; but on'y four of the push turned up."
“ Jim Pan ” : There are people who can-
not tell a joke, but can make one. Such a chap
was Gordon Goldrick, of Right-Far-Back. He
came to Sydney for the Fleet welcome. In his
wanderings, the sign on a Chinese shop set him
thinking. It ran : “ Long Hop, Cabinet-maker.
On the next window was printed ‘.Sum Chop,
Cabinet-maker.” Goldrick never rested till he
persuaded Sum Chop to allow him to have the
name painted out and in its place substituted
“ Short Jump, Cabinet-maker.” The transaction
cost him £l, but he did not begrudge the expense.
When we chided him for wasting his hard-earned
Outback beans, he said, “A quid isn’t much to
pay for amusing thousands of tram-travellers.
Certainly thousands of tram travellers did smile.
Quite lately I heard the signs referred to Outback
as a striking example of the long arm of coinci-
dence. And later still I was told that Goldrick
had made over £5 in winning wagers over the dis-
puted existence of the signs. Which goes to show
that there is finance in fun.
LOSS OF MEMORY.
FRIEND: “ What did he say when you called him
a liar? ”
DAMAGED ONE (sadly): “I don't remember .”
An angler in the Onkaparinga River (S.A.),
who thought he had hooked a rock, found that it
was alive, and presently brought to bank a small
but very angry turtle. These things are the curse
of most inland streams in the United States, and
now they promise to spoil Australia’s best fresh-
water fishing. The breed, as is usual with Aus-
tralian curses, was imported for the usual any-or-
no reason by a local resident.
THE IRISES OF HAROKINI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Douglas Sladen, in his new book on Japan, tells how
once a year paupers who have not enough to eat will
walk a couple of hundred miles to see the irises of Ilaro-
kini in bloom.
In the life of old Japan
(So the story of her ran)
There was one dear thing that cleared her soul of gloom ;
'Twas the custom of the land
That her poor—an eager band—
Should go view the laughing iris in her bloom.
Harokini lay afar,
But with glow of many a staf,
How her irises in blended beauty lay ;
True, the road was rough and long.
But with sound of laugh and song
It was merry as the face of merry day.
But from Europe came a craze
Bor a change to other ways,
And Japan she made a god of Europe’s gun ;
And her irises grew pale,
And their hearts began to fail
For the lack of devotees that they had won.
Woe is me for old Japan,
And for gentle Yoshi San,
And for all the lovely iris pilgrimage !
Shall the sweetest custom die
That was e’er beneath the sky?
Shall it also droop before a cruel Age ?
She may triumph, may Japan ;
She may march and lead the van,
And her irises may pine and plead in vain ;
But the honor she may win
Oan it fill the void within ?
Oan it bring the gentle pilgrims back again ?
QUEENSLAND;
FURNESS BORN.
“ Edyson ” : Among the many bush types
I have met, I place Ray first as a patient man.
His forbearance was amazing. Tom Ray lived in
the township, and worked in the face at the
Native. He was sft. 9in., and had plenty of bone.
His submissive character was not due to physical
weakness, and he was no coward. After the fall
in the lower level, and when the men were digging
out Holmes and Ryan, Ray faced all the dangers
of the position with a placid disregard that won
our admiration. For a long time we were surprised
at Tom’s numerous bruises and abrasions. He
was rarely without a
black eye, and some-
times his face was vil-
lainously maltreated.
Then somebody dis-
covered that his wife
beat him. Ray’s wounds
were no longer mys-
terious. One day Cotton
discovered Mrs. Ray
giving Tom a larruping
with a broom-handle.
Cotton helped Tom to
his feet, and then to a
seat on an over-turned
tub. “ Why the blazes
do you stand it, old
man?” asked Cotton.
“ Oh, anythin’ fer a
quiet life,” replied Ray,
wiping the blood off his
chin. Crisholm was
Ray’s nearest neighbor.
He used to steal Ray’s
firewood. This was a
matter of consequence,
as Tom had to carry all
his own firewood from
the bush half a mile off.
Tom was always carry-
ing firewood, and every-
body knew that Cris-
holm stole it. Not con-
tent with taking the
logs to burn, the dis-
honest neighbor was
building a fence round
his garden with the
straighter pieces. “You
are a fool to put up
with it,” somebody 7
said, meeting Ray drag-
ging home half a tree.
“ Oh. vou leave me
vii, ju u leave mo
alone,” Tom replied, ploughing ahead with his
great burden, “ I’ll tire him out! ”
“ H. Broe ” : “My oath, they will ! ” said
Joey the rabbiter. “It was through them
brutes I lost me mate Bill. Me an’ Bill was tank-
sinkin’ on Cowbidgee, and was camped near the
Black Clump. This ’ere Black Clump was a
thick belt of timber, mostly gum, in a kind of
swamp, with plains all round. The Clump was
fair alive with’possums; at night-time the old
coves would be sitting lip on the limbs as thick as
ants, while the joeys squawked like locusts.
Well, old McGregor—he owned Cowbidgee—took
it into his head to have all the trees ring-barked,
aud when me and Bill started our contrac’
the trees was beginning to die off. We
was working for about two months when
terrible weather come on, and Bill caught
cold. Every night he was barking something
horrible. ‘Look ere, Bill,’says I, ‘ you’d better
go into Wallygabba and get something.’ Bill
went off next morning, and he goes to the
chemist’s and tells the bloke he was near dead
with a cold. The bloke gave Bill a bottle of
yoocalyptus oil, and told him to dose and rub
hisself with it. But poor Bill never reached home
alive. That night (ft was bright moonlight), as
he was coming through the Clump with the bottle
in his pocket and a few beers aboard, he stumbled
and fell, and the bottle broke. Before he could
recover hisself millions of’possums, what hadn’t
tasted a gum-leaf for weeks, was on top of him
tearing him to pieces. I hears terrible cries of
‘Murder’ and ‘Police,’ and I run down to the
Clump to Bill’s rescue. I found a rolling mass
on top of. Bill. I stiffened 10,000 of ’em, and
then I rescued Bill. He was in a terrible state.
He could only mumble a few words, and then old
Bill died.”
“ Milky White ” : An English writer has
laid it down that if the kookaburra is a humorist
at all, he is quite an unconscious one. He
further seemed to look upon our Jack as a mock-
ing fatalist—a sort of crossbred crow that jeered
at"bushed travellers the more insistently because
at the end he would come in for no pickings.
Well, Jack is a mocking bird. In the lower
register of his voice he’ll mock anything, from a
tom-cat to a turkey-gobbler. In addition, he is a
humorist, and a conscious one, likewise a cavern
which it is absolutely impossible to fill with food.
A pair of these rum birds—Jacky Kook and Marie
Kook —haunt my raspberry and red-currant
patch. When I’m' digging, Jacky usually sits afar
off and tries to look dignified, but Marie follows
along in the wake of the spade quite companion-
ably. In an hour I’ve tossed her enough grubs
to stay the appetite of a resurrected pterodactyl,
but I don’t think the keen edge of her hunger was
ever blunted. Where she packs them all is a mys-
tery. But the humor of the pair of them ! My
old Thomas-cat’s one great unachieved aim in life is
to dine off a juicy bit of just-caught jackass. He
tries hard to dissemble his desire; but Marie,
following the spade, knows all about it. Some-
times, when grubs are scarce, she will fly away
with Jacky to a neighboring messmate, and start
to say “Moll Roe” and “Mee-ow,” like a dainty
Persian in distress. Thomas, being a dandy
gentleman, goes to investigate. Then, when
he isn’t looking, the two birds swoop down
on him, and Thomas scoots, minus some of his
back hair. Meanwhile the two ’hurras fly to a
tree, and elevating their smiling apparatus, chortle
over Thomas’s discomfiture like women at a theatre
when the heroine’s padded hips go wrong.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
From 12/6 per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
tight. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30. J
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
EDUCATION BY POST
High Salaries await our
students of Shorthand, Type-
writing, Bookkeeping, Ac-
countancy, Electrical Engi-
neering, &c. “Home Study,”
postfree. Stott&Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Moore St, Sydney
There was a young- lady named Kate,
Who one day remarked to her mate,
“ Take some of these Pills,
They’re a cure for all ills,
Laxo-Tonic’s the name, and they’re great.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, lOJd. and Is. 6d.*
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0, Robinson, Proprietor
Bill Williams and Dad were holding up the
post-and-rail at the south-west corner of the rape
paddock, and conversing. Young Joe hovered in
the neighborhood. Presently Joe heard a word.
“VVot’s horse-stsealin’, Dad?” he demanded,
“ Horse-stealin’,” Dad answered, “ is pretty bad.
If yer go horse-stealin’, au’ they get yer, yer liable
ter gaol fer seven years!” “Oh,” said Joe.
After five minutes’thought he again interrupted
the conversation. “Say, Dad,” he broke ill,
“kin y’ keep the horse?”
IN A DECADE OR TWO.
PROVIDENTIAL.
BILL THE BRACHEMAN: “ Oh , Mrs. Smith , Jim's fallen down the shaft!"
MRS. SMITH (relieved): “ Well, it might ’re bin worse. Not a taste of anything had I got
for his tea."
“J.G.”: Yankee irrigation expert Mead
says that there was, last year, enough water
available in the various North Victorian irriga-
tion schemes to irrigate 793,000 acres to a depth
of 12in. ; but the landowners were too tired or too
mean to use and pay for more water than would
irrigate a beggarly 170,000 acres. As a result,
about four-fifths of the water that is provided by
the general public at enormous cost for the
Goulburn and Campaspe Valley landowners is
allowed to go to waste into the sea via the Murray.
The squatters are quite content to allow the water
to run unused through their land in the channels
while they graze about half a sheep to the acre,
and pay a boy or two to look after the jurn-
bucks in the 10,000-acre paddocks. And, to
kill time, the squatters write letters to the
Argus and other rags, denouncing the Labor
party, and say that it is driving capital out
of the country. The big cookies are nearly
as bad. They confine their business to
growing wheat and oats on the same old
system, as if there were no water for irri-
gation within 1000 miles. And if they
get a crop that yields about 12 bushels
of wheat or 20 of oats to the acre, they
think they have done a stroke. All
cookies, however, are not like these,
although the great majority are. One
of the exceptions—a fanner named
Turner, of Ardmona, in the GoUlburn
Valley—wrote to the Water Commission,
the other day, and remarked :
I hope you will succeed in putting irrigation
on a paying basis by compelling every man to
pay or make room. Prom an old, spotted,
worn-out lucerne-pastured paddock that I am
bringing into shape, I have frrim one acre in
two cuttings sold II tons of lucerne bay at
£5 per ton, and the money has put into my
feed-house 100 bushels of the best oats. The
third cutting is now ready, and I will cut the
paddock six times, which will be equal in oats
to 300 bushels per acre.
If Mr. Turner can do this with an old
neglected paddock, what could be grown
off the many thousand acres of splendid
soil in the Goulburn Valley that is now
carrying less than one jumbuck to the
aere ? It is about time that the Goul-
burn Valley land grabbers were made to
pay, or make room for somebody else.
“Star-fish”: Sufficient of this wrangling
re billabongs. The thing is obvious. Perpend.
The river comes flowing down, then widens sud-
denly and takes on the semblance of a camel’s
hump. The back of the camel represents the
river ; the hump is the billabong. The river
proper flows past the commencement of the hump
and strikes the finish of it. Here the water swirls
around, and flows back up stream along the de-
formity till it arrives at its commencement. It
there flows out into the main stream, only to flow
back when it strikes the lower curve of the hump
again. A log will sometimes float backwards and
forwards in this manner for hours. A fine sample
of this may be found a few miles below Netley
Station, on the Darling. Enough said —I have
spoken.
Harry Stockdale reminisces : A little over
25 years ago I was camped just above the tidal
waters on the King River, which empties into the
southern end of Cambridge Gulf (W.A.). About
two hours or so after sundown a threatened
thunderstorm broke with terrible force. The rain
came down in sheets, and the brilliance of the
lightning and the crashing of the thunder were
simply appalling. I sat on my saddle with my
back to a small sapling, with the blankets rolled
around me, but was soon soaked to the skin. A
big spreading tree about 30yds. from where I sat
was struck and splintered to matchwood. Between
the flashes everything was as dark as pitch ; but
each flash lit up sky, earth and river with a light
like that of day. I was facing the river. One of
my pack mares was grazing on the bank, a few
yards in front of me. when a flash lit
up the bush around, and revealed one of
the' creepiest sights in all my experience.
Only a few yards in front of me was an immense
crocodile, which struck the mare’s legs, thus felled
her, and then instantly seized her by the neck,
and in a twinkling they were gone. All further
evidence of my loss was a shrill and pitiful scream
as the teeth of the huge brute closed upon her.
From that moment I heard no sound of a struggle
—naught save the heavy splash as they struck
the deep water. The saurian had either broken
her neck ’twixt his powerful jaws or held her under
water until dead. I should say this crocodile was
very little if at all short of 20ft. in length, and
his girth seemed immense.
* * * *
“T.A.W.”: The case of Kedah Singh,
the gentle, axe-wielding hawker (B. 21/l/’O9),
reminds me of some experiences of my youthful
days. These days were mostly spent in a sparsely
settled district which was particularly cursed
with the Asiatic hawker pest. The appearance of
one of these gentry on the horizon, if the husband
or other male protector happened to be absent
from home, was always the signal for the loosing
of the large savage dog, and the placing of the
family gun in a handy and conspicuous position.
In those parts there were two distinct varieties of
hawker—one consisted of low-caste Hindus, mostly
characterised by a whining insistency, and on
occasions by a leering offensiveness distinctly
Asiatic; but a determined woman was usually
able to get rid of this variety of nigger without
any great amount of trouble. The others were
(Syrians—Mohammedans mostly—of a truculent
and domineering disposition, and it was they who
were most feared by the lonely bushwoman. I
knew of one instance in which one of these gentry
demanded milk from a woman who didn’t happen
to have any on hand at the moment, and on being
told of the absence of cow-substance he began to
threaten personal violence and worse things.
Being cleared off by the opportune arrival of the
woman’s husband, the gentle heathen devised
another plan of revenge, which was to drop a
lighted match in a dry grass paddock. Luckily,
what wind there was happened to be blowing in
the direction of a practically bare stock route, and
as the blaze was soon noticed it was got under be-
fore any great damage had been done. The
hawker was captured by the police some days
afterwards in a near-by township, and although
the evidence against him was purely circumstan-
tial, a magistrate who knew his species thought
three months’ hard would meet the case.
“ Eiddal ” : Notwithstanding the howls of
derision that greeted the lessening of the wheat-
bag standard, Victorian cookies in the Channel
Country, where the bosh ter yields have been
bagged, and where Tait’s minions are quite un-
able to cope with the burden, are delighted. The
smaller bags are easily handled, and make for
expediency, and there is less strain on the human
machine. The harvest on the northern areas,
’twixt Bendigo and the Big Trickle, has been
the best in the history of man. The
sample of grain has been excellent all-round
(a wonder, considering the lack of moisture
experienced at a critical period), and the price
A DOG-FANCIER'S MISERIES.
“ How's things, Peter?”
“ Rottenl Lost three dogs an' the old woman,
an' one of them was worth fire quid."
has hovered round the healthy quotation ■of
3s. Gd. Besides the bosh ter yields, Coeky-
doin has built fat stacks of hay (straw is almost
unvalued and consequently unsaved) in the
corner of the paddock. The vagaries of Nature
were in evidence all along; in the wheat-raising
gamble what was looked on as poor soil yielded
best in many instances, and popular varieties of
wheat, such as “Federation,” were eclipsed in
yields by others less in favor in former years.
Closer settlement blocks both at Restdown and
Wyuna yielded splendidly, thus giving settlers in
big McKenzie’s neglected electorate a fresh lease
of life.
THERE IS NO GOING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Quinlan wears a lava-lava now. He has a brown wife
and several coffee-and-milk-colored children. The tropics
hold him fast, and he knows there is no going back, blow
and again he has his bad moments, but gin is a great con-
soler. —From a tale by “ Wyiien ” (Bulletin 19/11108 ).
There is no going back, my friend,
If on the Island track, my friend,
Your love of color holds your feet
Till colored ties cut off retreat.
The white man's world—be wary, man !
Is rather more than chary, man,
Of welcoming the tawny wife
You link so rashly to 3 r our life.
The white man’s world is right, my friend ;
For 'tis a sorry sight, my friend,
When like to unlike turns, in haste,
To gratify a passing taste.
Though some brown maids are fair to see.
They all turn out bad wear to be,
And never, at their best, are theirs
The ways for which a pale-face cares.
Oh, take the tip in time, my friend!
In straight, if idle rhyme, my friend.
Each prospect pleases in the Isles
Except defeat by woman's wiles.
That ogling, big, black eye of her,
That novel, light-bronze dye of her,
Are potent instruments for harm
To him susceptive to their charm.
■lust let the damsel go, my friend.
He sells himself to woe, my friend,
And dirt, and drink and death unblest,
Who takes the native to his breast.
For brown girls' mates are harried, too,
By more than what they’re married to ;
The wife’s relations, evermore,
Cadge, squat, and wrangle at her door.
They keep you always poor, my friend ;
They make of you a boor, my friend ;
They sever you from all that’s good
And quickening in mental food.
Hushed, then, the call to roam for you,
For lost are kin and home for you,
And dying is each attribute
That raises man above the brute,
If from the Island track, my friend,
You some day would turn back, my friend,
This maxim, then, should rule your mind :
“ Don't dally with the womenkind ! ”
Take to the full the sun, the sea ;
Enjoy the life so strange and free ;
But recollect that freedom flees
When half-caste children grip your knees.
TONGA.
TALAFERAU.
“ Moorabinda ” on conversations of stock-
men in Queensland :
After supper we all lit our pipes except Deaf Harrv,
who did not smoke, and lay down round the fire with a
s nsation of absolute contentment and peace that you
must go and camp out in the bush to understand. The
only single drawback to my enjoyment was that Deaf
Harry did not smoke. There is always something uncom-
fortable about a man who does not smoke ; but in the
bush, where your pipe gets to be such a companion as it
never does elsewhere, it was really quite painful to think
of Deaf Harry setting off out on the run every day by
himself without a pipe. He and Long Mick, not having
seen each other for some weeks, began at once to jaw
about cattle, and the way in which they went at it laid
over anything in the way of “shop” that I ever heard.
Two fox-hunters fighting their battles over again are bad
enough, and a couple of old university men recounting
their college experiences will drive anyone who is obliged
to listen nearly out of his mind. But for pure profes-
sional shop-talking, unbroken by a single pause, and un-
diluted by a single digression, commend me to a pair of
stockmen who take a hearty interest in the cattle that
they are discussing, and who have not seen each other
for a month.
Deaf Harry began it.
“I say, Mick, I was over at the head of Running Creek
yesterday, and I saw that red bullock that we missed last
time we mustered on Tommy’s Camp.”
“Ah!’’said Mick. “He runs about there now, does
he? Was that old crow-bait of a white cow along with
him ? ”
“Yes; and that strawberry heifer too, whose mother
died in the yard this time last year, when Stewart came
up for fat cattle.”
“I remember; and a fine old bit of stuff her mother
was, too. She was a calf of one of the last of old Lloyd’s
lot, that were here when I came.”
“ What ! —not that big roan cow that we used to run
down at the Gum Swamp, that broke away the time you
and me and Fraser were yarding that mob down at The
Hut?”
“No, not that one at all. Do .you remember a dark red
cow, branded ‘ A.L.’ on the cheek, that was always with
that mob that used to be about the ranges behind the
Black Swamp about five years ago ?”
“Of course I do. She was a milker.”
“ Well, she wasn’t the mother of that strawberry
heifer’s mother, but her sister was. They were both of
them milker’s calves, and their mother was the mother of
that big yellow bullock that went away down to Rock-
hampton with Kirwan’s mob five years ago.”
“My word! What a rowdy brute she was! Do you
remember how she nearly horned Dick in the yard ? And
when we let them out that white, down-horned bullock
hunted you half way across the swamp ! His mother’s
alive yet, and got another calf, as like its mother as can
be, only it’s git a white star. I saw them the other day
down Back Creek, the time I fetched in that big roan
calf belonging to that white cosy that was a calf of
old Susan’s."
Amd so they went on, discussing the appearance and
the performance of one animal after another, and all its
sisters and its cousins and its aunts, till my brain reeled
in trying to follow them.
I had always heard Brahmins upheld as the possessors
of the most marvellous memories in the world, but until
a Brahmin gives some better proof of it than merely re-
citing 5000 or 6000 lines of prose by heart, he must take a
back seat compared to men who have 12,000 cattle to look
after, ranging over 400 square miles of territory, and in-
creasing at the rate of 3000 every year, and who appa-
rently know them, every one, by sight, and can remember
most of the ones that they have seen during the preceding
ten years, whereabouts they used to run, and how they
were bred.


“As to a possible state of trance, I will leave It to the
audience as to which they would prefer should such an
unhappy and unfortWate state of affairs occur—two or
three hours’ struggling and suffocation under the earth,-
or 10 or 20 seconds’ burning by a fire?”—
—Dr. Creed, at a meeting of the Cremation Society,
Dr. Creed might give us a practlcardemonstratlon of
how little It hurts, in case one does not happen to be
thoroughly dead when cremated.
OLD WOP*
M so dr(j thd he. fire- andburnedj
dshfr pvtizd unci fad
on* fa
Rev. T. Swlggin: “Do I believe in
cremation, Mum? Well, perhaps
yes—in moderation S'
“What,” said the mother of the Gracchi
as she swept up the ashes of her late
husband, and, pointing to the broken frag-
ments of his funereal urn upon the floor—
««what form of musical composition does this remind one of ? "
“A knocked-urn,” instantly replied the fool of the family; and he straightway
scratched the joke upon a tablet with a rusty nail, and palmed it off upon the
editor of the Roman Punch as quite, original.
A CLEARING-OUT SALE.
The operations of the Cremation Society will* no doubt,
seriously affect the profits of other trades.
At first nr. Dourtjoy de-
rived untold consolation from
caressing the urn containing
the incinerated remains of
the late firs. Dourboy.
When in due
course of events
the second Mrs.
Dourboy came into
power, she emptied
out the first Mrs.
Dourboy, but
couldn’t quite
make up her mind
to dispose of the ura (Which was of
rather an artistic pattern): so it came in
handy as above.
Patient: “Ah! Doctor, it is not
that I fear death ; but whether
cremated or buried it is the
horrible dread of coming to'
life again ”
Doctor ( reassuringly ): “My dear-
sir, there is not the slightest <
danger of that if you will care- \
fully follow out the course of <
treatment . I have prescribed ■
for you.”
ol= Vue
SlN'tlA-L-i. FZViyU.LV.
A REVISED HAMLET.
(With Gravedigger left oat.)
Hamlet: « Alas, poor Yorick J
Prince of Darkness t Well, by crackey t
there’s little left for me to do here! ”
Oabrief: “I wish these mortals wouldn’t
go chopping things about so. This
is going to make my job very per-
plexing?”
A BURNING QUESTION.
A MORIBUND MURMUR.
Oh l bury me not where the rank willows grow,
And the owl wails a dirge o’er the dead;
Where the mopoke at midnight expresses his woe
As he roosts on the stone at my head.
Oh I bury me not ’neath the waves of the sea,
Where the mermaids would weep o’er my pall—
In fact, howe’er nice the interment might be,
I object to be buried at all.
When the feverish fight for existence shall cease,
When I’ve tried every chance in life’s lottery,
I would have you cremate my remains, if you
please,
And enclose the residuum in pottery.
In an earthenware vase of an antique device,
Decorated with willow and rue,
Let my ashes repose—if the funds will suffice;
If not, any old jam-pot will do.
And label the “package” in phrase aptly turned—
But I’d better compose it myself;
Thus-:


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
STOPS THE PAIN INSTANTLY.
The pain caused by a burn or scald will be instantly re-
lieved if Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is applied. A
most useful household remedy to always have on hand.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
Mrs. Webber, Sharp Street, Geelong, Vic.,
says:—“Some time ago my storekeeper gave me
a sample package of Chamberlain’s Tablets to try,
and I found them so effective that I bought a box,
and since that time have never been without them
in my home. When I have taken other laxatives
I have noticed a tendenoy to become constipated
after discontinuing their use, but there is nothing
of that sort after taking Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They act naturally and regulate the bowels. In
fact, I look upon them as my family doctor and
never take any other medicine of that kind.”*
PERSONAL
ITMES
JABEZ COON ; M.H.R. (VIC.).
Field Barrett, one of Melbourne’s
amalgams,” has passed to another place, where
lie will probably meet his late brother prac-
titioner, David Gaunson. He was a man of bright
intellect, and an entertaining fellow at a refresh-
ment bar, but at the other sort of Bar he was
a rather deplorable person. Quite a number of
tributes to his “ straightforwardness ” were paid
by other identities of the Melbourne and St. Kilda
Oourts when his death was announced. One
lawyer or somebody went so far as to say that
Jbield Barrett’s word was as good as his bond ; and
I he Bulletin is prepared to leave it at that.
Somebody has discovered that Bent is the
only loni who has ever been Premier of Victoria
There have been no less than nine Jameses and
five Johns; but Victoria kept off Thomas until
the recent calamity happened.
The man who found the great Welcome
nugget at Bakery Hill, Ballarat, in now an inmate
of the local Benevolent Asylum. The speck was
worth £B3OO. But that was 49 years ago ; and
many things happen to the average digger in 49
years.
O’Callaghan, Chief Commissioner of the
Victorian Police, will reach the retiring age of 65
next month. Seeing that there is no special
reason for prolonging his services, the O’Calla-
ghan will presumably be allowed to drop into
retirement.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
The Sydney Supreme Court gallery has been enriched
by the addition of a portrait of John Nodes Dickinson
(painted from a photograph). He was born in Grenada
(West Indies) in 1806, and, after passing an educational
course at Cambridge, was called to the Bar in 1810. Pour
years afterwards he came to Sydney with the appoint-
ment of Puisne Judge in his pocket. He served until
Feb. 14, 1860, when he was appointed Acting-Chief Jus-
tice during the absence in England of Alfred Stephen.
On Stephen’s return in Feb., 1861, Mr. Dickinson retired
on a pension of £lO5O per year, and returned to England.
He had the reputation of being a sound commercial law-
yer, chiefly by reason of the fact that he presided.at the
historic trial of the Bank of Australasia v. the Bank of
Australia, and his judgment on that occasion was upheld
by the Privy Council. He died in 1882 at Home. Judges
to-day must, at the date of appointment, be of at least
five years’ standing at the Bar.
All that part of Pitt and George streets,
Sydney, on which the Anthony Hordern property
now stands was once owned by an identity named
Tom, Cribb. Tom owned other property in the
neighborhood, and was, in liis way, an acquisitive
soul, but Socialism began to trouble him. The
Governor threatened to run streets through the
land, and otherwise outraged his sense of private
ownership, so he sold out to the State. All that
land he passed over to the Government for nine
heifers. This event probably represented the first
Australian instance of capital leaving the country.
The retirement of Carr Smith, Sydney’s
best-known Anglican cleric, from St. James’, has
been expected for quite a dozen years; and it
comes at last. Deans were named and bishops
consecrated, but Carr Smith never got a look in.
The liberal-minded Beauchamp, who took him on
Government House staff as chaplain, circulated all
the influence at his disposal; but undercurrents of
opposition swept theyjrofeprg'back again. Those isms
which make a man associate with publicans and
sinners are strong elements in the Rev. Carr
Smith’s mental structure, and a price has to be
paid for indulging them.
Ex-Sub-Inspector John Carrol], who died
at Enmore (N.S.W.) last week, aged 85 years,
commanded the police force at Wantabadgery in
the fight with Andrew George Scott, alias “Moon-
light,” and five others. It was a fight for keeps :
two of the ’rangers were shot dead and Senior-
Constable Bowen tvas mortally wounded. “Moon-
light ” and Rogan were hanged in Darlinghurst;
Johns and Bennett were reprieved. Subsequently
Johns was convicted and executed for a murderous
assault upon a fellow prisoner in Parramatta gaol,
and Windeyer had the congenial job of passing
sentence of death for the second time. Bennetthad
better luck; he was released and sent to his friends
in England.
Mrs. Maybrick is to be married. The
"CJ.S.A. press states that the prospective bride-
groom, Charles L. Wagner, is “ wealthy and pro-
minent socially.” The lady is said to still possess
the beautd de diable which enslaved her counsel,
who afterwards became Chief Justice of England’
and who to his dying day refused to credit her
guilt. Her mentality is as considerable as her
good looks. Besides, she has just acquired a
Kentucky (U.S.A.) estate valued at £500,000 or
so, and £500,000 or so covers a multitude of years
and things.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Demolished by order of the Sydney City Council
Pemell’s Mills, Engine-street, known in the early
’seventies as Victoria-street. James Pemell was in
business in Parramacta-street, now George-street West
in the early ’forties as a baker, and a couple of years later
on he blossomed as a flour factor. In 1850 he had the
Brisbane Steam Flour Mills in the same street, a part of
the buildings used from the ’twenties of last century by
Robert Cooper, of “ Juniper” Hall, as a distillery. These
were destroyed by fire in 1870, the Colonial Sugar Co’s
premises adjoining narrowly escaping the same fate
Then the Pemells opened big stores on the hill in George-
street, opposite “The Round House,”as the old watch-
house (where Marcus Clark’s flat-iron pile is now) was
known. In 1870 .Pemells cume to the mill which is now
being demolished to make way for the new cabbage
markets. The original Pemell was a member of the first
reformed Parliament, that of 1859, in which he repre-
sented West Sydney, his colleagues being Dr. Lang
J. H. Plunkett and Tom Broughton. Pemells of a later
generation are still in the same class of business.
About the pension that awaits Redtape
There are a lot of points about being a Civil servant
after all, though it is the fashion nowadays to say that
the service can’t command first-rate men. Their pension
list alone amounts to a point that isn’t a point 'at all
according to Euclid’s definition, since it has any amount
of length. In 1907 the N.S.W. pensions (apart from the
police) amounted to a tidy little £122,903; and there
were gratuities on top of that. Of course Redtape pays
in while he is in the service ; but while Redtape sen
was drawing out £122,903, Redtape, jun., was’ only
paying in £15,332. The Civil servant thus put up £1•
the State put up £7. ’
At the most Redtape, sen., draws £666 13s. 4d. a year.
But it is only the top-notchers who climb so high—top-
notchers like Auditor-General Rennie, Railway Com-
missioner Oliver, and Under-Sec. Geo. Miller and
Treasury Kirkpatrick. From that the payments slide
down to the railway porter’s £3O or £4O.
There were some hardy patriarchs' on the 1907 roll
patriarchs, some of them, whom this generation never
heard of. Wm. Robinson, who used to be chief clerk in
the Agent-General’s office, but retired 20 years ago at
the tottery age of 69, can still write his name to”a
monthly voucher. But the patriarch of them all for 1907
was J. B. Martin, who left off being C.P.S. at Camden
over 21 years ago. Then still on the roll are W. V. Read
who was traffic-manager of railway’s down to 18 years
ago, and ancient Police Magistrates by the dozen. Police
Magistrates seem to have a better grip on life than any
other members of the whole community. The veteran
of that service is old Benjamin Lee, who was an M.P.
before he was a P.M. He is included among the three
oldest surviving members of the N.S.W. Assembly.
Mention just now of ex-Railway Commissioner" Oliver
recalls that it isn’t as Railway Commissioner that he
draws his pension, but as Under-Sec. for Lands. He
was only 40 when Parkes got him to unwillingly go to the
Railways; but already he had climbed high enough to
qualify for a £666-a-year pension whenever he chose to take
;t. He probably wouldn’t have chosen to take it at all
if he hadn’t set himself up against various little steals
and schemes, and been chevied out of the service in con-
sequence.
Solicitor and ex-Labor member W. M.
, Daley, who was put “off the rolls ” for 18 months
at Wade’s instance, finished his suspension the
other day. The first guinea he earned he sent on
to the miners at Broken Hill, with a note saying
that, after 18 months of it, he knew just what it
felt like to be locked out.
"Oh! Wallop where art that?"
Song by
Bill Squires.
A SUGGESTION TO W. SQUIRES .
Tommy Burns is going on the stage.— News Item.
Of the Judges occupying seats when
F M. Darley took office— Faucett, Manning
(W.M.), Windeyer, and Innes—Faucett and Man-
ning were aged men and retired early. Windeyer
retired because Gr. H. .Reid would not extend his
leave on half-pay. Innes held on until his death.
■Darley saw the appointment and resignation of
£ * Stephen, the appointment and resignation
of Owen, the appointment and death of JDeffell,
♦ the appointment and retirement on pension of
Water-Jug Foster, the appointment and death of
O. J. Manning, the appointment and retirement
°* Gregory Walker, and the appointment of the
two oimpsons, H. E. Cohen, Pring, Street, and
Sly—l 6 in all.
“ Oudeis,” from London :
Little 1 rank Wootton, the 15-year-old Australian boy
who rode over 100 winners on the English turf last year,
has puzzled the English horse-reporter a good deal.
Trank is a good Austtalian, and the faot that he earned
more than £5OOO last year has not upset a very level little
head. I heard him gravely talking “ White Australia” to
a very puzzled pressman the other day in a race tram,
arid afterwards watched him playing Bridge with father
Dick Wootton and two of his cronies. The boy more than
help his own, both in the game and the consequent argu-
ments. A sporting scribe I know took him for a swim at
Liverpool baths. Can you swim, Frank?” he asked.
A bit,” said the youngster, and easily beat the grown-
up, who fancies himself in the water. Prank is now at
school, where he shines almost as brightly as in the
saddle. The boy looks like growing up a credit to Aus-
trail a.
“ Vulcan ” : Maoriland Government’s
ukase ordering the retirement of all public ser-
vants over 65 will cause a wholesale
slaughter of the ancients. Over 60
grandpapas are affected, including Sur-
veyor-General Humphries; Hickson, the
Commissioner for Stamps; Glasgow,
Secretary for Customs ; Customs Ex-
pert Shannon; Barron, Band Purchase
Inspector ; Chief Roads Engineer Hurst-
house ; Willis, Clerk of the Executive
Council; Deputy-Commissioner of Taxes
Walmsley ; Pomologist Palmer ; Mair,
of the Native Department ; Richardson,
of the Lands Survey; Chief Gaolers
Armstrong and Cleary, of Wellington
and Lyttelton; and Stipendiary Magis-
trates Stanford, Wray, Roberts and
Kenny. Such a dusting of cobwebs
hasn’t been seen in the land for a long
day, and some departments will be
unrecognisable without their ancient in-
stitutions.
“Dick ” Green, the first sculling champion
of Sydney when outriggers were introduced, is
still on deck, and has just celebrated his “golden
wedding.” Dick, now 73 years old, won the out-
rigger championship in 1856; but he had been
champion in the old style of boat for a few years
before that.
George Arthur Walstab, journalist and
good fellow, died last week in Melbourne, aged
75. He and Marcus Clarke were close friends.
When “The Term of His Natural Life”
first appeared, and was running in serial form
through the Australian Journal, a monthly
magazine, Clarke got very ill—too ill to write,
think, or dictate that month’s copy. It had'
to go in, so Walstab “ put it up,” disclaiming any
credit afterwards. “I merely kept the thing
going, killed none of the characters, and delivered
them all up as good as new, none the worse for
their change of air,” he said. It was typical of
the man’s unassuming modesty that Clarke and
not he told of his service.
Some remarks about dust and ashes :
One of the vigorous members of the new Cremation
Society in Sydney talks cheerfully of a grisly scheme he
has in his mind. When the old Devonshire-street ceme-
tery was abolished to make room for Owe’Sullivan’s rail-
way station, the Wilshire graves, among the rest, were
torn up, and what was left of J. R. Wilshire’s father and
mother was taken to Gore Hill cemetery, where another
plot was secured for the family. Since then the Gore
Hill Council says it won’t have any more burials in its
cemetery; wherefore J. R. Wilshire is blocked again in
his desire to get to rest with his parents. His scheme
consequently is to have his body cremated when he
has no further use for it ; and he reckons that,
if the Council blocks burial, it at least won’t
shut out a few ashes from the Wilshire allot-
ment. There was a good deal of old history engraved
on the ancient monument that used to mark the Wilshire
allotment in the Devonshire-st. ground ; for the present
cremationist’s grandfather was a James Wilshire, of the
Commissariat, who married in Sydney at the beginning
of last century. His wife was Miss Pitt, of Richmond—
the family that had in its service the almost-celebrated
Margaret Catchpole. J. R. Wilshire, their third son, was
born in 1809 ; he was an early mayor of Sydney, and
father of the man who wants himself decently disposed of
later on.
N. S. Wales’ very-troubled Lands Depart-
ment has had a perfect torrent of Under-Secs, of
late. Houston, who reigned for some years, was
followed by Curry. Curry smelt something, and
got on to the Land Appeal Court. Robert
McDonald came in ; he also smelt something, said
he didn’t feel well, and went back to the Western
Land Board. Edward MacFarlane tackled the
job, and while he was there the decayed rat was
produced. MacFarlane, being the man on the
spot, had to take the responsibility for the per-
fumed animal. Then, Justice Owen having
applied disinfectants, McDonald consented to
return. But after a long and useful career in the
Department he is tired, and prepares to step out;
and Rennie, the chief inspector, will probably
take his place.
“ Melb.” gives an old colleague a send-off :
Brilliant was the adjective unanimously applied to
George Walstab. Yet in business he was a fish out of
water here all the time. Thirty years he was hackney-
in-chief to the Herald, under the various ferules of
Middleton, Winter, Reny, and Davidson. It would be
astonishing- to hear what low salaries he invariably
wrought for in this city, to which circumstance seemed
to nail him down. He did not suit—used a razor
instead of a carver. Yet everybody on the Herald all
the time, from editor to imp, would agree that nobody
could write like Walstab. He had a brief spell as edi-
tor, but it was uncongenial. Though their lines were
different, Walstab and Myers would remind you each of
the other as craftsmen. The same dash-in, rapidity,
and contempt for preparation. Walstab’s father was a
Demerara planter, but came here in ’52, and, with a
kindred stickability to George’s, succeeded as auctioneer,
though he conducted an auction like a Court function.
George joined the Police Cadets, did escort duty, and
arrived on Ballarat just after Eureka Stockade riot. The
Mutiny drew him to India, where he saw service.
Wounded by a poisoned instrument in the shin of the leg,
a trouble more or less for the rest of his life. Became
sub-editor, then editor, of the principal Indian news-
paper, the Calcutta Englishman. Published a novel,
called “ Harcourt Darrell.” This was eulogised in glowing-
terms by the Saturday Review, and Walstab’s later
opinion was that he should have darted off for London at
once. Doubtless he missed his tide, like Marcus Clarke,
who was offered a billet on the staff of the London Daily
Telegraph. Anyhow, he returned to Melbourne about
1865. Worked for the then dashing Morning Herald,
and there made Aspinall’s acquaintance. Also served on
the Age. He became only an ordinary reporter, griev-
ously disappointed ; but George always had glorious,
unquenchable pluck, and I have not found the
individual who ever heard him complain. In 1866
he acted Dazzle, in “ London Assurance,” with
quite supreme ability, among the press amateurs.
This gave him the only bit of swelled head he ever had—
in Australia at all events. People compared him to
Charley Mathews. He went upon the regular stage, at
the Melbourne Theatre Royal, under the management of
Holt and Hoskins. He debuted as De Bracy, in “Ivan-
hoe.” Then came a drop to “John (a servant)—Mr.
Walstab.” After that Walstab returned to the demnition
reportorial grind. The foundation of the Daily Tele-
graph gave him a better show. Willoughby was not slow
to utilise his writing power, but his nose was kept to the
grindstone in reporting, like J. F. Archibald, with him
rtr same P a Per, and like Don Macdonald nowadays.
Walstab became the most intimate friend of Marcus
Clarke. Kyrle Bellew, in Melbourne, had no friend so
valuable; Walstab, I suppose, got him on the Herald.
Marcus Clarke had his lengthy novel, “Long-
Odds” well under way in the Colonial Magazine, he was
knocked out by a hunting accident. Walstab wrote the
bulk of this novel. Much more in his line than Clarke’s,
He also wrote about half-a-dozen novels in his own name,
running through the Weekly Times, etc. They won
public favor, but “ Harcourt Darrell ” was his pet. That
also went through a Melbourne serial. In 1872 Walstab
had another of his mutations. He was working for the
Herald, as leader-writer, when J. J. Casey, afterwards
Judge, then Minister of Lands, perceived a great opening-
for him. He appointed Walstab as his clerk in the
political office. George shone there. Such magnates as
Hodgkinson, Skene, Morrah and Morkham could not help
recognising his ability. He evolved quite statesmanlike
qualities. Yet he had a ridiculous salary compared to
those of men he ordered about, with highly efficient
military Walstabian swank. (He claimed to have invented
the word “swank.”) It goes without saying chat his
enemies were a host. He was like boiling water on an
anthill, and universally regarded as an interloper when
Casey had gone. Much rejoicing when he fell with the
Black Wednesday crowd. Thence forward he was identi-
ned with the As thorough a gentleman as ever
lived. AH the qualities mistakenly embodied in the
highest signification of the word English were Walstab’s.
To those privileged with his friendship he will never die.
TAKING NO RISKS.
Six constables are guarding Hefeld, one of the two
Russian workmen who were responsible for the tragedy
at Tottenham. He is in hospital, and progressing to-
wards recovery.— Cable.
Once upon a time there was a myth in which
it was stated that one Englishman was worth
three of the French sort. Russians (either sick
or dead) were not mentioned.
Botanist Maiden’s “Life of Joseph Banks ”
goes into the printer’s hands at the expense of
'N.S. W. Government. The conditions are that no
free copies shall be distributed and that the author
and his assistants shall receive no pay for their
services. When the cost of Government printing
and publishing has been deducted, the balance
will be handed over to the Banks Memorial Fund
committee.
The interest that Miss Ratvson, the
N.S.W. Governor’s daughter, takes in the sick
children in various hospitals lacks the vigorous
directness which the wife of early-Governor
King put into the business. That lady arrived
with the virtues of vaccination on the brain, and
no matter what the ailment, she insisted on vac-
cinating the patient. She daily perambulated the
streets of Sydney with a little medicine box and
lancet, and punctured people right and left.
Being the Governor’s wife, her will was law, but
while the craze lasted she was a sore tribulation.
THE MAKING OF A JUDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson was sworn in as Acting-Chief
Justice yesterday.—Sydney paper (16/2/'O9).
A Judge isn’t made in a day. —Justice Simpson about a
year ago.
. “ A Judge isn’t made in a day,”
(Not much !)
I think that is perfectly clear ;
The old Chief Justice has gone away
As such,
And I’m Acting-Chief for a year ;
But I am not going to stop,
You know ;
I’m holding the wig and the gown,
And I will be ready to hop
Below
When he
(You know !)
Says “ Go 1 ’’
That’s so !
(Oh I we mention no names
In our lawyer-like games,
But the rumors are flying round town.)
“A J udge isn’t made in a day ”
(A year
H as since been wiped off the slate !).
I a the new political way
I hear
That Judges are made while you wait I
I’m merely put on for one act
(Yo, ho 1),
And it won’t be much of a wrench
When I have been formally sacked
(Oh, no !
I meant,
You know,
No joke 1
It’s low
To be gay about “ sacks,”
Horse-hair, or woolpacks,
When dispensing the Law from the Bench !)
“ A Judge isn’t made in a day,”
It takes
Twelve months ere he’s ready for use.
(Oh ! hark to the Acting-C. J.
Who shakes
The ink from the quill of the goose !)
The Chief who will rise in the Spring
(Tra-la !)
With self-raising flour will be made ;
Then I will be ready to fling
(Ha, ha !)
The wig
Afar
Past the Bar,
Where are
All the learned Gents One,
Who don’t relish the fun
Of the game I am playing with Wade.
N.S.W.
SIX-AND-EGIHTPENCE.


S V
V
/
r*
•V
l W
ir
m
To r'c^^k
BRIBERY !
“IVORY TIPS” are fitted to Vice-Regal Cigarettes, and are the latest invention for rendering
the Cigarette soft to the lips, whilst preventing the Tobacco from staining the fingers.
Cigarettes.
IVORY
TIPS.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
oiunci:
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT : Lydiard Street.
Dnyrnc , M n GCI , ' 11 ii BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
STOCK Wndin! Fn A 3" ®' aSBeS of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity
STOCK Engines, ' L». 5.
M o anch g es n te S r ; o Ba£,mM, SB and jSSSEf Engines.’
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
WlnOWS ’ FCBK LlraAsOT »-
Income. Outgoings. Added
' -s <■ Insur-
„ _ Interest, jxnce
ISOS m‘™ S ' ® 4c ' Claims. Expenses. Fund.
,? 98 " i 1 55,539 £58,881 £108,768 £41,936 £63 716
1900 " SaS 115,640 48,950 57,866
1900 .. 171,740 62,050 122,187 52 079 59 >vu
1901 . 188,805 63,293 109,639 56,519 80,940
Lontingency Reserve transferred .. 9 304
1903” jsn’ios tv 205 138 - 383 51,718 59^195
4993 •• 180.405 70,073 140,982 47,523 61 973
Of.. 175,945 72,135 152,266 50,458 45 356
1906 ” It?’™? 7 5’ 239 167,442 52,045 38,750
1997 ” £>,149 162,618 53,939 42,813
499 7 •• i 94 ’' 4B 77,250 169,095 56,245 46 658
1908.. 203,790 80,252 159,854 55,972 68’216
This is a rather old-fashioned office which has been slow
to adopt modern hustling: methods of getting- business,
and has consequently made comparatively poor progress.
It has however, kept a very good name all the time in its
own solid, stolid old way. Big bonuses have, of course,
been out of the question—a high expense rate has barred
that. It has no Industrial branch to feed the Ordinary •
and, as the A.M.P. at last found out, an organisation of
that kind—acting as a sort of kindergarten—is almost
indispensable to the modern life office. And that applies
especially to Australia, where a considerable proportion of
what are called “ working men ” are able to take out a
hfe policy, though most of them have first to be gathered
in by the Industrial canvasser. Still it isn't at all certain
that, even if an office like the Widows’ Fund did start an
Industrial office, it could make a success of it; for its ex-
perience has been on very different lines, and might be
worse than no experience at all for running the four-
pence-a-fortnight brand of business. Hence it seems
highly improbable that the Widows’ Fund will, for very
many years at any rate, compare in the matter of expense
rate with some of the other offices. And the expense rate
is a large factor in determining the size of the bonuses.
On the basis of total income the expenses have
in recent years been as follows
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Profit on
Realisation of Securities not Included).
mnn ” 9 l per cent ' 1904 • • £2 ° 6 9 per cent.
1900 .. 22 5 6 „ 1905 .. 20 3 1
1901 .. 22 17 6 ~ 1906 .. 20 15 11
1903 " 1 2 S m H ” 1907 •• 20 13 6 ”
1903 .. 18 19 5 „ 1908 .. 19 17 7 ’’
There is a fairly substantial reduction here. But as has
often been pointed out, the true testis the cost of new
business ; for clearly an office which wrote little or no
new business would be very extravagantly managed even
if it cost 10 per cent, of income. Take, then, the
renewal business, and charge it with 7 per cent
for expenses ; add 3 per cent, on single premium busi-
ness ; total, £12,427. That will leave £43,545 to represent
the cost of new business. And as the new premiums re-
ee.veddunng the year totalled £24,990, it will be found
that the new business cost 174 per cent, of the year’s
F™ s - ' ; he same basis, the A.M.P.’snew business
in 1907 cost it 85-6 per cent. ; in the Citizens’ the cost (in-
cluding shareholders’ dividend) was 60 4 per cent. If the
Widows fund were worked at the same expense rate in
proportion to total income as the A.M.P. is, the total ex-
penses would amount to £25,015 instead of £55 972
Certainly an office may get good value for some of its
large expenditure. It may, for instance, spend a great
expenses, and the selection of risks ; and
that will tell in the long run. The Widows’ Fund does
as a matter of fact, adopt a very conservative policy in
this respect, as it has also done in regard to the assumed
rate of future earnings. This year the directors report ■
the mortality experience is only 59 per cent of the
expectancy, and more than justifies the extra expense
which is incurred in the medical examination of every
proponent. Granted, however, that the Widows’ Fund
from H in thi u wa - y > and Sets good results
from it, jet the difference between £25,015 and £55 972
is very great, and would take a tremendous lot of saving
in other directions. ■ “
The interest earnings are moderate
icon Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 ” 7 percent. 1904 ..£4 6 9 per cent.
1900 ..4 8 4 „ 1905 .. 47 9
4994 •• 4 5 9 „ 1906 ..4 6 1
4992 46 8 .. 1907 .. 4 6 1
1903 .. 47 1 „ 1908 ..4 6 8 ”
f" re ' S that ’ tho l’” h the interest earnings are
only £4 6s. Sd. per cent., no less than 65 per cent, of the
total assets are in mortgages, another 2‘2 per cent
in foreciosures, and 7 per cent, in freeholds; while less
than 10 per cent, are in public securities of any kind
And notwithstanding this tremendous proportion of
mortgages, etc., the reserve to meet fluctuation of
secunties amounts to only £5570, or less than Bs. per
cent, of the securities of this class. On this point also
sefVnntVn'th e dlalr| genuous. Every annual report
sets out in the revenue account” an item “profit on
realisation of securities.” For last year the amount taken
credit for is £1319, which is shown as transferred to the
Investment Fluctuation Fund. The amounts lost or
written off are never set out, however ; and only by a
little digging can it be unearthed that, though £1319
profit on realisation of securities ” was made, a greater
sum £l3BB—was lost or written off as bad or doubtful.
Besides the two funds already mentioned—the
Life Assurance and the Investment Fluctuation—the
ffiih ■V lO 'V ho n an °, ther ’ the Accident and Invalidity.
thp h H™ 'n, en i h !' s cIa ?? of business came knocking it
the dooi, the Widows Fund took it, but reinsured it
ioi!i, r T ! "-‘i a^ G ! a ff reen,e nt having expired, the society
lately decided to carry the risks on its own back. It
began the year with £1532 to the credit of the fund and
winds up with £2749. So far the business has ’been
amazingly profitable (£1136 of commissions against £2 of
results fairly. d ° Llbt 683 the Peri ° d ‘ S to ° short t 0 J ud B'e
* * * *
The Silverton Tramway Co.
Dividend on
Dec., Profits. Real Re ‘
a rn A Off. serves.
1899” 64| p .C.=£79, 12 2 - £136,162
1900.. 89,’472 64| ”’’ 79,’1l £BlO9 154’173
iSg- Hf« 4:: tS UtjS
«&: II::s-X «*• ;s-sr;
}Sg- £■«* m■■ .. sn.zss 51 iM
1906” «1’931 lei ” ” 2 4000 150,453
1907” ins’aTS int ” ” £ 9 ’ 342 10 ’ 000 163,072
1908" 93’t 8 nat ” ” 10 ’ 000 187,373
1908.. 93,018 64J „ „ 79,122 1,031 200 738
This co. found the best silver-mine at Broken Hill As
soon as the Barrier field was reasonably well proved a co
was formed to connect it with the South Australian rafi
way system at Cockburn, on the border. A sim-o-estion
hut VW? the 6 ° Vernnlent should do the budding •
but as the Government of N.S.W. wouldn’t think nf
assisting a border district to get a living by linking itVp
with another State’s railway, the private co.’s blh was
engineered through Parliament without difficulty That
was in 1886, and the co.’s historv since then has
been a blaze of dividends. At 'first the capital
was £l2-, 105, but profits were capitalised P till
total , was . made up to £197,506. In the
‘ rh n *°P ot *'^ lS the rate of dividend is
rn actual, y paid ; calculated as the
lt > 0 “ th ® £197,806, the past year’s 64f per cent.
dovk ’ n . to , per cent. Whichever way you look at it,
from r e hfl lfc i Sn 6 tc !? ” ood for the eye that isn’t protected
he P n / g ar - e ;- Yea !' s a B' 0 ’ 110 doubt, there would have
been an opposition railway line but for one or two things
inro f ! ?!i°^ ot i e ‘ S of thls co - were "rise enough to take
Ponim f , the , bl ° men of the Broken Hill mining cos.
Consequently this co. and the Broken Hill mining
cos, have always been very good friends. (2)
S r,!' beeil able t 0 show that
Fhnnft, f J. the dO-odd miles was very little more
“ tb * Government rate for the same distance.
l, f L it ee n [;'; ken mto account that the co.’s trifle is
p actically all through-traffic-a full train is made op at
Z l ®, e " d ' and }‘ un , through to the other end, whine it
hasn t to be unloaded, because the same trucks, carriages,
Vi "’w t'S'ht on into S. Australia. (3) The management
has been careful to keep good friends with its work-
people, and that goes a good way at Broken Hill. Never-
theless two or three attempts have been made to get an-
other line built. Once or twice the matter has been re-
ferred to the Public Works Committee; but the
Committee has always mumbled something about
f V h^ ed t u mte <JT! s ’ let thin " s slide. The fact is
that the btate finds that the Parliament of 1886
made a shocking mess of things. It gave this co. a
concession to work this traffic; at the same time
it provided that, if the State should want to buy the line
the price must be based on the co.’s profits ; and if the
line were bought on that basis the people who use it
wouldn t benefit much, because they would have to pro-
vide interest on about seven times more than the works
cost, therefore, the co. hasn’t been seriously threatened
for years past.
The co.’s future depends on the Broken Hill
mmes ; and to a great extent they depend on the prices
of metals. For (say) 29 years—perhaps more—some work
will no doubt be done at Broken Hill ; but the quantity
will vary with the price of metals. VVith that in view the
oonT n! L the pas( i, vea . r > established a special reserve
of £20,000 for the equalisation of dividends. The formal
reserve fund (£72,881) is in public securities and deposits;
™,° n ther reserves are used in the business. The Broken
Hill Prop, which used, to be Cm- of the field, isn’t the
one and only power in the distiko now; as its star has
fa ‘ nter -South, Sulphide Corporation,
thekorth, and the South Blocks—have grown brighter ■
and there isn’t quite the same connection between these
cos and the Silverton Train as there was between the
p’f; ld tbe Tram. Consequently the Tramway
Co. may find that some harder bargains will be driven in
the future than in the past. The Tramway Co. has
always held one strong suit, though. The mining
cos. only want concessions when things are had - and
that is precisely the time when they can’t do any’thim-
dangerous in the way of building a line of their own, even
if the co. won t give them what they ask for.
Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co. (N.S. W.):
Unex-
plained
Additions
D To ® e " Written Re-
Brunts. serves. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, 1902. .2228 13 4 p.c. = 2000 38 782
June 1903 1 4 ” » 2000 - 41,195
June, 1903.. 636 4 pnno .-.(I .IQ--,,
Dec., 1903..1392 1 3 ” 1500 - fHI!
June, 1904.. 691 2J ”1250 60 w’nifi
Dee., 1904..2412 - g 1250 1 f o ’m
June, 1905.. 435 1 2A 1250 ‘Wsoq
Dec., 1905..3615 _ 2! 1250
June, 1906.. 1143 _ 2! ” ’ 1950 Z 4 ’m?
Dec., 1906..6515 5* ” Ifoo 11’
June, 1907..2189 _ 5” ” 2500 Z
Dec., 1907..6863 -5,” ” 2500 - 19718
June, 1908..2812 5 2500 so/in
Dec., 1908..4700 - I ” Z ggg.
This is the one N.S. W. private line which serves pastoral
and agricultural country—the Govt, wouldn’t build it
andHm N%"w al p f ® ed ! n " tbe railways of another State ;
; has , alwa - vs preferred to starve its
own outlying districts rather than feed another State’s
railways. The country served by the line gets a uretty
taSte of drought; and, though the past half-year
nas>n t been anything* like as disastrous as 1903-4 still
recent conditions haven’t been up to the high average of
the previous three fat years. When those fat fears
parted the co. had £30,000 of debentures outstanding •
£inn b no k nfTi! lff th , e v dl/ - dovvn to a rnodest 5 per cent.,’
£lO,OOO of those debentures will have been paid off by
WwZ/ ’ % nd i h t e Co ‘ wdl still have a comfortable
wis £4.0 noo > lf / ee , n Z ears a -° the debenture debt
/ a Z £ l°’ bo ? ’ and Z.Gjok 12 years to haul it down as far
w-fi /i 3 - t f avelled ln the lasfc th ree and a half years
With the interest bill cut down the co. will be better able
/if , d , r °"F h J- ln , the future. Even in 1900, when the
*/ZZ rS -/v /;. ba<i t 0 be dropped altogether, the
: i W r n )ortgage called for his usual £l2OO,
details follow haS been a heavy dras '- So,ne other
w i • Mainte- Expenses in
J Working nance, Proportion to
903 - £l 6’sii f2 iOS £5B6 St - 297 peTcent.
iyU3 .. 6,811 2837 2072 510 41 -R
1904.. 7,078 2247 1829 590 31 J ”
MOfi" i?’™ 2213 1866 267 ”
1906 .. 11,620 2523 1982 COO 91 -7
1907.. 12,122 2800 2013 445 23H ”
1908 .. 10,004 2854 2010 440 28’5 **
our n o a f n^nfi V f ay ’ y tO , Ck ’ efcc -,/re not being written down
® ’ bu f “ steady £829 10s. per half-year is
mnnf m V e T n , ewals - and is inclu ded above in “ mainte-
nw/LZmi K Tt seenis a trifle peculiar that exactly £829
10s should be spent every half-year on renewals ; it sug-
mem;/! f | aCt ’ that there is a renewals fund which isn’t
inentioned among the reserves—a fund into whicli anv
odd fragment of the £829 10s. that isn’t spent in one half-
>ear may be kept untiHt may be wanted later on.
The Wellington G-as Co. (M.L.)
Nfit itiq tj
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. ‘serves.
iyU4 .. 10 p.c. = £l2 349 £‘44 1371
iw " £ ;ffi m” ” 12 ’’ 457 £16 ’ 785
1907 " 9R9RS m ” ” 12 > 457 6,331 57,987
1907 •£ 26 : 26S 10 » „ 12,457 13,811 71,798
1908 i'toiT °"m eW shares .. 2,099 73,897
1908 17,200 10 p.c. = 12,457 2,906 75,739
1 e fig*ures of this co. move in a mysterious way ; amounts
wh ha 46 et0dr0p f into the reserves without
ZZI HkT /hZ/Vi Z’ and wben the y dr °p into the re-
as th/ PrZf h / h r ey haV ® t 0 be treated as profit. So far
bee b as folfows"- aCC ° Unt Sh ° WS) the res ” lts have
, ~ . 1904. 1906. 1907. 190 S.
Man ‘“irs,' £5S ’ 925 £66 ’ 156 £B °’° 7S £85 ’ 542
and all charges., .! 45,764 47,368 54,410 68,337
P. and L. balance.. £13,161 £18,788 £26,268 £17,205
There has thus been an extraordinary jump in the cast
df, a /’t eX P e " Z ebut 110 details are fm-nished. The
off Dlant ‘‘ e £fi-97oT nfc l 0nS that ’ bes ’des the £2906 written
off plant, £6270 has been expended out of revenue on ex-
£s27o°wZ r ?mm’ and: maintenance.’» In the previous yeL
hasr ’t TpE k repairS and maintenance.” There
hasn t, therefore, been any great variation in this item to
explain the jump from £54,410 to £68,337 in the expenses
The reserves have moved in this way expenses.
. 1904. 1905. 1907. 1908
Share premiums .. £12,306 _ £ o o qq
Reserves .. £25,000 £25,000 25 000
Renewal Fund, etc. .. 4,000 15,000 3.5,000 36 .500
Undivided Profit .. 11,065 11,656 11,798 12J40
r " •• £34 ’ S7l £51,656 £71,798 £75,739
In 1905 the share-premium reserve was split up between
ft l ° tber reserv l es .* b «t even then £6537 dropped into
the leseives without explanation. The profit; for 1905
S the ble I£21 £29 ’ 242) is eonse P quently under
0n fcl i e other hand, there is no visible
Y t SO ) t 0 suspect the big profit shown for 1907.
Yet the extraordinary variations are perplexing; and
in almost any country but Maoriland they might be
thought to call for a few words of explanation. In
matters of finance, however, Maoriland has got into
shockingly bad ways without realising it; and probably
it won’t realise it until too late. During the year the co.
decided to increase its authorised capital from £200,000
to £400,000. It already had £so,ooocallableon 10,000 shares
paid to only £5 (they are all £lO shares). On these shares
another 10s. has been got in, and a further 6000 or so new
shares have been issued, on which £1 has been paid. The
new £lO shares are issued at a minimum of £l5, the pre-
mium being payable in instalments as ti e capital is called
up. The new capital will, nodoubt, be used in part to reduce
the liability. In the true Maoriland manner theco., with
a paid eapiial of £131,905 on Dec. 81, had at that date a
debt of £110,383. In connection with gas cos., it is always
of special interest to see what revenue is being put aside
to provide for the renewal of mains, plant, etc. As shown
above, something is written off for depreciation ; this
amount is, no doubt, put into new plant, mains, etc., the
value of which is not then added to capital account; also,
something is paid away for maintenance, patches, and
extensions. Last year’s total of the two items was £9175,
equal to about 3 per cent, on the property, plant, and
other fixed investments. In addition there is the renewal
reserve. Presumably all or part of this last is a set-off
against depreciation—a provision for future big renewals.
To that extent the additions which have been made to
this reserve are not true profits, though necessarily
shown as profits in the table.
* * * *
City op Newcastle Gas and Coke Co. •'
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £2660 15 p.c. = £IBSS £775 £45,537
Dec., 1902.. 3499 15 ~ „ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903.. 2778 15 „ ~ 2574 204 47,060
Dec., 1903.. 3280 15 ~ ~ 2969 311 47,371
June, 1904.. 3309 15 ~ „ 3264 45 47,416
Dec., 1904.. 3630 15 ~ ~ 3312 318 47,734
Share premiums and suspense items... 3309 51,043
June, 1905.. 3835 15 p.c. = 3375 460 51,503
Dec., 1905.. 3544 15 ~ „ 3375 169 51,672
June, 1906 .. 4111 15 ~ ~ 3375 736 52,408
Dec., 1906.. 4560 15 „ „ 3375 1185 53,593
June, 1907.. 4925 15 „ „ 3375 1550 55,143
Dec., 1907.. 4714 15 ~ „ 3375 1339 56,482
June, 1908.. 4682 15 „ „ 3375 1307 57,789
Dec., 1908 .. 5327 15 „ „ 3375 1952 59,741
The profits include the net amounts added to reserves—
for the past half-year £BOO to the reserve fund, £BOO to
the renewal fund, £298 to the meter fund, and £25 to the
insurance fund. Part of this is probably not true reserve
(and therefore not true profit); it may be provision for
future renewals. Still it is to be noted that these are net
additions, so presumably current repairs and renewals
are charged up to working expenses ; and that being so
the additions to the depreciation reserves look very
liberal. Considering the big increase in the amount put
to reserve during the past few years, something might
very reasonably be expected to happen before long. The
things that usually do happen are—(l) an increase of
dividend ; (2) issue of new shares “to meet necessary
expenditure on new plant and extensions,” as it was put
in 1902, when some uncalled capital was got in, although
at the time the co. had about £28,000 of liquid assets • (3)
reduction of the price of gas. An increase of dividend
beyond 15 per cent, is, however, dangerous nowadays ;
and as to the second plan, the promoters of the co. were
modest people, who only fixed the authorised capital at
£45,000, all of which is now paid up. Still, that
isn t a difficulty that can tbe climbed over. On the other
hand, nothing may be done at all; it may be argued that
the last three or four years have been ‘a time of extra
prosperity for Newcastle, and that, anyhow, the coal-
hewing business is moving steadily away towards the
Maitland The financial position is strong. Go
back to June, 1905, when the last of the new capital had
been got in :
T . June,’os. Dec. ,’OB.
Liquid assets .. .. £29,825 £32 314
Liabilities 6,694 5,091
Surplus .. .. £23,131 £27,223
This shows an increase of £4092 in 3£ years, in addition to
the expenditure on mains, plant, etc. To say the least
of it, a very comfortable position indeed.
* * * *
Tamworth Gas Co. (Tamworth, N.S W ) •
Writ-
T, , L . ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves serves
i" ne ’s" £ f;? 10 p.c. =£soo £lOO £23 £l9BB
Dec., 1,103.. 571 10 ~ ~ 546 25 9013
June, 1904.. 642 10 ~ ~ 546 100 2009
Dec., 1904.. 631 10 ~ ~ 546 85 2094
June, 1905.. 635 10 ~ ~ 546 89 2183
Dec., 1905.. 597 10 ~ ~ 546 51 9934
June, 1906.. 595 10 ~ ~ 546 40 0903
Dec., 1906.. 660 10 ~ ~ 546 100 14 2^97
June, 1907.. 618 10 ~ „ 546 79 o
Dec., 1907... 632 10 ~ ~ 546 100 2355
June, 1908.. 607 10 „ ” 546 _ 61 2416
Dec., 1905.. 610 10 ~ ~ 546 64 2480
The co. shows “manufacture and distribution of
gas etc., management and depreciation,” in one line; and
until this half-year has never shown what the amount
written off to provide for depreciation was. This time
however, it is set down at £l6O. Special appropriations
tor the same purpose are shown above. From the fact
that among the assets is an item, “ New mains account ”
it looks as though not enough had hitherto been put
aside out of revenue to provide for renewals; £5O has
however been written off this item during the half-year!
If enough is not written off for depreciation—that is, to
pay for renewals as they become necessary—of course the
profits are oyer-stated ; and in view of the “New mains
account, it looks as though they have been. And that
being so, as the margin between alleged profits and divi-
dends has been very small, it is doubtful whether the 10
per cent, dividend has been really earned. This is one
of the gas cos. that suffer from municipal electric-lnditim'-
competition ; in fact, Tamworth municipality was the
first in N b W. to own an electric-lighting plant, though
it is only lately that it has gone out seeking for private
consumers. On Dee. 31 the co. owed only £677, including
overdraft, Us liquid assets (book debts) totalled £697.
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
_ ~ To Re- ’ Re-
Irofit.s.. Dividends. serves serves
Dec 6 ’1903" £ 953 per cent. =£76o £]B «’ £6,371
June’,' j£s:: mo 15 ;; $ g
Bee., 1904.. 1180 15 750 130 7 fit
June, 1905.. 1111 15 „ 750 36J 7G75
Dec., 1905.. 1205 15 „ 750 455 8930
June, 1906.. 997 15 „ „ 750 947 g’477
Dec., 1906.. 1079 15 750 329 8 506
June, 1907.. 1273 15 „ 750 523 q’qvo
Bee., 1907.. 1097 15 750 347 9 676
Dec 6 ’ 1908 1 «72 ” ” V> {) 466 lo!l42
i>ec., 1908.. lo ~ „ 750 222 10,304
The profits shown above include net additions to reserves
amounting for the past half-year to £220, includino- £l2O
to plant and meter renewal funds. These additions may
be a set-off against current depreciation ; if so, they are
not true profits. Plant, etc., is, however, also written
£?9 3nn : SIX I,lo " ths a "° the “ Axed ” item stood at
£12,300 , it is now at £12,235. Thus £65, pins whatever ex-
tensions may have cost, has been written off profits to
cover wear and tear. The co., which has been on the 15
iwr Cel vf‘ 12 years at least, owed only £324 on
£lTnm 3 L a /v, d had , t9:!4B ln liquid assets. The capital
fj 1 . o ’™,' h 0 tl ? e co - , ha , s practically got its capital back,
and has the* works and the business to the good.
Karrier Wharf, Ltd., a mostlv-Melbourne
co which has a finger in the pie at Port Pirie, the princi-
tftteis handfed 118 ” m ° St ° f the Broken Hill
r, To Re-
Dec., 1905 - DmdendS ' serves ’ Refieit-
— £66
May, 1906 .. £362 Nil £362 "*5
N°v„ 1906 .. 160 Nil uS 45a
May, 1907 .. 1485 7J p.c. = £1316 169 6^5
Nov., 1907 .. 2725 12* 2194 531
May, 1908 .. 3482 19* „ 3446 36
Nov., 1908 .. 3705 15 „ „ 2745 960 2159
Of the reserves £lOOO is a renewal fund ; so it probably
is a set-off against actual depreciation. For that reason
the profits shown above ought to have something lopped
off them. The co.’s business was remarkably profit-
able while the Broken Hill boom lasted; but
its prosperity is likely to see violent changes.
The property carries a mortgage of £10,000;
so that even in the worst of times there is one pretty
large mouth to be fed before the shareholders get a bite.
The co. has wolfed the profits hitherto, and has left the
financial position weak. There is supposed to be an
income-tax reserve besides the reserves mentioned above ;
but it is “ used in the business.” The renewal reserve is
also used in the business. In fact, on November 30 the
balance of liquid assets over liabilities, exclusive of the
mortgage, was only £1467; yet a dividend of £2745 was
declared. It looks as though the shareholders, per the
directors, are taking every cent out of the business they
can, and letting the future look after itself. Wherefore
future dividends are liable to have a less affluent look
than those of the past couple of fat years.
* * * *
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and Road
Metal Co. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £lOO5 7 p.c. =£952 £53 £2lBB
June, 1905.. 944 6J ~ ~ 850 94 228'!
Dec., 1905.. 612 Nil 612 2894
June, 1906.. 706 3Jp.c.= 425 '£225 56 2950
Dec., 1906.. 1050 3J „ ~ 425 275 350 3300
June, 1907.. 1375 6i „ „ 850 375 150 3450
Dec., 1907.. 2443 6J ~ ~ 850 500 1093 4543
June, 1905.. 3555 6i ~ ~ 850 675 2030 6573
Dec., 1908.. 3751 9| „ ~ 1275 825 1651 8224
The co. seems to have some good contracts on hand ; and
excellent results have been shown during the last couple
of years. Before that the road which this co. trod was very
uneven ; there were such bumps in it that in 1903 it was
found necessary to write off £6BOO of capital, reducing it
from £34,000 to £27,200. Since then a careful policy has
been adopted : dividends have been kept moderate, and
substantial additions have been made to reserves. These
latter, as well as the profits written off to cover deprecia-
tion, have been mostly put into quarry property at Pros-
pect and Guildford ; £5570 has been spent in that way in
the last three years. Consequently, the liabilities haven’t
been much reduced. Things in that respect have moved
this way :—-
Dec., 1905. Dec., 1908.
Liabilities £7814 £8433
Liquid assets 2985 4940
Excess liabilities .. .. £4829 £3493
The liquid assets are nearly all book debts. The amounts
shown as written off are intended to cover wear and tear
of plant and tramways ; nothing is shown as written
off for depreciation of quarries, though it has
been stated that 2d. per ton is charged up with working
costs. Also it is stated that, so far as the gravel is con-
cerned, floods are constantly replenishing the supply.
The crux of the position lies in the market for road
metal and gravel ; and as to the prospects of the gravel
market, or as to whether this co. is liable to be hit by
keener competition in the blue-metal supply, The Bul-
letin has no definite information.
* * * *
The Sydney Cyclorama Co. (Sydney)
# # Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £175 Nil £175 £5104
1900 .. 196 Nil 196 5300
1901 .. 371 Nil 371 5671
1902 .. 630 Nil £253 377 6048
1903 .. 388 Nil 388 6436
Loss.
1904 .. 57 Nil 6379
Profit.
1905 •• 3 Nil _ 3 6382
1906 .. 209 Nil 5048 943
1907 .. 882 5 per cent. =£lo4o 785
1908 .. 927 5 „ ~ 1040 672
The history of this co. is interesting and valuable, and
gives a hint to those people who now and then feel in-
elined to put money into schemes for entertaining the
public for a cash consideration. Formed in the latter
part of 1888 to exploit the new idea of cycloramic pic-
tures, _it paid its first dividend of 5 per cent, in .June the
following year. Next month another 5 per cent, was
paid. In December 2J per cent, was paid. The holiday
rush provided another 2£ per cent. And then a hard
trostsetin; the public wanted some other toy to play
with, bo, after one more 2J per cent, had been paid,
there was a silence that lasted for 18 years. Fortunately
the co. had a Sydney freehold which kept its
value pretty well, even if the cyclorama picture idea
didn t; and when anew amusement craze—ice-skating—
arrived, this co. made a bargain with the new Sydney Ice
Skating'and Cold Storage Co. The new co. undertakes
e . ar *’ or years, or buy straight out for
£20,000. So far it has paid the £lOOO a year, which isn’t
quite enough to provide the Cyclorama Co. with a 5 per
cent, div., as the capital is £20,800, and a few pounds
have to go for taxes, expenses, etc. . Still, after being
worth only a few shillings for years, the shares have
creptclose up to par. Whether they are really worth
that depends upon the ability of the new co. to carry out
its part of the contract.
* * * *
The Koroit and Tower Hill Butter and
Cheese Factory Co. (Koroit, Vic.)
Divi- Bonus
. „ „ dends, to Written Re-
Aug., Profits. 10 p.c. Suppliers, off. serves
1903 .. £892 £312 £431 _ £4393
1904 .. 921 442 344 - 4528
1905 .. 1013 439 513 4589
88;: iS a
1908 .. 4338 541 2546 1039 5300
The bonus mentioned in the last line may be a pound or
two out either way. The accounts, though they give a
vast amount of information, are not presented in the sim-
plest way. The balance-sheet isn’t really a balance-sheet at
all, but a statement of receipts and expenditure, and the
protit and loss account wants re-casting. Passing to
the general management, the bad policy is adopted of
relying upon fat years to do necessary writing down of
plant, etc. In ordinary years apparently nothing what-
ever is written off to cover wear and tear; yet churns
wear out in bad years just as much as they do in good
ones. Also the depreciation of plant is just as proper
and necessary a charge against revenue as wages and
directors fees are ; and when that charge is not made
what are alleged to be profits are not wholly profits at
all. Ihe paid capital at the end of last year was £*5848 *
and of the reserves £387 consisted of premiums on certain’
share issues. The liabilities were £4666 ; against that
’! as ® cas h balance £4153 (this, of course, was before
were paid) ’ in Edition to stocks and book
debts (£3223) and the factory premises and plant. The
capital value of the building-s, plant, etc., is £l2 446 • so
if 10 per cent, per annum be written off (and some butter
co. managers don’t regard that as too much), £1244 oimlit
to be provided out of profits every year. With regard'’ to
this matter this co. has been very slack indeed" and a
question consequently arises whether it hasn’t ready been
paying some of its excessive dividend out of capital for
that is what it amounts to when big divs. are paid’and
not enough is put aside from profits to provide for re-
newals, replacements, etc.
* * * *
the tlme the market was booming Broken
Hill Prop, shares in 1906-7, The Bulletin was askim>- in-
vestors and speculators to look at the co.’s plans and turn
up the reports, and get down to plain facts and fm ures
No doubt many people did so ; many others, however’
buried their heads in the sand and relied on the stuiiid’
old yarn about the Broken Hill mine being- “inex-
haustible.” The directors are partly to blame. No later
than a couple of months ago, when The Bulletin showed
that there was no more than five years’ ore discovered
and small hopes of getting any much larger quantity’
Chairman Darling was interviewed about the statement.’
lie is alleged to have smiled, and proceeded to cloud the
issue with a rigmarole of figures. Now, however, General
Manager Delprat,, called in the Arbitration Court and nut
°u rr, oatdl ’ llas had to ac *nut that the position is even worse
than The Bulletin said it was. Here is an extract from his
evidence : “ The lowest level was 1400 ft., which had been


In the calculation of working costs m concen-
trating- mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Becent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Boiler Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
ar.d scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally'
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy' with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry' and
expense *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally' effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Bolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over yvhich the ore and its carrying
water is spread by r means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity' of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [3
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of Tiie
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited:—“We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in
twelve months can secure proposals for more than a
million and three-quarters, and issue 4553 policies for
£1,278,000. However vigorous the driving may be, such
a result could not be attained if the Society did not offer
what many people want.”*
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depot for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.*
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market foi
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 483 Oollins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us fot
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
Assayeks, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
The Korting Gas Engine is entering largely in-
to big pow'er propositions in Australia. It is a very
simple engine of the double acting “2 Cycle” Type,
receiving two impulses per rev. per cylinder, or 4 times as
many as the single acting “Otto” engine. Its
action is similar to that of a steam engine, and it runs on
either “ Producer,” coke oven or town gas. Made in sizes
from 150 to 1500 8.H.-P., itsclose governing and steadiness
in turning moment make it a first-rate engine for electrical
and heavy duty. Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent
Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are
Sole Agents in Australia.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
flails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables,
Large Stocks always cn Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. U
BOCHUM UNION
very disappointing. There was mighty little ore below
the 1400 ft. level. The lode got short, and instead of
being continuous was cut up in patches. It was better at
1300 ft. than at 1400 ft., in quantity, and better still at
1200 ft. He had made a close study of the ore in the lodes,
and calculated there were 2,750,000 tons in the mine. He
did not think they would find any more—at least, not any
appreciable quantity. The mine had produqed from
500,000 to 600,000 tons of ore yearly, and of late years the
production had been 550,000 tons. As an ore-producing
concern, the mine, if worked at the present rate, would
not have an ounce left in five years. They might work for
three years at the rate of 500,000 tons yearly, and then
diminish gradually. There was not five years’ life at the
full output.” No doubt the object of the co. is to turn
itself as far as possible into a custom-smelting and ore-
dealing concern, and to that end it will conserve its own
ore; for a customs-smelting works without a mine of its
own is pretty certain to be squeezed. In addition it has
the huge accumulations of zinc-bearing tailings stacked
at the surface. That, however, is a new business, and,
though it has vast possibilities, not very much reliance
can be placed upon it yet.
So far, however, as recent profits are concerned,
General Manager Delprat might have made out a much
better case than he tried to. The recent experience of
the Sulphide Corporation shows how very largely profits
have improved since the strain on the local labor-market
eased off, for it then became possible to select the
workers, instead of putting on the first man (and any man)
that came along. The general-manager said that profits
had of late been made entirely out of the smelting of
purchased ore at Port Pirie. But no questions were asked
concerning the systematic enriching of the slimes pro-
duced at the co.’s mill during the past two .years, or
about the stacking of large quantities of those slimes on
the mine during the last six months. The assay value of
the slimes has been steadily increased for two years past,
and particularly during the latter half of 1908. Whether
Mr. Delprat gave Justice Higgins any figures show-
ing the assay value of his slimes during 1903
and 1908 is not known, but it is known that
he was not cross-examined on the subject, as
he should have been. Delprat’s arguments regarding
losses on concentrates were based on diminished units of
lead and ounces of silver, as well as on the fall in metal
prices. But no one apparently thought of looking' for
some of the missing metal in the slimes —the neglected
product which holds many secrets concerning the success
or failure of nearly every mill along the line of lode. It is
understood that the B. H. Prop, is perfecting methods of
treating its slimes, so the stock of high-grade slimes now
on the mine should in a little while carry a far greater
value than Mr. Delprat would perhaps have felt inclined
to admit.
-a; * * *
Broken Hill North for the half-year shows a
profit of £33,861 on working account; but, though only
£14,000 was paid in dividends, the surplus of liquid
assets is only £49,075 as ag'ainst £50,022 when the term
started —the rest of the profit has gone in expenditure
which has been charged to capital account. The most
striking feature is the reduction in costs. For the last
half of 1907 they were put at 21s. per ton of ore; they
now work out at 15s. 4d. Per ton of concentrates the
reduction has been from £6 2s. 7d. to £4 Bs. lOd. In
view of the heavy fall in metal values this and
other cos. are doing as little as possible beyond
the actual breaking of ore and filling of worked-
out stopes; and that, coupled with the greater labor effi-
ciency, makes all the difference. The co.’s ore reserves
are still estimated at 1,000,000 tons, which means that
nominally as much ore has been developed during the
past six months as the co. has rooted out. The quantity
milled was 67,517 tons, so that the reserves are equal to
about seven years’ supplies at the present rate of ex-
traction.
Broken Hill South’s costs have been pulled
down from 21s. 4fd. for the last half-year of 1907 to
14s. 2Jd. for the past half-year. Yet, in spite of that, the
profit per ton of ore has come back from 13s. lOd. to
7s. 4d. The reserves of ore are estimated at 3,500,000 tons ;
on that basis the mine would be worth £1,283,000 ; and
there are 200,000 shares. Anybody who likes can work
out the value of shares from that. But, having worked
the sum out, it will be just as well to inspect the result
from both ends. For one thing, though a mine may be
worked at very low costs for a while, it can’t, as a rule,
be kept going at that rate ; and this is probably a case in
point. It is just as well to remember that the other cos.
have got their knife into the Broken Hill Prop. ; and the
better they can show things to be, the worse for the B.H.
Prop, in its present quarrel. The fact, no doubt, is that
the recent costs have been under normal, just as un-
doubtedly 12 months or two years ago they were far
above normal.
Chairman Kintore, at the annual meeting of the
Sulphide Corporation, Broken Hill: “ For the six months
now current the production, recoveries, and costs are
already practically ascertained ; and if we continue to do
equally good work in the new year, and the metal prices
of 1909 are no worse than those now ruling (Dec. 23), I
think I may safely predict that our next report, after
making all provisions, will show a net profit of not less
than £lOO,OOO, which should enable us once more to place
our ordinary shares on the dividend-paying list.” The
chairman also mentioned that “holdings of 100,000 ordi-
nary shares are directly represented on the Board.” In
all there are 550,000 ordinary shares, which have had no
dividend since 1900. The pref. capital (£550,000) is en-
titled to the first 10 per cent,; and after the ordinaries
get 10 per cent., both lots participate. The ordinary
shares have been written down from £1 to 15s. In the
South and some other cos., where the paid and contribut-
ing shares are of different values, the practice is to pay the
same amount per share —25., eighteenpence, or whatever it
may be. The Sulphide Corporation, however, works on a
percentage basis, so that as to any excess over 10 per
cent., the preference share gets 25 per cent, more than
the ordinaries, representing the difference in the face
value of the scrip.
* * * *
The Smelting and Refining Co.’s works at
Kembla (N.S. W.) are handicapped by the galling delay in
the building of a jetty, which means that the co. has to
do a great deal of lightering that ought to be wholly
unnecessary, and will be by-and-bye when the Works
Department has finished its job. The co.’s works have,
however, got into their stride ; and, besides turning out
electrolytic copper from customers’ blister copper, last
week they produced some refined copper of the co.’s own
smelting.
* * * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) has been sinking on the
leader discovered in the open cut; about 6in. of fair
stone has been showing, and the make is on the mend.
The crosscut at 155 ft. has also got on to a make of stone,
which is thought to be the same as a reef worked in the
lower levels. The thing that would do Mt. David most
good would be the discovery of a new lens of stone in the
long south-eastern drive at No. 3 from the winch winze ;
and as to that, as some gold-bearing leaders have been
cut, conditions are at any rate not hopeless.
■ t • k ' *
Probably because they haven’t been at the game
many years, the Grafton (N.S.W.) copper-mine people
cheerfully make estimates of future dividends. Chair-
man Sam See at the annual meeting figured on an output
of 8400 tons, as against 4885 tons last year; on present prices
they would thus g'et out £42,000 worth of metal a year
at a cost of £25,390. This would give them £ll,OOO a year
in divs., with a bit over for luck ; and they have three
years’ ore in sight at that rate. Apparently this three
years’ supply doesn’t include the 70,852 tons averaging
ill per cent. —only the stuff going 6 per cent, and over.
Beyond the three years’ ore they had “ illimitable
possibilities.” It may have been the talk of the illimitable
possibilities which set a shareholder chortling cheerfully
that “the mine was a very young one yet, and there was
plenty of time to pay dividends.” At the best of times,
with a metal like copper to depend on, it is a risky thing
to count chickens even 12 nionths ahead ; and the man
who goes beyond three years in connection with a copper
deposit and talks of plenty of time for dividends is storing
up disappointment. Nine-tenths of what look like copper
mines are merely surface shows whose dividends are
biggest during the first few years ; and, so far, there is
very little to suggest that the Grafton mine belongs to
the other one-tenth.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has enough in hand to
pay 6s. per share, and the Board seems bent on adding to
this. Last year’s income topped £146,000; and after
taking in the balance brought forward, settling all
accounts, writing off a fair lump for depreciation, and
dividing £lO,OOO (Is. per share), £619 was left to carry
forward. The tonnage developed during the year out-
distanced the quantity treated by 10,000 tons, and the
reserves (actual and “ probable ”) are officially estimated
at about two years’ supplies.
Associated Northern (W.A.) showed a clear
profit of £58,585 on last year’s operations, which, added
to £31,537 brought forward, made a surplus of £93,123 to
be dealt with. Out of this amount £52,500, or 25 per cent,
on capital, was paid in dividends, leaving- £5623 to be
carried forward. After chipping off liabilities the accounts
show a credit balance of £171,769, equal to a shade oyer
9s. 9d. per share. Then there is the value of the mine
and plant to be taken into account. On paper, the stock
is therefore worth looking into at present prices.
* * * *
Westralia and East Extension’s case seems
hopeless. For some years past this Coolgardie co. has
spent more than it has earned, and the balance-sheet
now shows cash and debtors to the amount of £2500,
as against creditors £4BOO, including the year’s interest
on £37,880 of debenture bonds. Since February last
tributors have tried to put the mine to profitable
account, but with little success, and more than likely the
co., or rather the remains of it, will be followed to its
last resting place before long. In the meantime, it is try-
ing to prolong life by getting exemption from working
conditions.
* * ir *
Peak Hill Goldfield, Ltd. (W. A.), recently got
the better of its late chairman, Darlington Simpson, in
the London Court of Appeal. The co. applied for a re-
ceiving order against Simpson, a lower Court having re-
fused to grant it upon the ground that there was a
mutual credit between the parties. The bone of conten-
tion was the balance of certain costs Simpson had been
ordered to pay the co. as a result of litigation extending
over a considerable period. In opposition to the claim
Simpson flourished £1460 worth of second debenture
stock in the co., which he reckoned was a fair set-off
against the debt due by him. The co., however, con-
tended that, as these debentures did not mature until
1910, they could not be considered legal tender in the
meantime ; and the Court agreed with that, and said
Simpson’s contention and that of the lower tribunal was
wrong-. Simpson is best remembered in the West as the
impressive person who gave ex-Gov. Jerry Smith a sump-
tuous banquet at the mine, and had it served on gold
plates roughly fashioned out of the previous three months’
output. It was at about that time that Governor Smith
announced his intention of writing a book on the gold
industry, but it’s a long time coming.
' * * •*
Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), is on a
“bend.” “Good gold,” “rich gold,” and every other
sort of allurement is talked of. If the Ajax boom had
not been such an awful fiasco, the delusion might exist
that another hero had been dragged forth. But Nug-
getty Ajax’s record is: Capital, £17,365; gold won,
£416. And it has been on the reef most of the time. The
present little patch of gold is causing a flutter, for know-
ing ones bought shares that had been dropped because of
the poverty" of the property. There may have been a
good man hidden in Sodom and Gomorrah, after all; and
so there may be payable gold in the Nuggetty Ajax. But
it has to be developed ; and until that has been done —
“ Don’t tread on the grass ” !
* k * *
Sewell, of Ballarat, hurls anathemas at Minister
of Mines Mcßride because he doesn’t feel disposed to pro-
vide Star of the East and South Star with £lO,OOO to help
them to eke out an existence. Bantam talk means
nothing, for the public won’t lose a stiver even should
the workings that have cost £300,000 be filled with water.
If the Star of the East is worth what was inferred in the
directors’ recent report, there should be no appeal to the
State. Here are the sentences—“ The prospects of the
mine, owing to the discovery of the Albion lode beyond
the slide at 830 ft., are more encouraging than for many
years past. The lode has now been proved to be payable
for 180 ft., and there is no reason why it should not be as
long as under the slide, viz.. 350 ft. it is sure to continue
to the alluvial bed, thus giving a large amount of backs.”
* * * *
The Tasmania gold mine, Beaconsfield, sticks
at the blue-duck stage. When Frecheville and John
Taylor and Son, mining engineers, fathered the mine for
London, they believed that once the new pumping plant
was up and the water down, divs. would flow beautifully.
Over £200,000 has gone for plant; and at purchase price
the mine stands for £195,780 in the balance-sheet.
Against these items gold won by the co. has been :
1903-4, £88,209; 1904-5, £130,442 ; 1905-6, £139,146;
1906-7, £129,894; and in 1907-8, £128,646. Therefore
£616,000 worth of gold has been got since the co. took
possession. But nary a dividend has come to cheer J.
Bull and comfort him for the price he gave. Last year’s
work put the profit and loss balance at £18,287 in credit.
But £18,332 has been cut off for depreciation and income-
tax ; so a debit of £44 remains. This is not quite so bad
as in 1906-7, when the debit was £1613. Still, it is a sick
record for a great mine. The cash balance for working
purposes is £35,000. Launceston, by selling, shot
J. Bull with a mine that needed a mint of
money for equipment, and called for big average
gold contents to pay divs. The plant is up, but as the
mine only yields 9dwt. dirt, and costs are about 30s. per
ton, all the dividend essentials have not been forth-
coming. Pumping is on a scale unknown elsewhere in
Australia, and as the ore is refractory, cheap work
becomes impossible. The 1250 ft. level has not panned
out well for gold. Directors try to cheer Bull by express-
ing the belief that gold will return in the next lift. May-
be ; but experience does not bring cheer in respect to
such a surmise. As only 60,000 tons of ore are in sight, a
hustle will have to be got on to open up stone. One
forlorn hope is that payable gold exists east of the fault.
This, too, has to be proved.
■*■*■*■*
A feature of the report of the Mt. Bischoff
(Tas.) is the estimate of 3,000,000 tons of payable tin dirt.
This, at present rate of extraction, means a life of about
16 years. But an estimate of ore reserves based on rather
high prices and exceedingly low average tin contents isn’t
too convincing, because a slump in prices would put
thousands of tons outside the pay limit. Further, even
now costs are very low; mining, hauling, milling and
bagging don’t exceed 2s. 6d. per ton of dirt. It is not
likely that, in case of trouble, much could be cut off that.
Prospecting, development, surveying and management
bring up the total cost of handling a ton of Mt. Bischoff’s
low-grade dirt to 4s. 3d. Why there should be such
energy shown in seeking something new, with 3,000,000
tons of proved reserves, is a puzzle on the surface. As a
matter of fact, though, Mt. Bischoff requires to prospect
strenuously to maintain a yield of tin averaging about
10s. per ton of dirt. Out of 90,872 tons of dirt raised, it
is a bit disappointing to find that no less than 5600 proved
too poor to treat, and this indicates that the big estimate
of 3,000,000 tons probably contains a very big slice of
poverty. The management is, nevertheless, to be con-
gratulated on having pulled the mine even this far out of
the slough which it got into shortly before Lewis, of the
Anchor mine, reported on it.
* * * *
Irvinebank, the centre of the N.Q. tin in-
dustry, is very gloomy. The stream-tin is scarce and
poor, and gets scarcer and poorer every year. The creeks
and gullies have had 25 years’ scratching, and the dirt
treated in the present wet season would have been an
insult to the early men. The Vulcan, so far the most
consistent pipe, Has been looking blue for months, and,
like various other N.Q. mines, is worried further by a
strike over wages. The outside mines are no better. The
Gilmore can find nothing- to replace the rich stuff on
which its little boom Was built. The vaunted Tommy
Burns has only unpayable ore in the bottom, and driving
doesn’t seem to improve the look of things. At
Stannary Hills there is also a strike over wages,
and, bar a little surface work, the mine is idle.
Smith’s Creek has resumed work, and is on the
mend. At the Garnet the Glutton Gully Sluic-
ing Go. (tin) has ceased operations, the tributors
having thrown it up. The Lancelot Co. has been baling ;
with its ancient plant and a wet season ahead it will have
a lovely job dewatering the workings. There is little
doing in copper or silver-lead. Weinert’s (silver-lead) has
shut down. The patchwork plant is a standing joke and
an illustration of how not to do it. Herberton is slumber-
ing still. It has a small ray of hope in the copper shows
at which the Mount Perry Co. has been nibbling. At
Mount Molloy the mine is still unsatisfactory, and the
timber concession is now easily the thick end of the log.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers,
crushed 373 tons for £l499—a decline of more than £1 per
ton on the previous crushing. With some of the stopes
rich and some rather poor, and the mine working at a
disadvantage with regard to haulage, a regular yield is
difficult to maintain. No. 7 main level has carried
formation for nearly 800 ft., but the reef has proved
irregular both as to size and quality, and has been fre-
quently broken up by diorite intrusions. Probably the
hanging wall and other divergent reefs that have taken a
more northerly course will prove just as payable as the
main footwall reef. The reef recently cut in the shaft
and the prospect of the crosscut being started have
between them hardened the market. The East Mexican
continues to get a few inches of mineral stone in the rise
over No. (i, but prospects are not glorious. Bonnie
Dundee crushed 318 tons for £1625, which is better than
the last crushing from the Freeholds; but the Bonnie,
which is a branch of the old Victoria reef, doesn’t seem to
have solid prospects in the bottom level, and ore reserves
are not large.
* * * *
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.),
crushed 394 tons for 408 oz. amalgam. Most interest now
centres in the development of the Inglewood reef, and
rather better prospects have been got in the rise and
north drive. The latter is now through the mullock bar,
and there is a reef 3ft. wide in the face, carrying a little
fine gold. A much more important development on the
Inglewood reef has taken place in the deepest level of
the Scottish Gympie. But just at present the outside
markets won’t look at Gympie.
Geologist Waller quits Mt. Elliott (Q.), and
W. H. Corbould, at present managing-director of Lloyd’s
(N.S. W.), takes his place, at the handy salary of £l5OO a
year. The directors had two good men to choose from in
the last round, Corbould and J. O. Armstrong ; and the
co. that can get'somebody better than J. O. Armstrong
ought to be very well satisfied with itself.
“Melilla” : The Etheridge, or that part of it
at Charleston, is to get a move on. A Melbourne co.
(£lOO,OOO capital) has been formed to take over some of
Candlish’s mines. The Queenslander, Havelock, Nil
Desperandum and others are in it. The reefs are fissures
in granite countrv, and the ore bodies are shoots. The
quartz is mineralised. The Havelock is simply quartz
and iron pyrites with a little galena or copper ; the others
have more galena (a great deal at times) and zinc blende.
There is an antiquated mill, and the winding plants are
of a poor description. The owner gets £30,000 and 10per
cent, of the shares, which leaves £60,000, less expenses,
etc., for mining, exploration, equipment and plant. The
future of this enterprise will be watched with interest.
Metallurgical skill is everything on the Etheridge, and it’s
no place for extravagance either. *
“Ear Back”: I have mined every industrial
metal in Queensland, and I have worked on almost every
field, but I never yet struck a place where the gouger is
so liable to fall in as at Cloncurry. He goes out perhaps
60 or 80 miles, and, after prospecting a while, finds an old
shaft which has tumbled in. He likes the look of things,
and puts in two or three days’ work ; then someone comes
along and tells him he’s on a lease—or, if it isn’t a lease,
it’s occasionally a freehold. On some of the leases it
doesn’t look as if any work had been done for two years.
You go in to inquire, and before you can get any satis-
faction the chances are that you learn that the lease
has just been manned ; evidently the holder has got
the tip from somewhere. I know a lease which has been
held for six years, and not one week’s legitimate work
has been done on it. Even non-payment of rent doesn’t
seem to be a ground for forfeiture ; a small fine is paid,
and the thing is fixed up. Gougers, who want claims to
work on their own or in small parties (for which many of
the shows are alone suited), are getting full up ; and the
Government will be sorry when it doesn’t get the ore-
traffic, etc., which these men would supply.
-**■**
The mostly-Tasmanian crowd which has got
hold of a concession to tin-dredge the Tongkah Harbor,
in Siam or thereabouts, is getting some remarkably
cheerful results. The actual output for January (one
dredge) was 33J tons, which realised £2446; and from
Feb. 1 to Feb. 9 the average scooped up was no less than
1 ton 16cwt. 3qr. a day. Theco. is now getting in a second
dredge; a trial run is expected about the end of this
month. The history of the concern is interesting. Cap-
tain “Teddy ” Miles, after being passed out of Tasmanian
politics, went up the China coast selling jam and things
for the I X L factory. He saw Chinese working the shores of
the harbor in a primitive way, and (the Tas-
manian tin-dredging boom was then on) sent
along to his jam principals some cables bubbling
with enthusiasm. Now there is more connection between
tin and jam than shows on the surface ; and the people
who run jam factories realised it when tin soared up a
while back to £2OO a ton. So the Tasmanian jam people
took the enthusiastic cables seriously, and the IXL
syndicate was formed to get the necessary concessions.
Afterwards, when other jam people came in, and the
bigger co. was formed, the name was changed to the
Tongkah. Miles remained in charge for a while ; but as
he isn’t a tin-dredging expert a change has been made,
and he comes back to Tasmania as some sort of business
manager.
• * * *
Adelaide Register sums up close inquiries by
estimating the S.A. wheat-harvest at an average of 12£
bushels on If million acres, besides what was cut for
hay. This gives a total of 22J million bushels, or lj
million more than the previous best, three years ago.
(Up till November an even bigger .yield was expected.)
The surplus available for export is reckoned at over 18£
millions, worth close on 3J millions sterling.
When Sydney’s crack yacht Thelma was
sailed round to Melbourne in pursuit of tbe
Sayonara Cup, she was skippered by Captain
Alfred Feast, one of the best-known weather-
stained mariners trading out of Port Jackson.
He delivered his little charge in safety and re-
turned to Sydney. Then he took command of
the 200-ton schooner Maroro, and when taking
her over to Maoriland was washed overboard and
was not seen again.
Died at Adelaide a few days ago, Henry
Field, who was mixed up with the very begin-
nings of S. Australia. His brother was Captain
Field, who commanded the cockle-shell Rapid,
which brought out Colonel Light. The first
Governor, Hindmarsh, was appointed in Febru-
ary, 1836 ; but it wasn’t till December 28 of that
year that the Buffalo landed him at Glenelg,
where he read the Proclamation. The Rapid and
Cygnet were sent out in advance ; the Rapid’s
chief passenger was Light, whose job it was to
find a site for a capital. He tried Kangaroo
Island first; but it didn’t suit. Field stayed in
the new province, where brother Henry joined
him ; and they went squatting together. For
yeiirs they did good pioneering work, and their
banker was very respectful ; but things took a
turn, and drought in far-west Queensland left
Henry Field badly damaged financially. He kept
going, however, till he was 92.
The deciding contest for the Sayonara Cup
was enlivened by the motor Queen, one of the
lamentable arks that at odd times earn threepence
by taking travellers from Williamstown to Port
Melbourne, across the soup tureen. The Queen
was off that duty for the day, and was guaranteed
to be on her best behavior, so several of Mel-
bourne’s naicest were deluded into following the
race on the “ fast and reliable motor-boat, Queen.”
Her Majesty, having a fair start, kept within
sight of the yachts for five or six miles,
then commenced to fall behind. The Ad-
miral yelled to the Chief Engineer, and
desired him to “make her shift.” But the
machine, having got her passengers out in
the middle of tbe bay, where the wind was
strong, the seas high, and the sharks hungry,
went on strike, and merely rolled like a half-empty
beer barrel. The yachts and other boats were
busy travelling away home, and the Queen looked
a lone, lost tub with a cargo of despairing miser-
ables, till the Dorothy happened along. That lady
hitched a rope on ; but the cord snapped, and the
ancient Argo drifted around loose once more. By
this time the sharks were so eager that they
threatened to step aboard, so the Lion turned
back and towed the relic to land.


CHERRY
BRANDY
V
By Special Appointment
Purveyor to the King.
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “SILVASHEEN ” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR lT.~m
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
On the top.of every package
of Robur tea, just beneath the
number which indicates the
grade, you will see a date —
we put it there to show when
the tea was packed —because,
the fresher tea is, the
better it always is—and the
date being there enables our
customers to see whether they
are being supplied with freshly
packed Robur or not—a couple
of months doesn’t make much
difference ; but to lie on
a grocer’s shelf for a long time
isn’t good for any tea.
Our No. 1 Grade is
beautiful tea you should
try it!
VERY OLD COGNAC.
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 16, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
Governor Rawson and Aide Wilson are making
the grand tour of Walgett. Why Walgett it’s
hard to say. Possibly in the goodness of his heart
the old mariner wants before he goes away to
settle the ancient wager as to whether a man can
throw a stone across the river at the red-clay
township.
The people who love to shake a Governor’s
paw, and who spend weary days wailing woefully
on the outer fringe of the charmed upper suckles,
will have their chance at last. The Rawsons’
departing fling will be a reception without invita-
tion, open to everybody. Weary Willie and Dog-
tired Dave are free to drag their languid selves to
the “precincts,” and battle at the pineapple-soda
buffet with Mrs. Pursepull, of Potts Point.
The fund for the Rawson-daughter farewell
grows, and there is almost as much worry about
choosing the Best Thing as there is over picking
an Australian XI. of flannelled oafs. A diamond
necklace is suggested. Diamonds always come in
handy, of course, if you can’t find your kimono ;
but they scarcely seem the best present for the
demure Rawson maiden, who looks, day and
night, as if her dress were thrown at her from a
distance, and as if ornamentation were a weary
concession to a tiresome, world.
The old controversy that always rages when an
address has to be signed by a band of Australian
society females is already revived in connection
with the Miss Rawson farewell movement. The
subscribers can’t decide whether they will sign
their Christian and surnames like mere men, or
add the affixes which indicate their positions in
the matrimonial mart. An elderly lady of my
acquaintance, whose avoirdupois-tally approxi-
mates to the average weighing-machine’s
allotted span of stones, put her position to
me thus: “I have always been known in the
press and elsewhere as Mrs. Henry Sammel
Bloggs. Now my Christian name happens to be
Birdie. Gan I sign an address to a young woman
who has done me no harm, and whom, in fact, I
like and respect, with the words ‘Birdie Bloggs ’?”
I agreed at once that she couldn’t. A painful
thing in connection with the names of our noblest
eitizenesses is that they are the same almost in-
variably as the names of other eitizenesses who
have no claims to nobility whatever. We have no
Plantagenets, deCourcys, and the like, as the Cold
Land has. This gives to the locally-manufactured
address a commonplace appearance that is gall-
ing to her who loves what Mr, Gribble has
termed “the pageantry of life.” And so one
mostly finds that wherever a female knight
is faced with the job of signing an address
she doesn’t inscribe “Jane Brown” (as who
should write “Alice Northcote”), but “Lady
Brown.” The testimonial, or certificate of cha-
racter, or whatever it was that Sydney’s nicest
pinned to the last Governor-Generaless, had quite
a splendiferous appearance, owing to the fact
that nearly all the she-krtights wrote their titles
in full, bold characters; and a goodly number
supplied their Christian names as well. The
effect of the latter procedure was to produce an
effect as though Sydney were teeming with the
daughters of hitherto unheard-of Dukes, Mar-
quises, and Earls. Which was interesting even
if it wasn’t correct.
To be It at the moment, wear a newruched veil.
Tie the mosquito netting round your dinner-plate
h.at, and gather the unnecessary yards into a Toby
ruffle at 3 7 our neck. The up-to-date milliner makes
one for your new lid while you wait. Then she
does the waiting, which seems a fair division of
weariness. The ultra-smart go about with purple
speckled over their faces, like a mild attack of
smallpox or scarlatina. Cerise spots on a grey net
ground give a wholesome appearance to a fashion-
ably pallid countenance.
While I’m on fashion notes, you might as well
have the benefit of my inside information. A
Sydney girl has just returned from a gaudy gad,
and her clo’ left me limp with envy. I faded
from her garment-bespread room like a wraith
at a Bailey seance. Life holds no solace for a
clothes-hungry woman gazing on another’s glut.
Since linings and—hum—petticoats are taboo,
and Clingsomeness is the keynote, the new silks are
100-ply crepes. They droop in one slender sheath
from a high waist, and have, microscopic puff
sleeves, exactly like baby’s christening robe, and
are scrambled in thickly-worked embroidery. The
whole adorable thing will scrunch up into two
hands (No. 6) and not crumple.
Under the narrow skirt you must clothe your
nether limbs in a species of Turkish divided skirts,
but not so baggy. The bagginess is fixed by
hundreds of perpendicular frills (by all the vagaries
of Fashion !), and thus the new “narrow ” skirt is
made more circumspect than the departing
“ sheath.”
The lining-less vogue makes for materials of bid-
time quality, thick and serviceable. The linens
are like polite potato bags. They are tight from
below the arms to the ankles, with a baby coat
over that. The skirts tear at the foot every two
minutes from tightness ; but that’s swagger.
Ruffs at the neck are developing like a collie
dog’s mane or an Elizabethan collar. In the
swagger outfit over which 1 broke the preposter-
ous anti-coveting Commandment, the small tulle
frill round the neck was wired out an inch or so.
Just a beginning for the ivory pegs and stocks
and ruff of Elizabeth and Jane.
Finally, if you tip a lid with an albatross’ wing
down on your nose, with one baleful eye of the
bird peering into your neighbor’s transgressions,
you’re there —absolutely and quite there !
Captain Clive Dangar, the soldier-man who
recently returned from India to the ancestral
sheep-run, is to be married next March. The
damsel of his choice is Miss Norah Dangar, one
of Sydney’s fairest maidens. The pair are cousins,
Captain Clive being art Abbey and the lady an
H. C. Dangar.
An international wedding last week was that Of
Miss Jean a’Beckett, of Ashfield, to Lieutenant
Reck, of the German army. The parties met in
Germany, when the a’Becketts were travelling
there a year ago. The ceremony took place in a
tent at “Surbiton,” Mr. Marsham a’Beckett’s
house at Ashfield. Church of England Chaplain
Rose called down many blessings in a tenor
voice, while he held up two fingers as
if conducting the blessings from Heaven by
means of a lightning conductor. Judge Rogers
later on made a charming speech; and
the bride cut the cake with the martial sword;
and other men made other speeches ; and there
were ever so many well-known people present.
The a’Becketts are descended, if not exactly from
the Saint of that name, at any rate from some
member of his family. The grandfather of the
bride was the late Dr. a’Beckett, one of the best
known of Sydney medicoes away back 30 years
ago, and brother of Justice a’Beckett, of Victoria.
Dr. a’Beckett was with De Lacy Evans’
Spanish legion out against the Carlists, A cousin,
Arthur a’Beckett, was sub-editor of London
Punch, and wrote plays. Grandma of bride was
an Eiwvn, sister of the Elwyn who edited the
Quarterly Review for many years. The bride’s
own particular father is the well-known Sydney
solicitor, who is not uninterested in wool as well
as horsehair; and the German pa of the hand-
some young officer is said to be rolling in wealth
—a rich banker, to wit.
Miss Marie Steber was married at St. Clement’s
Church, Mosman, on Wednesday, the 10th, to
Mr. Charles Cope. The bridegroom is a step-
brother to Mrs. Curlewis (authoress Ethel
Turner); and small Jean Curlewis, one of Ethel
Turner’s little Australians, carried the Duchess
satin train for the bride, whose whiteness was
flanked by two pale-mauve maidens. The brides-
maids, Miss Steber and her sister, who are really
pink and white, were veiled in mauve-colored
tulle, and were lavender-mauve clothed even to the
toes of their slippers. The post-knotting recep-
tion was at “ Avenel,” Mosman, and hostess
Mrs. Ethel-Turner Curlewis, in blue satin,
helped the bride to shake the 250 guest-power
hand before the cake-cutting.
Australians do wander, there’s not a doubt.
Every society dame and demoiselle, as often as
she can collect a sheepskin of gold, departs for
the Land of Shops. Londoners, who escape the
dowdiness of Anglo-frocking, feel virtuous because
they “run over to Paris ” for a week’s garment-
hunting. It’s getting practically as usual for the
smart Australian to gather her gowns and make
a run of some unnecessary thousands of miles in
the getting. Australians think in such vast spaces
and long distances that all this gadding seems no
great marvel to them. One of the returned shoppers
is Mrs. James Burdekin—Mrs. Alison’s daughter.
Since the return, mother and daughter haunt the
block and the cafes in affectionate couple—which
is death to the scandalmongers, who but lately
whispered unknowingly of a deadly feud in the
clan.
The Mooltan took another batch of Sydneyites
London wards on Saturday. Amongst them were
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, K.C., Mr. Gordon Wesche,
and the Austin Chapmans. The K.C. is an
inveterate P. and O. frequenter. He has a
married daughter—Mrs. Jay—in the Cold Land,
which accounts for his repeated trips. The
male half of the Austin Chapman family is in
search of his mislaid health.
Also by the Mooltan there departed Mr. S. R.
Beresford. He is a brother of the present Lord
Decies, and a kinsman of Lord Charles Beresford
and others of that ilk with whom Australia is
familiar. This scion of the race lay low, socially,
during the short time he was in these parts. I am
told that, as a pigeon-shot, boxer, card-player and
the like, he is capable of giving any normal male
in these parts half the length of George-street and
a sound beating.
Miss Edo Macdonald approaches her own har-
bor shores from Naples. The landed lady has
been wandering for a year in distant parts, and
returns to marry one Dennis, a man who deals in
wine and other cheerful things in the place that
England calls the East. Dennis takes his bride
to (Shanghai. Miss Macdonald set out on her
travels in duet with Miss Kate Reidy, of Tas-
mania. Miss Reidy gave up the gad some months
ago, and married a Moree squatter; now the
independent Miss Macdonald rushes back to the
snare.
“The Scarlet Pimpernel” drew its senti-
mental crowd to the Theatre Royal on Saturday
night, when the Prettiest Girl in best bib and
tucker brought all her enthusiasm and also a
bored but obedient male escort to watch the
fascinatingly-garbed play and stew in the summer
heat. Miss Beatrice Day turned out as a hand-
some Lady Blakeney, but killed the frivolous
lightness of the lines with her sad and tragic
voice. Something intense with a dagger in it is
better meat for that lady —or delicate character
work, as her Susan in “Quality-street,” the
whimsical Barrie play. Nevertheless, Julius is
the only necessary leading-lady in “Pimpernel.”
His dress, his airs, his color sense and delicate
posing fill the feminine bill full-measure.
A superb Julius boards a local ferry-boat morn-
ing and evening in full limelight. His entrance
and his exit are faultless to the adoring eyes of
the local girl. His morning dress gets as near
feminine attire as is possible, considering the dis-
advantage of modern tubular nether gear. A grey
coat, with the skirt flaring from a carefully marked
waist, veils a smoke-grey shirt and a lavender silk
tie. Two gorgeous turquoise and diamond rings
blaze upon one little finger, and the beauty-man
mutters his “lines” from a purple-covered
prompt-book. He walks the gang-plank with the
far-away, blank gaze of a man doomed to be
electrocuted, and without a trace of the fag of
two hours’ careful toilet-study, wherein he has
absorbed the color-scheme of the opalescence of
the harbor in the last evening’s moonlight.
Mourning cards received from Signorina Antoi-
nette Bettini (our adorable Dolores) and her
companion, MademoiselleZelie Vandour, announce
the death of Fernando Alonzo Enriquez Vert,, at a
nursing home in London, . Vert was Dolores
manager , when she first visited Australia. He
was brother to the late Nathaniel Vert, a well-
known musical agent in London.
Marich, of Paling’s, that particularly genial
presiding genius, possesses a daughter with all the
cheerful qualities of a Parisienneand an Australian.
The miss is developing a Voice; and along with that
a healthy lust for stage work— which last develop-
ment Papa Marich is strenuously nipping m the
bud. Even amateur shows are taboo, and the lady
weeps for the glamor of the limelight to unrespon-
sive stars.
All the week the Mosman boat has been swarm-
ing with local girl, filled with importance, laden
with dressbasket, and clogged with the glaring
“make up ” of the amateur mummer. Ihe Mos-
man Musicales broke into opera, and per-
petrated “ Martha,” that tuneful Flotow flum-
mery, at the Palace Theatre. The performance
was decidedly good—far above the mediocre
putty-grey of the usual amateur strutting.
They had a real live actor as the patent-leathered
hero. This was Arthur Crane, who has often
warbled in the assured limelight of a J. C.
Williamson company. Mrs. Camille Cornwall,
with a florid and joyous soprano piping, shared
the star notches with Miss Lena McLaehlan, the
“ sassy ” soubrette Nancy. There was a
stage full of “ ladies,” maids
and peasants in spic and span “ props.”
The full-blast chorus totalled 70, and the
stodginess of the ballet dancing was re-
venged somewhat by the excellence of the sing-
ing. An orchestra—also Mosman Musicales—
under Conductor Norman, did not remind anyone
that it was not professional. Every night the
Palace was swamped with suburban society, and
the musical section feels that it has honored itself
in its own country.
Save an afternoon, and, above all, a florin, for a
kiddies’ concert to be held at St. James’ Hall, in
Phillip-street, on the 20th, in aid of the “Young
Australia” cot at the Alexandra Hospital for
Children. The Dudley lady and the Rawson
Excellencette have given their joint blessing to
the interesting affair ; and if Miss Hilda Dailey,
the organiser, can’t coin golden sovereigns out of
all these attractions, then something is wrong
with Sydney. The polite young men at Paling’s
will mark you off a seat.
A girl who is shortly going to let Sydney taste
the honey in her voice has, at any rate, a family
record to add interest to her first appearance.
She is a grand-daughter of that James Lionel
Michael who was among the earliest of Australian
verse-writers—he died away back in 1868. The
Ruby Michael of to-day will sing at least one of
grand-dad’s “ Songs Without Music,” written in
Australia something like 60 years ago. Father
Michael is in the Torres Straits pilot service,
which consists of men whose hands are as full
of responsibility as anybody’s in Australia. It
was he who was in charge of that great shipload
of 1150 Indian coolies, male and female, which
arrived the other day at Fiji, and gave rise to the
story that Fuzzy Wuzzy was going to insurreet
soon on the sugary island, as this cargo contained,
it was said, quite a crop of revolutionists.
“The Duchess of Dantzic’ is happy over her
steaming hot suds in spite of stewing weather ;
and Her Majesty’s isstiila theatre of packed houses.
Betty Ohls is spending a petted convalescence
after the trials of an “itis,” and understudy
Connie Milne has been making excellent hay in
her sunshine. Now Fan Dango rushes over from
Melbourne to dance the ingenue part, and Alma
Barber pouts through her deserted Jill’s shoes
in pantomime.
I hear that it is not Sydney’s beauteous Miss
Irene Marks who is to open a hat shop in the
Worst-End of London, but a Yankee charmer of
the same name. The newcomer is to run her
show under the patronage and with the help of
Lady Auckland, who is something of a power in
the business and social world of London. The
Australian Miss Marks possesses the cash, taste
and other requisites to shine as a hat-shop lady ;
only she lacks the inclination.
Surf bathers get plenty of excitement when
dirty weather happens “outside.” In one day
this week 33 helpless creatures were hauled out
from the sucking grasp of the greedy undertow at
Manly. One was drowned—but that was at
Freshwater, a few hundred yards further along—
the others had to go through the horrors of being
brought back to life after an unconscious lapse of
“ apparently drowned.” The life-saving crew at
Manly is rarely hard-up for work, but the record
is growing.
From away up in Queensland trickles down the
note of “ A Visitor ” telling me something more
about that rescue from the breakers, At Bondi
mentioned in a recent letter. Miss L. Anderson,
the bold rescuer, had herself to be after wards
rescued, you may remember. In being rescued,
as well as in rescuing, the lady dazzled my way-
up correspondent. “ She simply floated, and let
the rescuer put in good work. The little fellow
doggedly stuck to her in the heavy sea, and, work-
ing her diagonally across the 'current, got her
comparatively safe. Then the life-savers arrived
and did the rest. The ugly part of the business
followed. The rescuer modestly came ashore, and
said nothing; but a less-modest life-line man turned
on the limelight and spoke so effectively that the
hat was passed round, and £2 or so was col-
lected.” It isn’t pleasant; but the slaves of the
surf mostly let such things pass. “If,” one tells
the other, “the life-line men do now and then get
more praise and pence than they deserve—well, it
may encourage them to be on hand when nobody
else is there to share either the danger or the
limelight.”
A friend of mine who revolves in the giddy
whirl of ’lgh Life tells me how she lost a dinner.
She and hubby were invited—a big, most swagger
affair. She was just having her diamond tar-ra-ra
fixed, and the last hair-trimmings glued on by the
electric-and-vacuum dodge, when the telephone
shrieked furiously. The message was from the
distracted hostess—“ Please don’t come. Cook’s
just had a baby. Sudden ; not expected so soon ! ”
And the to-be-dined sat down heavily and gazed
at one another. “Not expected so soon! Good
heavens ! who expected it at all ? ”
Hal Waugh’s combined caravanserai and art
school, mentioned from Melbourne last week, isn’t
going to lure Norman Carter from Sydney, where
he has much solid portrait-painting work to do.
Probably the Carter who has undertaken to give
a helping hand and brush to Waugh’s cheerful
scheme is Tom, the other Carter, who won’t have
to buy a ticket from Sydney to Melbourne to do
it, being on the Yarraside already.
The fiend and destroyer who goes up and down
seeking some new thing whereon to paste his adver-
tisement never rests. He has grabbed even the
flower-vendors’ umbrellas—the quaint awnings
spread overtheperfumed wares of those picturesque
old parties who squat ’longside the Sydney Post
Office with quarter of an acre of glorious color and
fragrance in the capacious shade. Half the poetry
is gone from that scented sidewalk now that
Somebody’s Dry Gin or Soulful Soap wanders
round the covers.
They have just concluded another “Beauty
Show ” for men in England. These public ex-
posures of male loveliness recur at short intervals
in the native land of the cold, strong Briton, and
good entries can always be depended on. The
most recent display of trousered beauties was at
Brighton. For the apple, or brick, or whatever
was tossed to (or at) the most alluring entrant,
Senegambian niggers, Babus and Chinese strug-
gled with delicious young Caucasian floor-walkers
and perfectly ravishing barbers, stage heroes and
the like. This particular show was promoted
with the object of discovering the most beautiful
whiskers in Bull-land. The first prize went to
one O’Connor. His Christian name the London
newspaper does not disclose; but there seems
every reason to believe it is Australia’s only
Daniel. This much, at any rate, is sure : if Daniel
Demosthenes entered and won no prize, the Cold
Land’s boasted fair play is even a-deader thing
than the disqualified Yankee athletes say it is.
Apropos the big divorce suit which Reuter says
is convulsing the United Kingdom, it is worth
noting that j ust now the cult of sentimentality is
going great guns in London society—the society
that was once described as the coldest and most
blase in Europe. What are known as “ seances de
lectures d’amour ” are the fashion in those circles
where fashions are made. The most-rushed
lecturer is a well-known Parisian, Madame de
Perrot. She tells in inimitable fashion the
pathetic love-stories of Heloise and Abelard, of
Madame de Stael, of Benjamin Constant, of
Chateaubriand, and Madame Recamier, of Marie
Louise and Neipperg. And the society maidens
and their mammas flutter in and are much edified.
The French press sees something ominous in the
tendency. In fact, the current Cri de Paris
has this comment to make on it
Aux lectures d’amour ne tarderont pas it succCder les
cours d’amour ; et voilii comme la pudique Albion res-
suscite le Moyen-Age galant.
Which, since dictionaries are cheap, I shall leave
you (if you have so soon forgotten your French)
to worry out for yourself.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS
LTD
VICE-REGAL •JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS ■ SILVERSMITHS
WRISTLET WATCHES.
HIGHEST QUALITY.
WARRANTED PERFECT TIMEKEEPERS.
Convenient for Travelling and Every-day Wear.
§gi
HBK
*
Leather Wristlet Watch, with High-Grade Swiss Movement,
18ct. Gold = £lO, in Case.
Silver - - £4 15s.
Gunmetal ■= = £3 ss.
GOODS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
Five per cent. Discount allowed on all Cash Transactions.
Large Illustrated Catalogue sent Post Free on Application.
I3HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON ADDRESS 19-CHARTER-HOUSE-STREET
KENSINGTON
m
The flodel Suburb, situated but twenty minutes from
the G.P.0., on a twopenny tram section.
Portion of a street in Kensington where building land is for sale at 50 /- foot.
There is no land on the market to-day in a similar position, so close
to the city, or so beautifully situated, as is Kensington. The
streets there are broad, well made, and ballasted. Footpaths
asphalted, kerbed and guttered. Gas and water there, and
sewerage on the way. A three hundred pound building restriction
prevents the erection of anything undesirable, and keeps the
neighborhood a most select one.
PRICE 501- FOOT,
Terms: £2 down, £1 Month.
Plans and Free Illustrated Booklets of Kensington from
Realty Specialists and Managing Agents for Kensington—
ARTHUR RICKARD & GO. LTD.,
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STECK PIANOLA PIANO.
THE MOST WELCOME
GIFT OF ALL.
STECK
Pianola Piano
m
6-
1
NO more acceptable gift—no gift offering greater possibilities for enjoyment can be
imagined than this most popular of all pianos.
Its elegance of appearance, the beauty of its richly finished case, pleases the eye,
and adds richness and dignity to all of its surroundings. The fulness and exquisite
quality of the STEOK has made this piano one of the world’s greatest favorites.
But, best of all, the presence INSIDE ITS CASE of the most famous of all piano-
players, the Metrostyle and Themodist Pianola, gives assurance of endless hours of keenest
enjoyment, and places within the reach of all one of the greatest of life’s pleasures, that of
PERSONALLY PRODUCING MUSIC.
The Pianola Piano can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
THERE is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the method from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in the front of
the case, and insert a perforated roll of music.
There is no outward indication which catches the eye to distinguish the Pianola Piano
from the heretofore type of Pianoforte.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested in hearing the
Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention of purchase.
If unable to call, you should write for a catalogue. Simply write and ask for Catalogue C.
You will get one at once, post paid.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
357 George Street, SYDNEY
(Next David Jones).
Also at BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.


V
RECOGNISED the world over for their ex-
quisite quality, Carlson Currier Silks
may be bought from the leading Drapery Houses
in the Commonwealth. Every color gradation
may be obtained from the palest to the deepest
tints. Send to us for a beautifully illustrated
book —FREE—mentioning the name of your
Draper when writing.
THE CARLSON CURRIER CO. (of San Francisco),
The Block. Collins Street. Melbourne. [l.
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
I
£
Distinctive
“ Directoire ” styles in
ROYAL
CORSETS.
Just ask to see them. See th&t your
Autumn and Winter Costume is fitted
over a ROYAL “P.D.” CORSET-the
Corset of Quality—yet it costs no more
than other makes. Made of fabric that
is chosen with care and discrimination—
so strong and subtle—so woven that
you cannot tear it. Every model is so
exquisitely moulded by celebrated
French Corsetierres that they impart
the new “Directoire” Figure, with
its charmingly graceful lines, flowing
hipless effect, ensuring the wearer
perfect freedom and comfort. There
are shapes for every conceivable type
of figure—from the slightest to the
stoutest. Those for the stout figure
reduce the abdomen, firmly, vet
gradually and gently. “ P. D.” CORSETS
are lighter yet stronger, and will
outlast any other make. See that
Trade Mark is on every pair—none
genuine without it—it is our guarantee
of thorough satisfaction and service.
Insist on
Royal “ P.D.” Corsets.
All Drapers and Storekeepers.
TRADE
V.T
M/
MARK.
i-sJ
1571
(ywifw
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as g*>ing hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres—and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 15, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The opening of the State Parliament on Tues-
day had the usual military and ceremonial trim-
mings. There was the Hanthem, also “ Mr.
President, the Governor approaches the House,”
and an exhibition in deportment by Usher McCall,
while Clerk Jenkins sat wigged beneath President
Wrixon, stroking his unvenerable beard. His Ex.’s
approach was heralded by Commander Tickell
(whose name always appeals to women, somehow).
Colonel Stanley, various aides, Private Secretary
Victor Hood, and Surgeon “ Plevna ” Ryan.
Among the female forms, divine and otherwise,
on the red pile seats of the Council Chamber, the
one figure that stood out for up-to-date frocking
was Mrs. Ryan, who brought along her clever
girleen May. She was empired from start to
finish. Her dress was of white ninon and her top
covering of burnt straw, with black follow-me-
lads which continued far below the belt. In the
bulk, however, the show was dowdy enough. The
Smart Crowd was still absent, divided between pad-
dling in French shockers at Portsea or The Cliff
and climbing the Macedon heights. The death of
her father kept Governess Carmichael away.
Speaker Frank Madden and his formidable
spouse gave a tea to some hundreds after the
pompous circumstance of the opening was over ;
but among the gatherers for refreshment there
was nobody more remarkable than the ex-mayoral
Weedons. Mrs. Weedon, by the way, has in-
creased considerably in avoirdupois, and has culti-
vated the golden rule of silence.
“Society” is now returning from the Sea in drifts,
and sits in its old place at the pantomime, showing
much sunburn just at the line the bathing gown
makes at the neck, and where the sleeves stop
(it doesn’t take much to stop them, though, they
such mites); while others sport varied brands
of lace work where the transparencies were wont
to be. “Toilet parlors” are besieged at this
by furious half-castes for the saving
massage-rollers and the steam bath. Pantomime
season is inextricably attached to the half-baked
hunjan—with an occasional grill for variety.
The A.N.A. Show is still hanging on grimly.
An epidemic of small boy has broken out at the
place. They get under your feet at every turn.
The’ yell, they jabber, and they “nick” every
“nii kable” thing, and eat peanuts all the time.
The band manages to drown the clamor some-
times ; but, in the end, it beats the band. It is
the most energetic thing in the show.
Governor Carmichael, with the untiring and
victorious Hood, likewise Captain Boyle, spent
three hours there t’other day. His Ex. is prac-
tical to the tips of his patent leathers, and had .an
apparently hilarious time poking round and pick-
ing up any points that the boys hadn’t got away
with.
Two interesting photos, are shown at the
A.N.A. Exhibition. One is that of an A 2
express engine, the latest’ Melbourne-Sydne\’
flyer ; the other pictures the first Australian loco-
motive, which went into service on September 12,
1854. The one weighs 109 tons ; the other 13 tons.
And both were made in Australia. Of the old
Hobson’s Bay Co.’s locomotive it was said at the
time that it was the first constructed, not merely
in Australia, but in the Southern Hemisphere.
The Argus joyfully mentioned that “it was com-
pleted in ten weeks.” The first train, according
to the same 55-year-old paper, “started at 20
minutes past 12 o’clock, amid the music of the
band and the cheering and waving of hats of in-
numerable spectators. Its progress was at an
exceedingly slow rate'until after the Yarra bridge
wks passed, when it proceeded on to Sandridge at
tie rate of 15 miles an hour.”
Mrs. Syme, wife of Geoffrey Syme, of the Age,
gave a luncheon at her new home at Kew on
Friday ; the flapper sister recently imported from
Home was having a birthday. The hostess (a
dainty little woman) sparkled in a directoire dress
of soft ninon de soie embroidery in the Greek key
pattern. So few women know both how to dress
and how to talk. But the angels never have to
weep for Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, who’s pretty to walk
with and witty to talk with.
All the Waybacks are busy manufacturing
wonderful and awful evening dresses for the
middle of March, when Melba begins to warble
wherever she can find a bark hut large enough to
hold the natives. Her “beloved Lilydale” is, of
course, to be included in the tour, and already
none of its old hats will fit it.
< Our very sweetest Nell is on her way back.
She will strike us about the middle of March
(same time as Melba and the equinoctial gales).
The Asturias brings Nellie, who, Report gossips,
looks a fledgling still, and ready to burst before
the world as Sweet Kitty Bellairs. Her daughter
looks over mother’s dimpled shoulder easily now,
and Nellie hasn’t shrunk any. The old combina-
tion of Williamson and Musgroveis to “ manage ”
the favorite.
The sea is taking heavy toll this w ;r. We
hadn’t lifted our eyes from the frowning black
headlines which gave the news of the wreck of
the Penguin, on a popular Maori!mid holklay-run,
before the newsboys cried a wreck on .. ;r own
coast. But while the sharp teeth o; the Maori-
land rocks snapped out 70 lives, a!' who were on
board the Lady Mildred, the victim of . : own
disaster, fought safely ashore somewh ie near
Wilson’s Promontory. Only seven weeks of 1909
have passed ; yet one count gives the year’s loss of
life on Australasian coasts as 178.
A masculine clique, which often scintillates in
a down-stairs box at the Royal, and whose “star”
humorist is a Gippsland squatter with horse-
owning proclivities, submitted a sample of its over-
ripe humor last week. After Miss Meredro’s
“ Hello, Little Boy,” song, a parcel was handed up
Vf rom the crowd. On investigation, it proved to be a
crayfish, whose odor matched the vividness of its
decorations. The lady thoughtfully passed it on
to her nimble little colleague, the one who walks
either on his head or his feet, and he in turn
handed the clawful thing over to the limelight
men. Now the limelight men use horrible
language at the mere mention of shellfish.
Talking of a stage lady who plays a leading
part in tights, it seems that she and another dim-
pled she-member of the co. have introduced the
charm of novelty into supper parties. They give
every night a different national character to the
menu, and dress the table and clothe themselves
in accordance with the bill of fare. A French
night, for instance, abounds in Parisian gaiety
and fittings; a Spanish night finds the hostesses
attired d la Carmen, trapping a garlic-laden
atmosphere with their fans; when the menu is
Japanese, or something like it, they toddle about
in kimonas and shoelets to match, and everything
in the garden (or rather the room) is yum-yum.
The “boys” never know what they are going to
strike next at this little theatre of varieties.
Something new is brewing in the most exclu-
sive divorce circles. The lady, thrice married
and twice divorced, plays havoc with the peace
and content of No. 3. who resorts to the Court
with an appeal for freedom, and points a finger at
No. 1. No one knows who is who so far, but the
lady must be interesting, not to say a little alarm-
ing, ir. her methods of getting the best out of life.
Yet, after all, she seemingly comes to the conclu-
sion that the first love was the best love.
A well-known Charmer is at present upsetting
the peace of mind of Block Johnnydom by wear-
ing her hair (a lovely brown just now) half on and
half off. The “ off ” part hangs in little curls on
to her shoulder ; the rest, a bundle of little brown
“ sausages,” is tied on with ribbon to match her
stockings. And the stockings vary daily from
emerald green and Royal blue to magenta and
unripe tomato.
A daring band of amateurs has recklessly
broken away from the strenuous Mrs. Freeman
Nott’s dominion, and is busily rehearsing
“Sweet Lavender,” for presentation early next
month at the Princess’s. The show is being
managed by the indefatigable Claude Hall, with
a couple of soulful youths of the mellifluous name
of Honey as his “next friends.” The female
end of the stick is being sustained by graceful
Mrs. Maurice Dudley, most accomplished of
amateur actresses, and her girleen friend, Florrie
Matthews. The Women’s Hospital is the com-
pany’s excuse for the outburst —an excuse which
can cover a multitude of artistic sins, and which
in this case is not likely to have a multitude to
cover.
Maggie Robertson, who won the Derby with
Alawa, and is now going to wear the blue ribbon
of a married life, is said to be going to call her
intended Buchanan by his second baptismal name
of Adam (George Adam it is) in honor of the
original first man. The bride-elect will run a
special to the Robertsons’ station home, Mt.
Mitchell, near Ballarat, on the 26th, when the
knot-tying is to take place.
Next month Barrister Champion will wave the
farewell hanky to his handsome wife, who goes
for a space to join the numerous throng of Aus-
traliana at the Big Fog. Mrs. Champion looks a
woman born out of her century ; one can imagine
an ardent Antony sitting at her feet, puzzling out
the mystery of her dark, inscrutable eyes. The
lady’s principal idea is to see her famous brother,
Albert Whelan, who recklessly signs contracts
binding him to be on the earth and perform on
the 13th of February, 1926, or thereabouts. Talk-
ing of the lady’s famous brothers, if Albert
Whelan is one of them, lawyer Lou Waxman
must be another; and lawyer Lou, as all the
world of Melbourne knows, achieved immortality
last week by winifing the local championship in
bowls.
Distracted shipping authorities will soon have
to issue a decree, setting forth that all young
travelling things must have either a mother or a
maiden aunt among their luggage. There has
been such an outbreak of runaways lately, the
most startling being the elopement of a 13-year-
old girl with a boy of 17. Love’s very young
dream was rudely broken by the prosaic police-
man at Sydney, whither the baby doves had
journeyed in the Runic. The girl was returned
to her mother in Melbourne, while the lad, who is
an English immigrant, strides forth into the Un-
known to work for Her and “ grow up.” It has
the makings of a fine “ To-be-continued-in-our-
next ” romance.
The Ortona is to land quite a lot of “returns”
next week, the pompous John Grices among the
number.
Miss Raincar, the head bonnet-builder at
Robertson and Moffat’s, is off to Bond-street by
the Mooltan on Tuesday. She goes to visit
mother and get “pretties” for her approaching
marriage with Mr. Gunn, the private secretary
to the Fairbairns of the sheepy-wealth. “ Mari-
timo,” the swell “guest-house” which covers her
head at night, decorated its ballroom with pink
roses on Friday, and gave her a party. At least,
Bill Adams (he of the Zingari Orchestra, not of
Waterloo) gave the party ; and he and the other
Zingaris beat tunes on the tom-tom and other
instruments, and also made speeches.
A wedding of some interest happened last
week at St. Kilda —-Harold Reade, of the one
part, and the pretty young widow of W. Davey,
son of the alderman, of the other. Mrs. Reade,
in her unmarried days, was a Miss Bruce,
daughter of George, of “the Lane” and the Denton
Hat Mills; and Harold boasts of being a nephew -
of Charles Reade, author of “It’s Never Too Late
To Mend.”
One of the brightest and daintiest of our sbe-
doctors, Dr. “Connie” Ellis, has just scored the
appointment of assistant-physician to the out-
patients at the Alfred Hospital. She is the first
woman who has held office at that man-infested
place. It took lots of friendly shoves-on from
men Sawbones. to get her there; but the shoves
were given cheerfully, for Dr. “Connie” is a
prime favorite all round. Next Thursday after-
noon Lady Carmichael is going to open a badly-
needed ward for the night nurses at the Alfred.
On the strength of the vast increments that
they did not get, the combined staffs of the Banks
of Victoria and New South Wales smoke-nighted
themselves at the Vienna Cafe on Friday even-
ing, and passed, no doubt, a vote of thanks to the
kindly-hearted Mr. Butler, who, at the “ Vic-
toria ” meeting the other day, could not bear to
think of the troubles they would rush into if an
extra sixpence a week were imposed upon them.
However, their voices sounded glad, and the pop
of corks was frequent, so probably they just took
by the neck the ghost of their missing rise and
“pushed him through the window,” as the panto-
mime song would express it.
Some interesting water-colored sketches of kid-
dies by Miss Beryl Reid (of whose unique work
specimens have been published in The Bul-
letin occasionally) are to be auctioned at Gemmell
Tuckett’s this month. Miss Beid’s talent for
drawing small kiddies in outline is an inspiration.
The pictures are as technically faulty as they are
effectively convincing; for any other class of
drawing'she has no talent whatever.
The Bayne sisters, who seem to be making a
hobby of expensive litigation, have bobbed up in
a further case against family-solicitors Blake and
Riggall; also they have bobbed down again,
possibly to think out more trouble. The two
ladies claimed £20,000 damages from the solici-
tors in connection with certain proceedings
in the Insolvency Court, mostly affecting
sister Mary. Blake and Riggall counter-
claimed £1833 16s. lid.—mind the drapers’-
bargain lid.—for Costs, for which, they
said, plaintiffs were liable. And, after extended
argument, during which Costs had occasion to rub
its talons with satisfaction, judgment was given
for the lawyers on the main action, and they were
further allowed their counter-claim with Costs.
So it ends, as usual, in a huge victory for Costs—
the original Costs, plus the Costs of finding whose
Costs they were.
As usual, the woman pays when “ He’s a Jolly
Good Fellow,” and in the case of a lately-deceased
jester, whose salary for years past was £4O a week,
his widow has been left to face the world with
exactly £l47 —even his life policy was allowed to
lapse. In her day she, too, was a stage favorite,
and all through she was a sterling woman. Now,
when her youth is gone, and her means of subsist-
ence much reduced, there is talk of the kindly-
hearted mummer once again coming to the rescue,
and giving her the “best ever” in the way of.
benefits.
Jack has a new Jill at Her Majesty’s—dainty
Alma Barber, who reminds one of Carrie Moore
in her vivacity, though she’ll never have the snap
of that lady’s black een. Miss Barber takes the
part for Fan Dango, who has gone over to Sydney
to dance in Betty Ohls’ shoes till that little; lady
is better.
The champion good-natured man in Melbourne
is “Teddy” Boyce, boss of the long-suppressed
but now blossoming Victorian Tourist Bureau.
For years he and his men sweltered and gasped
in the poky little wooden hut on the dusty
corner of Prince’s Bridge ; but the blossoming
Bureau has been re-potted, and flaunts now in
a sumptuous Collins-street corner, which on
the Boom-y days was Matthew Davies’ bank.
Here, amidst a riot of photographs, “Teddy”
breezily tells the tourist where to go, when to go.
how to go, and what to wear when he does go.
Officially placarded as “The Inquiry Office.”
every sort of question under the sun is fired at it.
“ What time does my train go to Thingymebob,
and have I time* to go to the post office first,
and how much will I have to pay on a tame
monkey ?” one visitor asked the other day all in a
breath.
The Epistle of “ Rosna ” concerning the
Adelaideans
The Governor-General beckoned S’Langdon Bonvthon
into the Residence the other day, and affixed to his frock-
coat the insignia of a Commander of the Order of
Michael and George. All other members of the Order in
South Aus. were requested to attend and note with what
small hooks even big fish can sometimes be caught.
Afterwards Adelaide had its annual outbreak of top-hats,
and left so many cards on his Excellency that he can now
entirely repaper one of the ancestral moats, if he wants to.
The Dudleys spent an afternoon at the Auldana vine-
yard the other day, and set the machinery to work on
the 1909 wine-making. The Josiah Symons, with their
tall Dresden-China daughter, and one of the smaller
Symons to help amuse the Dudley kiddies, did the enter-
taining ; and there was a luscious afternoon tea in the
cellars, which had bunches of grapes and laden apple-
branches twined decoratively about them.' The Auldana
bullock-team was also brought out for inspection, and was
fed on grapes from the vice-regal band.
Another day his Ex. ran into Lobethal, and asked to
see the wheels go round at the woollen factory. Then
he had his photo, taken, holding a loom by the hand ;
and he asked the factory to please make him a rug
immediately.
The cricket match against Parliament was an exciting
affair. His Ex. wore a scarf and blazer of the S.A.
Cricket Association colors, made eight runs, and enter-
tained the teams and a few stray celebrities at luncheon.
Also George Giffen made a century, and assisted his Ex.
in vanquishing the foe. The vice-regal team means to go
forth next and slay the dragon—which in this case will
be the Army.
John Lewis, the hard-hitting old bushman who makes
Tory speeches in our House of the Fat, has whisked a
daughter off for a globe-girdling. They ship to Japan
first, see as much of that brown country as it suits the
Mikado to show them, then flit across to Europe. When
they have “ done ” the Continong and a couple of islands
near by, they will come home again. One of the Glenelg
Gebhardts is of the party. Other prospective wanderers
are some of the McFarlane clan, of Wellington Lodge.
The South Australian Yacht Squadron raced for the
Kintore Cup the other Saturday, and ploughed through
the harbor in great feather. For the usual festive
luncheon at the club-house, his Ex. was captured for a
speech ; and afterwards Commodore Sanderson and Mr.
Alfred Searcy and Dr. Morris and some others sailed him
and a few aides around in the Magic. The yachts also
grappled for the Le Hunte Cup, a trophy cast at the
club’s feet by our ex-Ex. just before he sailed away
to his new Protectorate.
“She Stoops to Conquer,” played at the Royal last
week, has set the local ancients reminiscing on an ama-
teur performance away back in the ’sixties. It was held
in the old theatre in Gilles Arcade, and John Downer,
K.C. ; the late Caleb Peacock, Mayor of Adelaide ; ex-
Premier John Bray, F. Ayers, and Miss Gougenheim, a
beauty of the time, filled the sundry parts. Of course,
there was never such a superlatively brilliant performance
before or since!
The Victorian mermaid, Ruby Boobier, has been swim-
ming about Adelaide with considerable gusto. She’s a
fine-looking young sea-serpent, with a dazzling smile and
a healthful eye ; and as for her swimming, she used to
paddle from Bendigo down to Maoriland or thereabouts
every morning before breakfast. On Friday afternoon
officialdom was invited to a private view of the amphi-
bian, and she went through her best parlor tricks with
much grace.
The Cattle-king Kidmans will be home again in a few
minutes. They have been having a varied time in Britain,
where they tooted the greatness of Australia lustily. As
the result of one toot, they even had a case of
Renmark oranges sent after them, to distribute
among some of King Edward’s natives, who wouldn’t
believe we grew anything but cows, kangaroos,
and cricketers. The Kidmans are dropping a daughter
•or-two in Paris, to pick up a little French polish, but
they’re bringing a few grey horses back from the same
locality, as a set-off to the fair girls they leave behind
them. ... .
The Haughty-Mobile Club went frisking through our
hills-for-providing-conversation-to-the-bored on Saturday.
The Haughty were some 120 in number ; the mobiles
rather less. They proceshed round the Devil’s Elbow,
and got up to the gentleman’s shoulder blade. At Mount
Lofty the J. E. Corpes came out and captured the
army, and corraled the whole force into a marquee
(which had sprung up quite accidentally on the tennis
court), and here the Haughty were tea-d. Later, they
were all taken to a charity f&te, and bought a packet of
sweets and a penwiper apiece.
Fred Lyons, lately of this State, and now in the Tourist
Department at Rotorua, was knotted last month to Miss
Rato Butt, a cousin, saith report, to Clara of the Voice.
This is the first Adelaide had heard of any Butt relatives
on this side of the globe. Still, it is never too late to
mend your family-tree, and label hitherto overlooked
twigs.
Yours affectionately.
TARITFFENA.
Charlie Tait, the Tait brother who is
identified with Allan’s music warehouse (Melb.),
was on his way to Europe with wife and family
when the Earthquake happened. TheP. andO. boat
he travelled by took aboard a number of refugees
and injured people from Messina, and the happy
disposition of these unfortunates seems to have
impressed Charlie Tait all the time. Writing of
the scene to his brothers in Melbourne he said :—•
The most remarkable thing about them was their abso-
lute good humor ; yet many must have had relations
dead among the ruins. We must have taken on 500
refugees, and the scene on the deck was wonderful—all
the colors of the rainbow, and all kinds and conditions of
Sicilians. Where these poor devils are going to is a
puzzle to us all. They seem to be as happy as if they
were going for a holiday, though they must be leaving
their homes for the first time in their lives.


BEAUTYS ROLL OF HONOUR.
We need someone to believe in us—if we do well, we want our work commended, our faith
corroborated. To be able to point to such a gallaxy of fair women as adorn this page with the
assurance that they think well of one, that they keep their mind on one's good qualities —
what greater triumph is there to look for ? The very cream of the fairest women of the
English stage ; the very cream of the ablest women of the English stage are agreed on
this one thing : That the Valaze Toilet Preparations, introduced by me to Australia and
England, stand for the best and most effective produced by modern science. It is like
standing on the highest mountain peak. There is nothing higher to look up to. Here
at last has been reached the apex of women’s toilet needs.
Pictures are painted, and music is written, and flowers are fostered that life
may be beautiful. Let women delight the eyes like pictures, be harmonious like
music, and fragrant as flowers, and they also may fulfil their mission of grace and
beauty.
It is a fine thing to be an artiste, but it is a finer thing to be a woman,
realising to the full, and filling, that mission of grace and beauty.
The women here portrayed, on whom, night after night, is focussed the
eye of the nation, have spoken in terms unmistakable, have spoken not in
their capacity of actresses—the honour and ornament of the greatest of the
world’s stages —but as mere women, for the benefit of women. Amongst
them is the famous London creator of the Merry Widow, Miss Lily
Elsie ; and Miss Elizabeth Firth, who in the part of Nathalie, has
gathered a goodly quantity of laurel. And then there is that beauti-
ful and statuesque Australian girl, Alice Crawford, who has won
London by storm. The great Ellaline Terriss is here ; and Cissy
Loftus, who now commands a salary of a week ; and the charm
ing warbler, Ruth Vincent. These and the other names of famous women, whose
likeness appear on this page, must bring back interesting theatrical memories to
many an Australian.
Is it possible to put forth a more effective argument in support of the superiority
of any toilet requisite than can be read out of the testimony here reproduced ?
, Those who have not experienced the marvellous results of the Valaze
products and treatments can only hope that whatever else they use will be as good,
but with one of the characters in the Merchant of Venice they will sooner or later
find themselves sighing, “How much unlike my hopes.”
The woman who merely seeks experience may dilly-dally with this or that, but the womar
who heeds experience will enrol herself in the army of the bright-faced users of Valaze.
Valaze, as is well-known, is a Russian Skin Food evolved by Dr. Dykuski,
the great skin specialist, from a herb growing in the Carpathian Mountains.
The skin-clearing, toning and stimulating properties which it possesses
gives this speciality a unique position among complexion correctives.
Valaze perfects the good skin, purifies the bad skin, and beautifies all
skins. Valaze preserves the complexion in freshness and pure fresh
tint. The effect after one month’s use of Valaze is most astound-
ing, and the mirror from day to day tells the Valaze beginner
the magical story of its perfecting progress.
The price is 3/6 and 6/6 a jar, 6d. postage.
Other complexion preparations which
T have brought with me from my native
town, Vienna, and other parts of the
Continent, and which I supply
for home treatment, are the fruit of
painstaking researches of such scien-
tists as Drs. Paschkis, Dassar, Unna,
Liebreich, Schleich, and others, and
many of them prepared under the direct
supervision of their originators. Some of
them are : Valaze Herbal Powder for greasy
skins, and the Novena Poudre for dry and normal skins, 2/- anu
3/- a box ; Valaze Herbal Soap, composed of rare herbs and
almonds, 2/- a cake ; Dr. Dykuski’s Blackhead and Open Pore
Cure, 2/6 ; Valaze Liquidine, promotes healthy circulation and
skin-breathing, 8/6; Valaze Snow Lotion (a high-class Viennese
liquid powder), 3/6 a bottle ; Dr. Dykuski’s Valaze Hair Tonic,
3/6 a bottle ; Novena Cerate, a natural skin cleanser, 2/- and 3/6.
My book, “ Beauty in the Making,’ ’ contains a more detailed
description of these and other preparations, and as a contribution
to the literature of Beauty of Woman it has been acknow-
ledged to be a book of interest. It sums up the very latest achieve-
ments of a science that should be dear to the heart of every woman.
Anyone who will write to me for “ Beauty in the Making,” enclosing three-
pence for postage, will receive it by return of post. It is a book brimful
of interest, and should be in the hands of every woman.
In it will also be found a description of the exclusive treatments for the
complexion, intended to overcome every blemish to which it may become a
victim, practised by me at my various Institutes.
Just returned from my London successes, I shall be in Australia only for a
short time, as my English and Continental interests demand my presence, but
while here it will be my greatest pleasure to answer every enquiry,in person
or by letter, concerning the complexion or methods of treatments.
All orders, requests for advice, applications for appointments, or for the free
book, should be sent to me, addressed, Dept,
274 Collins Street,
Melbourne;
158 Pitt St., Sydney;
9 Brandon Street,
Wellington;
24 Grafton St., London W.
Victoria Apotheke,
•9 Friedrichstr, Berlin.
HELENA RUBINSTEIN.
I am about to leave Melbourne for Sydney, where I intend spending a fortnight before my return to my present headquarters in
London, to give my many clients in New South Wales an opportunity to consult me on any matter concerning the complexion. I
suggest that appointments should be arranged by letter or a personal call as early this week and next as possible. As usual I make
no charge for an interview, and it will be to the interest of those who wish to see me to ask for appointments without delay.


Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful medicine in the
world for bowel complaints, both for adults and
children. Pleasant and safe to take, prompt in
its action, and effectual in results.*
Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden. Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. M9UNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Ati active policeman at Ry.de,
When asked, “ Why so happy ? ” replied,
With grin quite laconic ;
“Just Pills, Laxo-Tonie :
Move on ! or I’ll run you inside ! ”
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10id. and Is. 6d.’
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should, read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “ peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “ The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
DO YOU HAVE
RHEUMATISM
EVERY YEAR?
If you do you are Doctoring Symp-
toms, not the Disease.
Sydney Man Cored Himself by Driving
Rheumatic Poison from His Blood.
Rheumatism will come back year after year,
unless it is driven from the system. It’s acid in
the blood that causes the trouble. The big mis-
take is to expect liniments and outward applica-
tions to cure the trouble. At best they only doc-
tor the symptoms. The complaint isn’t cured. It
comes back again whenever the weather is bad.
But there’s another way—the Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills way. They not only cleanse the blood of
the impurities, but build up and restore the broken-
down system. This they did in case of Mri D.
McKenzie, 29 Gould Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mr. McKenzie gave an account of his illness
to a reporter, who took down the following
statement:— , . ,
“•I was camped out on the Manning River, and
through exposure rheumatism set in. My
shoulders got terribly stiff, so that I could not
raise my arms. Por four months I had it in this
part and suffered acutely. I’d have to go about
my work very gingerly at first and until 1 was
warmed up with exercise. After a while the 1 heu-
matisin left my shoulders and settled in my right
knee and heel. I got worse and worse by slow
degrees. My knees puffed up as if I had dropsy.
If I dented the knee the finger mark would last
for quite a long time. I kept about all the time,
but I don’t known how I did it. I’d just drag my
leg after me. Whenever dam]) weather came I’d
have unbearable burning, shooting pains that
nearly drove me crazy, and my leg was so stiff I
couldn’t bend it. Many a night I lay awake for
hours. At last a mate of mine told me about Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, and by slow degrees they
drove out the rheumatism. The constant dull
ache got easier, and when damp weather came the
sharp attacks were less violent. The huge swell-
ing at the knee went down and before I was on
the sixth box it was its proper size. I still kept
on with the pills and they seemed to tone me up
in every way, and gave me an appetite and made
me stronger. The stiffness yielded and my knee
got supple again and there was no tender-
ness in it. Nine boxes cured my rheumatism and
I’ve never had it since.’
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for any com-
plaint that a supplv of rich, red blood is good for,
but one needs to be careful to get the genuine, as
substitutes sometimes offered are useless. They
are sold by most chemists and storekeepers, price
2s 9d. per box ; six boxes 15s. 3d.; or if they can-
not be obtained locally will be sent post free on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEOItGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at.Mblbouhkk.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. Premier Murray proposes to make
income-tax concessions to men with families —the
bigger the family the bigger the concession. If
Murray approves of graduated taxation to that
sxtent, he might explain what’s wrong with prac-
tically the same thing looked at from the other
end—the bigger the estate the bigger the taxa-
tion.
THE FUTURE AUSTRALIAN. '
The future Australian promises to be a fairly general-
ised Briton with a pleasing dash of the German.—Age.
"Is Wallaby Jim to be like this?”
Mayor Allen Taylor, of Sydney, told the
p ipers the other day that, though mostly a Con-
servative, he didn’t mind being Socialistic when
there was need for it, as over the fish business, for
instance. Almost at the same moment the same
papers reported that the will of a Sydney pawn-
broker named Margoschis had been proved at
£25,000. Margoschis—who wasn’t of the tribe of
Cohen, by the way—started on practically nothing
in a little shop in Redfern 25 years ago; and
£25,000 built out of nothing in 25 years ought to
be almost enough to suggest another little bit of
Socialism to Mayor Taylor.
If Premier Murray’s democratic profes-
sions are worth anything he will lose no time in
getting Wages Boards appointed for the trades
that were brought under the Factories Act last
session—especially the softgoods and carrying
businesses. Conditions in the latter are at pre-
sent outrageous : 12, 14, 15 hours a day is nothing
out of the ordinary, and as the hours run up the
wages seem to run down. An instance was given
in Melbourne, the other day, of a lad of 18 who
drove a carrier’s waggon six days a week for any-
thing up to 17 hours a day, and in return was
bloated with the gaudy wage of 17s. 6d. The
sweater concisely accounted for the alleged diffi-
culty of paying a decent wage for 48 hours’ work
when he foolishly boasted of “making £1 a day
clear profit out of each of his vans.” If that
doesn’t shriek for a Wages Board, nothing ever
did.
“ Huffin Guffin ” : “ S.” writes chidingly
of Frank Anstey’s emotion over the railway men
voting for Wobbly Willie Watt (B. 4/2/’O9). But
isn’t it enough to make a man weep? Think of
Watt’s political career in general and his votes
against railway men in particular, and then think
of the men voting for him. Anstey does think of
these things, hence his tears. Watt voted for the
infamous Strike Bill, but has not the courage to
admit it. Asked during his election campaigns
why he did it, he said he could not have voted
that way, as there was no Strike Bill, it having
been withdrawn —a characteristic Watt wobble.
Then Watt voted for the Separate Representation
Bill for Government and railway servants, as well
as for almost every other Tory proposal of late
years.
P.M.G. Thomas lias been looking hard at
his accounts, and decides that he can’t supply the
telephone service for the money. There is a howl
about it, of course ; but some of the howl explains
matters. The Brisbane Chamber of Commerce
joined in the commotion, and one speaker said :
“ It [payment per call] will be very hard on mer-
chants, as the employees continually use the tele-
phone on private business.” The explanation comes
in just there. The employer wouldn't dream of
allowing his employees to use his stationery and
stamps for their private correspondence, because
the employer has to pay for those requisites him-
self. But he hasn’t cared two straws if the em-
ployees used his telephone, because the State has
had to pay for the working of that.
The Westralian Government has dropped
the silly pretence that it only “invests” loan
money in reproductive . undertakings. Among
the things for which the Treasurer has just got
authority to put the country further in pawn are
roads, culverts, hospital for the insane, outhouses
at Perth Hospital, gaols, and school buildings.
The State won’t get a penn’orth of revenue from
any of these ; and as Cohen will call regularly for
the interest, the unfortunate State will have to
provide it out of revenue. In other words, in-
stead of paying for the culverts, outhouses, etc.,
out of revenue, and thus ending the matter, the
Westralian taxpayer is going to keep Cohen in
comfort for many years, and, after being thus
sucked for years, will have to pay in the end what
he might just as well have paid in the beginning.
The Wertheim piano people have built their
piano factory in Richmond (Vic.), and expect to
give employment to nearly 400 Australian work-
men. They are also going to use Australian
timber for the boxes, and that will give work to
still more Australians. Talking over these things,
Wertheim’s manager has remarked in public that
they expect to do a much larger business in the
future than they have done with their foreign
goods in the past, because the tariff is giving em-
ployment and raising wages everywhere ; so there
will be more people to spend money and more
money to spend than ever there was in the days
when a good part of Australia called itself Free-
trade, and tried to keep jolly and fat on sand-
shifting jobs and the like.
The S. M. Herald has in these latter days
“chucked” Freetrade—everywhere, that is, ex-
cept in its political columns. The other day it
even “chucked” the ancient absurdity in the
column which tells amateur fishermen where the
snook is thickest and the black bream most pro-
digious. There, the presentation of a fishhook,
etc., having been made to Governor Rawson, the
mullet expert took occasion to say that it has now
been proved that “ we have in this country all the
materials and ability for the making of first-class
angling weapons.” In fact, we have got every-
thing in Australia except daily newspapers with
patriotism enough to encourage the use of the
materials and the ability.
N.S.W. Minister Perry, who thinks he is
an Anti-Socialist, is, for all that, head of the
Department which provides State farms to teach
the cocky his business, and State grants in aid of
agricultural shows, and State farms for breeding
stud cattle, and State agricultural colleges, and
State agricultural gazettes, and a few other things.
Now (in pursuance no doubt of bis
Anti-Socialism) be has proposed to
found a State butter factory on
the Soutli Coast ; and Morton,
who misrepresents a district
thereabouts in the State Parlia-
ment, is making much Anti-Sosh
capital out of the circumstance.
He alleges that the South Coast
doesn’t want this interference with
Private Enterprise. Well, sup-
pose Perry takes him at his word
and removes the Berry Stud Farm,
and abolishes the Agricultural
Society endowments, and puts an
end to the special attention which
the Departmental experts devote
to the South Coast. Then, haying
ridded the South Coast of these
curses, he can set to work and
establish the State butter factory
in some other district, in order
to teach budding factory managers
and testers their business ; also the stud farm, etc.,
can be set up alongside it. When these things
happen, and the South Coast is ridded of the
Socialistic pest, Morton will probably want a
body-guard when he goes among his furious con-
stituents.
Britannia who rules the waves turned up
at Melbourne the other day in a British ship,
registered at Glasgow. Of the crew of 31 no less
than 28, including captain and mate, can’t even
speak English ; and of the three who can speak
English one is Australian, another Scotch, and
the third American. Yet when Australia offered
to pay a trifle more with the object of encouraging
an English co. to train and ship English seamen,
it was alleged to be un-British, Socialistic, and a
few other dreadful things.
The Commonwealth Government proposes
to establish a farm for breeding mounts for the
army ; and the buzzing State-Frights insect asks
where the money is to come from. Figures just
out from France suggest one answer. Moses witli
the bag has been bumped out of France by the
totalisator, which pays up 4 per cent, of the
stakes to the Government; and out of that 4 per
cent. £121,000 was last year allotted for the upkeep
of the numerous Gdvernment studs.
Until a few days ago, apparently, the
sleepy citizens of Brighton hadn’t grasped the
fact that Bent is Broke, and that such inana as he
had is now spelt mud. It seems that while things
were mostly Bent there were practically no flying-
gang raids on the Brighton line, Thomas’ con-
stituents being above suspicion ; but when Bent
was Bumped, Tait inspected the returns from that
line—and sent the gang down in a hurry. The
gang caught 24 people defrauding the railways
the first night, 16 the next, and 12 the next. After
that the revenue took a sudden spring in Bent’s
electorate.
A LESSON IN PHYSICS.
INSPECTOR: “Now, is there any other force of
nature besides steam that is able to keep the
world moving?”
SMART BOY (son of a Broken Hill striker) :
“Please, yes, sir—the police.”
A semi-surreptitious advancement of Vic-
toria’s Black Rod from a third-class to a second-
class public servant, with an extra hundred a year,
shows up the snufflesome hypocrisy of a Parlia-
ment that talks economy and progress. Person-
ally Black Stick may be an estimable gentleman,
but officially he is a grotesque harlequin in short
breeks and lace furbelows ; yet Murray’s Parlia-
ment continues to'maintain the office at £5OO a
year, while the youngsters at North Prentice,
Rosstown, and other places, 'grow .up without
education because the Government ,says it has no
money to enlarge or rebuild schools.
An item that caused Wilks’ Postal Com-
mission much curiosity in Westralia lately
was the tremendous increase in the .cost of
carrying the mails by rail in that State.
Whereas just prior "to -Federation it was
£10,139, it is now £24,341—an increase of 140
per cent., which seemed a bit overpowering.
In explanation, Deputy-P.M.G. Hardman gave
Newton Moore’s State a doubtful advertisement.
According to Hardman, the increase of £14,202
included two jumps of £8927 and £5275, the first
of which occurred in the early days of Federation,
the second at the beginning of 1907. In other
words, as soon as the Post Office passed over to
the Commonwealth, the State began to bleed it.
After which some State Frights insect was usually
put up to remark that it was costing ever so much
more to run the department since the Common-
wealth took it over, and that if it wasn’t for this
outrageous extravagance a great deal more money
might be handed over to the States.
PHILANTHROPY.
Thomas Shaw, a coal-lumper, is lying in the Melbourne
Hospital with one of the joints of his spinal column dis-
located. He had been working for six months with his
neck practically broken.— Daily Paper.
F ATMAN : “Hooked your eye out, eh? Well,
don't let that depress you. I won't sack you
for it! Why, God bless me, I kept a , man
going for six months with a broken neck, and
even then the police had to stop me! ”
The Anti-Sosh N.S.W. Government has
decided to supply to every Anti-Sosh farmer who
chooses to ask for it the Agkiccltukal Gazette
absolutely Free of Cost. Further, any cow or
turnip literature which comes the way of the
Agricultural Department is to be distributed
gratis to the farmers. When there is anything
going free the backbone of the country can always
be depended on to get it—just by way of empha-
sising its sturdy independence and self reliance,
etc.
Even Joe Cook sees that Australian re-
construction must come:—
I. am not defending the present organisation of our
State Governments. That point does not arise here. It
is also certain that later on more new States will come
■ into existence. That is inevitable, if the best results of
Government are to be secured.
Joe Cook, of course, doesn’t mention unification,
but if he knows any better way to set about im-
proving the “present organisation of the States ”
(which he doesn’t defend) and cutting up the con-
tinent into workable States, he is careful not to
mention it.
The Salv’army had a very good reason for
turning to Wade with offers to ship British dere-
licts out to Australia; for it seems that Canada
has shut down hard on the scheme, and has for-
bidden the landing of any immigrant whose pas-
sage money has been wholly or partly paid by
public subscription, or by any of the societies
which exist for the purpose of spilling unemploy-
ables out of the British Islands, unless such immi-
grant has a written permit from the President of
the Canadian Immigration Society in London,
and uses the same within 60 days from the issue
thereof. The Minister of the Interior declared at
Ottawa recently that the Government was driven
to pass this measure owing to the appalling
characters that were arriving in droves from the
Cold Land. Under the new regime the number
of the re-shipped amounted in a few months to no
less than 582, according to official figures.
WAKING UP!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
TORPEDO DESTROYERS TO BE ORDERED.
The Federal Government has decided to at once order
two torpedo-destroyers of the river class. —Daily paper.
Are we waking up at last
From the sorry, slothful past ?
Can we see at length the stern invader’s host 1
Are we hanging on the rack
The coat with shining back
That we polished leaning up against a post?
Do we reallymean to fight
For a nation clean and White,
For the women, and the children, and the land?
Have we finished now in truth
With the playthings of our youth,
And the worthless cheers that shake the staring Stand?
Hark ! the toiling hammers ring,
And the answer that they bring
From the verges of the dockyards by the sea :
“ See ! we make you hounds of steel
To protect the Commonweal
Through the grand and fruitful years that are to be ! ”
Yes, we’re waking up at last
From the sorry, slothful past
And our dreams beneath the sunny, southern skies ;
With a clearer vision now,
Welding rib and keel and prow,
Australia tears the bandage from her eyes !
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.
BENT PASSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Tommy Bent takes his ejectment from office in very
bad part. He is a man with a grievance, and a gloomy
fatnian about Melbourne these days. “ I thought they
were fond of me. They pretended to be fond of me, any-
way,” he says, sadly. “And already I'm forgotten.”
Ah, sad indeed is Tommy’s case,
His prestige is for ever gone ;
Men turn no more to see his face,
Already woeful grown and wan.
His rule was singularly bad,
And yet when out of office thrown
One sweet, sustaining hope he had—
They loved him for himself alone !
And now he pines on benches bleak,
Immured behind another king,
And no one wants to hear him speak,
And no one presses him to sing.
It hurts to part with greatness so,
To doff the crown and don the yoke,
But ’tis the sublimate of woe
To linger as a played-out joke !
VICTORIA.
S.


The KING of all
Piano Players.
says j
MADAM MELBA
“ Flete,” Malvern,
Feb. 20th, 1908.
I have had little sympathy with any
piano-playing inventions until having the
opportunity of hearing the Claviola, and I
must say the capabilities of this instrument
have greatly surprised me.
It is astonishing to find such delicate
touch ; and every expression, from the
lightest to the most powerful, is so easily at
command, that the Claviola is capable of
almost perfect piano playing.
Beyond all, the advantage of the Artists’
Music Rolls gives the Claviola a distinct
artistic character, and removes the objections
that have hitherto been raised against the
ordinary piano players.
NELLIE MELBA.
KUBELIK,
The World-Renowned
Violinist, says: —
Hotel Australia,
Sydney, May 25th, 1908.
Dear Sirs,
It is with very great pleasure that in
Australia I have renewed my acquaintance
with the Claviola Piano Player.
No other Piano Player that I know of is
so completely at the command of the player,
or allows such scope for individuality in
playing as the Claviola. No matter what
effect is desired it is so easily obtained that
I am more and more delighted every time
I hear it.
I could not have believed it possible that
any Piano Player could render music so
accurately and artistically. Every shade of
feeling can be so delightfully expressed that
I must congratulate you on having the best
Piano Player I have ever listened to.
I remain,
Yours very truly,
JAN KUBELIK.
MISS
KATHARINE GOODSON,
The GREAT Artiste, says :
Hotel Australia,
Sydney, Oct. 22nd, 1908.
Your Claviola Piano Player has made a
deep impression on me. When I think of
the vast amount of study and practice I have
given to mastering the great Classical Piano-
forte works, it is absolutely astounding to
me to hear a mere novice play those grand
works with the greatest precision by means
of your Claviola Piano Player.
I am, Sirs,
Yours very truly,
KATHARINE GOODSON.
Write to us for Booklet describing tbis truly Wonderful PIANO PLAYER (Post Free).
WE SELL CLAVIOLAS ON EASY TERMS.
W. H. PALING CO.. LTD.
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
BUSINESS k COUNTRY
SUITS
To Measure
CUT, FIT 6 FINISH
guarantee:
largestftange ofJuitings
at 3 Guineas toselectjrom
in Australasia.
BUCKLEY £ NUNN LT D
BOURKE ST, MELBOURNE,
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried.
• *
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
5.5. VAN SPILBERGEN, March 2nd, 1909.
5.5. LE iTAIRE, April 2nd, 1909.
Thence every four weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO
MACASSAR, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 48 days, including
eight days’ stay in Java? Fo'T Booklets, Time Tables; lurther
information apply:—
AGENTS {—Messrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide} John
Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S.S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island; Earp Bros., Newcastle.
The Head Office for Australasia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, _ is the best
dressing for ladies' hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
■it Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., xos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
ALE
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
V/est Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fi
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
After walloping Burns, champion of the world,
pug Johnson spent a few weeks in each of the Australian
States, under the show-management of the only Harry.
On Sunday last he arrived in Sydney, and left for the
States on Monday. He expressed himself as delighted
with the receptions accorded him during his tour:
“ Everywhere I went,” he remarked, “I was hailed with
delight. In fact, Mr. Wade, the Premier, who made the
trip simultaneously with me, got nothing like the same
welcome. You must have read that when I reached the
Victorian capital a big brass band met me. Had Tammy
got the same reception he would have gone out of his
mind ; but I care nothing for that sort of thing, and as I
suffered the ordeal my mind would wander to those sad
yet realistic lines of Tennyson’s, ‘ But why need I love
you ? ’
“Though I was down to show nightly at the
‘ Hall,’ I managed to clear myself from all undesirable
acquaintances. I was thankful that I did so. On the
third day of my arrival I received a visit from fellow-
antiquarians and art enthusiasts just at a time when I
felt most depressed. This call just provided what I was
longing for, and night after night we discussed matters
relative to prehistoric man, and the merits of European,
American and Australian artists, politicians, sculptors. I
simply revelled in the discourses, and learned a lot that
was new even to me.
“It was during mv meeting with these scientists
that one old fellow said that my forefathers and his —
thousands of years ago—had lived together and separated ;
one party to settle in Europe, the other to take a
southerly course where the sun’s rays and different
climatic influences had changed the color of our
skins and the contour of our features. Great en-
thusiasm prevailed over the remark, and then I was
asked what I thought of the early Australian natives as
compared with prehistoric man in Europe and America.
That gave me the opening I wanted, as I had read
deeply on such matters. One member got quite
enthusiastic over the digest I gave them on the subject,
and asked whether I thought the inhabitants of Britain
had migrated during the glacial period towards Italy, or
northwards into Sweden. I pointed out that they took
the southerly course, seeing that the weapons dis-
covered in caves in Italy and the neighboring Mediter-
ranean countries were very much like the British
weapons, not only in type but also in design. Others
wanted to know about certain resemblances between the
‘ kitchen-midden ’ weapon of Norway and Sweden and the
rude stone implements of Somaliland, Jerusalem and Tas-
mania. I soon put them right about this. Jerusalem
weapons do, in some respects, resemble the coarser types
of ‘ kitchen-midden ’ weapons of Norway and Sweden, but
not Somaliland types, which are purely paleolithic and
very rude. I was surprised that this was not known to
them already, as I and nearly all scientists are fully
aware that paleolithic man first had his abode on the
land bordering the Gulf of Aden in Somaliland. I pointed
out to them that, as to this, I could only repeat what has
been asserted by other great antiquarians. As for the
Tasmanian natives, I Droved (as others have done) that
the aboriginals of Van Diemen’s Land are regarded as
having been the laziest and most inartistic race that has
ever been met with in any part of the world.” (Here
endeth Johnson the scientist ; and Johnson the art
critic takes up the running.)
“ What I like about Sydney Art Galleries is
that you go in more for variety than Melbourne. In the
Victorian capital one sees certainly a greater number
of oil paintings, but in water colors Sydney is
far ahead. In the Melbourne pictures one sees
more of the greys, reds and blurry blues, while
with vou the vivid blues, the clear whites, the
dull carmines and deep purples, all depict what one
expects to meet in a masterpiece by some of the best
Continental artists. Of course, you have really few men
out here who can rank as painters. The newness of your
country, the absence of those old castles situated on the
verge of deep silent rivers and shaded by gigantic and
heavily-wooded trees—these and other things are against
vou. In mv opinion you will do best here in water
colors ; but even then you have not the same facilities as
in Europe, with its beautiful meadows, old homesteads,
ancient castles, and abodes of people famous in history.
Outside your harbors, your bleak, rough coast, and cer-
tain grand patches of picturesque rustic scenery, in which
are gigantic cliffs, deep ravines, and gaping chasms, there
is really no scope for a local artist. However, in time, no
doubt, all this will come right, and even Tammy may be
induced to take up the brush.
“ Poor Tammy, I really pity him. Unlike me,
Tammy has nothing to interest him now except his new
theatre. But depend upon it, I will try to get over some
day and show at Tammy’s theatre, no matter how great
may be the inconvenience.
“Of the Australian States I like N. S. Wales
best. Victorians bustle more, but Sydneyites are more
thorough, and are not so fussy over small things as they
are in' Melbourne. Look at the row made, over
my boil, for instance. Why, in some of the papers
in Victoria there was a tremendous fuss- made
over it just because it belonged to me. When
the Italian earthquake was the news about
my boil was in almost as big type. Now, to a man of
artistic temperament nothing could be more disgusting.
Fortunately, I had a mind above such trifling troubles.
The absorbing interest to be derived from Tennyson,
Shakspeare, Milton. Banyan, and my other favorite
authors soon dispelled all pain and worry.
“ The designs of your public buildings do not
altogether please me, and your politics got on my
nerves. I often felt inclined to walk into Parliament
House and punch Deakin, Lyne, Reid, Cook, and
other gabblers on the nose. What do I care for
your politics —whether you have torpedo destroyers
turned out hefe or in England ! Do you think I care a fig
whether the price of jam has risen since Mr. Addison
made the award? I would rather have one quiet little
half-hour with the violin, piano, guitar, or a
game of chess with one of your champions
than take £lOOO a minute to hear all the
twaddle I had to listen to daily since my arrival.
Just fancy the way I was criticised. After what
I did here, too ! I fully thought I would be asked up to
one or two of the little je-jees at Government House or
to a few little mix-ups by the Methodists. But there is a
great difference in entertaining. Entertaining is an art.
Australians haven’t got the slightest rudiments of it. It
pains me.
“I have enjoyed your harbor; I liked vour
people and climate in many respects, and your big rail-
way station ; but your accent here is abominable. I feel
as if I must thank Providence that I am able to leave
your country without even a trace of it.”
* * * -X
The Lang-Squires tete-a-tete demonstrated the
humbug of substituting 6oz. for 4oz. gloves with the idea
that by so doing ber-lud and the shocking of Wade’s Sab-
batarian supporters would be avoided. For several days
after this tremendous reform was announced holy folk
moved gleefully around rubbing their hands and assuring
each other that these brutal displays were now doomed.
Wade was eulogised as a cold, strong man who knew his
duty, and did it unswervingly. All this occurred because
Wade’s eulogisers knew no more of fighting than so many
old women. Neither Squires nor Lang hits hard as heavy-
weight pugs go. Yet by the tenth round the gore was
discernible in all directions. And in the next few rounds
Squire’s eye was in mourning, his lip was cut open and
puffed, and his ribs and those of Lang were in an evil
plight. As this paper remarked when it first heard of
Wade’s scheme for “ ending prize-fighting,” as much
damage can be done with 6oz. as with 4oz. gloves. The
aggressively public weighing of the mitts by the police
was one of the most unimpressive pieces of guff the
writer has seen at a stoushing match.
* * * »
“Snell”: The boxing business has passed into
new hands in Melbourne, but the Cyclorama under
another name smells, as formerly, of last week’s tobacco
and this evening’s beer. The new promotery got going
with Ulholz, the Boer (who is a typical Tartar), and
Hughie Meeghan, and the slim Melbournian won on a goose
after 11 rounds. Ulholz’s stock-in-trade consists of a lot
of cunning and an occasional left swing calculated to
shift houses. That swing caught Meeghan in the ribs
once, and Meeghan fell down, tied himself in a knot, and
looked like a man who saw his latter end. He was up
before the fatal “out,” however, and continued to put
scientific hits all over the Boer’s top-dressing. Meeghan
was miles nhead on points. Ulholz, who had been guilty
of several ilickie tricks, was sent back to his corner and
awarded second money when he deliberately punched
Meeghan after the gonghad closed hostilities in No. 11.
* * « *
“Snell”: The battle between heavyweights
Sterling, of Sydney, and Michael Williams, of S’Africa,
now a Melbournian Bung, which terrific enterprise
happened at E. Melb. Cyclorama, went to disprove all
Mr. Sterling’s claims to respectful consideration as a
meritorious slugger. The showing he made against
Williams, who cannot be graded above the slouch class
even in Australia, was woefully poor. Williams is not
quick enough to hit a hearse out of business hours, but
he hit Sterling just as often as the spirit moved him, and
had the spirit moved him with any energy the Sydney-
sider would have been a battered hulk inside three
minutes ; but Williams’ punch is not commensurate with
his size and his destructive appearance, and Sterling was
hammered for three rounds, during which he never
smote Williams.
* ■* • #
Bill Lang’s clamor to be allowed another “go”
at Tommy Burns didn’t carry conviction in boxing circles.
It is well known that the ex-champion won’t enter the
ring again unless with Jack Johnson. And even if he
would, Lang, in spite of his vaunted improvement, would
stand no more chance against Burns than he would
against Johnson.
This is the Indian summer of the sporting
world. Practically nothing is happening, the Aus-
tralian XI. Syndicate having been picked. Many dis-
cordant yelps have been heard regarding the choice,
and sundry individuals have written to various news-
papers charging the selectors with lunacy, treachery,
incompetence, and favoritism, and finishing up with
the assertion that the whole country is seething
with indignation and that the writers are thoroughly
disgusted. Writer doesn’t remember an occasion when
some blitherer was not hopelessly disgusted. Even the
writer himself, though a small meek man of Christian
spirit, is utterly disgusted. Not at the choice, but at the
row that is always made over it. Some of these fools
seem to imagine that The Rest played The Wrest to
decide who should go to England. They did not. They
played to put money into the pockets of the Australian
XL Syndicate. That and nothing more.
* * » *
After the excitement of inter-State and Aus-
tralian XI. matches the resumption of Grade cricket tin
Sydney on Saturday last did not set “the beautiful”
altogether on fire. It was a bowlers’ day, and some of
the mighty trundling before the gods was great to see.
Minnett, of University, felled six Gordon wickets for 36
runs ; and his club-mate Docker dropped two for seven
runs. Carty, of Paddington, got away with six of Bal-
main’s for 47, and Sayle, of the same combination, took
four for 32. On the other side Sullivan, of Balmain,
took five of Paddington’s timber-stacks for 48. Fin-
neran, of Sydney, laid out five Petersham batsmen for 44.
And yet the bat, if beaten, was not disgraced. Central
Cumberland’s 328 for eight wickets was not to be sneezed
at; neither was Bur wood’s 320 for nine wickets. Both of;
those teams swung a good reliable bat, and although in-
dividually there was no big scoring, the multitude of
respectable totals counted just as well, and made more
interesting cricket.
* * * *
The only century made in first-class cricket on
Saturday in Sydney was Victor Trumper’s 105, smacked
up against Balmain in as many minutes. It was a'bowler’s
day, and the nearest approach to Trumper’s score was
Reid’s 85 for Burwood against Glebe ; but, all the same,
the exhibition was not of the sort with which theTrumper
of the days of old dazzled and delighted his audiences.
Trumper goes into this Australian XI. purely on his past
glory ; but, considering how vivid that glory was, the
committee could not do otherwise than select him.
-«• * * *■
The second match between the Australian XI.
and The Rest was waged in Melbourne, and resulted in an
easy victory for the Syndicators. In the first innings The
Rest made 305, which was not altogether miserable,
but hardly enough to put up against a national
XI. which had left 648 on the board. With a
deficit of 343, the Rest followed on a hopeless-look-
ing task, and were more or less promptly dismissed for
185, being thus beaten by an innings and 158 runs. Evi-
dently the XI. is formidable enough for all practical
purposes.
* * * *
“B.B.”: The Australian XI. selectors’ final
choice of Gregory and McAlister isn’t much encourage-
ment for the younger batsmen. Both of the chosen are
ju-t on 40 years of age ; and it is a libel on Australia to
allege that there are not to be found a couple of younger
players capable of showing “ form ” as good as the old
’uns if they were but given the opportunity.
* * * *
W. .T. Whitty—who in the final rush for places
in the Australian'Xl. unexpectedly squeezed through—
is a young left-hander hailing from S. Australia. Two
years ago Whitty spent his leisure time on mud wickets
round Sydney; then he got a trial in big cricket for
N.S. W., and afterwards drifted to S.A. The Australian
XI. includes three left-handed bowlers—Macartney,
Whitty and Ransford; and all of them are only of
second-rate quality.
* •* * *
Warren Bardsley is the N.S. W. batting colt of
the season, and in first-class matches has piled together
748 runs in nine innings for an average of 83T. Vernon
Ransford shoulders similar credit for Victoria, having
scored 825 in 10 innings (twice not out), an average of
103T25 per innings. Both are left-handed batsmen, and
should be heard of during the Australian XI. tour.
* * * *
Carkeek, who goes as second wicket-keeper in
the XI., has some luck. On this season’s form, Gorry
and Dodds possess qualities with the gloves equally as
good as the Victorian ; arid, besides, Dodds showed him-
self to be a batsman of first-class quality in the last
match in Melbourne. But Oarkeek is a boiler-maker by
occupation ; and his flint-like hands may in the end be
n ecessary to withstand the battering of Cotter.
Tlip Sheffield Shield, the bauble which aecom-
p.K.fSsut, -w...
„, ]h . xr si \y has won it ten times, \ictona six, ana
S A once Seven of the last eight years it has been ,n
possession of the N.S.VV. Cricket Association.
S A. motorists who want to make road records
now always take Murray Aunger along to intend.
He o-ot Harry Dutton across the continent all n„ht, ?
the'"second try. Now he has helped another wealthy
Adelaidean, Bertie Barr-Smith, to a Melbourne-to-Adelaide
record—22 hours 24 minutes for about 590 nides (lhe
express train takes nearly 17 hours and °rdinarj
train over 27.) The previous “ record was not difficult
to smash, being five years old, and .made by a 5-h.p.
machine It was 69 hours 19nnn. The new recoia
breaker was a Napier with Michelin tyres. Itran> thr°ug:h
thick fog all night in Western Victoria, stuck fast twice
in sand, and had one puncture.
jt * *
The Five Miles Amateur Cycling Championship
of N S. Wales brought out IS starters on the night of
Wednesday week ; and one of the best races seen in Syd-
ney eventuated. The system of giving lap pnzes made
the pace a cracker from the jump, but the riders were .
in wood fettle, and the only retirements were those of
three who fell at the two miles. The other 15
finished. On the last lap Shepherd was leading Mutton,
but the Mutton tucked its hind legs under came with a
rush at the finish, and won with a length to spare in
12min. 9 l-ssec.
The Union has engaged the yellow-haired dare-
devil motor-bikist Jack Doherty to give special displays
at the Australasian championships ; and Doherty is also
out for the scalp of Melbourne flyer De Fraga The
struo-o-le will most likely take place on the Melbourne
saucer-track, although the Sydney men are making
strenuous efforts to secure it for the Sports Ground. Of
course, the saucer-track is much the faster of the two,
and for that reason is preferred by the riders.
**. * *
D. Pretty (such a name !), who is being drilled
into the rowing art, is a Maoriland champion axeman,
6ft. 6in. high, who assaults the earth with 17 stone every
time he puts both feet down. And it is against this tower
of humanity that Dick Arnst will, in the near future,
have to defend his title, supposing he can hold it against
Durnan in Canada and Barry oil the Thames, England.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association’s regatta on
Saturday last, on the Parramatta River, was a dreary
business. The public resolutely stayed away, and the
competitors felt like actors playing to an empty
auditorium—their hearts were not in it. The Champion
Eights fell to the Sydney Club’s crew easily enough, the
other competitor, Leichhardt, being beaten from the
jump, and by three lengths at the conclusion. Jack
Towns won the Champion Sculls from two others, after
what the critics described as “ a dreary procession of
three.”
* * * *
By far the most important feature of the day
was the official retirement of Roger Fitzhardinge, who has
done the State yeoman service in the capacity of stroke
of the inter-State Eight. The Association Committee
presented him with a trophy, and said many nice things
about him, which speaks well for the fortitude of the
committee, seeing how perplexed it is as to who the Devil
it will put in his place.
* * * *
On Saturday last Sydney had two ocean races
on view, and of these the Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s
Basin Cup race was, of course, the more important. The
other affair was stirring enough too in its way, being the
Sydney Amateur Club’s run to a point two miles off
South Reef and back.
The course for the Basin Cup wasfrom Fort Deni-
son, in Port Jackson, to Elliott Isle, at the entrance to
Broken Bay, on the North Coast, and back, a distance of 40
miles. Saxton’s beautiful Awanui was on scratch ; Magic
hads9min.,Fleetwings6min.,and Petrelslmin. allowance.
Awanui was leading at Elliott Isle, half the course, and
started the return journey with a wild rush to cut out
the handicaps. After 7W. 19mih. 15sec. of strenuous
sailing and splendid management, Mr. Saxton’s glorious
boat crossed the finishing line 39min. lOsec. ahead of
Petrel, which was just outside the Heads when the leader
was finishing. The actual order of arriving home was
Awanui, Petrel, Magic, and Fleetwing ; but when the
time allowances were deducted the order changed to
Petrel, Magic, Awanui, and Fleetwing. This year’s
Basin Cup is presented by Mr. Norman Murray.
The starters in the Amateurs’ race were seven.
There was but a slight south-east roll and a light breeze
to match. The men on the cruisers would have preferred
it a little rougher ; but it was not to be. The whole
seven came in with only three minutes separating the
first from the last, and a better race could not have been
wished for. The placed boats were Mia, Mimosa and
Olive, in that order.
* * * *
A contest to decide the holder of the Yic.
Yacht Racing Association’s drinking-vessel occurred on
Hobson’s Bay on Saturday. The St. Kilda Club, nomi-
nating the Eric, challenged the Port Melb. Club
to show its right to guard the mug, and Ports showed
it with the smart little boat, the S. J.S. There was little
difference between the pair until about the beginning of
the last reach in the first round, when S.J.S., already
leading, set a big balloon foresail, blew further ahead,
and eventually won by 2min. 20sec., without the lmin.
ISseo. allowance.
V ¥ ■* *
The racing at Caulfield last Saturday seemed to
narrow the Newmarket Handicap outlook. If Irishman
can go six furlongs down the Flemington straight—and
he looks quite capable of going the distance—the colt
can hardly be beaten next Saturday week. Irishman,
Soultline, Scotland, and Maltine are regarded as a boss
quartette for the sprint race, and the result of the
Futurity Stakes next Saturday will probably confirm the
impression.
* * * *
Although Soultline’s weight for the Newmarket
Handicap is commonly spoken of as a “crusher,” the
records of the six-furlong flutter are not unfavorable to
the horse’s chance. Soultline has 9st. 111 b. to carry.
Within the past 10 years Pendant won the race with
9st. 71b. up, and finished second under 9st. 121 b. When
the flying Wakeful carried the luxurious weight of
7st. 61b. to the fore, the other two placed horses humped
9st. 101 b. and 9st. 111 b. respectively. ’Way back in the
misty long ago Little Boz ran second with lOst. lib.
Another point in favor of Soultline is the fact that three
other top-weights are almost as heavily burdened. One
has to look a long way down the list before coming to
anything that seems better treated than the Epsom
winner on form. Irishman (7st. 31b.) and Featherstitch
(7st. 21b.) are possible good things in comparison with
the cracks that have to give a lot of weight away ; and
Salvia (6st. 71b.) continues to be talked of as a filly out of
the common. But meantime Soultline seems to be fairly
well treated by the handicapper, the ex-Maorilander is
doing great work on the Flemington track, and the
animal’s weight-carrying capacity is proved. Moreover,
there is no “if” in the case of the top-notcher. With
Irishman there is always a doubt as to whether he will
run a straight course, and if he should he in a very erratic
mood next Saturday week his backers will be left lament-
ing. A horse that swerves all over the course in a fast-run
race is pretty well bound to get blocked sooner or later.
* m * *
The lameness of Alawa, the Yic. Derby winner,
is said to be unaccountable. The colt walks as though
something were wrong with at least one of his legs, but
there is no apparent weak spot. Probably the trouble is
one of the mysteries of rheumatism. Anyhow, it is bad
luck for the lady who owns the horseflesh.
* * * *
That surf-bathing is a species of madness was
again demonstrated at Manly on Sunday, when 33 men
were rescued bv life lines, and on one occasion no less
than three lines were in use simultaneously. At fresh-
water a little farther along the beach, the life-savers were
workino- a double shift, and one unfortunate who was
not noticed when in difficulties was quietly drowned
His death was unsuspected till another bather trod on the
body in the surf. The most inexperienced bather could
see at a glance that the water was unusually dangerous;
and danger notices were posted all over the place. Hut,
regardless of everything but the fascination of the rushing
curlers, people who could not swim a stroke plunged
gaily in, only to throw up their arms and yell for help
and be hauled out with, in some cases, extreme difficulty
by the strenuous rescuers. For life-saving is about the
hardest work a man can take on; and dangerous to boot.
A non-swimmer in difficulties is a clawing', struggling
maniac, and requires wary treatment. Once again, Thk
Bulletin urges that non-swimmers and people who are
not adepts at the art should be compelled to wear light
lifebelts. The belt may not look picturesque, but it
would make for a lot of safety, and ease things for the
life-savers. _
* * * *
Reg Healy, one-time N.S.W. champion swim-
mer, is creating a big disturbance among the prizes in
Maoriland. Recently, at Masterton, Healy gathered in
the 2*2oyds. championship of Wairarapa, also the 4403 as.
and 75vds. open races from scratch; while a few days
afterwards, at Wellington, in gathering in a 220yds. inter-
club race, Healy defeated M.L. champion, B. C. Frey berg,
by syds., both swimmers beginning from scratch.
At that wound in the world known as “The
Dive,” Box Hill (Vic.), the Surrey Park Swimming Club
held its annual carnival last Saturday. The day was
glorious, and over a thousand people journeyed forth to
watch the paddling. The chief event was the 100yds.
championship of Victoria, which was secured by t rank
Beaurepaire, Mason, of the Melbourne club, being second,
and Bradley, of Hobson’s Bay, third. The time was
61 2-ssec , which is 6sec. worse than Daniels record tor
the world. “ Bogey ” has now won championships over
all distances from 100yds. to a mile.
* » * *
Melbourne Friendly Societies’ Ground woke up
to the “phut-phut” of a motor carnival last Saturday.
The track had had a needed renovation, with the result
that there was some excellent racing. Five events were
run off in hbats of one, two, three, four and 10 miles, anci
all went satisfactorily until the 10-miles event was com-
menced. From the start the field spread out, and rideis
gained or lost positions in the whizz-round to such an
extent that there was a suspicion that some of the faster
men had overlapped the slower. When at the end Benn
was declared the winner, the third man, Sutton, pip-
tested that he was not third man, but first, as he was in
reality nearly a lap ahead of Benn. The judges didnt
seem to know, nobody seemed to know, and there the
matter stops.
* * * *
The Australian League footballers had one
triumph in England, anyway. During their international
match at Huddersfield, they put up so exciting a game
that a middle-aged spectator dropped dead.
Consider the tribulations of a sailing ship
when the wind isn’t blowing the right way. A
limejuicer which recently flew into Port Phillip
(Vic.) tried, at the commencement of the voyage,
to struggle out to the rolling highway of the
Atlantic via the English Channel. But
luck and the wind were against the ship,
and it beat and tacked and hammered and shoved
against all Creation until the captain got tired ;
then, in desperation, he decided to turn tail and
go round Scotland—like an old lady who is unable
to open the front door, and so scuttles out by the
back. The limejuicer blew up Channel and
scooted round the land where Haggis grows wild;
then it started to come south again, but once more
the wind was blowing in the opposite direction, and
it had to wallow helplessly for a whole month in
sight of Land’s End before the breeze changed to
a light nor’-easter, and blew it gently out of sight
of the tail-tip of Eogland. No wonder the lan-
guage of the ancient mariner is so impressive !
Some good talk from the Church Com-
monwealth, the leading Anglican paper in Aus-
tralia :
Prom a Christian standpoint, , the Labor politicians,
with all their mistakes and natural exuberance of youth,
still are the onb r ones in our midst who dream dreams of
a national Australia. The Church should be shaping the
foundation stones of a ne'w race, but she is far too busy
with her petty parochial squabbles and her still more
petty ambitions to care to understand the national spirit
of Australians. The Church of England must ever re-
main a foreign Church in our midst until our Bishops
free themselves from the environment of English mer-
chants and conservative lawyers, and throw themselves,
body, soul and spirit, into the noble task of building
up a new race for God beneath our Southern Cross
Britain is dear to us as the cradle of our race, but Aus-
tralia is Home in every sense of the word. Give us men,
therefore, as leaders who can assimilate our national
aims and longings, or else England’s Church will ever re-
main an exotic in our midst.
“ Shark ” writes :
Few people say a word in favor of the system of ap-
pointing temporary Judges. Yet what is more natural
than that a man should be tried in a position before being
permanently appointed? A good advocate may be a
sloppv Judge ; a capable barrister may be a tyrant on the
Bench. On the other hand, a little-known man at the
Bar may be a great success on the Bench—there is the
modern case of Justice Phil Street, for instance. It was
really only by a lucky set of accidents that he was tried
at all. And that recalls the fact that, after all, most men
who have reached the permanent position actually have
sometime acted as “temporary.” The lamentation about
the. temporary habit thus seems to be a mere delusive
convention. "Justice Real, of Queensland, condemning
temporary appointments, says—“ The Government is
able to deal very roughly with temporary Judges.” The
implication is that such Judges are tempted to be
Government tools. No doubt possibilities can be con-
jured up ; but, as permanent Judges have been in their
time almost all temporaries, the evil is either extremely
remote or not worth considering. Justice Pring, of the
N.S.W. Bench, was a temporary when he was given the
deferred war-pay cases to adjudicate upon, and everyone
remembers the clear and incisive style in which he repro-
bated the tactics of the defendant—which was the
Government. To make permanent appointments every
time judicial work becomes congested would be to load
the public with an intolerable burden for the rest of the
time.
BILIOUS ATTACKS.
THERE IS NO MORE EFEECTIVE REMEDY THAN
DR. MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
“ I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
bilious headaches and indigestion,” says Mrs.
Florrie Yeates, Chapel Street, Marrickville, Syd-
ney, “and found them an excellent Remedy, and
can recommend their use for these ailments.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills relieve this
trouble speedily. They open the clogged-up sys-
tem, purify the blood, and cleanse the stomach,
causing the human mechanism to work smoothly
and easily. On the appearance of bilious symp-
toms a dose of from two to four of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills should be taken, the larger dose
for a more robust grown person. A little experi-
ence will guide the patient in the use of the pills
so as to produce the best results. People differ in
the way medicine affects them, and consequently
no invariable rule can be given.


! lj
m
$
or*
EXTRA
Trousers
♦♦. OR ♦*,
Fancy Vest
GIVEN AWAY
WITH EACH SUIT ORDERED
DURING OUR GREAT
MID SUMMER SALE
Now Booming'.
We are making: this g:reat offer to
enable us to keep our larg:e staff fully
employed during: the slack season for Tailoring.
Write for New Catalogue and Patterns of our
Latest Suitings, mailed Free with Tape and
Self-Measure Form on receipt of this Coupon.
“B.” 18/2/m
SPECIAL SALE OFFER.
Please Post Patterns, etc., to
Name
Address
Stylish Suits to Measure from 50/-
F. J. PALMER & Son
Tailors and Outfitters,
PITT and PARK
STREETS,
SYDNEY
GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
m
ftNM
FREE!
BY MERELY
ASKING.
you can obtain the most interesting cycle catalogue in
the State. It will give you “loads” of information on cycles
and the B. and B. MODEL 3 in particular. Fitted
with first-class tyres and guaranteed a year for ill.
Write straight away for it.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
THe Largest C.vcle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Before
After
FAX PEOPLE!
NORMAL HERBAL OBESITY CURE will
reduce your weight three to five pounds a
week, and relieve that feeling of fulness and
oppression by producing healthy digestion and
assimilation. It strengthens the heart and
enables you to breathe easily, removes double
chin, large stomach, fat hips, &c. No person is
so fat but what it will have the desired effect.
We absolutely guarantee satisfaction in every
case. It will cost you nothing to try it. Write
for a Free Trial Sample and Free Booklet on
the dangers and cure of Obesity.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
44 /Y Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
YOU
YOUP CAR REPAIRED
WANT}
TARRANT GARAGE]
o
i
We Want to Help You
fteep your Repair Bill down
II you will come to us we will show you
just how this can be done
We offer you the benefit of our lone
experience. We’ve been in the motor
business since its inception. We
pioneered it in Australia, and have
grown with it ever since.
Our works are up-to-date in everything,
-best machinery best men best
management.
We Do Only Best Work,
And do it quickly.
Every job is treated as an urgent one.
The moment we receive your instructions
the work on your car begins, and goes
right along without stop, to the finish.
We are reasonable in charges.
We have our own Milling Machine, and
make all classes of gears and gear
wheels.
Everything is done on our own premises*
TARRANT MOTORS
106 RVSOELL ST MELBOURNE. 2912-3020
——__For ri/yr-b. de. /ssß.o--n_i--s., bn.-s,. Fouds. Rovkrs.
CHEAP CPITIOH of ON THE HOP!
PWCE 2/6
Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stocß and Station Agents.
CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED ...
PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
£4,000,000
£3,000,000
£520,000
£300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip,
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc,, entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'H Street, SYDNEY.
m
o¥~
31
:-r
.■ i
£ :r i
r #
JS3SS£3ise^^^^teJ
iglsgipSr^ P 7 5j7 -
M
ffiMffiiilj
*& *
: II
i !
: :
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
All States and New Zealand.
A well-dressed man, who looked like a
pawn in the game, was proceeded against in
Sydney recently for smuggling opium. A Customs
officer arrested him on chance as he was coming
off the Empire, and found 20 tins of opium
stowed about him in such a way that it was
evident he had an accomplice. The Customs
people’s theory was that the accused—a saloon
passenger—had made friends with the Chinese on
board, and that a bargain had been struck between
them. He used to be “ dressed up” with opium
on board, and they alleged that he got ss. for
every tin safely landed. It was shown that he
went to Melbourne lately when the Empire was
there, and he was further suspected to be
waiting for the Eastern, the next inward China
boat, to begin the game over again. He pleaded
guilty in silence to the charge of unlawfully im-
porting opium. When it came to the magistrate’s
turn to speak, that official said briefly that the fine
was £2lO. This Woke the accused up. He denied
the Customs yarn as a fiction; but though he
wouldn’t go into any elaborate explanation, he
declared he had paid £7O for the little lot found
on him. On this statement the magistrate re-
duced the fine to £l4O. Which seems a pity. It
is a tough enough job for the Customs to grapple
with the Chow smuggler, but when well-dressed
and apparently respectable Europeans join Ah
Sin in the fraud, it becomes a shade over fair odds.
A well-meaning person who was striving
to supply a long-felt want was severely suppressed
by a Sydney magistrate on February 9. This per-
son was conducting a circulating library in Oxford-
street, where for Is. you could read Marie
Corelli for two weeks—also you got a numbered
ticket. On certain Saturday's certain clients of
the library were given cash “bonuses”up to£loo,
and were asked no questions. Policemen, heavily
disguised in straw hats, patronised the library,
and one, who looked a particularly enthusiastic
“sport,” bought five tickets for the same fort-
night- he was evidently a whale on Marie Corelli.
The librarian called no evidence, but his barrister
tearfully demanded to know what harm there was
in running a library at Is. a fortnight even if the
customers did get bonuses. The magistrate, how-
ever, unkindly denounced the proceedings as a
shilling sweep, and fined the well-meaning person
£lOO on one charge and gave him six months’ gaol
on the other. But so that he might hustle round
and earn the fine, the gaol sentence was suspended
under the First Offenders Act.


tm
|W
hi
.ir
A.-,
n mm
&7 it j
By Appointment
to His Majesty
the King.
“Tfie dogs barkybut
“ tfie (hravanpaste?.
/Imb/Aiiproverb.
MICHELIN SUCCESSES IN 1908.
International Motoring Records for the past year are one long list of Triumphs for
Michelln Tyres. In every important contest Mlchellns proved supreme. The Honor Roll
of 1908 successes includes:—
VANDERBILT CUP, Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th.
TARGO.FLORIO, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth.
VOITURETTE, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth.
NAPIER and FIAT MATCH, Record of Nazzaro on Brooklands Track.
GRAND PRIX, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, sth, 7oh, Bbh, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th.
VOITURETTE, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth.
LONDON to EDINBURGH, Ist and 7th, out of first 10.
MOSCOW to ST. PETERSBURG, No. 1, Ist and 2nd ; No. 2, Ist and 2nd.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA on One Set of Michelin Tyres, by Messrs. Dutton and Aunger.
FLORIO CUP, Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th.
FLORIO CUP (for Voiturettes), Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th.
CATALONA CUP, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, sth, and 6th.
COMPEIGNE CIRCUIT, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th and Bth.
BROOKLANDS TRACK, 6-H.P. Siznire Naudin, 66 miles an hour for 137 miles.
AMERICAN GRAND PRIX, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th and Bth.
AMERICAN GRAND PRIX (for Volturette), Ist, 2nd and 3rd.
The same every previous year.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:-
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Founders of the All-Rubber Goods Industry In Australia,
234 CLARENCE. STREET, SYDNEY ;
226 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE ; 10 M’HENRY STREET, ADELAIDE ;
also at HOBART, PERTH, and BRISBANE.
The Bulletin Post Cards,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten
.. Is
... lOd
ass
i
t
9
St
/
The Edison Phonograph
is a Great Entertainer.
Mr. Edison has succeeded in making the Phonograph so clear
and perfect that its rendition of all kinds of music and other
sounds is remarkable and almost beyond belief. Not only is
it the greatest entertainer that can be introduced into a home,
but it is also a scientific apparatus, which will help to educate
the minds of the children who listen to it. Did you ever hear
the Edison Phonograph—not the so-called talking machine, but
the Edison Phonograph—the one which Mr. Edison invented,
and which has received all his marvellous improvements 1
K you have not, you do not know how perfect a rendition of
sound can be made by mechanical means.
You owe it to yourself to go to the nearest dealer and hear
the Edison. We’ll send you his address and a full list of
records and machines if you write us.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH GO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhh & Co. on each Bottle.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
The
“ Oval ”
Puzzle
Match Box.
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatly made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed this tricky
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
(Suite easy to open when you are in the know. * ull
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Joker’s Indiarubber SnaKe.
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can beheld in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in at most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 1/3 post free anywhere.
THE MAGIC NOSE BALL.
Very novel and surprising. You squeeze the ball,
and out flies the nose in a most amusing manner.
On releasing the pressure the nose at once •dis-
appears. One of the most comical novelties to be
found in our varied stock, and affords no end of
amusement for old and young. Price 1/-, or post
free anywhere for 1/2.
Send lor our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
NO. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between fieorge and Pitt Streets^Sydney^__
Business, Robbery, etc.
The clerk lms travelled a good way on the road to
trades unionism, but he is proceeding to 1,18 d ® st ’ natl ?"
somewhat reluctantly-like the donkey that hatto be
cudgelled away from his badly victualled but familiar
stable to strange fields of plenty. In an age of co-opera-
tion, the clerk is almost the only toiler who hasn t oigan-
ised his forces and demanded fair working conditions ana
wages from a civilisation that can well afford to give both.
There are various reasons for this. As a rule, the clerk is
only separated from his boss by a glass partition, ana
that, coupled with the fact that he works mostly in a
sitting posture and with his coat on, has given him the
utterly wrong idea that lie isn’t quite a working man. He
would object if he were classed as one of the idle rich, or
as a man of independent income ; hut still, the majority
of him object with almost equal fury if anyone asserts
that he is a toiler. The sentiment that forbids him
to ally himself with any body which may at some
time come into collision with “the House may be
either plain snobbery or fat-leaded loyalty, but, in either
case, it is caused by his close association with his em-
ployer. The warehouseman, the carter, the mechanic
these people are rarely' within the office; they don t
often come in contact with “the chief”; they have no
chance of being appointed manager ; also they are hardly
ever asked to drink with their temporal head after office
hours. Consequently, they don’t wholly confound their
interests with those of the man who pays them, lhe
clerk frequently does, and therein lies his undoing. By
the average clerk, trades unionism is regarded as the
dangerous weapon of the manual worker ; he only reads
about trades unions in the daily papers during times
of industrial unrest, and as nine tunes out of
ten he has adopted the opinions of his boss
and the opinion of his boss’s favorite daily'.paper, he
comes to regard trades unions as dangerous things, lhe
clerk, however, is now waking up to the fact that the
lawyer and the doctor have their unions as well as the
bricklayer and the carpenter, and he is beginning to
think seriously that it may' be quite a gentlemanly' sort
of affair after all to be a unionist. (The boss, of course,
has had his trusts, combines, and associations for many
years, but then the boss is not as other men.) An in-
stitute of standing that would educate, hold examina-
tions, and grade clerks according to their capacity would
help to simplify tlie great problem of the desk laborer.
At present a man can only' study' for an accountant and
auditor’s certificate—a matter of several years hard
“stewing” to he tackled with a brain exhausted after
the day’s work. It is a lot to ask of a diligent,
ambitious man; the average, pleasure-loving young
fellow grins and passes on to a theatre. As things are,
Almost Anything can be a clerk—of some kind. A clerk
of the ordinary, or hedge, variety is a young man of
about 21, who left school at 13 to sweep out an office and
tell callers, for ss. per week, that Mr. Bodger was out.
Eight years of kicking about the city have added to his
wretchedly small store of information a superficial know-
ledge of bookkeeping, and he has risen to the dignity of
clerk in a hardware establishment after, say, five years’
service His salary is £1 7s. 6d. per week, and he is doing
work that requires care but no special training. The
firm could easily afford to pay him £2 7s. 6d. per week,
but as he doesn’t make a noise' about it, and as the firm
knows it can get another youth at ten minutes’ notice to
do the work as well, it keeps on handing its faith-
ful employee the same old sovereign and three
half-crowns every week until Christmas or balance time.
Then perhaps, he gets another half-crown, and thence
he climbs up the monetary scale until, at the age of 30—
providing he hasn’t died or been sacked in the meantime
_he is receiving £2 7s. 6d. This is a fair example of how
the average clerk makes the acquaintance of Commerce,
and of how much he makes out of the acquaintance. The
clerk whose work is of a purely routine character, and
who is simply a brain machine of average power, must
always be at' the mercy of his employer so long as he re-
mains in his present defenceless condition. The formation
of an institute, union, or association is the only thing that
will help the humble pen-driver out of his needless starched
poverty and in that business of formation he needn’t
look for’too much help from the more prosperous among
his fellow-craftsmen— the men who draw £4, £5, and over
every week. They are well on their way to the chief-
clerk’s sub-manager’s, or accountant’s billets, and they
have to side more or less with the boss—or at least they
think they have to. So the great Clerks’ Union must be
built up by the toilers who get from ss. to £2 ss. When
it is built,'the higher-priced men will see the advantage
of climbing aboard the new Ark of Refuge.
A Perth (W.A.) Court lately separated a £lO
fine from a local vendor of summer drinks on a charge of
selling an alleged temperance beverage containing an
average of over 10 per cent, proof spirit. Defendant
assured the Bench that he didn’t think it was intoxicating,
and in support of his statement, his wife declared—(l)
That he drank a gallon of the liquid daily ; (2) that her
five children drank it considerably ; (3) that she gave it to
her youngest child, 2£ years Old ; and (4) that the whole
blessed family drank a dozen bottles a day. Now that
spongoy family is quite surprised to know what a riotous
time it has been having. # „
“Stony”: What an odor of sanctity clings to
the rifle of “Temperance Hall,” and how well it helps
he finances of a certain exploiting class!. One city’s
“ Temperance Hall,” given over on certain nights of the
week to comic specialists and popular soubrettes, was
lately hired by some “ vital science healers. These
quacks have been giving the usual worn-out exhibition of
cancer- 11 curing” and death-defying, free to all—with a
citv office, open during stated hours, where the usual
small fee is charged. It seems a pity that temperance,
when it goes to rear its monument, doesn t put a railing
around to keep out #
In the struggle to make a crust, the German and
the American and the other Protected persons having
o-rabbed so many of those that he used to munch, J. Bull
lias invented ail sorts of curious schemes and gambles.
One "amble that is causing trouble is on overdue ships.
As soon as a ship is put into that list, people who wouldn t
know the vessel from a gridiron, and probably never heard
its name, begin to re-insure it. To such an extent has
this re-insuring grown that the British shipowner can t
reinsure his own vessel, all the money in the market
bein<>- taken by outsiders. So the British shipowner is
clamoring for reform. But they don’t talk of tariff reform
so as to provide these gamblers with some honest toil;
they just so far talk vaguely of “reform.” *
“Bill Outback’’: I struck a frugal Scot at
Eookwell. He had won the first prize, 13,200 bawbees
(£3o)—l mean 12,000 bawbees—at a pigeon-murder match.
Vet he told me he was “ sair disappoints.
pointed?” I said. “And you’ve won £3O - Hej,
mon,” he said, “ but Ah had to use the left barrel three
times —a sair waste.”
* * * *
The new Turkey lias arrived all right, seemingly.
Two bi<" Yarra-batik butter firms received an order t other
day for £565 worth of Victorian butter, and it came
from an alleged firm in Constantinople. It was accom-
panied by bank drafts for £365 and £2OO, drawn on some
other people in Liverpool, England, and acceptable within
six months by, say, the Universal Deposit Bank of
London. While the butter was getting ready, the firms
thought they might as well look up their new customer s
credentials. They hadn’t looked far before the butter-
packing stopped suddenly. First came the intimation
that the £2OO draft wasn’t worth 200 peanuts ; then it
transpired that the Universal Deposit Bank ofLondon
died 17 rears back, and had remained consistently dead
ever since ; later, it was gently broken that the Liverpool
firm was merely “ Missis ’Arris” in disguise, and hadn t
been born yet, after which the boss Turkish bank begged
to sav that it had searched for the alleged Constantinople
firm 'but couldn’t find it. Then two Melbourne firms
closed their new account with some expedition, and ex-
pressed the view that this “ Occidenting of the Orient
isn’t what it’s cracked up to be.
THE PAINFUL OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The season has turned out a fairly satisfactory one .
Argus. .
Come, fellow-Tories, let us not give way to utter gne
Not yet is everything dry rot, blue mould and falling •
Yes/wipe away your falling tears, and raise a feeble
smile, . , ...
For, after all, the fatted years are with us for a while
For plundering. Ah, never mind, nor let your courage
But keep your lofty brow unlined, your whiskers still in
crimp 1
Come, cease from tearing out your hair-the sun may
shine out yet,
And if it does, we shall be there to snatch a bit, you bet .
Things may not hap precisely as the papers prophesied
Some chance there’ll be, for Him Who Has, to up and
come inside
Out of the wet where Labor is, with mud about its knees,
In Socialistic agony and suchlike miseries.
Mop up the moisture that obscures your vision, fellow-
Format must note, while Fat endures what Laborites
Perk up, old son, and take a pull, and get a firmer grip
Upon this old world’s forehead-wool—yes, take this latest
Cheer P iip 1-we yet may forge ahead upon our pampered
In spite of what the papers said, we still are Fat to-day !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


MsJ
Franco-British Exhibition,
London, 1908.
The Grandest Show the World has Seen.
ALL RECORDS BROKEN.
GRAND PRIX for Tonal Qualities and General Excellence.
DIPLOME, d’HONNEUR, Iron and Steel Work.
GOLD MEDAL, Excellence of Cabinet Work.
GOLD MEDAL, Factory Organisation.
SILVER MEDAL, Brass and Bronze Work.
FOUR SEPARATE JURIES AND THE GRAND JURY.
The leading violin expert of Europe and two French Piano-Manufacturers
judged Tonal Qualities and Construction. The other Juries judged according to
excellence of work in their separate trades.
These are the HIGHEST AWARDS EVER GAINED by any PIANO at any INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
A large number of competitors exhibited. Commendations were showered upon
us in London by eminent players and composers, including the accompanist to
Madame Adelina Patti, Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and other experts. Specimens were
purchased for leading French and English hotels, including the newest and largest
hotel of London—the Straftd Palace Hotel. Consult us about your old piano and
instal the Beale Piano to the joy of your household.
Eleven thousand Beale Pianos are now in use
Direct from factory to family.
Guaranteed for 25 years.
Cash or Easy Terms.
Catalogues by Post.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
378 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next Q.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
priop of the best imported instruments.


OPEN
FACE,
12/6.
HIGHER
GRADE
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face Keyless
WATCHES, Splendid Timekeepers,
Extra Strong Short-wind movement,
12/6-
Higher Grade, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/,
‘CITY PRICES” straight to you in your own home without the expense o a
trip to the city. Our Up to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT can supply
you as easily and advantageously as if you were a resident of Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to-day for a copy of our 304-page
Illustrated Catalogue. It will help you in
making your Xmas selection. Sent Post Free
to any address.
SHOPPING BY POST.
No matter where you live, you can rely on
our up-to-date Mail Order Dept, to serve you
promptly and satisfactorily. All goods sent
carriage free to any address.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, 25 /-•
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/107, £5/10/. Guaran-
teed 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
A. SAUNBERS.
Isct. Gold Shamrock Loaf
BROOCH, set with fine
White Pearls and Sap-
nhire or Turquoise,
£4/10/--
Pearls and Dia-
monds, £B/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS. '
9ct. Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Extra
Strong Safety Chain, £l5/15/--
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/, £3/10/. _
Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/, according to size.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon Circle
BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/--
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls ajtd Ruby
or Sapphire, 10/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Dog and
Kennel CHARM,
7/6-
9ct. Gold, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 12/6-
15ct. Gold, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX, Richly Hand
Engraved, t»/o-
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 12/6, 15/.
Smaller, 4/6, 5/6.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£2-
USTRAfJA
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold “Southern Cross” BROOCH,
Set Red, Blue, and Green Stones,
12/6.
Without Map of Australia, 12/6.
15ct Gold, set with Tourmalines, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £j£.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Mouse
and Candlestick
CHARM, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, Silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns, 5/6-
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold-filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/7/6; 15ct. Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
PENDANT,
set Bloodstone
and Sardonyx,
12/6
Vm
r.m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
Oct
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, Zah-
15ct. Gold
Ruby,
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearl,
and Sapphire, 22/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Slipper
Lace Pin, 4/6-
Larger, 5/6, 7/6.
In Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, 7/b-
Smaller, 6/6. Larger, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Real Amber Stem, Solid
Silver Mounts and Screw, Straight or Bent
Stem, 12/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Thistle
CHARM. Ame-
thyst Thistles,
12/6.
ALL GOODS SENT POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT and NECK-
LET, set fine Pearls and Ame-
thysts, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Rustic Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set fine Pearls and Ruby i
Sapphire, with Extra Strong Safety Chain attached,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather,
nicely fitted Pure Silver Mounts and Lock,
10/6.
Other styles, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A .SAUNDERS. •
loot. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe and Whip
SCARF PIN, 7/6-
Larger, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather,
nicely finished, •>/(>■
In Seal Leather, 6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/8, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap-
A. SAUNDERS.
Jet. Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12/6-
loot. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl-set Bird
and Sprays, 20/-.
A. 6, vOERS:
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20/-.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAGAGERS.
r t. Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Rubies and Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/--
For pierced or un-
pierced ears.
a. Saunders.
9ct. Gold “Good Wishes” Bar and
Heart BROOCH, 10/6-
15ct. Gold, 25/.
/!
/
M
N
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
Engine-turned Cases, i-Plate Lever movement, fully
iewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance, £2--
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6. In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l3,
£2O, to £5O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 years.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double Cut Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Hand-Clasp
RING, 25/--
15et. Gold, £2.
18et. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EAR-
RINC.I, set with
Tourmalines, £2.
For pierced or
unpierced ears.
Other Styles, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Chain PURSE, Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, White Metal
Chain, 8/6-
Other styles, with Silver Chains,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 21/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct.
Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS, 17/6-
15et. Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Enve-
lope CHARM,
12/6-
Any name en-
graved free.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 Qeorge-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


X
r
m
n
«
E
(M
m
r§s3
yy
(MMgg&f
i
K
Q
22!
E
H
&S 3
o
SB
'O
iS
a
U
BOQ,
ra


AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
Prevention is better than cure.
Take care of your diet, and your health will take
care of itself.
Health, wealth and happiness. Get the first, and
the others will follow.
THE BEST PROOF THAT WE ARE ON THE WRONG TACK, as far as our food programme is concerned, is that
when we set out to win even a golf championship, or a bicycle race, we re-organise our menu, and cut out a whole
*ct of provender in order to bring ourselves into form.
THERE NO REASON why we shouldn’t be in form pretty well all the time.
THE MAN OR WOMAN WHO NEEDS TONICS AND PICK-ME-UPS have their engines racing, and soon the
bearings begin to wear out, the valves leak, the wheels go slower and slower, and, as medical science has not yet succeeded
in supplying spare parts for the human frame, the wheels just stop. The census returns are reduced by one.
THE WRONG SORT OF LUBRICATOR will soon ruin any mechanism.
DIET AND DRINK keep our joints limber, renew our wasted tissues, and enables us to live to a ripe old age when
we use the right sort.
THE ATTAINMENT OF HEALTH AND TREATMENT BY DIET tells you the brands to get.
THE AUTHOR SAYS : “ For many years past I have been advocating an alteration in the food habit at present practised
throughout Australia, it is more than likely that it will be epoch making in its results.”
THE ILLUSTRATED AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL GUIDE (2 vols.)
containing 130 drawings, several colored plates and a mannequin—together with a fully illustrated private and
separate section for women, over 1000 pages, bound half morocco, stiff board, gilt lettered* Published at £3 3s*
THE ATTAINMENT OF HEALTH and THE TREATMENT OF DIFFERENT DISEASES BY MEANS OF DIET,
678 pages, 4 drawings, bound in cloth, stiff board, red lettered* Published at 10s* 6d*
THE FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT OF AUSTRALIAN INFANTS IN HEALTH AND DISEASE,
340 pages, stiff boards. Published at 2s* 6d*
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
60 SHILLINGS.
IN THE BIISH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MOCH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
. 1909.
To the Manager, THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
I
The illustrated Australian Medical Guide, 2 Vols. ... £3 3
The Attainment of Health ... ... ... ... ... O 10
The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ... O 2
Postage ... ... O 5
£4 1
remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which you undertake to forward the above works complete , carefully packed ,
and post free. I am, yours etc.,
O
6
6
O
O
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name
A d dress


ON THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale— 2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN' THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
PROBATE, DIVORCE AND
ADAIIRALTY DIVISION
(DIVORCE).
TO ROBERT NOBLE BUTCHER,
late of 59 Dee Terrace, Jarrovv, in the County
of Durham (Butcher).
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition lias been
issued in this Division citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of Susan Eliza Butcher
of 59 Dee Terrace Jatrow in the County of
Durham praying for permanent maintenance. In
default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereto. And take
further notice that for the purpose aforesaid
within one month after the date of this pub-
lication an appearance must be entered at the
Divorce Registry Somerset House Strand London.
ROBERT A. PRITCHARD,
Registrar.
Isadore Goldman,
9 Southampton Street,
Bloomsbury Square,
London, W.C., England,
Agent for Niel & Crute, Sunderland, Durham,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Missing Friends.
IF GEORGE DURNO WATSON, who left
London in the year 1882, landing in Sydney by
the sailing ship Darling Downs, and was visited
at his last known address, Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, by his brother Charles in the year 1886,
will communicate with his sister, Mrs. Elizabeth
Ohren, Sunderland Road, Forest Hill, London,
he will hear of something to his advantage.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
will appear in the Romantic Opera,
Til K DUCIIPSS OF DANTZIC
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HEA T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT DRAMATIC SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK,
for a Limited Number of Nights,
Baroness Orczy’s Famous Romantic Play,
THE SCARL LT PIMPERNEL
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: Mr. PRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager: Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
DECISIVE SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, Headed by the Talented Australian
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN DRAMA,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees : Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell&Gunn
GRAND DRAMATIC SEASON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
The Latest Dramatic Success,
THE OLD EOLKS AT HOME.
Cast headed by MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY
and CONWAY WINGFIELD.
Box Plan on view at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3s., 2s. & Is.
HE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
jHE GLACIAR I U M, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
“Back to the Pld Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
______ t H E A T R £, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS,
r.rilliant and Elaborate First Part, BONNIE SCOTLAND.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, World’s Incomparable Juggler.
SI’ROSS and FELLOWS, American Instrumentalists.
GEOFFREY and BENSON, Comedy Artists.
Great Success of LAWSON and NAMON.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette. 1
MR. CHARLES FANING, THE TWO PRICES.
Mr. ANDY ROBERTS, MISS NELLIE MAUNSEL.
PRICES—3s.. 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
P E R~A HO U SE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Power of the Idol.”
THREE MASCOTTES, Dance Artists.
FIVE ST. LEONS, Acrobats.
J. W. WINTON and McGINTY, Ventriloquists.
YEOTHA and CAPT. G. GRADE, Sharpshooters.
J. W. RICKABY, Character Burlesque Comedian.
THE LATONAS, American Vaudeville Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. S3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is. J
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE, !
ALMA BARBER, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOYDALL. I
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual, j
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS OF
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS, j
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
in
MY PARTNER,
Specially Reconstructed by Mr. Walter Baker.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan's.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices —55., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan s.
The glaciarium, melbo urne.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
ft
Jk
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Flan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THEB O | S I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
' PICTURES. ' West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
■‘PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD .
VALUE ENORMOUSLY”
lancet. A
COCOA
?v
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
YOU CAN’T LOOK TOO MANLY
In the battlefield of business, and if you lack a moustache or
your present one is too thin, your appearance detracts from
your prestige.
CAPILLARINE
will rapidly produce a strong moustache that will remain
with you permanently. A little rubbed on before retiring is
all tbe treatment necessary.
PRICE 10/6 a Jar,
Posted in plain wrapper to any
address in the world.
CRAI6 & AITKEN, 654 <S«org€ St., Sydijsy
Established 25 Years.
-ffler
“ 0.K.” : These bioscope plays from Paris—notably the
“ Duke of Guise ” and “ Tlie Red Hand ’’—the Australian
rights in which have been secured by West, strike me as
being too pantomimic in many places. The acting tells
the tale too bellowdram itically. There is a redundancy
of gesture and facial expression, not unnatural, perhaps,
to French or Italian mummers, but distinctly artificial in
the eyes of less demonstrative people. It suggests that
the performers were taking no risks of being misunder-
stood when they tackled the dumb show. To my way of
thinking, the most artistic member of “ The Red Hand ”
co. is the actress who plays the giddy girl at the “ Inno-
cents’ Den,” and whose specialty is dancing. The lead-
ing man and the others are expert mummers —there isn’t
a duffer among them—but the girl seems to get the maxi-
mum of effect with the minimum of apparent effort. In
the ordinary funny pictures, which also are mostly photo-
graphed in France, the acting is very crudely exagger-
ated as a rule. The male lovers punch themselves on the
heart to express devotion to the girl, the alleged British
tourists are obsolete caricatures with long, weeping
whiskers, the presentations of joy, sorrow or alarm are
too violent to be humorous. In fact, the French are not
a humorous people. They are gay and volatile and panto-
mimic, but their sense of humor is not keen and their
notion of being immensely funny reduces all their comic
bio-scenes to something below the level of Andersonian
bellowdrama. , Even when the situations are most droll,
the acting makes them farcical to the verge of puerility.
“ Bloggs ” : Julius Knight “ objects to applause during
a performance because it is inartistic.” Ye gods, pittites,
and dress-circle frequenters ! A night or two back I went
to see Julius as “Rat” Reresby. In due course, the
minions of his enemies started branding him. The deed
was done in the wings, and the only intimations the
audience had of it for a while were howls —presumably
issuing from Julius—and a horrid smell of charred flesh.
Then Julius staggered into view with the raw red
stripes of the hot irons on his brow and on his arms.
The hardiest of playgoers shivered involuntarily. The
illusion was painfully complete. Driven to frenzy, Julius
then stabbed himself. The curtain rose a minute after
the consummation of the tragedy, and disclosed Julius,
stripes and all, bowing with much grace and cheeriness
where the form of “ Rat ” Reresby had writhed. If that
is Art, stop me for a mutton-headed varlet.
The “Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos “Faust” (B.
24/12/’08). Barry Sullivan, during his lesseeship of the
Melbourne Royai in the early ’sixties, produced the play,
which had a six-weeks run. Sullivan, who was sometimes
eccentric and never did things by halves, wanted a peal
of bells for the play. At that time old St. James’ had
the only peal in use in Melbourne. (There was a peal
which had been cast by Murphy, of Thomas-street,
Dublin, for St. Patrick’s, but the bells lay on the floor in
St. Francis’ church for years until St. Patrick’s was ready
for them ; and, by the way, on these bells was set forth in
large letters the fact that they were for “ Melbourne,
South Australia.”) Sullivan wished to interview the boss
of the bellringers, and made his way to St. James’. As
there was no official about the place, Sullivan dropped
into Win. Barton’s hotel, opposite. W.B. was an old
London showman, who had been burned out, uninsured,
and had come to Australia. Sullivan strutted in and
inquired. Barton, junior, offered to send for the chief
bellringer, Bill Something, who was employed at the rail-
way workshops in Spencer-street. Bill arid a bell-ringing
mate put in an appearance, ini working clothes.
B. Sullivan explained his requirements : he wanted a peal
of bells for “ Faust,” and he wanted the men to ring
them. “Nothing easier,” said Bill; “MeEwan’s will
supply the bells and I’ll find the ringers.” To McEwan’s
the trio went, Sullivan, got up in his best sartorial style,
marching between the two grimy workmen. The bells
were chosen, St. James’ ringers engaged, and the muffled
peal in the Cathedral scene was not the cheapest item in
the programme.
“ Stargazer ” : The idea that an ac-tor never forgets lie
is an ac-tor is a base libel. Witness my experience with
the celebrated comedian, tragedian, and versatile char-
acter actor, Montgomery Brown. I had the good fortune
to stay at the same hotel in Goatville with the genius in
question, when he was playing leads with Canter and
Sprinter’s Continental and American Dramatic Co. We
had the honor of Montgomery Brown’s company and his
numerous conversation all the morning. Montgomery
had numerous absorbing themes of conversation. For
instance, the glory of Brown, the beauty of Brown,
the successes of Brown, and Brown's gigantic intellect
as made manifest in his interpretation of 447 characters.
At 1 o’clock we had dinner, and a break in the
conversation. Carton cut the goose. It was a fine
goose, in fair round belly, with good onion lined, and
Montgomery Brown’s glittering eye was fixed upon it
with a great tenderness. His mouth became water-
logged as he waited. Said Carton, suddenly resuming
the recent theme of discussion: “And what is your
favorite part, Mr. Brown?” “Two thick slices off the
breast, if you please ! ” said Mr. Brown, with unction.
He was no longer an aotor—only an eater.
“ S.S.” : The fact that the Taits are running' their Sun-
day night concerts at the Glaciarium undisturbed implies
that Victorian Governments to-day take a more liberal
view of Sabbath observance than they did a few years
back. Possibly, however, the goodies have not yet awak-
ened to a horrified consciousness of the iniquity that is
being carried on under their noses. Thousands of cheer-
ful people, who ought to be miserable in church, gather
in the huge building every Sawbath evening, and get
singing, instrumental music, and biograph pictures at a
bob and a tanner a time. The only difference in the
matter of payment from ordinary workaday shows is that
you drop your coin in a tin at the door instead of pushing
it through a hole in a sentry box.
The expositions of dancing almost in the nude have
given an impetus to the ultra-sesthetic humbug of beauty
worshippers. The cult is growing apace in Europe. In
Paris and other cities there have always been more or less
dubious resorts where the nude was a numerous cult, but
these places didn’t profess to be haunts of art. Now,
however, that Maud Allan and other dancers have taken
to interpreting the spirits of the seasons and the moods
of man and similar things, in a girdle of beads and a scrap
of gauze, nudity has become a sort of religion. In Berlin,
for instance, a number of enthusiasts formed themselves
into a society, and commenced a vigorous propaganda in
the interests of beauteous nakedness. They issued a
magazine in which the letterpress was slightly less daring
than the illustrations of ladies in the altogether. Of
course, the magazine prospered, and the society went a
further step by instituting periodical beauty-evenings at a
Berlin concert hall. At first the evenings were only
open to subscribers; but later it was decided to admit
the public. The public came. Then German Judkinses
heckled the Minister of the Interior, and urged him to
prohibit the performances. On the other hand, the
beauty-lovers protested against theincurable Philistinism
of their critics, urged that the displays were entirelypure
and edifying, and invited the whole of the Reichstag and
Prussian Diet to witness a special private performance.
So, one very wet evening last November, a body of
deputies from both Houses, some accompanied by their
wives and some even by their daughters, put in an
appearance at the local concert hall, where they were
treated to classic dancing in such undress that they won-
dered whether there was any clothing at all on the
premises. If Maud Allan was a shock to the Londoners,
Fraulein Olga Desmond, who appeared at the Prussian
show, would have dumbfounded them. She began with
a comparatively proper display in some plenteously filled
gauze ; but with each succeeding event the gauze grew
beautifully less, and Olga grew beautifully more. The
deputies vaguely speculated as to when the slowly lessening
gauze and the slowly increasing Olga would reach the
limit. Slowly Olga shed her attire until she revealed her-
self crowned with a diadem, and sporting nothing else
but a faintly perceptible girdle of coins. And she pranced
about under the lime to the accompaniment of a softly
twanged harp, while her artistic audience looked on spell-
bound. Now the nakedness of Olga and of other artists
is such a controversial subject that the Government can’t
seemingly decide whether it should be clothed in the in-
terests of public morality or encouraged in the interests
of art.
“ D.” : The cabled message that the London Crystal
Palace debenture-holders have appointed a receiver will
not surprise those who know that dismal fabric. It.
possesses the same air of empty, echoing gloom that used
to characterise the Westminster Aquarium—and in Aus-
traliayou can sample the same brand of gloom in the Queen
Victoria Markets. Why is it that buildings of this sort-
are invariably sad and grimy and suggestive of people with
mouldy clothes and chronic liver complaints ? The Crystal
Palace only cheers up when a big football match occurs
in its grounds, or when its annual horse-show transpires.
The latter is, after the Richmond show, the most im-
portant in England. All the best Association and Rugby
teams war on the Crystal Palace Ground ; and latterly
W. G. Grace organised a cricket team which has the
Palace for its headquarters. But nothing seems to liven
up the. Palace itself. I have seen pantomimes there as a
boy, and they depressed me more than I can say. I have
heard provincial bands blare amidst that wilderness of
sooty glass. Also I have attended dreadful concerts in
the same place. If it were in the heart of London instead
of in a remote suburb thereof, I think the Crystal Palace
would still be a huge, gaunt, unsightly frost. The vogue
for crystal buildings went out with chandeliers.
“ Lyre ” : One Bennett, a musical veteran, gives a long'
knd welcome screed in the London Daily Telegraph, of
about, a month ago, on Catherine Hayes, She was born
ill Limerick, in humbler life than Amy Castles. The
local bishop brought her to light. A subscription gave
her three valuable yearJV of tuition in Dublin. Then
Garcia took her in hand. She had a flute voice all
through the scale of the soprano, with lower notes un-
surpassably rich. Also, she was a handsome, tall slip of
a girl. Her operatic dbbut at Marseilles was highly suc-
cessful. Yet she further studied in Italy, and made her
name there in opera before going to London, where she
pleased as well as anyone. She had ovations in Ireland.
Then she went to America, and forfeited £3OOO to break a
New York operatic engagement, because of the over-
powering prospects for a concert tour. This fully justi-
fied her temerity. It is alleged that in San Francisco
£230 was given for the first ticket. A cunning advt., as
with Genin, the New York hatter, giving £BO for Jenny
Lind’s first ticket. Catherine is a lustrous tradition in
Australia. She was here twice, having in the meantime
been to the East Indies. She married Bushnell, her
agent. Notwithstanding heavy losses in specs, she left
£16,000 when she died at the early age of 36.
“Harrison O.”: There have not been many instances,
I think, of duels being fought in real earnest by actors.
I can discover only a few. George Garrick (a brother of
David) once fought a sort of an armed scrap with a
fellow-mime, by name Braddley. It transpired because
George induced Mrs. Braddley to fracture her matri-
monial vow. When the two met, Braddley was so nervous
that he could scarcely hold his pistol. Garrick, on the
contrary, was as cool as penny-ice Irvine, and when the
signal was given to do the deed, he fired in the air. Just
then a hackney coach arrived upon the scene, and from
it emerged the fair Mrs. B. with dishevelled hair, and in
a generally unfastened condition. Flinging herself upon
her knees,'she cried to each of the combatants in turn,
“Save him! Save him!” She then fell into hubby’s
arms, but, recollecting herself a minute later, rushed
into those of her "lover. In 1792 Kemble and
Aikin fought a goreless duel. In France simi-
lar encounters were somewhat more exciting.
Roselli, the good-natured French actor, was killed
by Ribou in one such collision. The quarrel came about
because the latter refused to relinquish a “fat” part
upon which Roselli hadset hisheart. In France, too, several
she-mummers took part in some more or less sanguinary
encounters. In 1649 Mademoiselle Beaupre sent a chal-
lenge to Katherine des Urlis. They fought with swords,
in the Palais Royal Theatre. Early in the encounter
Katherine was presented with a severe wound, and had to
fly ignominiously in order to frustrate the murderous in-
tentions of her enraged rival. There is another report
of a couple of minor females fighting at the Paris Opera
House with blunt foils, behind the scenes, during a per-
formance ; it is said that they succeeded in damaging
each other pretty considerably. The encounter, it is
alleged, arose out of a dispute over a dog, which each
claimed had been presented to her by a certain wealthy
and notorious Count who was in the habit of chasing the
more-or-less fleeting Florence and her sisters. The "most
famous encounter that I know of is the one that did not
take place between Madame Theodore, the famous dancer,
andßeaumesne, the singer, bothof the Opera House. These
two donned their most elaborate raiment and annexed a
couple of seconds each, but before the word to shut their
eyes and fire was given, Rey, a he-member of the company,
intervened aniiimplored them to settle the dispute by arbi-
tration. His eloquence availed him not, so during a final
exhortation the wily vocalist placed the pistols in the wet
grass, with the result that, when the triggers were drawn,
both weapons missed fire, and there was nothing left for
it but to declare the scrap off.
Governor Hunter, a very early potentate
of-N.S.W., constituted himself an Arbitration
Court and Industrial Disputes Court all in one.
When master and man disagreed over wages the
Governor made a few inquiries, or just guessed at
things without inquiry, and sent along a constable
with a wages sheet. If the employer paid short
of the amounts fixed he was fined ; if the work-
man struck or loafed he was flogged. Here are a
few items from one official wages sheet: —
Reaping wheat, per acre .. .. .. £0 10 0
Falling timber, per acre .. .. .. 0 10 0
Planting Indiah corn, per acre .. .. 0 7 0
A day’s wagbSi,swith board .. .. 0 10
A week’s with board .. .. 0 6 0
Yearly jvag'e|Ayith board .. .. 10 0 0
The pay wasn't liberal, but about the liberality of
the flogging there was no doubt whatever.
Writes M. P. Adams, the paragraphist
attached to Wirths’ Circus, from Dunedin
(M.L.): —
The show is playing here for a week on a pitch opposite
the cemetery, and the tombstones reflect the electric
light. At times we have a parade of elephants on one
side of the street, whilst on the other a funeral procession
reminds us that in the midst of circus we are in death....
This is a great country for us. Everywhere we had
a full tent at night, and we take good money at the
menagerie during the afternoon. . . . Tourists complain
bitterly of Prohibition in the South. The people who
keep the “Warding hotel” do not cater for the public
like the beer-selling publican does. However, the fat
man is getting fatter. The brewer sells his beer direct to
the householder at 2s. 6d. per gallon, and the householder
licenses himself to get drunk on his own premises. So far
I’ve observed more drunks in the prohibition towns than
in the pub centres ; but I will take further notes before
deciding as to whether Prohibition kills more than it
cures.
Considering that Adams is an athlete with a
rooted objection to intoxicants and tobacco, his
disrespect for “Prohibition” is more impressive
than the plaudits of teetotallers who don’t want
to see a drunk in a “ prohibition ” town even
when he is on exhibition.
The Sydney City Council has not extended
the enforcement of its expectoration bylaw to
the splendid new baths in the Domain., This
institution has become the chronic-spitters’ para-
dise. It is the one public place in all Sydney
where not to spit in all directions all the time is
to be out of the fashion. Cavill’s floating baths,
on the point further round, have therefore had
an overflow of swimmers who can’t stomach the
City Council’s bathing reserve as at present con-
ducted. Thus it is that Cavill’s are known
amongst swimmers as the Pontoon, and the Cor-
poration’s as the Spittoon, Baths. What is badly
needed in the interests of health and cleanliness,
is a metal gutter running round the edge—a con-
trivance that has been found to work well in
London and Berlin. Such swimmers as refused to
use it should be dealt with even as the citizen who
employs the city pavement as a cuspidor.
“Fort-street,” Sydney, Australia’s oldest
national school, will have a “diamond jubilee”
this year. The old main building of the school
dates from Macquarie’s Governorship, which was
responsible for so many characteristic Sydney
structures. On the keystone of the doorway is
the legend “G.R., 1815,” giving it only six
years short of the century. Originally the
building was the old military hospital, but
it was passed over to another use when
the national school system was adopted in 1849.
The first master was Daniel O’Driscoll, and the
first mistress Mrs. F. .Johnson. Frederick Bridges,
who became a pupil teacher, and finally Under-
secretary for Public Instruction, was one of the
first pupils. Later on the Teachers’ Training
College was established in the old building, but it
recently migrated to Blackfriars, because, for one
reason, there wasn’t room for the trainees as well
as for the 2000 boys and girls who now crowd the
roll.
STATISTICAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Writing on New Year’s Day, our London correspondent
remarks:—“Twenty-one pantomimes are now in full
swing at the city and suburban theatres of London.
S. M. Herald (6/%/'08).
Think of it, camerados, who go in for figure-juggling 1
Twenty-one pantomimes in full swing together !
Consider the multitude of female legs which that phrase
connotes.
Legs in thousands and thousands
Attached to exactly half that number of girls
(For in panto, the one-legged coryphee is a thing un-
known).
Brood, too (en passant ), upon the infinite diversity of girl.
In thriee-seven pantos., girls of all weights, shapes, com-
plexions, and dispositions would foregather.
There would be samples to suit all tastes.
Muse anent the baldheads at those entertainments,
And the immense number of them ;
Likewise the Liars —
They who allege that it is their wish to “ take the
children to the pantomime,”
But who merely wish, as a fact, to take their race-glasses
there.
The dissolute and mendacious ones are to be found nightly
at all those 21 theatres.
Say 300 at each show.
Multiply that by 21,
And the result by 50—the average probable run of the
lot —
And you get a fair estimate of the mighty army of Sin
That goes pantomiming.
Exercise your.minds.re the flood of slushy sentiment that
is being unleashed at the present moment
In the riot of panto, which the Herald mentions.
Songs, plain, colored, and maudlin, are being carolled and
howled,
Sighed and moaned,
By females inefficiently disguised as males,
And vice versa ,
In scores and hundreds,
For subsequent assassination
On a million barrel-organs.
Stupendous thought!
And then the jokes !
Great Noah ! the wan, doddering, old jokes !
Quips that our First Parents tore from the first chestnut
shrubs of Eden e’er ever the world grew up,
And retailed to each other with much complacence ;
Japes that will not die—
The Flying Dutchmen of jocosity.
They are raging virulently, countlessly, just now
Amid gallons of peroxide,
Tons of padding,
And myriads of false teeth,
Wigs,
Hips,
Fronts,
Voices,
And other things that were better dead
And coffined.
The imagination of the Lightning Calculator reels—aye,
boggles at the thought,
And so he gives the subject best.
n.s.w.
D.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN a'nd NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking 1 , Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual Pe
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
TOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hrad Ok pick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over 4J3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring- £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Ciiikf Office for New South Walks:
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon’.' Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Iforth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
IW.S.'W.
(Ijont de piete 0. s\. Co., Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREA6H ST., 74:, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. K Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. L'ANG Assistant Manager.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO., LTD.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company
are hereby notified that a dividend of 2s.
per share for half-year ended 30th November
last is now payable at the Company’s Office,
81 Pitt Street.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
To Users of Acetylene
$
04
Gas,
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
*. &
Zaw Points
iSr /nventorj
by letter, and reliable ad-
vice free on all matters
concerning the obtaining
_ of Pitents. Clients as-
sured of the most skilled attention in draft-
ing engineering, and chemistry. A. J. CAL-
LINAN, Patent Attorney, Rialto, Melbourne
Skipping.
N ord
D eutscher
loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseyies, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 695. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and' other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
a-a(iina— , Co * Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.) ; J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
February 20.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
AFRIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *lj> I*> 0 to &A j> 0
London ■■ ? n r.n 36 5 0
New fork, Boston, to. 2o o 0 to ao
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DalqeU) and Company. L.M.,
Acwnts in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIK€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and'FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
gtoampr. Pious. I Commander. | Leave Sydney.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 78.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandara.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
* HO LI PAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. (d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. (e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date on| y being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Crant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
PuroKase L„a.„ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch. Managers, or to the Sbcrtctary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Banking.
Bank of [)*■ South UJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
of Proprietors ...
..£2,500,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
.. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. C. K. MacKbllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir NormanD MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
1 William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors: -j siiepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
London Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, andr the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
|he gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. •• 1,550,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,750,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C, R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Hotels, &c.
Grosvetvor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments:
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 6/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 860 Central, 300 City.
k EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, February 27.
•S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle to N. -West Ports),
March 12.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, February 20.
S.S. Wollowra, Feb. 27.
Best, and Cheapest Itoute to (iold/ields,.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KINO STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, February 20.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 27.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth, I
Hopeto.un, and all I
other W.A. ports.) J
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR
DAY, February 20.
BRISBANE 'j
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 20.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUK,
DAY, February 27.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE- BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
f New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LT3.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.=— 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lx»es.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET.”
n •wo Tons B. 6. Hayward, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
WiUbe despatched from BRISBANE , 6th March
■ “ r SYDNEY X2th March
” ” ” HOB ART , 17th March
” ” ” MELBOURNE * 22nd March
” ” ” ADELAIDE 27th March
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-bert
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
dick amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provision
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
PARES— Saloon. Third Olass,
LONDON and I £49 10s . £13135. £15155. £17175.
Ll ' fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be follmved at regular four-weekly intervals *y
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & 00., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane i
!: d J L O WE!>TH O McScH“S“i ».. Ltd., HM.,
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
m
“Exchange”
Virginia
Cigarettes.
Plain, 50 2/6
„ 100 4/6
Tipped, 50 2/9
„ 100 51-
A Popular
Cigarette,
Mild and Cool,
made express-
ly for us in
Loudon.
398 George St.,
SYDNEY.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, 18-


\
is
The very Drinß
for a Hot Day
and a heahhy drink for any day
is a. gIaLSS of ‘Montserrat’
MONTSERRAT
Lime Juice Cordial.
is prepared solely from the choice
cultivated limes of the beautiful island
of Montserrat, where the lime tree reaches
its highest perfection* The juice
tutes a health drink for all the year round,
but is especially beneficial in hot weather;
it keeps the blood cool and the brain
clear. ‘Montserrat* Lime Juice is
essentially a home drink for the family;
its pleasant and refreshing taste makes
it appreciated by young and old.
To make sure you get the pure and unadul*
terated Lime*Fruit Juice order the Sweet*
ened orUnsweetened genuine'Montserrat*
Sold by all Chemists,
Grocers, Wine Mer-*
chants & Storekeepers
m
m
m
m
m
k
m
;
■
1
ran
THE THERMOS FLASK.
EVERY Squatter, Motorist, Yachtsman, and everyone
whose work or pleasure takes them out into the
heat or cold, will find the celebrated THERMOS
FLASK invaluable.
It keeps hot drinks hot for 24 hours and cold drinks
cold for days.
Fill it up with a pint of hot tea in the early morning 1 ,
and when you feel you would like a drink of hot tea,
it is there just as when you poured it in. Just the same
with an iced whisky and soda, or any other cold drink.
Australians will welcome this flask, and, as the supply
is not unlimited, we advise early ordering.
Makes a splendid gift from one friend to another, or
for a wife to give to her husband,
THERMOS FLASK, nickelled finish, and covered
with plain leather, to hold one pint, sent securely packed
and post free for £1 15s.
t
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd


IN BANANA LAND
Like a good many other Queenslanders,
ex-Premier Philp is evidently feeling his feet
again in a financial way. He climbed up to a bank
directorate last week.
Aid. Wilson, Brisbane’s new Mayor, was
a ringer in the sheds away out on the rim and edge
of Queensland in his early days. He is now a
leading professional member of Tattersall’s Club,
where the sheep are fewer, but the clip is much
better.
Bananaland has just witnessed a remark-
able trek from Coulston Lakes (N.S.W.). The
Rad el family, who have gone on to a 1000-acre
patch at Biggenden, consists of 18 children and 24
grandchildren. It was Cow that called the tribe
north.
Miss Denison, of London, has sent the
town of Bowen (Q.) a portrait of her father, Sir
William Denison, who was Governor of N. S.
Wales when some inquisitive mariner discovered
Port Denison, on which Bowen is situated. The
picture is to be hung in the local Town Hall.
South Brisbane has lost an ex-mayor in
Richard Southall, who has passed down the long
lane. The last big contract he carried out was
the building of the head office of theQ.N. Bank
25 years ago—great fluted columns adorning a
massive stone pile, typical of the pace which
the boodling directors set just before the Great
Crash arrived.
Rabbi J. M. Myers, who died lately in
Brisbane, looked like putting up an age record in
Australia. He arrived in Brisbane nearly 50
years ago, and before that had led a strenuous
missionary career in Adelaide. His bent was
towards the schooling of young Hebrews, but he
contributed largely to the general mental efforts
of the growing State.
Ex.-Minister A. .1. Thynne hasn’t in these
days much time either to pursue politics or to
chase the fleeting six-and-eightpence. .He is the
Australian representative of a concern which has
got hold of a patent metal-recovery process, and
when he thinks of it he has visions' of millions.
This process, which of late has kept Thynne busy
rushing backwards and forwards between Queens-
land and England, is supposed to give amazing
results with complex ores ; and the Australian
Trimetallic Co. (A. J. Thynne, managing
director) is looking up all manner of mines which
have hitherto been given up as bad jobs by
metallurgists. Among others, the co. has taken
an option lately over the old Costigan mine in
N.S. W., though there it has struck some trouble,
because another man reckons he has a better right
to the underlay blocks; and the Minister for
Mines has to soive the problem.
The Sugar Cocky.
“1v.0.5.” vindicates the sugar cocky
“ Cynicus ”(B. 2S/l/’O9) makes, an attack upon sugar-
farmers which calls for rebuttal. Says “Cynicus” —“A
lot of him [i.e., of the sugar-cock v breed] won’t work,
and hates the very name of toil.” I know something of
sugar farmers, for I lived amongst those of the Mackay
district for a decade. I have known them to be accused
of growling, of being hard to please with weather condi-
tions, and of being gluttons for work ; but of being lazy,
never. Go on to farms of any size you choose, from the little
one that produces a hundred tons of cane to the big one
where the crop runs into thousands, and you will
always find the owner a worker, taking his turn at grub-
bing, ploughing, chipping or carting, even taking a knife
when his contractors are hard-pushed to keep the wag-
gons going. Also he often drives his own oil-engine, or
the more old-fashioned gee-gee, and cuts the chaff. He
rises before the sun, and works till the same has given h;s
job best for the day—works hard, too, and looks well and
thrives on it. In the bad old days of kanakas, bad
seasons, and no bonus, many of the smaller farmers could
not make ends meet; but, instead of sitting at home
moaning, they took odd jobs, cutting firewood to send to
the mills, carting, and even navvying.
Built like that, these men have established a great
industry, and a White Man’s industry. And but for
them, it. would never have been a white man’s industry ;
for it is on the farms, not on the plantations, that white
labor has been such a success. They have proved, not
only that the white man can work here for a season and
then go south to recuperate, but that he can live here
year in year out, and make a home for himself and his
wife, and rear and educate a white family ; and a big
family too, such as Australia is hungering for. Drought,
floods, fires, insect pests, and financial octopuses these
men have fought, and are still fighting. They have not
done it by “ roosting on the premises and chasing the
flies away.”
They are good neighbors, and in time of trouble and
distress are white all through. A farmer’s cane is
“ burnt,” and must he got off in a few days to save it.
Along come his neighbors, with their drays and waggons,
leaving their own crops standing’, and help him out of his
difficulty. Their children are well fed and well clothed,
strong and healthy, full of life and animal spirits, and in
school can keep their end of the stick up with any of the
others. They are not listless and weary, like the children
of the “ cow ” districts ; for they are not treated as slaves.
I have intimate knowledge of a fair-sized school in the
heart of the sugar lands, and I speak that which I do
know. They come along on their horses, in their buggies,
or in the train, and they are as fine a class of children
as any in the land —the few exceptions but serve to
emphasise the fact.
To sum up : Sugar cookies are, as a class, a fine lot of
men, good workers, liking toil rather than avoiding it,
THE BEAUTY ACTORS FATAL
THE SMALL BOY (with tired contempt):
"Say, Mister, will yer cover up yer
face fer a mind? I wanter get me
girl away."
big-hearted, good husbands and kind fathers, the best of
neighbors, the builders of a fine industry which pays a
living wage to hundreds of white workers, and are de-
serving of something better than the stings of a writer
who condemns the whole body for the shortcomings of a
single member, and that member an exception.
«.
Brisbane got a shock the other day when
the City Council elected its new mayor in five
minutes. For many years these elections have
been strenuous affairs —so strenuous that aider-
men have had to go to their corners in order to
collect their scattered senses and discover how
far they had got with the business. It was ex-
pected that, this being Queensland’s jubilee year,
the mayor might be given a gaud during his term,
and that the contest would therefore be extra
strenuous. But it didn’t raise a two-round spar,
so to speak.
“ Cynicus ” : This is to be a White Aus-
tralia ! Heed well the fact ! It is an uncontro-
vertible, reliable, unchallangeable, patent, vivid
fact. In fact, it is a fact. Now, therefore, listen !
There is a place within the meaning of the Act, a
mining camp, a one-time tented village now
attaining to the dignity of a town. It is Einas-
leigh. It has a District Progress Association.
Ergo, it progresses. Wherefore they, the white
workers of the place, have elected unto themselves
as president of the aforesaid I).P.A. the leading
storekeeper. And he is an Afghan! One of the tribe
whose name is invariably associated with Camel;
who is not White ; who is not Australian ; who
is anything but Australian. The balance-sheet
showed a paltry debit balance of ss. 9d. But list
to the voice of the charmer ! The aforesaid presi-
dent, in his generosity, “ personally bore most of
the expenditure’’—took White Australia out of
pawn, so to speak. “To whose liberality Einas-
leigh is greatly indebted,” sayeth the report. Are
we not proud ? Is not this compatible with the un-
controvertible, tangible, unchallengeable, patent,
vivid fact that we are to be a White Australia ?
Th’ Stooard an’ Loocinder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Government steamer Lucinda left yesterday after-
noon, having on board the Premier (Hon. W. Kidston),
the Treasurer (Hon. A. G. C. Hawthorn), and the Attor-
ney-General (Hon. T. O’Sullivan). They will be absent
from Brisbane until Thursday night. The main object of
the trip is to enable matters to be prepared in connection
with the conference of Premiers to be held in Hobart
early next month.— Brisbane paper.
Sang the stooard,
Down to looard,
“ Ho ! me gay Loocinder-Loo !
(Loocinder-Loo !
Loocinder-Loo !
Loocinder-Loocy ! !)
It’s rough an’ wet,
Th’ Cab-in-et
Will ’uve its work t’ do-oo ;
F’r th’ ‘matters’ they is tough an’ not too
joocy ;
There is wranglin’ in th’ cabin an’ a nasty sea
around,
An’ th’ smell o’ food is awful, an’ yer daren’t make
a sound;
But I mustn’t linger, Looey, or I’m called a ‘ lazy
’ound.’
On th’ blanky ole Loocinder—
(Will yer shut th’ pantry winder?)
Oh, Lor’ ! don’t I wish that we was ’omeward
bound ! ”
Sang the stooard,
Down to looard :
“ Whoa ! you old Loocinder-Loo !
(Loocinder-Loo !
Loocinder-Loo !
Loocinderina ! !)
Do ’ave some sense !
Th’ Con-fer-ence
’As put ’em in a stoo —
Oh ! I wish that I ’ad brought me concertina !
F’r th’ struggles of State Premiers t’ push their
eh-bony-pony
Where th’ limelight’s growin’ thickest needs some
sorter bloomin’ song.
They think they’re all Orstralyer, but, thank
’Eaven, they are wrong !
They carn’t understand, Loocinder,
(Will yer shut th’ pantry winder??)
That th' Commonwealth ’as grown up big an’
strong ! ”
Howled the stooard
Down to looard,
“ Take ’em back, Loocinder Loo !
(Loocinder-Loo !
Loocinder-Loo !
Loocinder, darlin’ !)
They are th’ mates
That irritates
Th’ patient Kangaroo,
With their everlastin’ naggin’ an’ their snarlin’.
Oh! their Con-fer-ence is useless, an’ it’s waste o’
coal an’ tea
For them all to go a-rollin’ an’ a-gassin’ on ther
sea ;
But th’ blessed thing’s a comfort to each buzzing
State-fright bee.
So, you keep afloat, Loocinder,
An’ (Oh, blarst th’ pantry winder !!) —
’Oo th ’ blazes is that callin’ out fr Me? ”
QUEENSLAND.
G. B. REEF.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 13, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Her stiff Excellency, who has been a sufferer
from acute rheumatism, goes Fogward m March,
according to Rumor’s latest effusion This will
leave a pale, unprotected but heroic Rep. to face
a jubilee year unsupported save by a witty aide.
But the little son at home is a team that seldom
fails to draw a mother, and your own sweet
Mario joins the rest of the Bananas in hoping
that the practical lady will enjoy a fairly-well-
earned holiday.
The marrying habit becomes very marked as the
Lenten season comes close. The orange-blossom
harvest here on Wednesday last was a record,
some 72 couples taking on all manner of unknown
responsibilities. Miss Flower and her faithful
Nicholson groom hied them away to the sad sea
waves in due course, and almost every cab in the
city had its easy burden of bridal favors.
A very quiet knot-tying was that of Victor
Bruce Nicol and the only chick of ex-Mayor
Murray Thompson. The young couple felt some-
how that the affair was mostly their own business,
so they just went off and did it without any of the
usual fuss.
Roger Hartigan, our own Australian XI. repre-
sentative, is busy these days oiling his joints,
pipe-claying his leg-pads, and booking a double
passage to the Gold Land ; for Miss Arlie Rankin
is running no risks with her hero, but is marrying
him right away, so as to be there to see that he
remembers to change his socks after a damp
match. A lot of good wishes go with the 11.
I hear that it’s likely “Bob”Philp will step
into the managership of the Australian Estates
Co., vacant through John Leahy’s sudden death.
I am at one with Akenehi on the subject of the
telephone lady versus the male variety who occa-
sionally gets his head into the patent fixture at
the Exchange. All day long in Brisbane we have
a competent staff crying “Central” with sweet-
ness, meekness, and despatch; but w'hen the
night falleth, and the ink-slinger gets busy, and
the playful Adolphus has only a minute wherein
to intercept his Phyllis ere she escapes with
another, male persons descend upon the Exchange,
and their inattention to duty not only maddens
the hapless ringer, but occasionally, as on a night
recently, goes a long way towards costing
an insurance office a tidy £l9OO or £2OOO.
On the special occasion referred to there
was a “slight delay”—some 10 minutes—in
answering a fire call. During the day-time
the shes are under the awe-inspiring, but in
reality kind-hearted, Inspectress Dick ; at night
there doesn’t seem to be any man behind the
gun, and a threat to ring up the dreaded No. 0 is
received as rather a good joke.
Strange are the ways of Providence ! During a
delicate inquiry into the ways of a gee-gee at a
recent Q.T.C. meeting, when, in obedience to the
hoisting of the purple flag, the stewards had
assembled to sit upon the uneven gait of the gee-
gee, the band of the 9th A.1.R., electrified into
blow and beat by the inscrutable countenance of
the horse, struck up
If those lips could only tell,
If those eyes could only speak.
By the way, a recent personal par. re the veteran
A. W. Compigne docks him of a year, as he cele-
brated his 92nd birthday last month. It had
been thought here that he was the only survivor
of the original Banana Legislative Council; but
Captain Bigge, who also was one of the first-
chosen, has written out to say that he is still up
and able to take nourishment.
That energetic body, the Brisbane Ladies’
Bowing Club, with Isabel Roberts once again at
the prow* or the tiller, organised a jolly moonlight
river run per Beareron on a recent evening. The
vessel, thoughtfully tootling her siren, flitted past
various happy couples on the river’s brim, leaving
a trail of smoke, laughter, and foreign music in
her wake.
A northern splicing of note lately happened
at Randwick, alongside your own city, when Miss
Mae Allingham, daughter; of Johnson A., of Hill-
grove and MurillaAraa// handies, out Charters
Towers way, was firmly bound to a son of Canon
Hough, of the horsey suburb.
Quite the mostcheersomereturnee this week from
Europe is Mrs. Florence Walton Taylor McNeile,
who comes back with the latest things in gowns
and millinery. The lady looks about six years
less than when she shed a brief light on the stage
in the awful Wedding that happened at the hour
when cabs charge 200 per cent, extra and as much
more as they think you’ve got left.
With an idea of further popularising the local
Theological College, the powers that rule the
lives of the meek youths therein have decreed that
the flock shall in future walk abroad in cap and
gown. There is, however, I hear, one unbroken
spirit within the fold, who has taken a vow never
to pass the limit of the enclosure because of the
infliction. Fancy, the feelings of these budding
saints in their flowing petticoats when the mer-
cury climbeth to the top, and the butter runneth
to the bottom !
A well-known button-holed figure will remove
itself from this banana patch shortly ; the imma-
culately-tailored E. A. Goldsmid goes to your
harbor to assist in the business successes of the
R. G. Dun firm. And many who know the ex-
quisite’s small kindnesses to the aged, the sick,
and the blind will wish that luck may follow the
trim figure.
Miss Hilda Roberts, looking like roses, is back
again for a limited period only; after that the
Fog will claim her for another while. Hilda of
the nimble fingers got chiefly heard about in con-
nection with a Queen’s Hall concert, when the
orchestra strayed from its appointed paths, with
what might have been disastrous effects had not
her Australian pluck pulled the chestnut out of
the embers. The big audience enjoyed it and
shouted itself hoarse, and later shouted some
more at the simple ability of the small Banana-
lander. However, you will have a chance to do
some shouting yourself soon, as a Sydney concert
is booked. Hilda has a heap to say on the sub-
ject of piano-playing. The whole method, ac-
cording to this A.T.C.L., L.R. A.M., has changed
since the days of Halle, who was the first male to
grasp the new idea of stroking rather than beat
ing out the tune.
- Hilda Roberts’ return provided-the first chance
for the new Mayor of the city to show himself.
This he did at a civic reception, and a photo-
grapher was on the spot to catch the mayoral
smile, and the table decorations were moved aside
to allow an unimpeded view of his waistcoat.
The committee of the Y.M.C.A. did carry out
that house rule I spoke of last week, and sniffed
the boxes of the godly. The result is several
less boarders, and a pile of “patent medicine”
bottles high enough for the whole committee to
hide behind.
A friend sends me a wail from Dunwich, the
place where the old people go. She says that a
fortnight there would drive her to suicide. The
dining-room arrangements she specially de-
nounces ; she suggests that you can never be sure
when a cancerous lip may have nibbled at your
loaf, or a sore hand has mauled your salt horse.
The ladies’ enclosure strikes her as less attractive
than the recreation grounds at Boggo-road,
while the wherewithal to wash either the person
or the garment is sadly primitive. Anyway the
trip has done her no end of good, for it has bred
quite a desire in her to save up, and so escape an
old age at this refuge.
Yours affectionately,
MAERIO.
The grateful Brisbane Gas Co. is going to
present its chairman, James Cowlishaw, member
of the House of Superfluous Fat, with a piece of
plate worth 250 guineas. Cowlishaw has been
connected with the co. in one way or another for
36 years, and for the last 29 he has been chairman.
The co. has also some customers who have helped
it to pay its fat dividends for even longer than
that, but all it proposes to present to them is the
same old bill at the same old rate.
Mackay has a comparatively new pub
which had a closer shave than probably any other
beer mill in Australia. When it was projected,
and the local Licensing Bench was appealed to,
Cold Tea demanded a poll as to whether any new
licenses should be granted. The battle was hot,
and, after every available vote had been whipped
up, the result'was a tie. T. D. Chataway, now
Senator, happened to be mayor and returning
officer; and apparently he tossed for it. Anyhow,
beer got his casting vote, and the pub was built.
At the end of this-year Railway Commis-
sioner Tliallon’s term will expire; but it is fairly
safe to back him for another one. He has grown
with the service, through which he has dragged a
Scotch accent for 26 years. In the seven years of
his control the mileage has increased from 896 to
3359. Thallon is an economist by habit; and
although the accommodation of the trains which
he bosses is generally not up to what the tra-
veller gets in some of the Southern States, he
has, nevertheless, made good use of his mostly-
poor material.
Queensland has a Jesse Hopson whose
chief business in life is to see that people of im-
portance or unimportance go away in comfort and
get back in safety. Once a Governor and party
set out on an excursion to New Guinea. His Ex.
became ill on the voyage. Hugh Nelson accom-
panied the party as State Premier. Hopson
confided to him the opinion that the patient was
worse than the others believed. "The others
scouted the idea. Next day Hopson declared
firmly that they would have a dead Governor on
their hands if they did not rush for medical aid.
This dictum terrified Nelson, who ordered a return
at full steam to Cairns, where the medico
announced that a few hours more and his Ex.
would have passed out. Hopson’s latest charge
has been the deported Kanakas. He has made
eight trips to the Islands, and has seen each
Tommy Tanna back to his respective village or
tribe; and now, as the job is about finished, he
must be wondering who next.
“ Cactus ” : “ Whaffor ” (B. 31/12/’08),
who brackets Gaynaah and prickly pear, should
take a trip along the Western line if he really
wants to get acquainted with the grotesque vege-
table. He thinks Gayndah councillors should get
12 months’ hard labor for not cutting the vege-
table. If “ Whaffor ” owned a prickly pear selec-
tion he would realise that cutting it only spteads
the orchard. Prickly pear is the world’s super-
lative illustration of vitality. Every leaf is
covered on both sides and on the edge with
“eyes,” which send out either leaves, roots, or
fruit, as circumstances determine. If a leaf falls
or is cut off, it lies on the ground till it becomes
yellow ; then just as a newchum thinks it is about
dead it begins to curl up, and a leaf comes out on
the edge. If pulled away, roots will be discovered
under the centre. The fruit is also covered with
“eyes,” and will, even in the green state, root
and send out leaves when in contact with the soil.
Writer has seen leaves coming out of unripe fruit
while it was still growing on the plant and he
wasn’t “ bushed ” near a pub either.


RELATIVE SIZES OF TERRITORIES OF
STA TES.
Sq. Miles.
Commonwealth of Australia■ ... ... 2,97 581
United States of America ... ... 2,970,230
Balance in favor of Australia 4-951
Area of Queensland ... ... ... 670,500
A rca of combined —
Germany
France I
Spain V ... ... ... 666,388
Portugal
Greece } ~
Balance in favor of Queensland... ... 4,112
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. VII.
TIIE VAST EMPTY SPACES.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald.
In those flamboyant articles which constantly
appear in the United States magazines, the mar-
vellous development of agriculture in the great
Republic is dealt with in a high-keyed journalistic
style which an Australian writer could never hope
to imitate, much as he may envy or admire it.
The reader is made to realise the vastness of the
spaces occupied by the farms from striking sen-
tences and arresting tables of figures. In the
World’s Work for October last we read such
lines as these :—-
Seven and one-half billions from the farms.
The American wheat-field occupies more space
on the map than Portugal and Liberia
combined.
The American farmer’s oat-field is as large as
Honduras.
The State of Illinois alone produces half as
much corn as is grown in all the world
outside of the United States.
The American farmer produces four of every
five bales of the world’s cotton.
Our potato patch is bigger than Porto Rico.
These are fine generalisations, which give us a
standard of measurement not only of the pro-
ductive capacity of the United States (which is in
a high state of development), but indirectly of
the possibilities of Australia as well.
When we say seven and a-half billions, we
remember that they are dollars, not pounds ster-
ling ; and our admiration for the American oat-
fields and potato-patches is not modified by
remembering the comparatively small territories
of Porto Rico and Honduras. But when the man
in Europe is contemplating emigration, he will
wisely remember that the great spaces of America
are full, and that the spaces of Queensland are
comparatively empty. He will reflect that the
lands and the agricultural operations of the
United States have got into the hands of large
syndicates—that there are bonanza farms and pro-
duce rings which condemn the immigrant to be
and remain an employee, and pronounce the doom
that he shall never own his homestead.
He will recall the fact, as pointed out in these
articles, that while in the Northern Australian
State cultivation and development are compara-
tively in their infancy, though advancing with
vigorous strides to adolescence, the policy of
Queensland has pronounced against large estates ;
that neither “wheat kings” nor bonanza farms
are possible ; that there is no danger of the small
man on the land being gobbled up by the big capi-
talist in the city, and restored to the serfdom
which he thought he had escaped on leaving
Europe. Against the system in America, where
coalitions of big money-bags control production
and transportation, and fix arbitrary prices which
the cultivator of the soil must accept, we contrast
the co-operation of the Governmental services of
Queensland and of the Commonwealth, which are
available to the humblest settler. All those com-
munal services are at his beck and call. The State
railway, the Commonwealth postal and tele-
graphic services, the agricultural colleges and ex-
perimental farms, the land offices which spy out
the land for him, the bureaux which advance him
money, plant and tools —all these are his own ;
his by the system of Government which the Aus-
tralian Democracy has deliberately adopted. He
is a co-operative shareholder from the moment of
his landing in Queensland. If attempts are made
by Trusts or syndicates to exploit or rob him, the
Commonwealth law spreads its ample robes and
shelters him from the exploiters, who are liable to
he amerced in heavy penalties. The primary pro-
ducer in Australia is seldom at the mercy of the so-
called “intelligentself-interest”of the money rings.
We look with admiration at the wonderful de-
velopment of our cousin States in America, and
we remember that their vast spaces were filled by
just the kind of immigrant that Queensland
wants. And as the American spaces are almost
filled and the wave is pouring back, we confidently
■ope that, when the migratory peoples discover us,
QUEENSLAND SACCHARINE WEALTH.—A
SUGAR-CANE TRUCK, MULGRAVE (Q.).
Photo, by H. C. Blackwall.
they will come South. The tide ebbs in the west
and will shortly flow southward. We hold out to
these peoples a territory larger than the United
States. The Commonwealth has 4351 square
miles more country than the U.S.A. As to
Queensland, perhaps it will afford a better idea
of the vast territories which it holds in trust for
NATURAL GRASSES, PORT DOUGLAS (Q.).—TROPIC LUXURIANCE.
future millions if it is compared with other
countries which have loomed largely in
history, which have supported great popu-
lations, which have been the homes of civili-
sations now lost, which have been the objects of
the cupidity of great conquerors and the sport of
predatory invaders seeking rich spoil. Greece,
the cradle of European civilisation, would fit into
Queensland 30 times ; Italy, its successor, the first
great centralised political Power, would go into
Queensland six times. Of Germany, with 60 mil-
lions of the best educated people, the centre of
the best organised military and commercial system
in the world, three could be put into Queensland.
Here are a few striking instances showing the
relative sizes of the various countries as compared
with Queensland. The territories of the countries
mentioned beneath could be fitted into Queensland
as below: —
ON JIMBOUR STATION, DARLING DOWNS (Q.).-THE GARDEN OF AUSTRALIA.
Belgium 60 times.
Germany ... ... 3 times.
France 3 times.
Spain ... ... Nearly four times.
Italy... ... ... 6 times.
Norway 5 times.
Sweden ... ... 4 times.
Austria-Hungary ... times.
Afghanistan ... 3 times.
Japan 4 times.
Mexico ... ... Twice.
United Kingdom ... Nearly six times.
“Go West, young man, go West,” was the
famous advice tendered by Horace Greeley to a
young man who wanted to make his way in the
world. The philosophy of the remark was that
in the West there were greater opportunities for
acquiring land and wealth ; the spaces were
empty ; the pioneer had his chances before him of
a life of adventure and of never-ending interest,
with fortune, or, at least, rude independence and
comfort as his goal. To-day Horace Greeley
would say, “Go South,
young' man; go
South!” For in the
Great Southern Con-
tinent lie the empty
spaces. There is not
yet one person, to the
square mile in Queens-
land ; so no new-
comer can complain
of being cramped,
“ crih’d, cabin’d, or
confin’d.” The num-
ber of persons per
square mile in Bel-
gium (one of the most
prosperous countries
in the world, with a
harsh climate and a
rude soil) is 022. If
Queensland had a
population of the
same density, she
would have the in-
credible number of
31)8 millions of people.
Think of that !
Is it too much to
claim that, if Bel-
gium, with its inhos-
pitable climate, its
small territory, its
restricted sea coast, its rigorous winter, its excess-
ive moisture, its limited sunshine, and its inferior
soil, can nourish a prosperous community of 622
persons on every square mile of its territory,
Queensland could do the same—Queensland with
its rich black and chocolate soils, its rolling downs,
its 3000 miles of coast, rich in pearlshell, trepang,
and fine fish ; its brilliant sunshine, its natural
timbers, rich mines, tropical culture? And as to
a comparison of the life led by the man in Bel-
gium with that of the Queenslander, no one who
has ever contrasted the raw climate of the former
with the genial and kindly climate of the latter
would have the slightest hesitation in pronouncing
an opinion. Half the year the Belgian is a cave-
man, with a heavy, lowering atmosphere of fog
and smoke overhead like the roof of a cave, which
he can almost push upwards, so solid is it. The
Queenslander has always the sunshine, the clear
air, the blue sky. Life is worth living. The
beaches, with their coral sands, invite ; the plains
call; and the rugged mountains, with their hidden
gold and gems, lure the adventurer.
While frangipani scents divine
Across the coral floiv,
While sundered paw-paws, soaked in wine,
Their fruity bouquet throw,
The white magnolias, moonlit, shine
And fireflies flitting glow.
The comparison with other countries might be
pursued further, as showing the illimitable possi-
bilities of Queensland’s industrial and commercial
expansion. Let us follow it up :
If Queensland had the same density of popula-
tion per square mile as—
Inhabitants.
England and Wales she would have 354.000.000
Italy ~ „ 222,000.000
Japan ... ... ~ ~ , 217,000,000
Germany ~ 189,000,000
Austria ... ... ~ ~ 157,000,000
Ireland ~ ~ 91,000,000
The same observations which have been applied
to Belgium could be applied a fortiori to Italy,
Ireland, Germany, England, and to Japan ; be-
cause, in addition to the staple agricultural pro-
ducts such as maize, and to the coal and iron
mines, Queensland has the fairest prospects of
being a great cotton, coffee, sugar.cane, and
rubber producer > while, superadded, there are the
gold, silver, tin and copper mines and gem fields,
the 3000 miles of coastline (nearly one-fourth
the coastline of the Commonwealth) with its
pearling and beche-de-mer, and the great staple
industries of meat
(canned and frozen)
and wool.
Figures are usually a
weariness to the brain
and flesh ; but a re-
perusal of those few
striking' comparisons
will, with a little re-
flection, give to the
intending immigrant
some knowledge of his
prospects, some idea
of the inimitably
widened horizons
which await him in the
great South land, and
especially in that
nughty State which
now, with its sturdy
and scientifically - or-
ganised Democracy, is
holding out the hand
of friendship to the
white man, in what-
ever country he may
be, and offering him
Freedom, Opportunity,
Land and Wealth,
the only condition
being that he shall
be willing—and physically able—to work and
play his part in developing the wealth which
now lies in the soil of Queensland awaiting the
magician’s wand to summon it from the depths of
the earth. That wand is Labor. In the beautiful
Eastern tale of “Aladdin,” the rubbing of a magic
lamp or a ring summoned powerful genii from the
interior of the earth, who brought with them gems
and gold and sumptuous feasts and palaces. The
slaves of the lamp and ring cared nought for the
personality of the possessor of the lamp. They
were equally ready to obey the poor lad who sum-
moned them as the powerful magician who ob-
tained the lamp by fraud. The allegory can
be applied here. The genii who preside over
the hidden treasures of Queensland's 670,000
square miles of territory are equally ready to
yield their gold and silver, wheat, gems, wool,
flocks and herds to the humble peasant immigrant
from England, Ireland, Scotland, Denmark, Ger-
many, Italy, or Austria as they are to a Rocke-
feller, a Demidoff, or a Tyson. But the essential
condition must be fulfilled—the lamp or the ring
of labor must be rubbed before the treasures can
be secured.
That this is not mere hyperbole can be attested
by every man of experience in Queensland, a
State where thousands of men to-day are rich be-
yond the dreams of avarice, who reached its
shores without capital or influence, and with
nothing but sturdy determination, unconquerable
will, courage, and an optimism that none of the
rebuffs inseparable from pioneering could shake.
Such men are known and respected, and there is
room for thousands more like them ; and though
it may not be fortune’s hap that everyone can
become wealthy, most men in Queensland’s shores
can secure comfort, competence, independence.
Even for the failures—the gallant failures in in-
dustrial forlorn hopes—the State is pitiful. It
provides a retiring pension for the industrial
veteran who has served his country in the useful
occupation of building up the aggregate of national
wealth—a far more useful task than that of the
professional soldier. Thus in the Great Northern
Australian State, as elsewhere in the Common-
wealth, the industrial army is now honored and
rewarded as the uniformed army has been
in the older world, and as “peace hath her
victories no less renowned than war,” the
survivors of the great industrial victories of the
Australian continent, maimed, wounded and
weary though they be, have their havens of rest
and the assurance that their services are recog-
nised by those who have profited by the muscle,
bone, sinew, thew, strength and soul which they
have expended in the creation of the aggregate
wealth of the whole community.
On looking back over the articles up to the
present, the reader in the Old World may be in-
clined to think that even the slight description of
the political, social, industrial, climatic and
physical status of Queensland forms, on the
whole, a kind of rough outline of a progressive
and organised Democracy in operation in a
favorable and favored territory. Most of what
has been said will be received by the Australian
reader, perhaps, as an attempt to “exhaust the
obvious, explain the evident, and expatiate on
the commonplace,” because all the developments
of a work-a-day Australian Democracy are familiar
to him, and possibly commonplace. But, from
some familiarity with the older countries of the
world and their peoples, the writer of this is in-
clined to think that our conditions, if widely
known among the working classes of the Old
World, would be regarded as a revelation of un-
known heights to which democratic government
may soar. In Europe, and especially in Britain,
most humanitarian projects are prnrui. facie re-
garded as absurd and unwise, and condemned as
sentimental and morbid. Here all that the
organised people enquire is—“ Can it be done?”
And they are not inclined to accept “No” for an
answer to any question involving fair and humani-
tarian treatment of the workers and the wealth
producers. And we are only at the beginning.
It may be that here in Australia the absolute
idea of equality—not in the Midshipman Easy
sense, but in the sense that every man is accepted,
not for birth, family, or wealth, but for talent,
character and usefulness —has killed the old idea
of caste which still exists in European countries,
that some men are born into one condition and
must remain there, and others born to rule over
them. “I do not believe,” said Richard Rumbold
“that millions were born into the world bridled and
saddled to be ridden, and that a few were born with
whips and spurs to ride them.” The notion spurned
by Rumbold is equally spurned by Queenslanders.
For in no part of the Commonwealth is this broad
Democracy so vividly and tlirobbingly asserting ii •
self as in Queensland. Again we may quote “La
carriere ouvertc aux talents .” If the fittest man
for the time being to rule Queensland is an
ironmoulder, he takes the position. No one
wants to know who his grandfather was or the
amount of his bank account. If a journeyman
carpenter with brains reads for the Bar in his
spare hours, and, passing to another Bench, be-
comes a Judge of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land, it is taken as a matter of course.
The old Oarnegian idea of Triumphant De-
mocracy was a roped ring, within which scratch-
cat competition fought out its battle while the
State policeman kept order. That stage of thought
was followed by callous co-operation of private
interests with ulterior and sinister aims, defying
equally the State and the citizen, buying and
selling justice, and trading in monopolies, in
order that some few people might have incomes
greater than kings, and private galleries which
vied with the Louvre, the Luxembourg, or the
Vatican; and might spend the evening of their
days in ostentatious distribution of libraries of
books which they never had time or inclination to
read, or in preaching from a palace the doctrine
LIVE IN QUEENSLAND.—SUGAR PLANTERS AT
MULGRAVE (Q.).-TYPICAL NORTHERNERS.
Photo, by H. C. Blackwall.
that wealthy testacy is post-mortem disgrace.
The practical, svrn pathetic, bread-and-butter
Democracy of Queensland, as careful of the mind-
and bodies of the men, women and children as for
their material advancement, should certainly be a
lure to the teeming millions of Europe, in whose
breasts some hope has been raised by the doc-
trinaires of the social-democratic platform,


3?
n
ILLMEALTH
dopjjinp your footsteps
Are you always suffering ? .Per-
haps it is constant headache. Or
pain after eating, and nausea. May-
be you get suddenly dizzy and tired
without any reason. Perhaps you
have a pain near the heart, and
feel as if you were choking after
going upstairs. 111-health will con-
tinue to dog your footsteps until
you cure the Indigestion which is
the cause of these symptoms. Take
Mother Seigel’s Syrup and all these
troubles will vanish as they did in
the case of Mr. A. Wadsworth, 181,
Ann Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
In a recent letter he says:
“My appetite declined and my strength
left me. When lying down at night, I felt
suffocated, and was obliged to take what
little sleep I could get in a sitting position.
I took all sorts of medicines without finding
a remedy, and feared I was its consumption.
At the last, three large bottles of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup completely restored me to
health, and I have remained well ever since.”
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP.
THE
FEURICH
PIANO.
THERE is indefinably some-
thing that appeals directly
and Instantaneously to the
soul of every musician who
hears a FEURICH PIANO.
Such a mellow sweetnees of tone
In accompanying a singer Is
rarely experienced. Singing to a
FEURICH Is perfectly delightful.
Yet when desired for brilliant
execution, wealth and volume of
tone, the FEURICH rises to the
occasion In a marvellous way. To
be fully Impressed, you must hear
thV FEURICH, and we will only
be too delighted to give you the
opportunity at our showrooms at
any time.
Easy Extended Terms
Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:—
Nicholson & Co. Ltd.,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to ©d.
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 2)2 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
The summer has arrived—there is no doubt of it
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using only
4711 Clycerlne Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. After
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping, “4711” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and' give you that p culiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
THE THIRD SUBDIVISION
(8,000 Acres) of THE FAMOUS
The property of Messrs.
D. C. McCONNEL & SONS
CRESSBROOK ESTATE
Said to be the pick of the Station. (40,835 Acres)
At TOOGOOLAWAH RAILWAY STATION, 79 Miles from Brisbane, Queensland,
on the Upper Brisbane River,
52 RICH DAIRY and AGRICULTURAL FARMS
(52 to 703 Acres) to be sold by Auction at
Toogoolawah, Saturday, March 6th, 1909
at 3 o’clock.
Mr JOHN FORREST, of Moreheads Ltd., one of the leading Experts, writes:— “l have no
hesitation in saying that as Dairying Country combined with Agricultural and Fattening, Cressbrook
ha * no superior in Queensiand.in fact, acre for acre, Ido not know where>it can be equalled."
M r JOHN CAMERON, M. L. A., writes: —“ During the last 3or 4 years I have inspected and
valued all the largest Freehold Estates in the Upper Brisbane River District, and I consider the
Cressbrook Estate is toy far the most valuable of them all.
Pickering the widely known judge of Dairy Stock, writes: I consider this Estate
to be one of the finest freehold properties in Australia, comprising the very best agricultural, lucerne,
lamb-fattening and dairying land.”
THE CRESSBROOK. ESTATE consists of Rich Alluvial River Lucerne Flats
with Loamy Black and Chocolate Soil (workable under any climatic conditions) and easy sloping
agricultural ridges. It is magnificently watered by the Upper Brisbane River and numerous
creeks, bores and lagoons, and access to the section for Sale is guaranteed by the Vendors, who are
causing a substantial bridge to be erected.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
Nestle’e Condensed Milk Factory,
which is on the Estate, pays 5Jd. to 6d. per gallon
for milk, and will take any quantity.
A Co-operative Butter Factory at Esk
(12 miles).
Railway Station on the Estate.
Established Township, with Church,
School, Bank, Public Hall, Factory, &c.
Abundant and well distributed
Rainfall, average 37.37 in. and 79J wet day., per
year for 14 years.
20 7BARS TERMS
110th Deposit; No Payment (except interest
5%) for 24 months; balance yearly.
No survey fees or residential conditions ; every facility for inspection; plenty of accommodation;
Free Railway Fares to Purchasers from any part of the States.
Write TO-DAY for Illustrated Plans to
ISLES, LOVE && CO., Auctioneers, Queen Street,
BRISBANE
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloslied,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at —22/6.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Soot,
22 6
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light" is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
85]
(L*
75
%
A
Safe Fat
Reducer
There have been
thousands of dif-
ferent methods
tried for reducing’
superfluous flesh,
but most are entire
failures, or else
lastingly harmful
and injurious. If you are overfat we can reduce
your weight, safely and permanently.
“FATCURE 99
is the only safe, harmless and lasting cure ever
discovered that will absolutely cure obesity. Its
efficacy has been amply demonstrated in thou-
sands of cases. “ Fatcure ”is a vegetable extract
compound put up in tablet form, pleasant and
easy to take, and, if desired, can be taken secretly.
In average cases it reduces weight by from 5 to C
pounds a week, and over a pound a day in many.
After you have been using “ Fatcure” a few days
your breathing becomes considerably easier—the
pressure around your heart becomes noticeably
less, and your general health improves rapidly.
“ Fatcure ” makes heart failure a very remot e pos-
sibility, and fatty degeneration an impossibility.
FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.—Send a 2d. stamp to-
day, and let us send you a Free Trial Sample and
our interesting booklet —Plain Talk on Obesity.
Investigate our claims and you will see that you
can readily reduce your weight Write or call
for full particulars at once.
The Watworth Obesity Co., Suite J,
Linden .Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
[2
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hollows ar.d
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for:
JERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
"“NORTON
cartridges
should be practical, not mere
talk. Whet\ Minature Range Shooting
always make a point of' using King s
Norton” Cartridges—they are British
made. Obtainable in .22 calibre from all „
Ammunition Stores.
Agents
Colonial Ammunition Co
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
B# ,T £r
/V/KPf-
Every
i Requisite^
VirTi
f/!
TACKLE
Trout
Perch
Cod
.’Sea
Bream
WRITE«
_ FOR,
- , ~ _
J.SCOTT. 36480urk15t, MELBOURN
The Inky Way.
Thomas Edwin Thomas, an inky wayfarer of some ex-
perience, passed out at Oasterton (Vic.), the other day,
aged 47. Thomas originally' came from Eaglehaw'k, and
was at one time on tue staff of the Kalgoorlie Miner. He
left Westralia to launch out as a newspaper proprietor,
and first bought the Port Fairy (Vic.) Gazette. Later, he
took up his abode at Casterton as proprietor and editor of
the local Free Press. He conducted that organ almost
up to the perish.
“Nymsie”: The sixpenny' yearly' “almanac” plays
an important part in the domestic economy of Vic-
torian cockydom. Be it Hutchinson’s, Massina’s, L. L.
Smith’s, the Temperance, Hibernian, or what-not, it is
the household rain-prophet, doctor, lawyer, and general
information bureau. Cocky' needs no barometer when
the almanac is hanging on the nail. All meteorological
arguments (and they are many) are clinched by reference
to its weather prognostications. If it says “Fine
Weather” or “Stormy,” that ends the matter; there
will be a picnic arranged or postponed on the strength of
this forecast, fashioned—the fakir responsible for its
publication only knows how—months, perhaps years,
before. Then, when Johnny breaks his neck,
or has the mumps, Mum rushes off to con-
sult the sixpenny' oracle. Old-age pensioners are
good customers at the almanac merchant’s; they' mark
the dates their doles are due on the “notable” events
pages. When the pensioner is economical, or thirsty',
and makes his almanac serve for more than one year,
the mixing of dates adds to the joy's and sorrows of the
man who pays the pension. Likewise, the hook tells the
sport, amongst many' other things, when he may go forth
with liis gun to scatter fur and feathers; and between
times it is called on to settle more wagers than any other
Australian authority, living or dead.
* * * *
“Melb.” : Brodzky has been writing in London apropos
Holt White. This has evoked a contribution to the
Pall Mall Gazette by White’s brother, explaining all
about him. Brodzky was in this city when White died in
our Alfred Hospital. So was I, and I was with Whiteone
hour before he died. A remarkable man, and one of the
most eminent war correspondents. None of them ever
got quite such a big chance as he did, and he made the
most of it, with all the ability of a Forbes or McGahan.
He represented the Pall Mall Gazette and New York
Tribune in the Franco-German flurry. At first he was
attached to the French side, but found he was not wel-
come. So he went over to the Germans. It is impossible to
discover how he obtained such an advantage over all the
other keen correspondents as to be the only one who saw
the Battle of Sedan at close quarters. He was with the
King of Prussia, Bismarck, and Moltke. White, with the
distinguished American General Phil Sheridan, was posted
only a few yards from these personages throughout the
battle. When the surrender came White got ready’ to
mount his horse and start for the Belgian frontier, where he
would find telegraphs intact. The German officers, how-
ever, persuaded him to stay till next morning, as he would
very likely be murdered in that disturbed country' during
the night journey. So he waited till dawn. He reached
a Belgian telegraph office at Libramont. Nobody would
believe his news of the battle. Officials blankly' refused
to telegraph it. He tried other places in vain. Imagine
his distress, with such an unprecedented thing in hand.
He thought he must be beaten. Yet he conquered by a
miracle of luck. He had to take the steamer at Ostend
for England, still bursting with his news. The steamer
broke down off Dover. Nevertheless, White got to
London. Up to then only vague telegrams were to hand.
White had all day to write with leisure, and he
filled two pages of the Pall Mall Gazette with
the first authentic news of the Battle of Sedan!
The wonder is why he came to Australia.
White cottoned to me because I believed him. To the
generality’ in our little journalistic world he was an un-
mitigated lying blowhard. However, Proctor came along,
and verified him, as a friend. Then came Von Busch’s
book on Bismarck, in which Holt White was mentioned.
White appeared to land here without any money. He
started writing biographies in the Melbourne Herald,
“People I have Met.” There was never anything here to
compare with them. He dealt with the King of Prussia,
Bismarck, Moltke, Roon, Sheridan, Forbes, Sarah Bern-
hardt, and a heap of others, with vivid actuality. He had
chiefly worked in London for Edmund Yates’s World.
That paper had a marked copy’ for the editor. Every
contributor was known by a number. White’s was No. 46.
He used always to mark the Melbourne Herald with that
number ; but indeed it was superfluous, for everything he
wrote shone out like gold amidst tin.
* * * *
“ L’Fou ” : I have had a convalescence and a plethora of
light English literature, and I am hit with the ferocity of
the animals therein. Take the domestic horse even. He
is always wild and prancing—though he does come from
a livery stable. It’s wonderful what Sir Reginald or Lady
Bobs can do with him in the hunting field. They can
ride, can the nobility, as instance (verbatim): “Lord
Halliday was as much at home in the saddle as any man
could be. . . . It was only a piece of white paper flutter-
ing by the side of the drive, but the big chestnut snorted,
then gave one terrific swerve across the road. No man
living could have kept his seat. Lord Halliday was
thrown violently upon the gravel.” “No man living!”
So poor old Bill from Outback is dead! It is just as well.
Bill was terribly sensitive. He would never have survived
the shame of falling off this big chestnut w’hen it
shied. Even Bill’s half-grown sister would blush to do
so. In England also the bulls are all very large
and angry, and go about seeking what they .may rush ;
and the "fields are very immense and lonely. But
there are alway's heroes in ambush. Some of them are
very brave and powerful, and “ can stun an ox with a
single coup-de-poing." (Got you beat there, Bill !) Like-
wise, great, red-eyed, frothy-mouthed dogs swarm in the
villages. They frequently go mad on “hot summer
days.” I believe, in England, even the rabbits on the
“ estate ” would charge the heroine and try to bite her if
the hero were about. And wasn’t it only the other day
a fatted pheasant tried to stun even the sceptred
Crown ?
* * * *
“Tapu” : Wellington (M.L.) dailies are wearing sassiety
gossip threadbare. A year ago the Times and the Post
gave only a weekly column or so to the social shivoo.
But when the Dominion arrived, a few' months ago, it
sported “A Woman’s Page,” whereupon the Times and
the Post began to burst out at great length every
day’ concerning Mrs. Smith-Brown’s garden-party and
Miss Winsome’s charming gowm of marigold yellow.
T’other day a melancholy canvasser inquired of my house-
hold if we read his paper. In reply to an emphatic “No,”
he said, as though a tragedy had been in progress: “ But
surely you haven’t seen our Lady’s Page ! ” We simply’
couldn’t send him away unhappy. The staff on each o‘f
these dailies is, seemingly, using up all its vitality in
pushing this canary fluff for the Smith-Browns and the
Bell-Joneses; but “Constant Reader” and “Mother of
None ” are being encouraged to send in their views, so
the strain on the staff will probably ease off soon.
THE WANTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
She walked adown the busy’ street,
Berouged, beringed and fair ;
And at her side Sir Paunchy Purse
Strode on with pompous air ;
She bore his glance as light-love may,
And gaily talked away.
No shame W’as hers that busy day
Should find her at his side ;
She held the Wanton’s wonted place
With all a Wanton’s pride ;
And as they passed from shop to pave,
A pearl of price he proudly’ gave.
And swiftly’ ran a murmur round—
“ Sir Paunch has chosen well!
The Town hath naught of fame so free
As y'onder flashing belle.
She sells her favors passing high,
And none but Paunchy' Purse could buy ! ”
“ If none but he could bear to buy
A wench so free of fame,
How call ye then his leman fair,
Her lineage and her name?”
“ What—know ye not her high degree $
The harlot Press in sooth is She ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
P. BORN.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using’
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Blades fin., fin., or fin. deep. Round, Square or Irish Point-
Sold under absolute guarantee at
Post Free to any part of Australia.
6/6.
Torrey’s Swing- Strop, 2/6.
Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d.
SOLE AGENTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR :
MCLEAN, BROS & RIGC PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Tbos. Uuxton & Sons),
147-149 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods.
SMOKE
REFEREE tobacco,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
XJnder Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(.Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkbl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereajrh Streets.
D*- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free Gd. from “Th«
Bulletin ” Office
OSTRICH PLIJfIKS
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any addross.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money iu any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, 18.
The Life, Adventures
and Cqnfassions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 „ G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
2^
* v
«Wkg
£y ts
%
#
I
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
In the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if ,the.y
will’only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all cur assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
t-
yy
\W
BOOK
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go.,
JOSEPH It. OORCOfIAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
-1 o
!
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W C HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


C-iHEAP EDITION of “ON THE
j Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214
Street, Sydney.
HOP.”
; other
George
BE WISE!
To Save Money
Buy your Cutlery and Plate at McLean s.
THE
Shefflck*
gutiery Parcel
Contains
PIECES
as '
<§>
follows.
I Bread Knife.
6 Table Knives.
6 Dessert Knives.
■ Carving Knife.
1 Carving Fork.
6 Table Forks.
6 Dessert Forks.
2 Table Spoons.
6 Dessert Spoons.
6 Tea Spoons.
1 Sugar Spoon.
2 Salt Spoons.
i Mustard Spoon,
©
PIECES
for
POST FREE.
Sold under absolute guarantee.
Send for New Plate and Cutlery Catalogue.
McLean Bros. 8 Rigg Pty. Ltd.,
147=149 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TEDDY BEAR’S PICNIC.
The Greatest Instrumental
Success since Hiawatha.
Played by all the Leading
Bands.
The Hit of Jack and Jill
Pantomime.
Piano Solo, 1/6; posted, 1/7.
Al I AM’Q COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
A HUGE SUCCESS !
BIRDS
aXUSTAR d,<Js
2EI
SOSES
Birds
Custard with Sfrutt
The delicious Fruits of New
South Wales,when stewed, form an
exquisite Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD,
served either hot or cold. Most popular
with Adults and the Youthful alike.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
APRIL GtH to APRIL 14tH, 1909.
ENTRIES CLOSE :
Export Butter, March 2. Wines, March 3.
Special Cheese Prizes, March 8. Wheat, March 9.
HORSES - - Prizes £1420 - - MARCH 10.
CATTLE - - Prizes £9OO - - MARCH 11.
Sheep, Prizes £2OO, March 11. Pigs, Prizes £l6O, March 11. Poultry, Prizes £4OO, March 12.
Dogs, Prizes £l6O, March 15. Farm Produce, Prizes £750, March 16. Dairy Produce, Prizes
£l6O, March 16. Women’s Industries, March 17. Coachbuilding and Leatheries, March 18.
Miscellaneous, March 18.
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
3 Castt.erhagii Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
WE STOCK
EVERYTHING
FOR THE
SHOWMAN.
Write us for
your Wants.
Cinematograph Films
on all Subjects
FOR HIRE
at JERDAN’S.
We have over 250,000 feet of Films- —on prac-
tically all kinds of subjects—for hire or sale.
All of them in good condition —most of them
new, and many just arrived, and not yet shown.
In addition, we are selling Cinematographs,
duplicate parts, etc., undertake repair work,
and h ive competent operators always ready to
assist you.
We Ma' e Films cn Special Subjects.
Our reputatii n for reproductions of Australian
subjects is well known ; we have made practically
every successful film on local subjects, and our
prices are moderate.
JORDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &. Jerdan)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Cinematograph Specialists.
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
'Tit© Finest Collection, of Trtolts F»ciz*:ies
Puzzledcmij
A Big Book, 11 x 8 inches
With over 150 Wonderful Pictures.
Hundreds of the Best of the Famous Sam
Loyd’s Artful Tricks and Clever Puzzles.
Many of the Puzzles are worth more than the
price of the entire collection. Every Trick quite
new or set out in a novel way.
Published at 2/6, but selling at 1/6 for a limited
time just to advertise our other goods.
Fun and Amusement for Many a Year.
The Union Manufacturing Co. ?
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
A Razor REALLY Worth 10/6.
That’s the PLUM RaZOB. It will last long
after other makes have been thrown aside. There’s
no magic about it. The reason is its highly-tempered
SILVER STEEL blade, the finest razor steel on the
market. Guaranteed and kept in order for two
years free of charge.
PRICE 10/6,
Posted anywhere
in Australasia,
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
The N.S.W. Oil Industry.
One of the big and promising industries of
N.S.W. to-day is the Commonwealth Oil Co.’s
Shale and Oil and Coke Works at Wolgan'Valley,
in a barren and difficult section of the Blue Moun-
tains. Those works employ directly nearly 1700
men, and the families of these men depend on the
Oil Co.’s wages for their bread and corned beef.
That alone represents a considerable source of
wealth to Australia. Indirectly, the works help
to support machinery-makers, railway servants,
farmers, tailors, shoemakers, hatters, shirt and
sock makers, grocers, butchers, cattle-raisers,
ship-owners, sailors, doctors, preachers, and thou-
sands of other folks. At present Australia sends
away £2,000,000 a year to pay for kerosene and
the products of kerosene. The Wolgan Valley
works offer a chance to prevent the flight of all
that capital out of the country; and if all the
bogus capital that Tories have alleged to
be driven out of the country by Socialistic
legislation were added up, and then doubled,
and that after multiplied by 10, it wouldn’t
nearly equal the real, actual and provable
flight of capital out of the country which
is going on in the kerosene-importing industry
alone. There is no duty on imported kerosene, so
this great work was started under Freetrade influ-
ences. But that doesn’t prove that it can live under
the Freetrade system ; as a matter of fact, it can’t.
It was commenced because it was thought that a
duty was certain, and the duty didn’t come. Theco.
has got so far as it has done—has built its rail way,
and its town, and its coke-works and its oil re-
finery, and sunk its shafts, and done all the rest of
the work—by the expenditure of its own capital,
not by any profits that could possibly be made
under the Freetrade curse. In fact, there are
no profits to be made out of the business under the
Freetrade curse, for the United States Standard
Oil Trust, with a market worth £2,000,000
a year at stake, is perfectly willing to
sell under cost till it crushes this competitor,
and to rely upon making good the loss by raising
prices when the competitor is dead and it has got
its old monopoly again. With this stupendous
opposition to encounter, and with the necessity
to pay wages at which a white man can live under
something like reasonable conditions, the Com-
monwealth Oil Co. must have Protection, or else
the allegedly Freetrade (State of N.S.W. must
lose one of its big industries. If the works
close up, the loss to the company will be heavy,
but the loss to N.S.W. and to Australia, left at
the mercy of the Standard Oil Trust, will be
much heavier. The N.S.W. district in which
the great oil, shale and coke works are situated,
carefully elects a Freetrade member — Bowden,
M. —whose alleged creed is that Protective
duties and Protective bonuses are foolish and
utterly absurd, and that the people who believe in
such things are the kind of folk upon whom
an enlightened Freetrader is entitled to look
down with unutterable contempt. The district
used to return Joe Cook, who struck the
same attitude. It is part of a State which
sends to the Senate a solid batch of alleged Free-
trade Senators, all of whom strike the same atti-
tude. Yet The Bulletin would not be in the
least surprised if Bowden and Cook and all the
other alleged Freetrade Representatives from
N. and all the six alleged Freetrade Sena-
tors from N.S.W., voted enthusiastically for Pro-
tection for the N.S.W. oil industry, They mostly
do things of that sort. Towards the close of last
session that earnest but bogus Freetrader, Sena-
tor Walker, of N.S.W., wrote to The Bulletin
concerning the right of N.S.W. to haye the
Federal capital as some sort of compensation for
the great sacrifice it had made in giving up almost
perfect Freetrade for the sake of union ; and
almost the same week he and every other N.S.W.
Freetrade Senator voted to tax Victoria and S.A.
and the other States in order to provide the money
for the allegedly nefarious Protective policy of
paying a bonus to the N.S.W. iron industry.
In fact, the regular policy of the N.S.W.
Freetrade members nowadays is to denounce
Protection, to scoff at Protectionists as inferior
beings, to vote for Protection for every N.S.W.
industry, and to vote against Protection for every
Victorian or S.A. or Queensland or other industry.
The N.S.W. sugar business has been assisted upon
good Protectionist principles, largely through the
votes of its alleged Freetrade members; so has
the N.S.W. iron industry ; so probably will the
N.S.W. oil industry. But it is about time for
N.S.W. to remember that politicians who preach
Freetrade, who say that the concession of the
Federal capital to N.S.W. is only its just reward
for the sacrifice of Freetrade, who treat Protec-
tionists with huge contempt as persons of inferior
intelligence, who vote against Protection for the
industries of other States and who vote for it
when the industries of their own State are in
question, are either a curious set of liars, or else
they are persons of a discreditably low order of
•intelligence. And N.S.W., if it doesn’t want to
become the most hated and despised State in the
Commonwealth, needs to either make a clean
sweep of its bogus Freetrade members or else in-
struct them to live up to their alleged creed a
heap better than they do.
Joe Cook had to nag acidly about some feature
of the Fisher Government’s scheme for construct-
ing a couple of destroyers as the nucleus of an
Australian naval defence force. In default of
better he took as his chief point against the
practicability of the proposal the alleged fact that
there were no men in the whole length and
breadth of Australia fit to handle, the craft when
thev arrived. This was how he pfft it
Evidently Senator Pearce thinks we shall be safe if he
gets those two boats. May I ask him where he will get
his trained mqn from to man them in 12 months? It was
this question of training that I had in mind when I
expressed a fear that we might be commencing at the
wrong end. You may build your ships in a year ; you
cannot efficiently man them in a year. Mr. Pearce will
yet find that this is the great problem for Australia —the
adequate training of adequate numbers qf men for its
defence. If Mr. Pearce can satisfy the public that he is
grappling with this problem he will do better for the
country than attempting to bluff the Parliament out of
an honorable understanding.
The Minister promptly knocked out Cook’s yarn
with the following :
Mr. Joseph Cook bas spoken of the impossibility of
manning these boats. We have in Victoria alone 12
officers and 101 petty officers and men on the permanent
staff, all thoroughly trained in torpedo-boat work. The
full complement for a torpedo destroyer is 60 men, but
they could be brought out to Australia with 30 men in
each —the 60 men constitute the fighting complement.
Our complete permanent complement throughout the
Commonwealth is 48 officers and 188 petty officers and
men—more than enough to man three destroyers. All
are experienced men, trained in torpedo-boat work. In
addition, there are 45 officers and 993 petty officers and
men in the Naval Militia. Furthermore, there are at
present 100 Australians being trained in the Channel and
home fleets in gunnery and torpedo schools. These men
have not absolutely severed themselves from Australia.
Cook is making a poor Opposition leader from the
anti-Australian viewpoint. His mendacities are
not convincing enough on the face of them ; and
they are capable of over swift rebuttal. Reid, even
when he was most futile, was capable of concoct-
ing and retailing a stinking-fish yarn that endured
for a week at the least; Cook’s are knocked out
within 24 hours.
Freetrade is in the dock, so to speak, in the
land of its birth, and it is being driven to frantic
and unusual expedients to save its life. The
latest of these is an “anti-Protectionist play”
from the stylo of Mrs. Mond, wife of Alfred
Mond, M.P., treasurer of the Freetrade Union.
(It is worth noting that the Monos’ business is
not exposed to foreign competition ; Mond owns
the South Staffordshire Gas Works.) The play is
called “A Message from the ’Forties,” and it is
being produced in London and the provinces.
The characters are :
Joe Scrooge, a reactionary Protectionist.
Cecil Bright, his nephew, a young Freetrader.
Bob Hatchett, his clerk.
The Ghost of Richard Cobden Marley.
A Philanthropist.
A person who is described as “ An Unemployed Work-
man, in reality a Protectionist agent in disguise.”
It is, according to a sympathetic critic (London
Morning Leader, 20/12/’08) -
An adaptation of Dickens’ “Christmas Carol.” Scrooge
appears as an old-fashioned business man, and a thorough
reactionary.
Children open the play with a chorus, “ Stamp, Stamp,
Stamp upon Protection.” The juveniles, who are laden
with foodstuffs and toys, emphasise the advantages of
Freetrade. Later an unemployed impostor is introduced.
He boasts of getting drinks for nothing, and declares
himself a member of the Tariff Reform League.
A young Freetrader, a nephew of Scrooge, has a fiscal
argument with his uncle to his own advantage. During
the night Oobden’s ghost appears to Scrooge.
Scrooge awakens on Christmas morning, a new man,
and a Freetrader.
What happens to Scrooge’s fiscal views on Christ-
mas evening after he has bumped, on his way
home from church, against a procession of 20,000
starving out-of-works (the direct result of his
country’s reactionary conduct in taking Cobden’s
advice and harking back to the fiscal policy of the
woad and Druid age) the play doesn’t relate.
For the purposes of special pleading there is
nothing like stopping a play at the proper time.
“Mate”* The Federated Shipowners’ Ass.,
having proved the value of unionism from its own
point of view, is doing its darnedest to break the
union of masters and mates, otherwise the Mer-
chant Service Guild. The Merchant Service
Guild is now working under an award of the
Arbitration Court, which award lapses at the end
of 1909. The owners are' s striving (successfully in
many cases) to get the masters to leave the Guild.
Of course, nothing is done openly (that would
amount to intimidation), but disquieting rumors
get about, nobody acknowledging their origin.
For instance, it is taken for granted among the
masters of all companies that any Guild man who
has an accident, however slight, will be fired at
once. The masters, having got a rise of wages
under the present award, put the fear of reduction
right out of their heads. Living in a fools’para-
dise in that respect, their anxiety to be popu-
lar with their bosses make them give up
their chances of further lifts. They have
joined, in many cases, the ranks of those
sitters on the fence, who, while disowning
unionism and paying nothing towards the struggle
the unionists put up, are very ready to accept the
better conditions that result from it. Herein the
masters are short-sighted. If they draw out of
the Guild, the fixed rates of pay they now have
under the award will hold good no longer. It will
be a case of unrestricted Competition again. They
will find plenty of mates, who are now ready to
help them to fight for still better terms, eager to
take their billets at less money. It is quite likely
that the tactics of the owners are equally mis-
taken. The chances of “ busting up” the Guild
are slight. There will still be enough of it left to
be recognised, under the Arbitration Act, as the
representative union of the mates, if not of the
masters, and the members will be the more
staunch unionists. The present conduct of the
owners is making the latter class bitter. The
owners are inducing the more moderate men to
leave the Guild, and they will find that the ideas
of the moderates are missing when the present
award comes up for revision. The next President
of the Arbitration Court may even see the justice
of preference to unionists, and then both owners
and sitters on the fence will wonder what has
struck them.
-V
“ Catch Points ” writes :
Brown was chief clerk in the outwards Goods, and was
an upright man. So upright was he that his perpendi-
cularity was often a matter of pain to his staff. Smith
and Jones had been bewailing'the absence of Christmas
boxes. Victuals and drink in tons were despatched by
the efforts of Smith and Jones each Christmas time, and no
one ever asked them if they had a mouth on them. Brown
was severe. First, the Railway regulations forbade tips.
Then tips undermined a man’s self-respect. This upright-
ness of Brown got on the nerves of Smith and Jones. They
were by no means horizontal young men, but the vertical-
ness of Brown on this occasion worried them. So they
digged a pit. Early on December 24 a small boy knocked at
Brown’s door, leaving what Brown took to be a ham. “ For
you, sir.” Now 7 , Mrs. Brown had been lamenting that the
Browns couldn’t run to a ham this year, and Brown was
pleased. His mood changed when he saw that the piece
of pig was addressed plainly to Mr. Smith and was from
a big carrying firm. “Next door,” he growled. Ten
minutes later a bigger parcel came for Jones from the
same firm, and continually through the busiest morning
of the year w r as Brown interrupted by messengers bearing
parcels allegedly from the big customers of the railways
for people in the goods department. The morning was
also interlarded by rings on the telephone, asking would
Mr. Jones or someone else step round for a moment as a pair
of ducks or goslings or other Christmas fowl w 7 as waiting
their pleasure. Never once was there a messenger for him
nor did the telephone ever ask Mr. Brow'n to “ step round.”
Brown first got impatient, then uneasy. He got to ask-
ing questions from the messenger and on the telephone :
“Mr. Brown, did you say?” But they never said Mr.
Brown. Finally, not able to bear it any longer, Brown
bolted round to the office of the big carrying firm, and
ostentatiously displayed himself before the localmanager.
The boss was up to his neck arguing with distracted con-
signors and infuriated consignees, and didn’t look like a
man with Christmas boxes about him. In fact, when he
saw Brown he glared and demanded, “ What have you
lost?” To be taken for a mere member of the forwarding
public was too much for the chief clerk of the
Goods, and Brown wilted. He stopped a hurrying
clerk that he knew, and was gradually approach-
ing the Ham question, when he espied Smith evi-
dently stalking him from behind a pile of cases.
It flashed upon him that he was being hoaxed,
and he started haranguing the amazed and hurrying
clerk in an imperious voice about a huge consignment of
straying poultry that neverexisted. On beating a retreat
to his office Brown sat down and thought hard and said
things that were foreign to his nature. Then he lay
low. He waited until, about midnight, the tired staff
had finished looking for the last elusive chook from Dim-
boola, and was going home. Then calling in Smith and
Jones, Brown explained that to his ideas Christmas Day
and the Holy Sabbath were days to be treated alike and
spent in the service of the Almighty. He much regretted
therefore the painful necessity of asking Mr. Smith and
Mr. Jones, owing to the exigencies of the service, to
spend the following Christmas morning at the office
until dinner time. And Smith and Jones did so in a
humbled spirit.


Winchester
. Wl H»'
tCJ] if)
#V ; /
W.) i
: : :
xs
»nV* *t V / •;* 1 7
“NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Black Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Newßivals’’are as per-
fect as brains and in-
genuity, coupled with
first-class materials and
modern methods of
manufacture, can make
them. They are sure
fire, make even pat-
terns, shoot hard and
strong and will stand
reloading. Ask for
“New Rivals’’next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.
A
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assursnce on the Mutusl Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury BHIs ofan*s* N t| R *sT
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any tine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, e .T? u^ y wirao Hemat H e M Lc'"
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. -The Hon 1 . E. \\ mchcon.be M.UU ,
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esn. General Manager and Actuary : Rlchar^^ c ®™ F A I -pi MFRON Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERO , __
0
l;
S
1
vi\
rT\
2
o
T 33
'P-
<s*
V
it
FROM
ill .5
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Aitocß&C 0 ,155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM 1
&11.5.
BILLIARDS has
” long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
J*
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc,
A Trial Bampte Case, containing: One;
3 Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Buildiog, George Street. Sydney.
Govit
P
Gout t Rheumatic
PILLS
BAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUf and i
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
BLAIR'S COMT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PER F E CTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLO EVERYWHERE
at 1/1 Yz and 2/9.
BLAIR'S HAVE STOOO
THE TEST OF TIME.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING 6c MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, * Bridge Sts., Sydney
ANIKEY
*
It aets like a eh arm in
DIARRIKEA.
The only known Specific fop ~
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION,, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago. &c._
It is extensivelv user! K y Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, have yivnn
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 ; 2 oz., 2s. 9d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each.
WARNING —Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844. has the ‘ ELEPHANT "Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman's Chlorodyne, Ltd., Loudon, S.E., England.
i
Food
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other ioods disagree. It is entiiely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Bengers Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywheie.
A Fellow of the Society for the En-
couragement of Hard-boiled Statistics writes :
The strange calculations in which the evening paper
indulges in,its spare inches bring joy to the heart of the
lone woman whose only mental exercise is trying to esti-
mate how much dishwater the sink will hold when the
pipe gets choked up with tea leaves—a catastrophe which
happens regularly in every hadly-regulated household,
and necessitates baling-out with the bucket, if that im-
plement can be found, and the dirtiest saucepan if it
can’t. The Sydney Evening News lately filled in a vacant
allotment of its valuable space with this :
"How far can animals leap? The other night, on
arriving home, I heard a suspicious noise upon a mantel-
shelf, Cft. from the floor. Investigation proved the pre-
sence of a mouse. With poker in hand ready to strike a
deadly blow, it was disturbed from its hiding-place.
Without hesitation it sprang to the middle of the floor,
78in. away. If we take its height as Hin., that mouse
fiad leapt 52 times its own height. It is as though a man
of 6ft. leapt to the summit of the Clock Tower at West
minster (312 ft.).”
Passing over the statement that the mouse was bur-
dened through having a poker in its hand, the
only weak point about the calculation is that the
mouse jumped down and the man would have to jump
up. However, there isn’t any reason why the thing
shouldn’t be Carried a bit further and applied to larger
animals capable of giving more impressive results. For
instance, if 20ft. elephants and 24ft. pythons could be in-
duced to leap at the same rate, the World would be over-
joyed at the sight of immense masses of living tissue
bounding 1000 ft. into the air and coming down with awe-
inspiring thuds. There would probably be some con-
fusion and disorder when a leaping elephant landed
on a loaded tram, or a soaring python fell into
a steamer full of Dill Mack.v’s Socialists going
down to Clontarf ; but the Evening Bloodstain
would be able to smear its columns with bright
red accounts of the horrible tragedy, and give the Blood-
stain’s descriptive writer the chance of his life. In its
earlier form, the snipped calculation par used to remark,
apropos of nothing at all, that if a man wanted to lay a
train of sausages round the Equator, he would have to
buy 982,758,923,724 ; that it would take a fleet of 182
5000-ton steamers to carry them across the sea, or 23 10-
truck trains, a caravan of 40,824 camels, and 38,354 one-
horse cabs to transport them on land ; that, calculating
he put 20 sausages per minute in position and
worked eight hours per day except on Sundays, he
would lay his train at the rate of 9600
sausages per day. He would, therefore, have
102,370,721 days of honest but useless work ahead of
him. At 313 working days to the year, that would be
327,063 years of sausage-laying-, exclusive of time spent
tinkering the 182 rusty ships, watering the 40,824 camels,
and having rows with the 38,354 cabmen. (The time
spent in repairing and patching the sausages that had
gone to the bad whilst waiting their turn isn’t taken into
consideration.) The author of the problem never, by
any chance, wandered into the dim byways of the subject
and worked out—(ft) the chances of the sausage-layer
being fined for insulting behavior in the foreign coun-
tries he would have to pass through ; (6) the average
daily attendance of wild animals, birds of prey, lost dogs,
sharks, savages, and domain dossers, etc., etc,;
(c) average daily number of sausages lost, stolen,
and absconded ; (d) cost of buoying the sausages
on the sea. The immense sausage problem—which
was never thoroughly exhausted —is now out of date;
we have in its stead the calculation which is based on
the jump of a desperate mouse with a poker
in its murderous hands. The mouse foolishness is
every bit as wild and magnificent, and it has the advant-
age of being founded on some sort of fact—a very small
and insignificant fact, but sufficient to excuse the insanity
which was fppmerly wrapped round the sausage. It is
putting theseience of mathematics to a base use ; still,
if it helps, to-take the .lone woman’s mind off—or out of—
tjje siVik, if-mav be let pass on the score of humanity.
But it is a dreadful invention all the same.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
Tshe LEADING
HOUSE
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
“The Maine” S.S. Rifle
"THE MAINE
(?ifie
ICAN’T
B
BEAT
Hp , iim ed for 22 short long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire, It is a take-down, and
designed lor snort, iuus, • ]d by s i mp l y unscrewing the thumb-screw located
is of the safety bolt type, and is
underneatn tne lore ari _ , . tg The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with P the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards
Postage on one Rifle-ls 3d, N.S.W. 2s 2d, Inter-State.
12/6
15/-
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney
books you cant get elsewhere
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook. Dy De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Ap/r of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain-for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
UMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TEEMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that'occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of nien and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-worktng for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Wo BVlatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Kstablished S 5 1 cell's.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
KEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. 'New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Pest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
tySK
AMTtt s
CUA
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
THE BULLETIN POST CAKES.—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written-guarantee for
five vwrs.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
o-uarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRAL!AN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W,
ON THE
HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS &. ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on haying NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seeusmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E.J). MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, mdxey.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by post,
Is. 4d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
■mill ■■ 11 iiamrarsmo^——^
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonßConKhs,
Catarrh, Sleeplesßness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. fin'd hv att CMcmto*.
L h ! Britisb=jF|ustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where .hies
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care or
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London. *
Note the Address— 4
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
i
rnHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
1 in magazine form. Its the finest sii mg fa
worth the Australian can buy for
tion, or for sending abroad to answei detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE'
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
ALIFO
YRUPw
A
Cps
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE-
ZEOccccrr
“o@fl
8000
r r r
• rr
•1
i rr
r r,
r rr
' r r
rr r
T(
Tr r
rrr rr
i rr,
• r r .
, Free
Sample
WriteToda*
ROOFING
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pm-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
vou of it.
We call Congo the “NEVER=LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
to
If
vv
0
**9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
(N
NOT WEATHER,
tnd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
„C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Way the Wool-Ships Go.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
SHE left her berth at Wellington,
A full ship fore and aft.
They kicked the stokers down below
The while the deckhands laughed.
So long as they could stand at all,
The drunken stokehold crew
Were bidden feed the hungry fires,
And, man, they did it, too !
Poor chaps, God knows they’ve handled sin,
Yet there are worse ashore ;
And ’tis the fiery curse of Cain
To make the furnace roar—
To coal the growling furnace
And make the good steam blow—
Twelve thousand miles to England,
The way the wool-ships go.
A thousand miles from any land,
A thousand miles at sea,
A fire broke out in “ Number One,”
Where wool and hemp burned free.
A thousand miles of rolling sea
Rolled round them, ridge on ridge,
And there was just one thing to do—
They knew it on the bridge :
To put her helm to hard-a-port
And swing her in her track—
A thousand miles from Wellington,
They turned and took her back.
They told the sweating stokers
“ Oh, make the good steam blow,
That we may reach Pencarrow
Before the hatches go.”
The trimmers and the greasers, and
The stokers at the fires,
Awoke again to living men
With living men’s desires.
“ She’s all a-fire in Number One,
We’re firing every day.
We’re going back to port again
And what’s a fire ? ” said they.
The captain never slept at all;
The chief ne’er changed his clothes.
The stokers tossed the Westport in,
The greasers oiled the throws.
They stirred the snorting furnace
And made the good steam blow
A cloud about her funnel—
A cloud as white as snow.
They did it of their manliness,
And not because of fear,
Unless it was the fear of words
With some dour engineer.
And as they fired and oiled and trimmed,
The thought occurred to all,
“We’re going back to port again,
She’ll need an overhaul.
And there’ll be weeks to roam around,
And maybe get away
And never round the Horn again
A-kickin’ clouds of spray,
Nor feed the flarin’ furnace,
Nor make the good steam blow,
Twelve thousand miles to England,
The way the wool-ships go.”
The sulphur-oxide engine filled
The hold with poison fume.
The hatches were all battened tight
To rob the fire of room.
And on the fourth.day she swung in
And signalled to the town,
That she was all a-fire below,
Could hardly keep it down.
The tugs came out to meet her, then
They took her to the quay,
And when they took the hatches off
The flames rose merrily,
The fighting flames up-flaring,
Set all the clouds aglow.
A thousand tons an hour they pumped
And filled her up below.
The man-o’-war lit up the scene
With beams of searching light,
And over all a lurid glow
Made quarrel with the night.
Her big bows settled in the mud
And still the tug-pumps drew,
And there was none to keep an eye
Upon her stokehold crew.
And in a bar beside the wharf
A dozen grimy men
O’er pewters told their fearsome tale
And coaled their fires again—
The glaring, flaring furnace
That made the good steam blow,
And brought her back to safety
All burning down below.
They were not mentioned in the press,
And little did they care;
They told their tales to get a drink,
And they had drinks to spare.
That they had done their duty well,
They heeded not at all;
Said they, “We’re back in port again,
She’ll need an overhaul.
And there’ll be weeks to loaf around,
And maybe get away. ”
Yet they’ll go round the Horn again,
In spite of all they say. %
They’ll feed the growling furnace,
And make the good steam blow,
Twelve thousand miles to England,
The way the wool-ships go.
MAOKILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Fall of the Curate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Harold Oswald hobbs was a
Curate—not a working Curate, because
he had only just been ordained, but his
Cure was ready for him, and he was to depart
thereto in a week, wherefore his soul was uplifted
with spiritual delight. That is his own expression.
Nobody had ever called H.O. mealy-mouthed—
there was nobody in his environment qualified to
do so. This was unfortunate. From his earliest
boyhood he had known he was to be a Curate, and
had acted accordingly—he was the eldest son of a
suburban grocer, and the dignity of the family
had to be kept up. It had been Wesleyan —the
family—but as things prospered, had come into
the fold of “ the Church.”
Besides being a Curate, H.O. was a fiancd. The
lady also owned a grocer—of the green variety—
for parent, and her aspirations towards feudal
gentility took the form of governessing. They
generally do in such cases, but Eleanor was
unusual in other ways. She threw back some
generations to an ancestor of whom her family
knew nothing—officially. Perhaps he could
hardly be considered an ancestor —his name was
not in the Family Bible. Her unusualness be-
trayed itself partly in the fact that she was
scrumptious. An explanation of this term
would be more descriptive than definitive. She
would have been a treat to meet at a
dance where the grounds were large and
dark, and the moon had set, and all that
sort of thing. Unfortunately she had never
been to a dance. Also her scrumptious-
ness manifested itself physically. Henry, who
was H.O.’s brother, and had no aspirations, said
she stripped well. Cross-examined by his mother,
his explanation of the expression was vague and un-
illuminating. Pressed, he said that lie had seen
her surf-bathing, but was unable to give any more
details. The reply was not satisfactory to the
Court, but the inquiry was not proceeded with.
However, she was a good girl, and fond of H.O. —
when she didn’t stop to think too much.
H.O. was taking her home from choir prac-
tice, in the ordinary way. The adjective is
purely relative. It was ordinary for a Curate
who is to enter upon his Curative duties
next week. Otherwise it would be extraor-
dinary—considering Eleanor. Perhaps she was
affected by the ordinariness, perhaps by the extra-
ordinariness—but, at any rate, the trouble began
then. It ended in a way that would have been
creditable to Eleanor’s remote forebears—not those
mentioned in the Family Bible—but was decidedly
discreditable to her father’s daughter, the govern-
ess. After preliminary discussion, she told H.O.
that he was a namby-pamby and a milk-sop, and
terminated the engagement there and then.
Theoretically, there is no excuse , for her; it is
common knowledge that young women, especially
in the suburbs, should not break engagements.
Practically, it was a warm night in early summer,
and the earth smelt wetly after a thunder-
storm, and the air was full of the scent of
roses. These things did not affect the Curate
—the names of his ancestors had all ap-
peared in Family Bibles —and to him Eleanor’s
action was quite wrong. However, no sense
of moral rectitude oppressed him when he
came to think matters over, and his spiritual ex-
altation left him. He passed a bad night —didn’t
sleep much, and thought a great deal. The next
day, being long and hot, went no waj' towards
soothing him. In the evening he doffed his
clerical garments, and went off to see the only
friend whose advice he thought he could rely on
in such an emergency. The friend’s name was
Haldane, and it was not much of a friendship,
being on Haldane’s side good-natured tolerance
and on the Curate’s a non-understanding attrac-
tion towards something altogether outside his own
world. Haldane was a barrister by profession,
and a journalist by trade, and had at one time
kept himself going bv coaching, which had led to his
acquaintance with the Curate. He was not very
much older than H.O.—by the calendar. He re-
ceived the confidences of the stricken one with
solemnity. The case was one in which it was
difficult to advise. Haldane knew one or two
specifics, but was not sure that they would be
appropriate to a Curate—-in fact, he was pretty
sure they would not. However, something had
to be done. “ Well, old fellow,” he sympathised,
“ if it was anyone else, I’d suggest a drink for a
start, and then we could talk it over.”
Whereupon the Devil entered into the Curate,
and to his own amazement, not less than his
friend’s, he assented to the proposition, and the
two strolled off together—the three, that is to say,
for the Devil remained with them. This is again
on the personal testimony of the Curate. Subse-
quent events convinced him of the actual presence
of the Prince of Evil. He has preached on the
subject of demoniacal possession on several occa-
sions since then.
Saint, Sinner and Satan turned into, not the
nearest pub, but the next but one—the Sinner had
his own reasons for the choice, which are im-
material to the present story. Satan lost his grip
for a second —the Saint ordered lemon squash.
But an assistant fiend looked out of the eyes of the
barmaid, who knew the Sinner, and the order was
rescinded, and a whisky substituted. If the
Curate himself were telling this story (which he
is not), here would be a good opportunity
to quote Virgil — something about Avernqs
and a descent. At the end of an hour
it seemed the natural thing to attempt
to kiss the barmaid, and get your face
slapped. Subsequently, as Haldane tells it, things
started to move. “We drifted down town, and
went into a wineshop in Hunter-street—it’s gone
now, by the way. Old Hobbs didn’t need much
showing; he pushed straight through past the
counter and into the back room, as though he had
been accustomed to such things all his life. We
started with a bottle of the red stuff old Guido-
bono calls wine, and I may say I began to play
second fiddle entirely.”
There was a spacious room, wherein on a divan
of the most gorgeous sat two nymphs or god-
desses. One was called Nita, the other Marie—
the Curate asked the names himself. He was not
quite sure which was which, but they were both
delightful, divinely delightful, and they all drank
much wine, and they showed the Curate photo-
graphs. He considered them carefully, and
finally gave it as his verdict that they would en-
liven the album at home. They would have done
so. He objected to being chucked out when
closing time arrived —he had never considered the
Liquor Act from the inside before. To console
him his nymph suggested that he should visit her
at her home. The other divine being made a
similar proposal to Haldane, and they all got
into one cab, and went. Their welcome was a
warm one, and the Curate noted incuriously that
Haldane seemed to be as much at home as Nita and
Marie. Subsequently, at 3 a.m., he found himself
wandering down William-street supported by
Haldane, and both singing a song with a French
refrain, which Marie had taught them.
A policeman stopped them. He knew Haldane
well, and smiled sympathetically ; but they were
making too much row, he told them. Haldane
recognised the fact—he knew the golden rule of
his trade, and always cultivated the friendship of
the police. He stopped to talk to the officer, and
the Curate suddenly realised the awful fact that
his friend was in danger of arrest. He came up
behind the Law and scientifically threw him on to
his back and rolled with him into the gutter.
Haldane yelled with laughter and assisted both
to their feet, whereupon the Curate sat down
again heavily and went to sleep. The policeman
(Continued on next 'page.)


AGONISING PILES CURED
After Many Treatments Failed.
*
N
Sitting on a damp seat, or in damp
clothes, high living, want of exercise,
and intemperate habits, are strong
factors to consider in explaining why-
piles arise.
In the cure of this obstinate ailment,
old-fashioned purgatives, which are apt
to induce a straining of the bowels,
should be rigidly avoided. It is the
special virtue of Bile Beans that they
produce a regular action, ease the liver
trouble, relieve the unnatural pressure
of the veins, and restore the blood cir-
culation. The tissues of the lower
bowel are toned and healed, so that
bleeding is checked, and inflammation,
irritation and pain are all ended.
“About eighteen months ago,” says
Mr. Z. Mynott, of Cleveland Street,
Stone’s Corner, Brisbane, “I was attacked
by that most distressing and aggravating
of complaints, Piles. Owing to the con-
stant jolting when sitting in my cart, as
well as the necessity of continually jump-
ing up and down to serve my customers, I
was forced to undergo great pain. I
became depressed in mind, and although I tried other so-called cures, they gave me no
relief. Reading of the success of Bile Beans in cases of Piles, I bought a box, and after
taking the first three doses I found myself getting better. My good spirits began to
return, the awful pain, irritation and depression of mind were disappearing, and I felt I
was on the road to recovery- Continuing to take Bile Beans, the Piles soon left me
entirely ; and as it is eighteen months ago, and I have not been troubled with the com-
plaint since, I feel sure my cure is permanent.”
Such testimony proves conclusively that Bile Beans cure surely and permanently.
They are the standard remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache, Debility,
Summer Fag, Loss of Appetite, Constipation, Piles, and all disorders of the Liver,
Stomach and Digestive Organs. Price 1/1J per box, of all Chemists and Stores.
2/9 size is specially recommended for family use, holding three times 1/li box.
Beauty’s Favourite,
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
'vas angrjq and said so, and was adamant to Hal
< ane’s pleadings that he should let the matter
drop. “You’re all right,” he said, “and
° course I don’t want to have nothing
to , do with you, Mr. Haldane, but I
don’t know why you should keep such damn
low company. And, anyway, I’ve got a spoilt
uniform to account for.” “Make it drunk and
disorderly, anyhow,” suggested Haldane, “and
you can keep him in the cells over Sunday—it
won’t hurt him—and I’ll pay his fine on Monday,
and we 11 call it square. We’ll make the uniform
all right. ’ This arrangement was agreed to, and
the Curate, in a state of blissful unconsciousness
and a badly torn coat, was taken off to the police-
station. He has never told what his next morn-
ing’s sensations were, though they may in part be
gathered from certain sermons that he has since
preached to rural congregations. Marrabundie
has an intimate acquaintance with the evils of
strong drink, and its elect sometimes wonder how
their parson acquired such an accurate knowledge
of the terrors of the article.
On the Monday morning, still dazed and miser-
able, H.O. was marched into court and fined 40s.
and costs, in default, etc. His pockets were
empty, not unnaturally, but his first feeling of re-
lief came to him almost as a pang as he saw
Haldane step up and make the necessary arrange-
ments to liquidate his liability to our Sovereign
Lord the King. The journalist met him on his
way from the dock and adjured him to buck up,
telling him at the same time that he had made the
necessary arrangements with his confreres not to
report the “case.” Despite this, the Curate was
too miserable to buck up; and as he went out
he saw behind the railing the awful face of
his father. And beside him was Eleanor’s father.
They walked all the way home with the wretched
Curate, and on his part he gathered that his
detection had been accidental. It seemed that
the families had suspected suicide. Hence the
appeal to the police, and the subsequent awful
discovery. The Curate wished that it had been
suicide. The day passed in a gloom too dreadful
for words. The blinds were all pulled down, and
his mother cried a great deal. The Curate, who
was not very old, after all, realised that he was
unfit for the society of men, and his future
unrolled itself before his eyes as a sort of dreadful
desert. However, close study of the Scriptures
revealed the fact that there might still be a useful
career open for him in the Church. He felt hum-
bly thankful that Eleanor had broken their
engagement—it saved him some pain, at any rate.
All that was left him was a lifelong and celibate
service in the Vineyard.
In the evening came a letter from Eleanor, and
he opened it despondently, though he felt that he
deserved all her reproaches. Boiled down, it was
au enthusiastic appreciation of his manhood, and
an almost reverent revocation of her decree. The
Curate’s first impulse was to pray for enlighten-
ment for her, and he did so. After prayer came
reflection, and in the end he decided that it was
not fair to blight her life too. And as a matter
of fact he has turned out a very good parson, and
both he and his wife are popular in Marrabundie.
But their respective families still don’t speak.
FITZWILLIAM.
The Seducer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
on,” said the little man, per-
® J suasively.
“Not me,” answered the big man, de-
terminedly. “ I’m goin’ ’ome ter tea.”
“ Hist one,” said the little man.
“No,” answered the other ; “ ’ome ter tea.”
“What! not jist one long, cold, frothy one?”
queried the small lie-siren. “Come on ’ere!
He grabbed his friend fiercely by the arm.
“No-o-o,” said the large Ulysses, resisting
feebly.
The little man led him through the swing-doors
to the bar.
“ What’ll y’ave ?” he inquired.
“ Pint,” said the big man, weakly.
“G’luck !” he said, as he lifted his glass to his
face.
“’Ealth !” replied his friend, doing likewise.
A deep gurgle and a long-drawn sigh broke
from both.
“I’m goin’ ’ome ter tea now,” said the big
man, firmly, wiping his mouth with the back of
his hand..
“What ! ain’t y’ goin’ ter ast me t’ave one with
you?” demanded the little man, fiercely.
“Nope,” said the big man, making for the
door. “ Goin’’ome ter tea.”
The small person placed himself between his
friend and the exit. “ Call yourself a man ? ” he
inquired, dancing up and down excitedly. “ Y’u
drink me beer alri’, don’t y’u ? Won’t stan’ your
turn, though, will y’u ? You double-’eaded
sponger ! You wall-eyed ”
“ Aw, shut yer faice,” interrupted the big man,
wearily. He went back to the counter and
ordered two more pints.
“’Ealth !” said the little man, thoroughly ap-
peased.
“G’luck!” said the big one. He put his
pewter down with a long-drawn sigh and made
for the door. “S’ long,” he said, “goin’ ’ome
ter tea.”
“’Ere, jist a minit,” said the other.
“No time—’ll miss me train. Goes at six.”
“Well, what’s th’’urry? It’s only a quarter
to; come ’ere—got somethin’ tertelly’u—straight.”
“Aw, what ails yer?” said the big man, im-
patiently, retracing his steps.
The little man reached up on tiptoe and whis-
pered excitedly in his friend’s ear for some
moments.
“ Can’t lose—a moral! ” he said, in conclusion.
“Got it from a bloke what works at the same
place as a cove what knows a brother-in-law o’ the
boy what’s ridin’ it. Gorspel teruth ! ”
“ Think so ! ” said the big man, doubtfully.
“Sure thing. I’m’avin’a couple o’ bob on it
meself,” said the small one. He signalled the
barman for two more beers.
“It ain’t done nothink lately,” said the big
man, as he meditatively sniffed his beer.
“That’s jist it. They’ve been keepin’ ’im
dark.” said the diminutive person.
“I’ll ’ave ther same agen,” he added to the
barman.
The tall man glared wrathfully, but paid for the
fresh drinks.
That finished, he made for the door somewhat
unsteadily. The little man did not move.
“ Blast it ! ” the large one said, looking at the
clock ; “ come on. I’ll miss me train.”
“ Wait on,” said his friend. “ Plenty o’ time.
’Ave another.”
“No, darn yer. I’m goin’ ome ter tea,
snapped the big man, fiercely.
" Well, wait for me a minit. I must ave one
last une,” said his companion, ordering another
beer.
When it was brought, he held it ecstatically to
the light, smelt it delicately, put it to his lips,
withdrew it, and blew the creamy froth from the
top.
The big man’s eyes bulged greedily.
“ Wontcher ?” inquired the little man, sug-
festively, eyeing him from the top of it. The
bi g glanced at the clock.
“I’ve on’y got three minits ter catch me train,”
he whined weakly. “If I miss that I won’t git
’nuther afore eleven.”
“ Well > let it go,” said the small man recklessly,
“Wash it matter’”
» Me missis began the big man.
“ ’E’s frightened of ’is missis,” laughed the
other, scornfully. “ Frightened o’”
Oo ish ? ” inquired the big man. aggressively,
“ .’Ere, come and drink thish,” said the tempter,
holding out the beer alluringly. The big man
glanced uneasily at the advancing clock. It was
one minute and'a half to six
He rose unsteadily to his feet and made for the
door.
A subtle whiff of beer caught his nostrils. He
hesitated with his fingers on the handle,
The little man repeated: “ Wash it matter ? ”
and stretched forth a full glass alluringly,
Slowly the large man’s hand relinquished its
hold on the door.
“I’m goin’ ’ome ter teash,” he moaned. His
trembling fingers closed round the glass, which
his friend pushed towards him.
“ ’Ealsh ’ ” said the little man
“B’luck!” wailed the big one as the clock
struck six.
ALF. BRASCH.
The Song of the Airship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
High
In the blue !
With the soft, whirring rush
of the wind, and the
tense, silent crew,
Looking down—ever down
On the village and town ;
And they slide
And they glide,
As we dreamily ride,
Drunk with joy on the breath of the
Wind.
High-
Ever High !
In a world of blue Peace where is
naught but the Eagle and I.
In the Kingdom of Space
Do I circle and race ;
Do I float, softly borne
On the wings of the Morn
Like a cloud,
While the motor song runs like the
challenge of guns,
Demanding in vain
From the Home of the Rain—
From the vacuous Sky—
Some reply.
The House of the Thunder
Is dumb with the Wonder,
The blue depths swim under !
i fly!
High!
Madly high !
With the things of the Earth have
I conquered the limitless Sky !
With the hemp and the steel,
With the clattering rods
Do I tremble and reel
In the face of the gods,
And I float
Like a mote —
Like an insolent mote—
And look down
Where unbelievable depths,
Where unthinkable depths,
Wait to drown
The rash atom that drifts
’Twixt the banks and the rifts
Of the slow-moving clouds
That envelop like shrouds
All the Sky ;
As I stand at the helm
God-like dreams overwhelm,
“ / have conquered It! Lo !itis / / ”
High !
Higher Still !
With a quick-winging, heart-breaking
rapture that surely must kill.
It is madness ! and Death !
(God ! the shuddering fall,
The quick, intaken breath,
And the shrieking as all
The great mass breaks and streams
from the sky!
Each bit madly dashing
And smashing and mashing
And pulping the crew !
Stamping bone, flesh and blood
In the foul, wretched mud,
With a lunatic rage
As though purging the page
Of the Sky!)
Oh ! again and again is the thing in
my brain
As I steer my mad course thro’ the
Sky!
As I drift —as I glide,
As I tremble and float
In the clear silent waste of the Sky !
Lost !
In the blue !
With my quivering airship of cordage
and steel, and my motionless crew;
Looking down—ever down
Like a god from a cloud
On the country and town
And the tiny black crowd
On the Earth !
As I float
Like a mote
In the eye of the Sun —
As I ride,
Deified,
To the foot of the Throne,
Lo ! ’tis I!
I alone,
Am the One !
For I glide on the breath
Of the Wind above Death,
And I swoon at the miracle done !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


“I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like.”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itcelf.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outfor imitations that will only disappointyou. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like ct Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
Superior to,.
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
[copaiba.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
Each Capsule bears
in
ours.
nr
me
[MI
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectjonof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portraitprice 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss,
' -
SUSSEX STRI
»
ST, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONCROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleepinK-room, and all places where Hies
■r-.
£ wnom are
are troublesome,
t Clean, beat and
'ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
seas in.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardware
Sydney-—Anthony Hordern A Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington fl. Soul, Pafctinsoo & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Corincll St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell Sb. ; S. HofTnung & 00., Pitt St.;
Feldhoim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe «fcCo. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., C.S.A,
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“The Standard Remedy -which has outlired the Centu he*
SIIBLETVrS EYE OUTKEEL
In me since l-see.
CURES
Australian Bliglit, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Load, London, Eng.
of drinking impure water and
incurring the risk of
»
Australia
has been proved by the severest
tests to effect a complete barrier to the J ‘
passage of water-borne disei
-S.* i....
Fountain Filters,
from 20/» each.
Pressure Filters,
from 20/- each.
Used by leading S.S. Cos., Public and Private Institutions.
Write for Catalogues to—
IDGE LTD
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
COLORE]
and
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you la
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CAROS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you hare sold the
cards, return us our 6s. aud we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose fre.m the list of jewellery which we forward
you. Rv continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES*
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
work'aianship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gant.’s
DRESSING GASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers*
in pdst cards in Australia, and import bur jewellery, or we coaid
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. OHr
pest cards Sell at once, Wherever seen. Wedefy contradiction when
we asseirt that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
every ca’se positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
11
Hi J ~)
Oo
fjf GOOD LUCK §Er|
REGAL POST CARD C?,126 O'CONNELL ONLY.
A BIT OF PHILOSOPHY.
An unkind critic remarked that Carlyle’s philosophy was
mainly the outcome of chronic dyspepsia. While it is
impossible to determine to what degree physical condi-
tions color philosophical speculations, it is nevertheless
true that they do so. It is well known that disordered
digestion is frequently as much responsible for “ the pale
cast of thought ” and philosophy of gloom as it is the
cause of a starved and poisoned system. If a man’s
Stomach and Liver are all right he won’t often be found
grumbling about “ this barren wilderness,” and he won’t
vote life a bore and wonder why he didn’t die in his
youth. Get right with your digestive department and
you’ll be right with all the world. Beecham’s Pills have
helped multitudes to leave their old dreary philosophy
for a saner and brighter view of things. They dissipate
the clouds of melancholy by driving away Indigestion
and the troubles due to a rebellious liver. Hence, to
the brain-worker, the student, the thinker, and the man
of sedentary occupations
BEECHAM’S
Pi LS
ARE
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England .
Sold Everywhere in boxes, price 10}4d. (36 pills),
Is. Ix/zd.1 x /zd. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 pills)
m
i - x
W.-i
m
•A-.;
JOSH BILLINGS sed
“It iz a-wize man who proffits by his own
experience, but it iz a good deal wizer one
who lets the rattlesnaik bite the other
phellow ”
And he mite further have sed, seeing the
poor resultz obtained frutn the ordinary
windnbl, Wi not tri a
"STEEL WINGS”?
They run eezy becawz they kant help
it, having a baring on EACH side
ov the windweel, and konsekwently
pump more water than yu kould posibbly
drink if yu didn’t get awl the kat tel and
sheep on the run to have a share.
Rite suddenly to
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO. LTD.,
next BAY ROAD STASKUN, NORTH SYDNEY,
or to Branch Offis, 107 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
and ask Deppartment C for a deskriptiv
katalogg.
Rutiipz, piping and trawling soled at
ree'sunible rates.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
%
en
and
WOMEN
Or. John Martin, M.D. 4
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,"
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus
tralia, for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage); together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 602 Pages, oyer 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. She most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different jbo those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
p#dia of information for people suffering- with disease. No similar book Has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from' any of the Sydney
booksellers at it-s published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address:—
D/?.| martinMm.a.,;
Please mention this paper when writing
gi ßlmioy House,”
151 Elizabeth-st.,
__HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Reliable Calf-Feeders.
r •» mass 1 :?
CALF-FEEDERS, com-
plete with best thick
rubber teat fitted to
thbe and strainer, 2/-
«£<*; extra teat, 1/6.
With lirirt quality teat,
1/9 each; extra teat,
9a. each.
LAMB-FEEDING
TEATS, with pligto
fit m bottle, 9d each;
ordinary, 6d. each.
ini 1 y Manv u S ifnl°w r v,t tal °^ ue - vou will it interest-
'i'rait Jar P oods are illustrated in it—
■ g i Tennis Footwear, Sole Protectors, etc.
PERDRtAU RUBBER CO. LTD..
The Best House for All Rubber Goods.”
270 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT DESTRUCTION.
Trains r,u.«. n “ Ourrandooley," Bungendore,
„ -4th December, 1908.
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
hav <V 'low f-'iven your method of
tosavr d h?f 0n trial, and am pleased
The M fc f he re ™'t has exceeded my expectation.
c “ rln ? »;360-acre paddock, badly
H Ste « Wlttl ra, hbits, has amounted to a trifle
' ( ' ! e L; 3 -P er aer , e - .T he same paddock would have
cost per acre to dig - out.
rednoed atl k Sfied that tllis cost can be considerably
reduced by using - your latest “ Perfection ”
work in*™ I- am • therefore getting two of these to
work in conjunction -with the plant already on the
weeks' 1 ’ and WIH *v you .h ave the result’in a few
weeks. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) HARRY OSBORNE.
_ tyres limited,
Y WEST (Opp. K. &, A. Wharf).
HEENAN S FROPDE LTD.,
# MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney 2
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
as
/ Write for
/ « B >»
Catalogue
' SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY, 'll
Rider.
The bulletin post CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
Wm. Atkins & Co-Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TU
BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
:
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
*.
Head Office Address
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
PROMPT ATTENTION
TO ALL ENQUIRIES
GUARANTEED.
LIMITED,
7 Bent Street,
Sydney.
“ CURRAGUNDI,” BULLARAH,
„„„„„ 27th Npvember, 1908.
MESSRS. MOFFAT-VIRTUE, LTD.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
Dear Sira,
.. on n i !^ ief l shearing here on the sth instant, having put
through 80,250 SHEEP with 15 SHEARERS. The Moffat-Virtue
Machines went splendidly without a hitch, from start to finish. This
is our fifth shearing with your machines. All the machinery is as
good as new still. Yours truly,
H. T. STDDINS, Manager.
Sub-Agents :
srurn?’aiisTDai I S „ ke " e ’„ 464 l le Co,lins street > Melbourne.
OUEEKSLfINn" plrfi Stt* 1 S 2u ep Sheari "« Oo - Ltd - Currie Street, Adelaide.
wfstfbmTh^VpAffn r S^ eep . !? ear,ngr Co ' Ltd - Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
HEWrEaiM iL n : n , Sheep. Shearing (W.A.)Co. Ltd.. Melbourne Road, Perth.
tarmjlmia? m, ■ John Ch a m *?ers & Son ’ Ltd - Auckland and Wellington.
jrASMANiA.- Messrs. Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart. \
'■ . -i—i -niiTm iiiliii'iii'iiinniii
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR
Head Australian Office : E.
Engineers, Contractors,
S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
George Street,
SYDNEY
YOUR
INQUIRIES
SOLICITED.
9
—ww
ON OUR NEW SELECTION.
By STEELE RUDD.
Cloth binding', posted free, 6s.
PROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 2J4 George Street, Sydney.
COLORED POST CARDS
By HARRY J. WESTON.
“WEEKLY WORRIES,” set of six, posted free, Od.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO, 214 George Street, Sydney.
■
For Every Possible Service.
Large Stocks carried „
Write for Catalogue and Prices .
Boiler Feed Pumps.
Tank or Light Service Pumps.
Duplex and Triplex Pumps.
Combined Boiler and Pump.
Belt Driven Pumps.
jt
•• < ; '
1 - v . J; i
m
Sydney,
Selling Agents : SMITH &
; phi
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
FRANKEL, Brisbane ; McLEAN BROS. & RIQQ, Perth.
W
BIL
TTS
TUE IRON
J
£
m
SUITABLE FOR ALL FORGES.
Sqves 25 Per Cent. in Fuel. Saves 25 Per Cent. in Wages.
Requires No Water. Causes No Btack Spots .
If your Hardware House cannot supply, send to Sole Manufacturers,
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Fleibourne
n
