

£
-
1
'%'% y yy y&r-
-i *
B. G. WATKINS «S& GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ . .
Minins and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sfd
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Sarco Fuel Saving
Appliances.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
in
HOBA.RT,
PIONEEft
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C m Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
fds
" Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON* S
fine Apple Brand
sf
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
sfd
RflStfilUrV
lunKer
J
unKe
e
un
Junk
Is
’lciiifcfcCEk
tlim&ek
CIM , u)\(LL/Oz/cs Muffy u fldb fy&fr.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
*
4
v*>?
w*
s.
s
*
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
s
df
d
is the Queen of nil Co coas !
: v : f
l Aroma, StrengtKt'Purit/
s
MALTHOID is lighter, cooler and better than either corrugated iron, slates
or tiles. It is sold in rolls, and can be easily and quickly laid.
MALTHOID roofs the most prominent new buildings throughout
Australasia and America, as well as other countries Send for book
of illustrations.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald, “The Hercules” Refrigerating' Machine.
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
. : ■■
= W-f
WORTHINGTON PUMP:
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Cataxogtxes,
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
sdf
One Star Three Star
HELIDON SPA WATER
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its
solvent power and cleansing properties -
) DEWHIHRST U HALLORAN, Ltd.,
I Agents.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 30.—N0. 1549.]
[Thursday, October 21, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


sfd
OF THOSE REVIEWED ON
THIS PAGE.
RR knv N J R f A . S w*vs°nr A H wi«o| RSE ’ Pr l° e . 55., posted ss. 5d. ; edited by Bertram Stevens.
BRADY, E. J.. WAYS OF MANY WATERS ; new edition, 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
Thompson, F. : Shelley, 3s, posted 3s 4d.
Thompson, F. : Poems, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Wilde, O. : Lord Arthur Saville’s Crime, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Clouston, J. S.: Prodigal Father, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Deeping: Return of the Petticoat, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Blyth, J.: Penalty, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Hewlett: Open Country, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
" s Cross, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Briggs, O. M. : The Black
THOMAS, ROWLAND: THE LITTLE COOS, a book of Philippine Island Life and Adventure, price 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE VOICE!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol
£3T- AN IDEAL REMEDY
LUNGS! ! !
mmk
JUj
§.g
yg>S
SON
SO-u Ojii i. v In TINo, Price 1/6.
HUDSONS EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaina or other Poisonous Drug-.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says : “ Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interefere with the Digestion; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Said by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt ef
1/6
Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD., » YOR* street, Sydney.
The RED PAGE
The mystery of Williani Sharp, who was
also “ Fiona Macleod.;” may be partly cleared
up in the “Life,” by his widow, to be
published at the end of the year. Meanwhile
she has issued a selection of his Songs and
Poems, Old and New (Elliot Stock), written
while he was William Sharp between the years
1879 and 1905. The poetical part of Fiona
Macleod's work has already been published in
From the Hills of Dream. The Sharpend of the
dual personality was by far the bluntest,
as the poems in the above selection are
mostly tame and uninteresting. The speci-
mens here printed are the best of those
which are of quotable length. In justice to
the widow it must be mentioned that she
has not reprinted any of the dull stuff
written while he was on a visit here, and
selected by Sladen for his two Australian
anthologies. The widow mentions in a bibli-
ographical note that three of the poems she
has included appeared originally in the Fagan
Remew (1892), the first and only number
of a projected monthly review edited by
“W. H, Brooks ” —of which William Sharp
wrote every word from cover to cover under
the pseudonyms of the Editor and seven of
contributors. His work as “ Fiona Macleod ”
did not begin until 1893, the first publication
being Pharais, 1894 ; so the Pagan Review
may have been a preliminary effort of the
other self or selves to find expression.
Out of the valley of the Shadow of Death
Who cometh, through the haunted Hollow Land?
On those tired lips of mine whose quickening
breath,
In this long yearning clasp whose tremulous hand ?
O, is it death or dream, madness, or what
Fantastic torture of the chemic brain,
That brings thee here, as thus, when all forgot,
Thy body sleeps, as mine doth, free from pain?
What is the breeding word upon thy lips
O beautiful image of my heart’s desire ?
What is the ominous shadow of eclipse
That dusks those veiled eyes’ redeeming fire?
O soul whom I from life to life have sought,
What menace haunteth joy so dearly bought ?
This menace of remembrance that must come :
This menace : —of the waking that must be.
O soul, let the rhythm of life itself grow dumb
And be the song of dbath our litany :
Let the world perish as a perishing fire,
For us be less than ashes without flame,
So that we twain our last breath here suspire.
Here where none uttereth word, none calleth
name.
For in the Hollow Land is utter peace
The magic spell which hath no first or last:
But all that never ceaseth here doth cease '
And what would know no death is long since past:
Only one thing endures where all expire—
The inviolate rapture of fulfilled desire.
Australian Verso.
What is Australian Verse, anyhow ? An
English writer said some time ago that,
strictly speaking, the term Australian litera-
ture should be restricted to the literature of
the aboriginals, if there was any, for all the
rest was English literature produced in Aus-
tralia. Some of the alleged songs of the
aboriginals have been turned into English.
There are a couple in Dr. Lang’s Aurora
Australis (Sydney, 1826). The humorless
Horne gave a corroboree chorus in his South
Sea Sisters (Melbourne, 1866) :
From creek of Worooboomi-boo !
And sheep-run Woolagoola-goo !
Come Dibble-Fellow dancing in fog 1
All over mount Wooloola-yah !
And earth-holes of Worondi-wah !
Till he vanish in the yellow Wog-wog !
Etc., etc.
This sounds like something out of a bad
gollywog book, but was actually selected by
Sladen as a specimen of Australian Poetry.
It is, however, a shade more intelligible than
the samples of original blackfellow poetry
printed in Paterson’s Old Bush Songs. The
first two lines will be enough :
Korindabria, korindabria, bogarona, bogarona,
Iwariniang »,
iwaringdo, iwariniang, iwaringdo, iwariniang,
iwaringdo.
A footnote states : “I could never find out
what the words meant, and I don’t think the
blacks themselves know.” Very likely not.
Anyhow, it is clear that our dusky brothers
who have vanished in the yellow Wog-wog
have left no footprints in literature. The
Maoris have made a mark of some kind, fora
number of their songs in Sir George Grey’s col-
lection have been paraphrased into readable
English.
It has been urged locally that the adjective
“Australian” should be reserved for that
literature in English which has been pro-
duced by the white natives of Australia, just
as American literature is the product
of autochthonous Yankees. There is
hardly justification for this at pre-
sent, as the work of the native born
is not sufficiently distinguished from that of
the immigrant. America was colonised cen-
turies ago, and did nob begin to have a
separate national literature until after the
War of Independence. Even when De
Tocqueville visited the United States in 1835
he could not find one poet of high order,
and Stedman’s Poets of America, after a pre-
liminary gallop over the “ colonial ” writers,
begins with Bryant, who died in 1878.
What Stedman said about America’s early
days—“ All the drags, the anchorage, the
limitations involved in the word ‘ colonial ’
retarded a new ideality. It made the western
lyre a mechanism to echo without fresh and
true feeling notes that came from over sea ”
—applies with force to Australia ; only that
we are shaking off that restriction earlier and
without a war.
* •* * ■*
Let us accept the superior English person’s
definition for the moment. It would give us
the work of Gordon, Clarke, Boldrewood,
Brunton Stephens, Daley, Ogilvie and a good
many others. On the other hand, we lose Gil-
bert Murray, Haddon Chambers, Dr. Morri-
son, Frederic Manning and some others.
(Mrs. Humphrey Ward spent her first five years
in Tasmania—but we waive any claim to her.)
Artists, scientists, musicians, too, we lose.
The loss will increase until Australia is big
enough to provide a market for all the
artistic products of her children, for the
old hag on the Thames still sings with
all the compelling charm' of the Sirens.
The work of those Australians who have
left here has naturally been adapted to
the markets in which it was offered, and
little of it has any Australian character-
istics. And a good deal of work done here
by immigrants has no Australian flavor and
no intrinsic interest for Australians.
This definition, therefore, will not do un-
less it is qualified. And the necessary quali-
fication in its simplest form is—Australian
interest. Any artistic work done here by
Australians has that interest; so has the
work of anyone else which has been influenced
by life in Australia, even though, as in the
case of Daley, the influence is not obvious.
■* * * it
A collection of verse of this kind, believed
to be fairly representative, has been made in
The Golden Treasury of Australian Verse
(Angus and Robertson), which is really a
revised edition of An Anthology of Australian
Verse, published in 1906. The revision is
so extensive as to make it practically a new
book, and a new title was necessary. The
title does not imply any comparison with
Palgrave’s English or Knowles’ American
G.T.’s; and the word “golden” is dis-
tinctly modified by the word “ verse.” The
editor of this page does not feel called upon
to praise or abuse the selection made by
himself as editor of the book ; and, as he was
unable to see proofs, he does not hold him-
self responsible for two or three errors in the
text, nor for the presence of an “ index ”
which is merely a list of names.
Objection may be reasonably made to
stretching the term “Australian” so as to
cover Maoriland. But “Australasian ”is an
ugly mouthful ; and the people of the Com-
monwealth and the Dominion are so much
akin, the conditions of life so similar, that
the simpler word may be fairly applied to a
selection from the verse of both countries.
• * * *
The making of an anthology is a process
of stocktaking. The selection should enable
the reader to see at a glance, as it were, how
we stand in the poetry line, and what is the
value of our achievement. Over 20 years ago
Sladen started the business for Australia, and
put a pretty high estimate on the goods. That
valuation has not been sustained. Twenty
years hence a higher standard of values will
no doubt be applied, and a further reduction
made in what we may regard as assets to-day.
In the lower regions of verse interest dimin-
ishes with time. The preservative against
decay is style, and style is the vesture of the
imagination. An English critic who had
read some books of Australian verse com-
plained that what he read was lacking in
imaginativeness—there were no arresting
phrases, no haunting lines. That, you will
remember, was Matthew Arnold’s test for
great poetry. It is unreasonable to expect
great poetry from Australia yet. It is worth
while, however, trying to see whether there
are any lines of Australian verse which have
thp quality of memorableness. This would
mean taking stock in a much simpler way.
Will readers send in their selection of the best
lines by Australian or Maoriland writers—not
more than four lines in one quotation. The
name of the poem and poet to be attached to
each quotation. Contributions to reach here
before 18th November next. 10s. 6d. will be
forwarded to the sender of what is judged to
be the best quotation.
Francis Thompson
Francis Thompson has asked, in his essay
on Shelley (a most luminous piece of self-
revelation), why “ the poets who have
written for us the poetry richest in skiey
grain, are the very poets whose lives' are
among the saddest records in literature ? ”
We think of Thompson himself and echo
“Why?” There are few sentences in this
essay on Shelley, except those weakly ones
which attack Shelley’s atheism, that could
not be applied to Francis Thompson. He
reveals more of himself than he reveals of
the greater poet.
Thompson was born at Preston in 1863 or
1859, and was bred a Catholic at Ushaw
College. The son of a doctor, he was in-
tended to follow the paternal profession, but
he had a warmer love for dead languages
than he had of dead bodies, so he
took the unfilial course of becoming a poet.
This action appears not to have pleased his
father, and it preyed on his own mind and
body. For some part of his life he was a
starving derelict. He worked in a boot shop
and carried a bookseller’s collecting sack, till
verses he had sent to magazines brought him
friends. (So the fairies are not dead !) He
was looked after by these friends because his
health was not perfect, and he was taken
into the home of Mr. Wilfred Meynell,
whose children the poet honored with some
of his finest poetry, and whose wife is the
lady of “ Love in Dian’s Lap.” Mrs. Mey-
neil, a younger sister of the Lady Butler
who painted battles, is the subject of Thomp-
son’s most passionate and grief-stricken love-
poems, and though Mr. Wilfred Meynell
had beaten the poet for his girl, he has been
exceedingly generous to the lorn lover ever
since.
Thompson wrote for The Academy in its
best days, and, later, for TheAthenceum. He
published only three, and those small,
volumes of verse, namely, “Poems,” 1893;
“Sister Songs,” 1895 ; and “ New Poems,”
1897. His spirit, set in but a frail shell
from the first (this “ dear speck of flesh with
such daring wings ”) failed utterly on Nov-
ember 13, 1907. The world can expect no
other poet like him.
With Shelley he owes much to Shake-
speare—Shakespeare etherealised. Possibly
he is the last truly religious poet that we
can have, for the rare spirit that infuses his
work can seldom survive the tests of living
in these rushing days. He has said of
Shelley: “Any partial explanation will
break in our hands before it reaches the root
of such a power.” So it is only for the
present writer to indicate, and not to define,
the magic of this splendid poet, for he has
the gift of “abstraction vitalised” that is
the spring of the purest poetry. He is a
cowled ascetic, abasing self, and yet sun-
worship and the divinest Spring frenzies
uplift, and surge through his soul, while
there stirs in him “the babe of an unborn
calamity.”
... in all too late and frozen a day
I come in rearward of the throats of song
Unto the deaf sense of the aged year,
Singing with doom upon me.
His longer poems are regularly his best,
because his spacious images need room. The
magnificence of the “Orient Ode,” and the
“ Ode to the Setting Sun,” and the richness
of their language are not to be surpassed.
Haunting lines like
Spring is come home with her world-wandering
feet,
from “From the Night of Forebeing,” and
the fine abandonment of the last lines of
“ An Anthem of Earth ” :
Here I untrammel,
Here I pluck loose the body’s cerementing,
And break the tomb of life ; here I shake off
The bur o’ the world, man’s congregation shun,
And to the antique order of the dead
I take the tongueless vows : ray cell is set
Here in thy bosom ; my little trouble is ended
In a little peace.
—denote a deeper range of emotion and finer
command of language than any modern poet
possesses. And the tricky Celtic metre of
pieces like “ July Fugitive ”:
Can you tell me where has hid her
Pretty maid, July ?
I would swear one day ago
She passed by.
—show Thompson to be a true poet of fancy
as well as a poet of fine imagination. Song
and the consciousness of his song and of
the power of song is beside him always.
Wilfred Meynell, Thompson’s literary
executor, has issued a six-shilling selection of
the work which contains, first and foremost,
that most sublime, most undeniably-inspired
modern poem, “ The Hound of Heaven.” A
separate edition of “The Hound of Heaven ”
is sold at one and threepence. ‘ ‘ The Hound
of Heaven ” is Thompson’s climacteric poem,
because of the tremendous idea and the mag-
nificence of its statement. It is worth one
and threepence of any man’s money. It has
a sublime idea, and, for all the occasional
strangeness of Thompson’s vocabulary, a
sincere manner. It opens and closes splen-
didly. The language inevitably responds to
the idea and gives the thought its full value,
while the poem is just the right length.
“The Hound” might mean a lot of
things, but most of all it means the death-
lessness of the innate religious instinct of a
man. He sinned and ignored it, but it
would not entirely leave him ; it would not
let him go :
I fled Him, down the nights and down the days ;
I fled Him, through the arches of the years ;
I fled Him, down the labyrinthine ways
Of my own mind....
But with unhurrying chase,
And unperturbed pace,
Deliberate speed, majestic instancy,
They beat—and a Voice beat
More instant than the Feet—
“ All tilings betray thee, who betrayest Me.”
And it goes on for its two hundred lines or
so, with no faltering in the mood, and no
weakness in the word:
I triumphed and I saddened with all weather,
Heaven and I wept together,
And its sweet tears were salt with mortal mine;
Against the red throb of its sunset heart
I laid my own to beat
And share commingling heat:
But not by that, by that, was eased my human
smart.
And comes once more the urgent refrain:
Nigh arid nigh draws the chase,
With unperturbed pace,
Deliberate speed, majestic instancy,
And past those noised feet
A Voice comes yet more fleet—
“Lo, naught contents thee, who content's!; not
Me.”
And finally :
Halts bv me that footfall:
Is my gloom, after all,
Shade of His hand outstretched caressingly?
“Ah, fondest, blindest, weakest,
I am He Whom thou seekest !
Thou dravest love from thee, vvtio dravest Me.”
These quotations indicate the idea more
than the verbal beauty of the poem. There
are other good things in the selected poems,
but nothing so evenly great as “ The Hound
of Heaven.” For his richness of phrase
Thompson is a man to admire ; for his
courageous prosody, a man to respect. He
has the rare gift of being naive and man-
nered at the one time. This is from the
book of selections :
ENVOY.
Go, songs, for ended is our brief, sweet play;
Go, children of swift joy and tardy sorrow;
And some are sung, and that was yesterday,
And some unsung, and that may be to-morrow.
Go forth ; and if it be o’er stony way,
Old joy can lend what newer grief must borrow:
And it was sweet, and that was yesterday,
And sweet is sweet, though purchased with
sorrow.
Go, songs, and come not back from your far <Y ’
And if men a3k you why you smile ana par »
Tell them ye grieve, for your hearts know lo-
Tell them ye smile, for your eyes know
morrow.
Whether we believe in a man’s faith or 11 »
such a great belief as Thompson constant y
expresses with singular earnestness an
beauty of image and language, must com-
maad our admiration. The poems, in hi.>
last volume, grouped under the heading
“Sight and Insight,” and including such
fairy-like yet positive things as “ The Mas-
tress of Vision ” and “ Grace of the Way
I was translated and enskied
Into the heavenly-regioned She.
are the most delightful things that a man
can expect to get from another.
It is almost inconceivable how the frail
flesh shell of this man could contain the
trembling and forceful urgency that backs
these poems, and the man ye-t live for close
on 50 years and in circumstances not by any
means rosy. But what did it matter to him
if he sold matches or slept in the cold on
the Thames embankment ? He had on liis
tongue the magical word, and flaming in his
heart the eternal fire. He has the magic
that intoxicates and that draw's us with him
away from the world. His stately and deep-
thinking verse is caught with sudden lyric
bursts. “Give me song!” is his repeated
cry, for he feels that if he gets that he has
touched the secret of the cosmos and of man.
He has the pure vision and the ecstasy, but
his insight has made him mournful :
’Tis to have drunk too well
The drink that is divine,
* Maketh the kind earth waste
And breath intolerable.
He is without the modern superhuman cour-
age of George. Meredith, and his visions are :
Sweet with wild wings that pass, that pass away.
He is a mortal who needs the support of a
great belief into whose arms he falls half-
swooning, while his lips move with a
splendid utterance :
Meantime the silent lip.
Meantime the climbing feet !
via.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


S
if
w
!»
r
th
£
m
V^--n
ft
»■
17
i
-«*■
■>->
m
iwoe^f
#■/
V
#
1085.>
Uti&l
- ±
*T:'
cJDVEMIUE
DBESSES
MOtREERiSS’
F/RMOOS LOW,
PRICES- (5
I FASHIONS for FAIR
AUSTRALIANS ...
at Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices.
THE immense collection of Fashion’s
Choicest Favors in the Celebrated
Green Room offers attractions that
are not to be found elsewhere. There is a.
distinctive smartness and a refreshing
elegance in the Stylish Costumes, Blouses
and Skirts for Maids and Matrons. All the
Newest Colors are represented. The New
Millinery must appeal to all ladies of taste
inasmuch as, while the extremes cf the
season are in evidence, there are also many
v beautiful and moderate examples of the /
| newest creations. We invite inspection. I
No. 1520 — Girl’s Cream Cashmere Costumette, in Cream
only, semi-fitting, trimmed Embroidery—
Sizes, 2oin., 7/=; 22in., 8/-; 24m., 9/= ; 26m., 10/=
No. 5741 — Boy’s Ivory Japanese Silk Tunic, unlined —
Sizes, iBin., 8/9 ; 2oin., 9/6; 22m., 10/3
No. 69— Girl’s Cambric Costume, light ground, various
colored Stripes and Checks —
Sizes, 2oin., 4/9; 22in., 5/3; 24m., 5/9; 26m., 6/3
No. White Pique Tunic, Round Collar, edged
Embroidery ... Sizes, lBin., 3/9; 2oin., 4/=;22in., 4/3
No. 1858— Maid’s White Organdie Muslin Costume,
Blouse and Skirt trimmed Embroidery—
Sizes ... ... 4 5 6 7 8 9
Skirt Length ... 26m. 28m. 30m. 32m. 34m. 36m.
18/6 19/9 21/= 22/3 23/6 24/9
No. 392— Boy’s Holland Tunic, finished Box Pleats and Sailor
Collar ... Sizes, lBin., 3/9 ; 2oin., 4/= ; 22in., 4/3
No. 1867 — Girl’s Ivory Japanese Silk Costume, semi-fitting,
trimmed Net Lace Insertion and Fine Tucks —
Sizes ... 27m. 30m. 33in. 36m.
23/6 25/= 26/6 28/=
No. 1847— Girl’s Ivory Japanese Silk Costume, semi-fitting,
Pointed Collar, trimmed Valenciennes Lace and Insertion—
Sizes . ... 27in. 30m. 33in. 36m.
17/6 19/= 20/6 22/.
No. 1852— Girl’s Ivory Japanese Silk Costumette, loose
style, trimmed Valenciennes Lace, Insertion and Tucks—
Sizes ... 2oin. 22m. 241’n. 26m.
20/6 22/= 23/6 25/=
No. 1085— Maid’s Japanese Silk Blouse and Skirt Cos=
tume, trimmed Lace and Tucks. Colors : Cream, Navy, Pale
Blue, Bronze Green —Sizes... 56789
Skirt Length 28m. 30m. 32m. 34m. 36m.
35/= 38/= 41/= 44/= 47/=
Consult our SPRING and SUMMER FASHION
PORTFOLIO for all that Is new in the Realms of
Dress. Write for a copy, posted free on application.
*
WWW
4%
jß-
#*
v
1L
9 *
i
m
m
2/
m
*\i
mm
*m
mm.
TH
;:. ;■
/
I
.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
will Anprape ™" BOOKS
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIG HTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1/-.
(STAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
&
l
ip
Diminishing
Cards.
O r d inary
P 1 a y i n
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
nltopeth er.
Co m p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are (])The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to ariv address. Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
cAmouuEs 2Qlb Bourke st f Melbourne
m
MUX
r
>3
\
3
/
/
V
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being; synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, -and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
397 GEORGE STREET.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the'Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO'S ‘Fruit Salt’ assiststhe Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sineerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the ® Aus-
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of a ” y -° T 1NT cDEST
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF '"
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
ud to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine. Rpniamin
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C.. Chairman': Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : -tse j _
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. WinchcomDe, • • • •
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.,. ■'
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secret y.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGCS, Local Director.
sfd
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
ISmsZDISB
MARK
Pi
A 1
jj
Underwear
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ' BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
Made in
England
TRADe
MUVW
AFTER DEADLY TYPHOID
or Malarial Fever you can regain strength
and vital power rapidly by the use of this
medicine. To give health, no medicine equals
sfd
READ THIS TESTIMONY.
This .letter is worth reading upon a fever case from the pen
of the well-known cosmopolitan journdlist, serial writer and
traveller, Mr. H. F. WICKHAM, who is also representative
of the Union S.S. Co.’s pictorial magazine, the “Red
Funnel.” This letter was written to the Clements Tonic
' Co. after a severe attack of malarial fever in the tropics.
Here is his letter :—
“ I have pleasure in testifying to the benefit received from Clements Tonic.
For Brain-fag and Lassitude, from which most brain-workers suffer, I have never
found its equal. For the lingering after-effects of malarial fever, contracted in
tropical countries, it is without a rival. < One of the features of malarial fever is
that it often permanently affects the liver. After two severe attacks of this
complaint I thought mine was beyond cure until I was induced by a friend to try
Clements Tonic. This I did, and in a surprisingly short time I attained most
beneficial results. At present, whenever I feel the slightest indication of the well-
known symptoms, I resort to this medicine, and in no case has it ever failed to give
rie.relief. I recommend it to all troubled similarly.—Yours truly, H. F. Wickham. ’*
No one should be without this Medicine during
the Summer Months. IT HERALDS HEALTH.
Manufactured
by
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.
Price 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. All Chemists and Stores.
[3


The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
Jiair Vigor
produfces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Preoared by Dr. i. C. Ayor & Co., LoweH, Mass.. U.S.A.
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in (nli refunded witln ut qu> stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyoueon approval
at less than losvest manufacturers' prices.
MODlfl'is £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Eim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
HOTHfC nocturro wanted in each district.
All I IVt HuLll I U Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our suecinl ojfer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, Uept. 280 Liverpool-
sfd
rriHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
EDDIE WEATHERBURN
When he was 6 months old, Eddie
Weatherburn, 21 Windmill Street,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, N.S.W.,
suffered greatly from bronchitis, and
his mother, Mrs. E. Weatherburn,
decided to give SCOTT’S Emulsion
a trial. “From the first
bottle I noticed an Im-
provement,” she writes (Sep-
tember 1907). “He is now
restored to complete
good and looks
Well and rosy, which
is entirely due to
SCOTT’S Emulsion.” Think
of “ emulsion ” and you will think
of “ SCOTT’S.” All emulsions are
similar in appearance, but that is all.
It is only results that count, and the
results of SCOTT’S follow from the
fact that SCOTT’S is the only
emulsion on which you can rely to
cure. SCOTT’S “ fishman ”on the
package is the guarantee of the
desired cure.
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
ssou n^rm
590 W
U I
V/v.!
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
GOUGHS, GOLDS, BRONCHITIS, GROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
•• OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 116.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
ll
Women
Cannot Appear to
tjhe Best Advantage.
livery woman is entitled to
Have a full, rounded bosom
vyith pleasing curves and
figure. Don’t Stay Thin.
[4
DR. FALLIERE’S
“Flesh-Food”
£uts on flesh at the rate of five pounds a
week, and rapidly develops the bust to nor-
mal. Your measurements increase rapidly,
iind the improvement is lasting. This treat-
ment is positively harmless. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial and full particulars.
Fallsere “ Flesh-Food ” Co.
Dept. 5-, '£EZSS&. SYDNEY.
.WOOD -MILNE
SHOESHINES
Black and Brown
Mud does not stick, rain does
not penetrate, fog does not
dim the Shoes that shine with
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES.
Try one tin and test it
for yourself.
Of all bootmen.
2995
gs
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
m their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in ,
selling Horlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starctn
No cdnfusibn arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Horlick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough, Bucks, England.
\
2
§>
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
‘‘ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity- *
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar, quantity of hot or cold water:
CAUTION.
Note the name t “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the RedjrCentre Pait
of the Label. -.- tv
By Appointment to
fd
His Majesty the King.
BOVRIL
. • .■ . \ // f . ..
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
'l'llat is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage,So
strengthening a food, why Cooks find it so useful, why Doctors
and Nurses recommend it,- why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little Man.
Cherchez le petit homme.—New version of old proverb.
Climb down, ye six-foot braggarts,
Whose brains have run to brawn !
You had your day, and had your way—
Your day has come—and gone !
You still may be permitted
To live, the best you can,
As serfs and banner-bearers
For the Little Man.
He’s the cove to make things go,
He’s the Ruler of the Show,
He’s the sort of chap who smashed Afghanistan,
And the style of bloke forbye
Who turned Europe into pi
Is the bullet-headed, brainy Little Man.
While people are created
According to the Act,
If one is made a giant
He cannot help the fact;
But he should be contented
To know that all his clan
Were born to be the vassals
Of the Little Man.
When there is an axe to grind
You will nearly al ways find
He's the party ivith the axe since earth began ;
And since days of Goth and Vandal
The Big Man’s turned the handle —
It has always been his business—for the Little Man,
I heard a voice of thunder
Resounding in a bar :
It cussed and damned the British
About the Boer war.
“ If I were General Cronje,”
It said, “ their hides I’d tan ! ”
I recognised the speaker— .
’Twas the Little Man.
He's the Emperor of Skite ;
He's the Son of Dynamite ;
And his name is very chiefly Hooli-gan.
And his hair is often red — -
But when Hell has gone to bed
He is wide awake and lively, is the Little Man.
There never was Committee,
And never Council known,
Nor gathering, like Raad or Thing,
But he was its backbone.. .
' A fight was fought in Flanders,,
The Gallic army ran.
Who turned the fray ? Dumouriez —
The Little Man.
For he shamed the runaways,
As he piped the Marseillaise,
And they turned and charged like fiends Republican;
And before their fiery rage
Swept the foes of the new Age,
And Ca IRa the guns sang for the Little Man.
There are two little States that
Stand up like little men
Against God’s British Empire—
" “"One"man "have they to ten ; ~
And, though their doom is certain,
So also is the plan
Of Creedless Fate that, soon or late,
Helps the Little Man.
For, whatever Fatmen say,
He inbound to have his day,
And the dust is rising now before his van ;
And when his Army comes.
With its banners and its drums,
’Twill be wise to be a “ cobber ” of the Little Man.
CREEVE ROE.
The Elegant People.
Oh ! we are the Elegant People, well-tailored and
up-to-date
(But I hear a mysterious warder who ever parades
at the Gate !).
Aye, we are the Elegant People—the blood of the
kings in our veins
(But hark, there’s the scoff of the Warder, and
there is the clank of the chains !).
Oh ! we are the Elegant People (just lately re-
moved from the Ape),
And our pathway is littered with relics of revel
and ruin and rape ;
For the lust of the Ape’s in our nature, the Tiger
is loose in our blood,
Aye, we are Immaculate ever (who says we are
creatures of Mud ?).
We have planned—we have -pondered and pan-
dered ; we have travelled and triumphed—
how far ?
We have laughed at the Ape in derision, and
now we are—just what we are !
But our minds are the moulds of the Master’s,
our manners are many and mild
(Our instincts are warring within us—and yearn-
ing once more for the Wild !).
And can we be god-like and gentle ’—Depends on
the type of our god,
And the strength of our parts that are mental,
the length of the pathways we trod !
And can we be ape-like—untroubled by all the
pretences of Man ?
And though we be god-like or imp-like, I answer
this question, “ We can ! ”
Progression or grim Retrogression, it matters not
much in the end,
For the gods are our ardent advisers—the Devil
our trustiest friend !
But we are the Elegant People (the blood of the I
Beast in our veins !)
Lo ! I see the four walls of our prison—and I list
to the clank of the chains !
n.s.w:
"GILROONEY."


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING'S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
engaged for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON” is the
FLSH AND OYSTER CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor*
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 20*9.
Under Vice-Regal
sfdsfd
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies ’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Transformations from,£4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
4
0
OjAKCJK
Matchless Merit
The Watch of
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts—accuracy in assembl-
ing them—and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and l\lew Zealand.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin 99 Office
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES—
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
m
m
■
I
Us
M
**’?, y
S-
A
V V
«r
...JJJ&JS-*- -A ..... -iW* • <-><<—««
i i —i i r rTT i
so*
m
MJTTn
\~J
gNK«
v
«
Roofing
###
on
E.RICH & C? UP Sydney & Brisbane
RUBEROID
RED
ROOFING
IN A FIRE.
Mr* E, NEFF writes :
** A motor garage next
to my residence caught
fire. The house ad-
joining mine has a
shingle roof, and in a
few minutes it was a
mass of flame. My
house is roofed with
Red Ruberoid, and,
although burning
brands fell all over it
blazing merrily away,
the roof did not catch.
A close inspection
after the fire only
resulted in finding
a few places slightly
blistered.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 30.—N0. 154:).
THURSDAY, OCTOBER •>!, 1909.
Price 6d.
THE FREEDOM OF THE FUSED CONSCIENCE.
The Government has been holding a number of caucus meetings at which great efforts were made to compel the hostile minority to give its support to
the financial agreement arrived at with the States.
Deakin: “No man in this party is required to vote against his conscience; but if his conscience is against voting for my policy he can look out for trouble.”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909.
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
finest Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
Thb Bullktin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, no RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A AVEEK.
TELEPHONESs Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 o
Half-yearly ... ... . 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Ry sendiiUf direct, to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Skill inns sterling you can have. Tiik Biim.ktin posted
ieaulaiiy to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would online the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them, to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to he refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby exuressly reserved by
the publishers.
'The Editor null carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those, dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, $OOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Betters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications will be reyarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. uthen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without st.amns
for return it will be understood, that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of l\fS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone, supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at 4/6' per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, J. 15 High Holborn, London. ll'. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —-ThomsonStationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
Neios Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
.Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates.size Biin, x ILin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77ie^^zdlelz//i.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1909.
THE PROBABLE REVULSION OF FEEL-
ING IN FAVOR OF PRIVATE ENTER-
PRISE RAILWAYS.
If there is anywhere in this world a blessing
which can’t be turned into a curse by villainous
administration the name and address of that
blessing ought be more widely advertised than
they are, for it must be a tough blessing and one
worth knowing. It isn’t more than once in 10
centuries that mankind drops on a grander idea
than that of State railway ownership, and yet even
that can be turned into a curse—in at least two
States of the Commonwealth (N.S.W. and Vic-
toria), and in a less degree in S.A., it has
already been so misused as to become a
very good semblance of one. This is no
reason why Australia should ever again dream
of private railway ownership, for private owner-
ship is apt to be a curse naturally and all
the time, while the State article has to be made
into a disaster by ferocious and misdirected
ingenuity ; but, all the same, there is danger that
a serious clamor for private ownership may arise
if the State doesn’t mend its ways. The State’s
right to make railways for the development of the
country necessarily includes its right to refuse to
make them, and its right to prevent other people
making them, and its right to make them so that
they will hinder rather than help the development
of the country. And when the management of
the State falls into the hands of a few narrow-
minded, pig-headed political savages, who regard
State railways solely as means towards the further
bloating of an overgrown State capital where
many of them have property, who deliberately
shut up rival ports lest they sjiould interfere
with that bloating process, who compel the
producer to pay freight on his goods for
twice or thrice the needful distance rather
than let him trade with any other place
than the bloated capital, ana who believe in
deliberately laying waste those parts of their own
State which, by reason of their remoteness, can't
trade with the bloated capital yet mustn’t trade
anywhere else—then a great political principle is
shamefully dragged through the gutter, and
brought into disrepute, ana made to smell like
last month’s fish.
■*■***
The case of Sydney is a notable example. In
order to concentrate there, as far as possible, all
the trade of over 310,000 square miles of country,
Tort Stephens, Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay have
been kept rigorously shut up. It was impossible to
shut up Newcastle, but then Newcastle is a poor,
accidental sort of harbor at the best, and even in
its case special railway rates have been devised to
attract Newcastle’s natural trade to Sydney.
Sydney is almost surrounded by water, so the
trade of 310,000 square miles has to approach it
by one bottle-neck entrance. The compression is
too great, and things have burst, yet everywhere
new railways are being built all pointing towards
Sydney, in order to increase the pressure and
make things burst still worse. There is talk of
millions of lambs, which were intended for export
this year, being left behind —possibly to perish in
the next drought—because they can’t get to Syd-
ney, and aren’t allowed to go anywhere else.
There are similar complaints about wheat
and wool being left to decay because they can’t
reach the only market which is allowed them.
The number of trucks allotted for the conveyance
of cattle to tire Sydney sales has been cut down
because of the congestion, and the person who has
cattle for sale might often just as well have no
cattle for all the chance he has of turning them
into money. The natural result is that the
price of meat keeps going up and up in Sydney,
and then foolish people say that Protection has
raised the cost of living. And meanwhile closer
settlement is being pushed on to increase the
block, and add seven more devils to the seven
devils of confusion that are already on the pre-
mises.
Under these circumstances the people of Finley
(N.S. VV.) and its neighborhood lately called on
Works Minister Lee. They represent
a hard case, but a very ordinary one.
Finley is 454 miles by railway from Syd-
nej% and is at the tail end of a branch
line. It is about 170 miles from Mel-
bourne, but it and the greitt extent of
country around it aren’t allowed to trade
with Melbourne because Melbourne is in
another State. The Victorian railway
comes up to the border —in fact, it comes
over the border to Tocumwal, on the
N.S.W. side of the Murray, and N.S. W. paid '
a share of the cost of building the railway bridge ;
but a gap of 12 miles, which could be filled in at
a cost of £30,000, is carefully preserved, in order
to prevent the trade of Finley, Berrigan, Jeril-
dene, Narrandera and other places thereabouts
taking the short, cheap road over that bridge
to Melbourne instead of the long, costly one
to Sydney. Again, these places are much
closer to Twofold Bay in N.S.W. than to
Sydney, but they aren’t allowed to trade with
Twofold Bay because it isn’t Sydney. Even Bom-
bala, when it gets its railway, will have to ex-
port and import via Sydney, 318 miles away, in-
stead of via Twofold Bay, 40 miles away. The
railway is being specially laid out in order to make
that compulsory, though Twofold Bay is just as
much N.S.W. as Port Jackson is. Finley and
Berrigan and derilderie and the rest of Western
Riverina didn’t complain much about all these
miles of needless distance to Sydney when they
were able to get their produce to Sydney on any
terms; but now they often can’t get it there for love
or money, because of the congestion which hasgro wn
up between. When the freight train starts from
Finley, at the far end of things, it plods along the
single line till it reaches Narrandera, where it gets
mixed up with the trains coming in from Hay.
At Junee the trains from Melbourne, Corowa,
Germanton and Lockhart (four railways) come
on to the same line. At Cootamundra the
branch trains from Wyalong and Tumut
(two more railways) come on to the line. At
Murrumburrah the Blayney and Grenfell branches
join, and their trains come in. At Goulburn the
Crookwell and Cooma railways empty their traffic
on to the same line. It is about here that the
freight-train begins to take 25 hours to do
100 miles. At Granville all this combined traffic
gets mixed up with all the trains from the west
and centre of the State, and at Strathfield it
tangles up again with all the trains from the
north and north-west. Later the Illawarra line
comes in. Progress becomes so slow through the
dragging of everything to Sydney that it takes
three or four or six trains to do the work that one
would do if the lines took a bee-track to the
nearest good port; and N.S.W. hasn’t the trains,
and there wouldn’t be room for them on the last
few miles of line if it had, for you can’t put all the
trains in creation on to one railway. So the far-
out portions of the railways are being practically
abandoned, so far as goods traffic is concerned,
during the busy wool and wheat and stock seasons.
Their business is crowded out by the growth of
new traffic between them and Sydney. In fact,
they are the small, lame devil at the back of Hell
—the little devil that is shoved against the wall
as • population increases between him and the
stove, and is scorned by everybody, and con-
sidered by nobody.
* • * *
So, as already mentioned, the people of Western
Riverina appealed to Solemn Lee, Minister for
Works, to build the 12 miles of cheap railway
which would connect them with Melbourne. The
Victorian line isn’t overcrowded like the N.S.W.
one, because it is shorter, and hasn’t half so many
tributaries running into it. Melbourne isn’t yet
congested like Sydney because it has less trade
and more space, and the railways run into it
from various directions instead of being all com-
pressed into one bottle-neck. Therefore Mel-
bourne can give Western Riverina the outlet
which Sydney can’t. The deputationists also
pointed out to Lee that the new arrange-
ment would be cheaper for them, and that
as N.S. W. citizens they had as much
right to be considered as anybody else; and that
it was almost a case of saving a large and import-
ant district of N.S. W. from ruin. Furthermore,
it wasn’t a case of diverting Sydney trade to Mel-
bourne ; it was rather a case of saving the N.S. W.
trade which Sydney couldn’t accommodate from
complete extinction. At present the Western
Riverina lines are worked at a dead loss, and part
of this loss arises from the fact that they can’t
gather up the trade that is offering, and carry it
north-easterly to Sydney, and they won’t con-
descend to make a heap of money by carrying the
available trade southward into Victoria. It
looked a convincing case, but solemn, narrow,
parish-minded Lee met it with flat refusal. His
attitude may be fairly set forth in these seven
propositions:—
(1) All N.S.W. lines were made lor the purpose of carry-
ing trade to Sydney and to no other N.S.W. port, nor to
any other port whatsoever.
(2) If this policy necessitates any district paying three
times as much freight as it need pay if it was allowed to
trade with its nearest port, that district must just stand
the loss.
(3) If, through the impossibility of crowding all the
commerce of 310,000 square miles into one city located
on a narrow peninsula, the system breaks down, it must
just break down.
(4) If it is impossible to convey the wool and wheat and
stock of outlying places along the congested lines, these
things must just rot or die where they are. It is better
for the goods of N.S.W. citizens to be destroyed flan to
be shipped from any port except Sydney, even if the
other port, as in the case of Twofold Bay or Port Stephens,
is also a N.S.W. port.
(5) If the people make ruinous losses—well, it is better
for good citizens of N.S.W. to be ruined than to trade
with any place save Sydney.
(6) If these ruined people have to abandon their hold-
ings, it is better for the outlying parts of N.S.W. to
become a desert than that they should prosper by having
commerce with any place save Sydney.
(7) It is also better for a N.S.W. railway to be a dead
loss than that it should be a paying proposition by carrying
traffic to some place that isn’t Sydney, and it is better for
it to run through an empty portion of N.S.W. than that
it should pass through a land densely peopled with
prosperous and contented N.S.W. citizens, if these
N.S.W. citizens have grown rich through dealing with any
place bar Sydney.
It is difficult to imagine that there should be on
the face of the earth a savage so unlettered as to
subscribe to these doctrines, but there certainly
AUSTRALIAN RAILWAY
BUILDING.
Portland is the finest harbor in Victoria. It is
splendidly placed to carry the trade of the
west of Victoria, and the south-east of S.A. As it
had to be killed in the interests of Melbourne and
Adelaide the only railway that is allowed to reach
it comes from the east. The other lines have been
carried round it at vast extra expense. And
there are many similar casts in Australia.
does seem to be such a savage—a good many of
him, in fact.
* * * *
It is reported that last year N.S.W. lost five
million sheep simply because the congested
railways couldn’t carry them to Sydney and
wouldn’t carry them anywhere else. Sheep
multiply fast; 11,000,000 lambs in a year is
quite a common thing. It only requires an-
other year or two of the present insanity, and
many areas will be compulsorily overstocked
to such a degree that the animals will perish
wholesale from hunger and thirst even in a fairly
good season. The bulk of the sheep, too, are on
the western slope of the mountains, on the western
plains, and in Riverina—the districts where, be-
cause of their distance from Sydney, the paralysis
is worst —and this makes the loss heavier. From '
Moree, in the far north (which is carefully refused
an outlet vid Brisbane in Queensland, or Fort
Stephens in N.S.W.) to Finley in the far south
(which is similarly refused an outlet to Melbourne)
and to Monaro (which is prohibited from using
Twofold Bay), the cry about congestion, loss and
ruin is the same. Yet the Federal capital is
being fixed as close as possible to Sydney so that
its trade may also get on to the crowded lines and
make things worse, and the Federal port at Jervis
Bay is to be restricted to two square miles, lest it
should do something to relieve tne pressure. And
there is already a demand that the transcon-
tinental railway from Port Darwin should crowd
into the same old Sydney.
Unless N.S.W. and Victoria, and in a less
degree S.A., alter their policy, or unless the Aus-
tralian Government takes over the whole railway
system and starts an entirely new policy, there
will one day be a great revulsion of feeling in
favor of private railway ownership. It would be
well for the Labor party—the only party which
has always been unanimously in favor of State
ownership—to make a note of this, and to write
the note large, for Labor, by carelessly lending
itself to the centralising policy of awful political
creatures like Wade, is helping to prepare the
way for the worst kind of trouble. Maoriland,
Queensland and Tasmania, which have built their
railways on fairly business-like principles, and
Westralia, which has sense enough to see that it
isn’t necessary to lay waste Albany and Genald-
ton in order that quite everything may go to Fre-
mantle, will escape; but the two south-eastern
States of the mainland are doing their worst to
create disaster. There is only one good thing
to be said for private railway enterprise : In its
desire to make money it is always ready to
take the shortest cut, and sometimes, m
spite of its shameful exactions, it becomes
cheaper than State enterprise for this one reason.
It may charge twice as much per mile,
but if the miles are 60 per cent, fewer
Private Enterprise supplies the cheaper service.
In all the far-back regions of N.S.W. there are
only two places which are blessed with a railway
which takes the ideal short track to the nearest
port. One is Broken Hill, which Private Enter-
prise connected with the S.A. railway system and
Adelaide when the State it belonged to said that
the place was too far off to be connected with
Sydney, and that N.S.W. would see it damned
before it would connect it with any other port.
The other shining example is Deniliquin, which
has been furnished by Private Enterprise with a
straight line to Melbourne. The result is that
Deniliquin, at the end of a private line, is only
200 miles from a port, while Finley, at the end of
a State line, almost alongside Deniliquin and
nearer to the sea, and also nearer to the big river,
is 454 miles by rail from the only port the State
allows it to use. Finley and Berrigan and the
adjacent towns on the end of the N.S.W. State
railway are not only refused access to the com-
paratively near N.S.W. port of Twofold Bay, and
to the still nearer port of Melbourne, but they are
even refused the few miles of railway which would
connect them with the Murray, lest they should
send their produce down-stream to a S.A.
market. It is the natural consequence of
this that Deniliquin has 2644 people, all
paying taxes to the N.S.W. Government,
while Finley, in a better situation, has only 294.
Under the system which has made Deniliquin—
a system which doesn’t care twopence about any-
thing save building the shortest, cheapest line
and getting all the trade that is possible—the
short cut to the sea would have been taken every
time—to Twofold Bay, Jervis Bay, Port Stephens
or any old place. And if that method had been
followed, N.S.W. would probably have a far more
efficient railway system at a third less cost, and
have a dozen fair-sized cities that it doesn’t now
possess. It is a disgrace that the splendid prin-
ciple of State railway ownership should be per-
verted into a device for the ruin and depopula-
tion of one-half the State, and a still greater
disgrace that hardly a voice should be raised
against the proceeding. Also it is a solemn
reflection that if accident had planted Australia’s
first settlement at Moreton Bay instead of Port
Jackson, Brisbane might now be the capital of a
State extending from the Mary to the Murrum-
bidgee, and the trains might run past a vacant
Sydney harbor carrying the produce of Goulburn
and Parramatta to be shipped away from the
Brisbane River. That would be no more foolish
than the things which State enterprise has done
in N.S.W. and Victoria, and is doing every day.
* * « «
Victoria has so far escaped the worst of the
trouble which has fallen on N.S.W., but it has
escaped through no merits of its own. It is a
smaller State, so the policy of dragging every-
thing to Melbourne involves less superfluous haul-
age than a similar policy does in N.S.W. Then
Melbourne covers more ground than Sydney, and
is less easily congested. It is not a bottle-necked
city like Sydney, and railways can enter it at
many points, which also tends to postpone the
worst of the trouble. And it only tries to crowd
into one bloated city all the trade of 88,000 square
miles—not all the trade of 310,000 square miles.
Nevertheless Victoria can show almost the prize
horror in the way of a vast expenditure of public
money incurred for the purpose of destroying one
of the finest ports in Australia. Portland is a
dozen times better than Melbourne as a seaport.
Though it is left almost in a state of nature it can
take in vessels of 11,000 tons without turn-
ing a hair. It is the natural outlet for
all western Victoria just as Twofold Bay
in N.S.W. is the natural outlet for much
of eastern Victoria. Portland is also the place
which Providence intended to carry the sea
trade of the rich south-east of S. Australia. So
Portland had to be killed twice over—once in the
interests of Melbourne, and once in those of Ade-
laide. It couldn’t be absolutely denied a railway,
but the accompanying diagram shows the fiendish
ingenuity with which it was arranged that hardly
any of the trade which naturally belongs to Port-
land should reach there without describing a vast
circle, which carries it so far towards Melbourne
that it is cheaper for it to go all the way and
finish its journey at Port Phillip. Victoria has
spent perhaps £5,000,000 in needless railway con-
struction, and it still spends perhaps £400,000
annually in needless haulage expenses in order to
kill its best seaport; and S.A. has spent a lot of
money for the same purpose. Which is the case
of Twofold Bay and Port Stephens, in N.S.W.,
repeated in an aggravated form.
A WELL-WATERED FEDERAL CAPITAL
WITH 11 INCHES OF RAIN.
State Premier Wade, of N.S.W., was moved the
other day, in his excited advocacy of his favorite
capital site at Canberra, to declare that the
streams thereabouts were “practically perma-
nent.” And his satellite, Senator Millkn, being
asked, while holding forth on the same subject, to
come down from the clouds and state exactly what
was the average rainfall at Quean bey an, the ob-
serving station just alongside Canberra, said that
he didn’t know—which was a sorrowful remark
seeing that he had just been pouring out a cataract
of eloquence on the subject—but he was sure in a
general way that the rain fell at Queanbeyan all
right. It seems a kind of a pity that Senator
Millen was so ignorant of his own subject as not
to know the average moisture at his own pet
capital site, especially seeing that he can discover
all the particulars by a glance at pages 731-732 of
the N.S.W. “Statistical Register” for 1907 (the
latest issue). That official publication dismisses
the matter briefly by saying that among the 64
observing stations in the coastal and tableland
country of N.S.W. there is only one that is drier,
on an average, than Queanbeyan, right alongside
the proposed Australian capital, and that one is
Cooma whence the alleged waters flow down to
the proposed capital. The only thing that is
wrong, in a meteorological sense, with Quean-
beyan, right alongside the proposed Australian
capital, is that, on an average, it hasn’t nearly
half the rainfall of Sydney, and that it and
Cooma, in the district where most of the alleged


Canberra waters have their source, are the two
least rained-upon places in eastern N.S.W.
As regards Premier Wade’s statement that the
streams around the proposed Canberra cap tal are
“practically permanent,” the same N.S.W.
“Statistical Register” for 1907 (pages 731-732)
contains some more interesting information. A
“ permanent ” stream is one which defies drought,
and a locality which defies drought is one where the
rain is fairly good even in bad years. The last bad
year in N.S.W.’s experience was 1902, and this
was the record during 1902 for all N.S.W., in-
cluding the furthest west: —
Incheso
Itain.
1902.
Broken Hill .. .. .. .. 4
Menindie and Wilcannia 5
Brewarrina and Cobar .. .. .. .. .. 6
Wentworth, Gilgoin, Bourke and Wulgett .. 7
Euston, Mount Hope and Moree .. .. .. 8
Hay 9
Condobolin and Urana.. .. .. .. ..10
QUEANBEYAN and Deniliquin 11
Murruinburrah, Wagga and Young.. .. .. 12
COOMA (whence the streams flow down to Can-
berra), Yass, Warialda and Marsden’s.. .. 13
Douglas, Gundaroo, Dubbo, Eorbes, Ivyaniba,
Cowra and Mudgee .. .. .. ..14
Bathurst, Gulgong, Sofala, Goulburn, Gunnedah
and Coonabarabran .. .. .. .. 15
Barmedinau, Goonoo-Goonoo and Moorebank .. 16
Scone, Collector, Narrabri and Albury 17
Muswellbrook, Cassilis, Einu and Bingara .. 18
Casino, Pitt Town, Picton, Bundarra, Inverell
andCarcoar.. .. .. .. .. ..19
Jerry’s Plain’s, Seven Oaks, Maryland and Lake
George .. .. .. 20
Singleton, Braidwood, Mount Victoria, Orange
andQuirindi 21
Armidale, Eversleigh, Walcha and Crookwell .. 22
Winghain and Springwood 23
Lismore, Murrurundi, Tareeand West Maitland.. 24
Grafton 25
Tenterfield and Botnbala 26
Moruya Heads 27
Wollongong 28
Nowra and Morpeth .. .. .. .. .. 29
Glen Lines .. .. .. .. .. ..30
Bodalla .. .. .. .. .. .. ..31
Mittagong 32
Kurrajong and Wollonglnir 33
liatoouiba .. 34
Clarence Heads .. - .. ~ .. .. .. 35
Port Macquarie 36
Moss Vale . ... .. 39
Newcastle . ..40
SYDNEY and Eden .43
Kiandra (whence the waters flow down to Dal-
get,y) 47
Point Perpendicular 51
Port Stephens 53
And these are official records, made by unbiassed
scientific men of N.S.W. at a time when there
was no question of a Federal capital in the case—
thej’ are not even suspected of being hurried fakes
or sham records got up to support a case.
• * ■* *
It may be, of course, that Wade and Millen,
in their frenzied desire to get the Australian
capital planted close to Sydney and within the
business radius of the Tory and Foreign-trade
morning papers of that city, have persuaded
themselves that Canberra is a miraculous place
where the rivers flow without rain and the creeks
run without moisture. But most thinking people
have-lost faith in miracles, and prefer to keep an
eye on the evidence. And the evidence is that,
in average years. Queanbeyan, right alongside the
proposed capital, is the driest place, bar one, in
eastern N.S.W. And in a dry year like
1902 it is the driest place in eastern N.S.W.;
it is also drier than a lot of places in
central N.S.W. ; and out of 95 observing
stations in the whole State, there are only 15,
most of them in the far and hopeless West, which
are drier. That sort of rainfall isn’t calculated to
supply a big city ; in a bad year the proposed
Federal capital district has as much rain as
Deniliquin, but the maddest person going doesn’t
propose; to build a great city at Deniliquin. Even
when Gregory Wade was inspecting his favorite
capital site —and that was in a good year—the
Queanbeyan river wasn’t flowing, and the habit
that creeks thereabouts have of not flowing is
something considerable. Of course it may be that
the anti-Federalists fixed their hopes on Can-
berra just because of its want of water, having a
desire that the capital of the hated Common-
wealth should be a mean and unlucky spot, but if
it is the want of water which recommends the
place to them they shouldn’t say so much about
the alleged abundance of water.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Line to Dugald’s Door,
When the Northern Territory Acceptance Bill
got into committee in the Reps, the first man to
leap into the breach with an amendment was
Dugald Thomson. Dugald proposed that the
Commonwealth .should only takeover the Territory
down to latitude 22, and that the balance of the
Territory—from latitude 22 to latitude 26—should
remain to S.A. or become a kind of No Man’s
Land. On the face of it the proposal—which,
at time of writing, is still undecided—looks
absurd, for it means the abandonment by the
Commonwealth of all the great mineral possibilities
of the McDonnell Ranges, but there are wheels
within wheels. The whole Territory is a lengthy
concern when measured from north to south,
and it is impossible to get away from the
fact that the kind of railway which would
do most in the way of opening up the land
would be one from Port Darwin to Port Augusta.
And if the McDonnell Ranges were Federal pro-
perty it would be absurd not to carry the line
that way and give their mineral riches a show.
But the proposed sawn-off or abbreviated Terri-
tory would be a stumpy, or almost square, propo-
sition. and a line running diagonally across it
from Port Darwin into Queensland and thence to
Sydney would open up about as much of it as a
line running southward towards Port Augusta.
And if the McDonnell Ranges were cut off from
the Federal area, then the argument coidd be
raised that the Commonwealth had no interest in
their mineral possibilities, and that it wasn’t
called upon to take the railway by the
short, straight, cheap route to Port Augusta
merely because of them—which would be
another excuse for shifting the line east-
ward into Queensland and finally to Sydney,
where Dugald lives. Of course, the great idea
of Dugald would represent a big loss to the
Commonwealth. The Commonwealth would have
to take over just about as much debt with the
northern bit of the Territory as with the whole
Territory, for the debt would go with the assets,
and these are practically all in the northern part.
It would sacrifice gratis and out of pure eussed-
ness a mineral field which may yet prove another
Kalgoorlie, and a vast amount of land which must
be of some value. The line to Sydney would be
much longer and more costly than the one to
Port Augusta, and it would finish at a city where
the rail way system is already congested to an extent
which almost means paralysis, and the deviation
would put an end to the prospeut of making the line
a Federal property from sea to sea with a Feder-
ally-owned port at each terminus, and it wouldn’t
even be a transcontinental line at all in any reason-
able sense of the word. But as a set-off to these
drawbacks there would be the joy of bringing the
line to Dugald’s door. The political crimes
that have been committed in the name of Liberty
are not a patch on those that have been committed
for the sake of the doors of people like Dugald
—some of them so very like Dugald that they are
almost more like Ddgald than he is himself.
,
The Deacook League’s Uncandid Opinion
of Its Leaders.
The N.S.W. “Federal Liberal League,” the
Deacook Fusion’s electioneering machine, is
issuing a series of what it calls “ educational leaf-
lets.” So far its chief effort is a tract entitled
“ Politics and Business Men a magnificent
piece of “ Awake ! Arise !” hifalutin. Commerce
is in danger—though the league apparently hasn’t
a ghost of a notion what it’s in dangef from.
Nevertheless, the league is solid on this—that to
avert universal smash, “the true functions and
the limitations of the State must be impressed
upon every man and woman in the com-
munity.” But, unfortunately, the tract doesn’t
ment.on what the true functions and proper limit-
ations are. If it doesn’t know what they
are it might get two of its members— Spkuce
Myth, Freetrader and colored labor advocate, and
Deakin, Protectionist and White Australian —to
define them. No doubt the job will be quite
simple. Still the league had better hurry them
up ; for until it does find out what the true func-
tions and the proper limitations of the State are,
it obviously can’t impress them on anybody,
wherefore its remarks on the point will continue
to be mere wind. And While it is waiting for
Spkuce Myth and Deakin to agree, the Deacook
League might reflect whether it isn’t either
making an ass of itself or trying to make an ass
of the public, in one or two other directions. It
calls on “business people” to awake and arise
with regard to the “ political mountebanks ” who
are getting into power and legislating for com-
merce :
This work can best be done by men who are themselves
masters of industry, who alone, because of their actual
knowledge and practical experience should be able to
deal with economic questions.
In fact, this is the one point that the Deacook
“Liberal League ” seems to have a definite opinion
about:—
This work must no longer be left to the theorists or to
the doctrinaires.
Why Deacook’s League makes such pointed refer-
ences to the utter unfitness and incapacity of
Deakin and Joe Cook, this paper doesn’t, of
course, know. Yet it plainly does point to
them. For Deakin is a doctrinaire barrister,
who never ran a business and wouldn’t know
what to do with one if he.had it; and Joe Cook
went straight from the mine to politics—he never
ran a business in his life either. Besides Deakin
and Cook, the Deacook Liberal League has evi-
dently got its eye on Fuller, the barrister; and
Glynn, the mere doctrinaire writer and barrister ;
and Groom, the ditto ; and Quick, the same ; and
Best, the lawyer; who also never ran any but the
six-and-eightpenny business. Also it has a
“derry” on Reid, the barrister; and Liddell,
the medico; and Bowden, the solicitor ; and
Bruce Smith, the barrister; and Irvine, the
ditto; and others. What the Deacook League
is going to do when it has fired this lot
out, The Bulletin can’t imagine. Yet if
it doesn’t intend to fire them out, what is
the good of the tract? For if Hughes
is to be tossed out because he is a mere lawyer,
Deakin must be tossed out because he is a mere
lawyer also; in fact, Hughes oughtn’t to be
tossed out quite as far as Deakin, because
Deakin never ran even an umbrella shop. And
if Fisher and Thomas are to be dropped because
they were lifted out of a mine into politics, Cook
must be dropped because he also came out of a
mine. In fact, Cook ought to be dropped
with a heavier thud tfiah Thomas, because
Thomas managed a mine, and Cook never
rose to be anything more than a check-
weigher. On the whole, the Deacook league
had better withdraw its unfortunate “educational
leaflet.” It hits its own crowd with too much
violence altogether. And, anyway, even if it
didn’t, the league can’t tell from the size a man
takes in tall hats the sort of success he is making
of his business. Uncle Abigail was a bank director
once, but where is that bank now? And it wasn’t
so long ago that William McMillan was a person
of tremendous financial consequence. Also Henry
Gyles Turner’s bank deposits can still be got for
about l/s. in the £. You ,chn’t size up a business
man till he has been dead for some time; and by
then he is liable to be too far gone to be of
much service to even a bogus “Liberal” league.
♦
The “ Menace ” in Tassy.
“Apple-Islander” writes:—
Tasmania is apparently about to have a Labor Govern-
ment! After a Labor Government in the reactionary
little isle, the Deluge, Armageddon, the Millennium or any
other unexpected old thing may be looked for. This vviil
make the sixth Labor administration that the Common-
wealth has known. Anderson Dawson formed his Cabinet
in Queensland in 1899, and it lived just a week—from
Dec. Ito Dec. 7. The Prick Ministry in S.A. went strong
from July, 1905, till the death of its founder afew months
ago. VVestralia had the Laborite Daulish Ministry from
the end of April, 1904, till the end of August, 1905.
And there have been two Labor administrations in the
Australian Parliament—the Watson Ministry (April to
August, 1904), ahd the Fisher Ministry (Nov. 1908 to May
1909). By the present appearance of things the Earle
Ministry that is due in Hobart isn’t in for a much longer
lease of existence than the short-lived Dawson combination
in Queensland, but it is safe to say that considerable good
•will be wrought by it. It will be a revelation. Once the idea
of a Labor Premier, much less a Labor Prime Minister, was
inconceivable even to the majority of broad-minded
people in Australia. As to the reactionaries, their papers
had schooled them to the belief that such things could
only come to pass over dead bodies and ruined homes and
rifled banks and things. The first considerable object-
lesson all Australia got in the puerility of such views was
when J. C. Watson won to office in the Australian Par-
liament five years ago. It was quickly recognised that
the Commonwealth was being run by as sane and
level-headed a lot of administrators as it had
known in its history. Even Melbourne’s dreary
old Paunch was fain to go slow on its stock jests. The
Watson Ministry went out leaving an impressive record
behind it. That didn’t debar G. Reid and the anti-Labor
press from resurrecting the old slanders in the Federal
campaign, which followed 18 months later. Australia
was urged, with an appalling shriek, to vote “ against
Labor and Anarchy!" But by this time the
constituencies had learned things. They turned
down Reid’s anti-Social'ist candidates to such a
tune that by the end of last year Andrew Fisher
was able to form a Government composed of the elements
which the Tory dailies had classed with foreign regicides
and dynamitards. And again nothing untoward hap-
pened to the country. As a result of occurrences like
these in both State and Federal politics, the bulk of the
anti-Labor legends are wearing so thin as to be practically
useless. Every fresh opportunity Labor is accorded to
prove its mettie in an administrative capacity causes the
libels levelled against its political character to appear less
credible and more unscrupulous. That is the chief reason
why Labor’s present ascendancy in Tasmania is gratifying
to Democrats everywhere. The ascendancy may be of
the most temporary kind ; but it will signify, all the
same, that the old order is passing away in Dodery’s
verdant isle.
Dacey of the Mean Colonial Party.
The astounding upheaval of Labor-inember Dacey
in the N. S. Wales Assembly last week was one
of the things which is going to rise up and smite
his party next time it goes before the electors.
Among a mass of wild and mostly idiotic state-
ments. the most wild arid foolish of all was that
Organised Labor would live to curse the day
Federation was accomplished. Surely this poli-
tician is mad ! Federation gave Labor chances
that it gave no other party. The capitalistic,
Tory crowd stood entrenched in six different
citadels, and to win its way Labor had, under
the old regime, to attack and destroy six Legisla-
tive Councils after it had carried the outworks in
the shape of the six Legislative Assemblies.
Federation gave it the chance to dominate them
all without the half-century of dreary struggle that
must otherwise have eventuated before the Councils
were beaten down. Already the Labor party
has twice dominated the whole continent, and its
chances of doing so again look more rosy than ever.
There is something ludicrous in the idea of Labor
cursing the political and national evolution that
made possible an all-Australian Old Age Pensions
Act and an all-Australian graduated land-tax,
that will send the vast locked-up estates tumbling
on to the market; that gave Labor the oppor-
tunity to prove to the Imperial authorities and
the world generally that it is capable of ruling a
nation, and better able than any other party in
Australia to devise a scheme of efficient naval
and military defence : that made it possible
for a single Labor Government to safeguard
the interests of that roving army of toilers
that goes up and down the coasts in ships,
no matter to what State they may belong. Of
course, the real trouble is that before Federation
Dacey, M.L.A., might have ranked as a states-
man ; but since that disastrous event he knows
himself, no matter what others may think him,
for nothing better than a sort of glorified county
councillor, something a bit above the dignity of a
member of a Rabbit Board. For, with all its
limitations, the Federal power, in the hands of a
man who will do things whether he gets himself
disliked or not, is the dominant force in Austra-
lia. And one day there will arise a rude,
ungracious Prime Minister with a jaw like the
track-finder of a railway engine, who will proceed
to make himself unpleasant to small local per-
sonages of the type of Wade and his follower
Dacey, and will put them in their right place
once and for all.
♦
The Lesson of the Dreadnought Fiasco.
The fate of the “Dreadnought movement” is a hor-
rible example of what happens to a press-created
“public opinion ” when that opinion gets a chance
to rise up and speak its mind. Six months ago
the two Sydney morning dailies were shrieking
six times a week into both ears of all their readers
that they (the readers) were fairly lusting to give
Britain a Dreadnought, wherewith to protect itself
in the North Sea. Joe Cook typified the sort of
politician who credited the foolish yarn. He
climbed, last April, on to a Stump at Marrickville
(N.S.W.), and with the froth of imperial de-
mentia streaming from his whiskers, said ;
Are we going to save our miserable skins here while
the Empire may be lost in the North Sea? (Cheers.)
The presentation of one Dreadnought would he a mere
fieahite. (Applause.) The situation called for scores
of Dreadnoughts !
And because the handful of old women present
hammered their gamps on the floor and said,
“ Hear, hear !” to this lunacy, Joseph and others
like him concluded that the dailies knew what
they were about in alleging that the great heart
of the people hungered to donate Dreadnoughts;
and in solemn form Cook gave the assurance to
the world: “Make no mistake. That Dread-
nought will go.” Of course the Dreadnought has
gone ;it has gone to the devil. Since those Jwild
days Joseph has changed. His Government is
addressing its mind as hard as possible to-day to
saving what six months ago he called “ our miser-
able skins”; and if the Empire is going to be
mislaid in the North Sea it will endure the catas-
trophe, so far as Cook is concerned, on its own.
When Dreadnausea in its original form fell dead,
publicly and incontrovertibly, a sort of substitute
arose. The papers which had howled loudest
about the clogged determination of Australia in
general and N.S.W. in particular to force a
battleship on a reluctant J. Bull, started
to admit coyly that there were points of
idiocy about the scheme. But, said they,
the public, though baulked of its chance to actu-
ally give Britain a battleship, is determined
to present the beleaguered old land with
a battleship’s equivalent. An equivalent would
be something worth about £2,000,000. That
idea also perished. Then it was insisted
that Australian patriots were madly enthusi-
astic to save the Empire by giving N.S.W.
a training farm and a naval college. Allen
Taylor, gaud-Mayor of Sydney, intimated that
his Dreadnought Fund—variously stated at from
£BO,OOO to £lOO,OO0 —would be applied to those
purposes. Once more-the public was represented
as concurring with frenzied eagerness. The Syd-
ney Telegraph averred that a “fresh waye of
imperial loyalty had passed over the land,” and
that donations from all sorts of unexpected
quarters were pouring in. Then money be-
gan to talk in a firm tone of voice, and
the burden of its remarks was that the
“Empire papers” were liars. The Dago fish-
monger whose name was down for £lOO
wrote requesting that his quota should be handed
to a hospital. A horde of other private Dread-
noughters followed suit. A meeting was called
of what the dailies termed “ largest contributors.”
One who had died, and whom Allen Taylor and
the press had got down as a promiser of £20,000
despite the fact that he had only pledged himself
to half that amount, naturally didn’t turn up.
His eldest son took on the original liability—• viz .,
£lO,OOO. Another, W. F. Buchanan, also stayed
away, and, till the end of last week, laid so
extremely low and silent as to his views on Dread-
nausea’s new development that the public might
be forgiven for concluding that his Empire frenzy
had evaporated. Next, various districts which
had been moved to promise lump sums started
to back out. For example :
Camden, Tuesda3'. —At a meeting last night of local
subscribers to the Dreadnought Fund, presided over by
Alderman G. M. Macarthur Onslow (Mayor), it was
unanimously resolved to ask the Lord Mayor of Sydney to
refund the £6OO remitted for the Dreadnought Fund. —
D.T. news item.
Also :
Tamworth, Sunday.—At a meeting of the Taniworth
subscribers to the Dreadnought Fund it was resolved
that the £2OO which was forwarded from Tamworth
should be returned. —Herald news item.
And so on. The Commonwealth won’t have
been made a world’s laughing-stock in this
matter wholly in vain if its Parliamentary
representatives learn from the sorry busi-
ness not to trust the diagnoses of party news-
papers as to the electors’ political frame of mind.
On all sorts of urgent questions—the capital
site, the route of the transcontinental railway
and the like—the bulk of the people is
continually being misrepresented as siding
wholeheartedly with the viewpoint of a
handful of N.S.W. Tories. In most cases it
is impracticable, unfortunately, to test such
allegations till it is too late. The lie concerning
the enthusiasm for the “Dreadnought move-
ment” differed from most of its kind, inasmuch as
it was capable of being tested on the spot. A
referendum is the most satisfactory test where
further wild statements are circulated by palpably
biassed newspapers as to the people’s eagerness
for any given measure, and in the light of the ex-
perience gained in connection with Dreadnausea
genuine Democrats in Parliament should see to it
that it is freely employed.
Transcontinental Railways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He may be a simple moujik, quite inferior to Us,
He may be a hairy Cossack, with a beard to stuff
a ’bus —
But, when carefully considered, there are points
about the Russ,
And we haven’t any reason to expand our chests
with pride;
For he took the spade and hammer, and theodolite
and drill,
And he punched the steppes of Asia —punched his
Road along until
Vladivostock heard his engines rolling Gatewards,
whistling shrill,
And Port Arthur saw his locos. —where the
Bear went down and died !
Where the Irtish hastens seaward, where the Tobol
nor’ward flows—
Where the ice lies white on Baikal, ’neath Siberia’s
winter snows.
There the Builders pushed their Roadway, and
the White Man fought his foes—
Are ye building as he builded ? Nay , your Gates
are open wide!
Hear the songs the White Man chanted—battle
hymns his soldiers sang,
As his armies hastened forward—hear the cannon
roar and clang,
Lo, the blood of shattered heroes soaks the fields
of Liao-Yang,
And the dead to-day are sleeping on the Road
from Tsitsihar;
There are bones that bleach and whiten where the
Bear put up his fight—
There are Russian children crying for their fathers
in the night,
There’s a Flag that’s torn and humbled—do ye
understand it right?
Are ye Building, are ye toiling, driving on with
spade and bar ?
For the Russ, he did his darnedest in the few
Preparing Years —
Yea, he bridged the foaming Shilka with his steel
and engineers,
But to-day the Bear is Gate-less, and the Monkey
grins and leers—
Have ye barred Australia’s Gateway? See!
the portal stands ajar!
Far away the Bear is toiling—he is slowly “ mak-
ing good,”
He is grafting, he is marching as the White Man
surely should—
He is tramping towards the ocean ’neath his dis-
tant engine-hood,
Making ready, sure and ready for the conflict
yet to be;
He’s a plodder, he’s a sticker —stuck until Port
Arthur fell,
Beaten down with fists of iron, beaten down with
shot and shell—
He is working, he is waiting, then he’ll ring his
engine- bell —
Then he’ll roll his armies eastward to his Gate-
way by the sea !
Eighty millions spent a-building—still the Russ is
spending more.
“ Shall the Monkey hold my portal ? I will win
me back my Door ”
Says the Russian as he labors, as he plods by Dolo-
Nor,
Are ye plodding also seaward? Bah ! your Gate
is wide and free !
Lo, the Bear was White and willing, but the
foemen got him down—
’Twas St. Petersburg that beat him, not the
Monkey legions brown,
’Twas the crowd of slothful bosses far away in
Petek’s Town-
Fighting Peter, he who labored where the
Deutscher’s shipyards are ;
He whose fist propelled the hammer and the axe
and plane and saw—
He who left the pomps of Moscow, so that he with
earnest paw
Might instruct his Russian people, building ships
and framing law,
He whose days were days of vigor—cheers for
Russia’s Fighting Czar?
But the bones of Pete the Builder lie beside the
Neva’s stream,
And the man who holds his billet wanders sadly
in a dream—
So to-day the Monkey’s locos, lift their warning
toot and scream,
On the Bear-constructed Railway up in old
Manchuria !
There’s a Road that waits unfinished—well ye
know the Road I mean,
’Tis the Road from Port Augusta—there’s a con-
tinent to glean,
Time that ye were pushing nor’ward towards the
Gateway’s ocean-sheen —
Time that steel and steam were urging towards
the Arafura side ;
There’s a Track that needs preparing—One that
leads by Alice Springs.
Are ye bossed and chained and shackled that no
hammer skyward swings?
That the Track is but a pathway where the
“wire” vibrates and sings—
Shall they write upon your tombstone : “Here
a White Australia died ” ?
Lest the plain and simple moujik prove superior
to Us,
Let us Build our Road and yakker—let us push
Australia’s ’bus,
For the question rises bluntly: Though we scorn
the distant Russ ,
Have we tuppence worth of reason to inflate our
chests with pride !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
W FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD., ™ S. e g££
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
sdƒ
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
A Tired Premier Collides ■with a Number of
Rich Landlords.
Victoria’s obstructive House of Rich Landlords
got in some more of its work the other night, in
consequence of which Premier Murray is more
energetically angry than usual. How long he will
stay that way r.obodv can say, and what will
happen to him when the Rich Landlords get hold
of his Land-tax Bill, Heaven only is aware. The
present difficulty concerns his Electoral Bill,
which provided, among other reforms, that the
police should enrol all Assembly electors by
canvass ; and that an elector should vote only in
the district where he or she resided. The Land-
lords had no sooner waddled to their seats
than J. M. Davies moved an amendment dis-
pensing with the new method of enrolling, and
reverting to the old ratepayers’ roll fraud. This
meant a return to the unsatisfactory, cumbersome
system under which some 58,000 persons are
perpetually disfranchised ; it meant a return to
the stupid, inconvenient electors’ rights nuisance,
with the consequentdisfranchisement of thousands
of women ; and it meant a dead loss to the State
of £lO,OOO or possibly of £20,000 a year. In fact,
it was a brazen attempt to disfranchise those
whom Parliament had already declared should
have votes. As the Rich Landlords carried
Davies’ amendment by 18 votes to seven,
and further hinted at their intention to
restore to their beloved property-owners the right
to vote in any electorate they pleased, Attorney-
General Brown wearily remarked that it was no
use going any further, and adjourned the House.
Murray now says be will give the Rich Land-
lords a chance to consider the error of their ways,
and if they persist in their iniquity he will
“ utilise all constitutional machinery provided to
meet such emergencies.” Which probably signifies
that he may hold a free conference, and if that is
resultless he may dissolve the Assembly and pass
the Bill once more ; and if the Landlords still prove
obstreperous, he may then dissolve both Houses.
How the dissolution of the Assembly is to penalise
the House of Landlords no one knows. There are
three possible remedies for that awful obstruction.
One is to send up a Bill providing for the aboli-
tion of the Upper House and a life pension of,
perhaps, £lOOO a year to each of the existing
Landlords “ in recognition of his valuable ser-
vices ” (which would be sarcasm). This scheme
would mean bribing the Landlords now
in power to abolish themselves and their
possible successors, and even at the price
it would be money well spent. The next
alternative is to send up the same Bill
and stop supplies till it is passed ; in other words,
to let the whole public service disband, the police
force go to pieces, the railways shut up, and the
State go under a sort of interdict until the in-
sanely inflated Landlords came to their senses.
I hat would cost a lot more than the bribery
device, but it would also be worth while. The
third remedy is for Murray and all his crowd to
push on the gospel of Unification and Reconstruc-
tion for all they are worth. Thereby the Victorian
people would, by referendum, hand over to the
Australian Parliament all their assets and liabili-
ties and powers of government, and the Australian
Parliament would hand back to them certain
powers of local government to be exercised by a
small State Legislature of one House, elected by
adult suffrage. And after that there would be no
more House of Landlords and no more silly old
veto, and no more trouble. Premier John Weary
says he is going to “utilise all constitutional
means ” to meet the obstruction of the Landlords.
Well, these three devices are constitutional
means, and if John Weary knuckles down to the
Landlords withouthaving first attempted all three
remedies, then the truth is not in John Weary.
-♦ :
The N.S.W. Government’s Closer Settlement
Bill has practically collapsed before the storm of
opprobrium that blew out of the door of the Sydney
1 elegraph office. In its original form it provided
that any estate within 10 miles of a “centre of
population ” might be “proclaimed” and valued,
and if the owner didn’t cut it up and sell it within
a lengthy period, the State might annex it at the
value it bore when the valuation was made. It
was a clumsy method at the best when compared
with a progressive land-tax, for (1) it would yield
no revenue ; (2) its operation would be slow, and
it would only apply to a part of the State ; and
(3) it wouldn’t apply at all except when the
machinery was set in motion by hand, whereas a
progressive land-tax, if it is sufficiently heavy,
vvorks automatically, everywhere, all the
time—you just pass your law and then
go to bed. But the Telegraph fell on
Wade’s inefficient Bill, and now it is
a great deal worse than it was at first. Appa-
rently, it was a case of caving in or losing the
’Graph's support, and the Government caved
like .Jenolan. The first important change pro-
vided that an estate could only be proclaimed for
resumption purposes if it was within five miles
(not 10) of a “centre of population.” That re-
duced the area liable to resumption in
each case from over 310 square miles to
less thaa 80. Then came the question, “ What
is a centre of population?” It was decided
that it should mean a town which at last census
had a population of at least 600. Around any
smaller town the land is not liable to compulsory
resumption under the Act. The enormous dimen-
sions of this joke can be gathered from a glance at
the N.S. W. (“Australian Year Book”
for 1909). Ihe first page mentions 134 post towns,
and of these exactly 19 qualify by population
to have large estates compulsorily resumed in
their vicinity. These 19 include Alexandria,
Albury, Annandale, Ashfield, Auburn, Balmain
and Bankstown, which may as well be left out of
consideration, so that the final result is that out
of • 134 towns there are 12 around which some
resumptions may or may not be made. The
rest of the Gazetteer shows similar results.
For instance, in the first column of names
beginning with “R,” seven places out of 53
qualify by population to have big pastoral estates
cut up in their immediate vicinity, and four of
those seven are Randwick, Redfern, Rockdale
and Rookwood. That sort of thing is more
humorous than helpful. The general impression
is that the measure will die of laughing at itself.
“ Wild Cat ”: As the IO U business shows signs
of being played out, “ Wingen ” Abbott, of the
N.S.W. Squatters’ Union, proposes that the same
shall be continued with the I O Myself:—
In the last three or four years pastoralists and farmers
have lost very large sums of money through the inability
of our railways to carry produce to port. There can be
no remedy until the single lines within 200 miles of
Sydney have been duplicated. Within the next few
years oUr losses are certain to be much greater than in
the past, and the Government answer to every demand
is : “We have no money and cannot venture to borrow.”
At the present time, on deposit in the banks at 2 or 3 per
cent., and in many cases as floating balances earning no
interest, there are millions of money belonging to pas-
toralists, farmers and other producers. If the Govern-
ment will give the Railway Commissioners authority to
borrow, it will pay us to find the money, and expend it
in that way, rather than lose it, absolutely, in the next
few years. Let authority be given to borrow at 4 or, if
necessary, 4J per cent., locally, on five or ten years’de-
bentures, and the money to duplicate will be forthcoming
in a month.
It boils down to a simple business proposition.
Squatter Abbott says the work will be worth
millions to his crowd during the next few years.
Therefore his crowd would still be a lot to the
good if, instead of lending the necessary money
to the Government at 4£ per cent., it handed over
the coin for nothing—that is, in the shape of
taxes, etc. Abbott knows a trick worth two of
that, though. He wants the millions and the 4J
per cent. But if the State is not an utter
fool, it will reply that, as the money is to
be spent in putting millions into the squat-
ter’s pocket, it isn’t going to guarantee the
squatter any 4£ per cent. ; moreover, if
there is any guaranteeing to be done, the squatter
is obviously the right person to do it, since he is
the one who is going to reap the millions. If
“Wingen” Abbott’s friends don’t intend to work a
confidence trick, their course is quite easy. All
they have to do is to tell the Government that
they will guarantee the interest; further, as they
will make millions out of the work, that they will
undertake to repay the capital cost within the next
few years. Then, if they put up the money as a
guarantee of good faith, the Government isn’t
likely to waste much time considering the matter.
But so long as they merely want the Government
to borrow money from them at 4| per cent., and
spend it on something that will put millions in
their pockets, they are not likely to be taken
seriously—they are too much like the philan-
thropic gentleman with a gold brick to sell.
A few days ago one Geoffry Colquhoun, steward
of the Warrnambool (Vic.) Hospital and Benevo-
lent Asylum, disappeared from his billet. The
agitated committee promptly met to investigate,
with the usual result—“serious irregularities.”
As it happened, the steward was no further away
than Melbourne, where he had been gaily getting
married. He was brought back to Warrnambool.
and hauled up at the police court on an “ off day,”
on a charge of misappropriating £l3, money handed
in on behalf of a paying patient. On the Bench
were two local justices, and, as soon as everybody
was made comfortable, an equally comfortable
discussion took place regarding how the case was
to be dealt with. The steward’s solicitor asked
that the charge be altered to common larceny, so
that “the Bench could deal with it.” No one
objected, and altered it was. Then the
steward pleaded guilty, his solicitor made
a “moving appeal,” the Bench fined him
£lO, the steward paid it, the business was
over, and the lucky man left by train. This was
the end of the first act. Three days later, the
committee held another meeting, when a weird lot
of further “ irregularities ” were discovered. At
the time of writing, the auditors are busy making
a thorough overhaul of the accounts, and the com-
mittee is to hold another meeting. But, so far,
all that has really happened is the £lO fine already
mentioned. It is interesting, by way of com-
parison, to recollect that at this same Warrnam-
bool court a few months ago an unfortunate cycle
agent who was a few pounds short in his cash,
was suddenly told to go up for six months’ hard.
His trouble was that he had no influential
friends. The whole business is a scandalous and
odorous advertisement of the wretched .T. P.
business—so odorous that some day it must surely
cause some remark even in the apartments of the
authorities at Melbourne.
Some striking illustrations of fallacious reasoning
from figures have been published lately in the
Melbourne press re the question of the relative
viciousness and virtuousness of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria. Firstly, one of the pleaders for Bible
instruction in Victorian State schools quoted some
figures of mysterious origin to show that Sydney
police records during the past 20 years indicated a
greater improvement in public morals than Mel-
bourne can boast of. In reply to which a Mr.
Adam, of Melbourne, pointed proudly to the fact
that in Victoria the percentage of arrests per
1000 of population in 1905, as compared with 1890,
showed a reduction greater in some respects than
the other sophist had credited to N.S.W. But
neither of these two misleading citizens touched
the question of police efficiency, which is just as
pertinent to crime records as the figures thereof.
Nothing is proved by stating that “ offences
against the person ” and against “ property ” have
diminished from a certain percentage in 1890
to a much lower percentage in 1905, save the fact
that the police make fewer arrests than of yore.
In Victoria the public complaint is that the per-
centage of arrests for serious offences is disgrace-
fully low. Murderers, highway robbers, burglars
and sneak thieves go uncaptured wholesale. The
police force is alleged to be about equally inade-
quate, ill-officered and corrupt. Any number of
crimes are committed without causing any
addition to the number of arrests made ;
yet it is the question of arrests only
which counts in the comparisons from which
these rival statisticians draw their conclusions.
And it is a solemn fact that if law, police, gaols and
all the rest of the show were entirely abolished
arrests would stop altogether, and on this same
mode of reasoning there would be no crime what-
ever—and yet there might be a dead body lying
in each street, and a shooting scrap and a burglary
and an assault and a case of arson and a forgery
and two bigamists at each street corner.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “A Village Priest.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Belle of New York.”
Criterion “ The Taming of the Shrew.”
Palace “ Married to the Wrong Man.”
Tivoli Riokards’Vaudeville Co.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Miss Wahlberg’s Concert (26th).
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Exhibition (commencing’27th).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Catch of the Season.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
King's “ The Flood Tide.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Park Wirth Bros. Circus.
«.
“ The Belle of New York ” was revived at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Saturday night. Of
course it was an immense success. When, years
hence, the world’s last Freetrader shall stand
gazing drearily at the ruins of B. Smith’s mauso-
leum, he will raise his eyes from the sad spectacle
to encounter a hoarding intimating that that night
“ The Belle ” will be performed for the 8,000,000 th
time on earth, or words to that effect. This
is a piece in which the chorus is on the
stage nearly all the time. Has the length
of tenure of the stage by the chorus ever been
taken into consideration in estimating the reasons
for the success of a musical comedy? Where, as
in the entertainment under consideration, the
show-maidens are pleasing, it must be a powerful
factor. “The Belle” does not grow hackneyed
and pall on audiences because there is" so
much in it that is inimitable. Its bright
and original music, its insane humor and
equally insane sentimentality, its quaint
characters and the queer, delightful places wherein
they foregather, combine to render the piece
unique in its line. The combination may not be
good art, but it is sui generis , and that is a re-
freshing quality these plagiarising days. It is as
bizarre as a Wiertz picture, and as hard to imitate.
Miss Olive Godwin plays Violet Gray in
the present production. She sings the Sal-
vation girl’s music charmingly and acts well.
Frank Greene’s fine baritone voice is heard
to great effect as Bronson, jun. ; but he
doesn’t suggest the N’York youth-about-
town for a moment. Romano’s is this
spendthrift’s revelling place, not Sherry’s; and
tiiat fact, made patent by his every intonation, is
a defect in a part which is American or nothing.
E. Nable’s Ichabod Bronson is along conventional
lines, and the same remark applies to the Polite
Lunatic of W. S. Percy. Why these comedians
elected last week to introduce, in the candy store
scene, a series of dull, British-sounding gags the
writer failed to comprehend. The stock jests in
“The Belle,” which are racy of the U.S. soil
if nothing else, are numerous enough. Miss
Lottie Sargent is tuneful, sweet, pathetic
and all the other things that Fifi Fricot
should be. Miss Ada Stirling is a hand-
some and impressive Cora Angelique. Fred
Leslie is an ideal Blinkv Bill. Miss Tilly Wood-
lock portrays his affinity, Mamie Clancy, and a
more satisfactory affinity no reasonable man could
desire. Miss Elsie Stevenson (Kissy) is another
graceful, dainty and wholly alluring circum-
stance. And, to finish with, the classic idles of
Snifkins, Kenneth Mugg and the Counts are in
excellent hands.
* * *• *
Sydney Palace is still “Married to the
Wrong Man,” and at time of writing the manage-
ment had taken no steps towards the Divorce
Court. The drama now wears a record-breaking
look in its eye, and the bulge of great wealth is
visible in its tail pocket. On Saturday, October
23, the first of a series of matinee performances
will be given, at which that seasoned drama,
“The Bells,” will be rung in strict accordance
with the traditions left by the late Henry Irving.
* * # *
The Shackleton films, which cost Charles
Spencer £4OOO, were first shown to the public at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night last and
drew a mighty audience. There had been a pre-
vious private view at the Sydney Lyceum Hall
which moved this scribe to make some remarks
on the desire for a quiet life engendered by the
spectacle of the Antarctic wastes. It is said that
the Eskimo once inhabited all Europe and
only penetrated into the frozen north when per-
suasion was applied, in the shape of a battle-axe,
by invaders from the east and south. Just possible
that, if the Fused Government continues the policy
of stagnation long enough, the Australia of the
future will be where Shackleton’s cinematograph
“ took ” the emperor penguin reviewing the line
of his subjects by the frozen sea. These birds
seem to be most trustful beings and peculiarly
helpless. With their utter deficiency of fighting
qualities one would expect that they would be very
timid ; but they are not and the expedition inter-
ested them immensely. So they formed a tourist
bureau and ran excursions to the camps. The
fact that some of them never returned probably
gave the proceedings a spice of romance ; any-
how the element of danger did not have the effect
of driving them away. An interesting feature of
the show was that as the views reeled across
the screen, woman after woman in the hall,
although it was hot enough, unconsciously drew
her wraps closer round her. It spoke volumes for
the realism of the pictures.
* * * *
“The Flag Lieutenant” makes a heroic
ass of himself at Sydney Royal for the last time
on Friday night next. His place is to be filled by
“The Village Priest,” with Titli., sen., in the
chief part.
% * * *
At Sydney Criterion “ The Taming of the
Shrew ” continues to inculcate its invaluable
lesson to him who owns a vixenish wife. On
Saturday afternoon the Asche-Brayton co. will
give another costume recital of “Julius Caesar
at the Town Hall.
** # #
Another warbler from the aviary of Mr.
Steffani is written down for a public hearing at
Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall on October 26. She is
Miss Gladys Wahlberg, and her voice is a mezzo-
soprano. Her aides in melody-making will be
Messrs. Marsden, Woods, C. Monk and G.
Bell; and Miss Esther Kahn will interpret piano-
forte masterpieces. Miss Vera Barnett, ;is accom-
panist, will hit the teeth of the piano-animal and
put her foot on its tail.
* X *
Sydney Tivoli seems to arrive at the dol-
drums at intervals of about two months or so, and
that is its present location. The seals are due to
flop otf the bill just about the time the Incurable
Reader is opening this issue, and the present
scribe at least is glad that they are to have a brief
respite from stage work. They have practically
been balancing the whole show on their elegant
wet noses for several weeks past, and the strain
and anxiety has taken the gloss off their Arctic
overcoats. Whilst waving them farewell and
wishing them always plenty of fresh fish, it is
worth noting that the species never suffers froni
cold feet. Miss Athmore Gray, the languid
Salome dancer, will pack up the thinking end of
the Apostle and depart towards the end of the
week. The turns which will then remain are none
of them in the planet class. Blake and Granby,
the Two Bells and Ronald George will be about
the brightest spots in a rather empty firmament.
*X X X
At Adelaide Royal the fantastic “ Message
from Mars” has been sandwiched in between
melodramas of far less merit. The Allan Hamilton
co. is capable of better work than it mostly gets.
The Empire goes along briskly with its variety
show; West and Peacock are each giving a good
moving-picture display ; the commercial travellers
have frivolled wildly in a public place in the
cause of charity ; and there have been the usual
concerts —also an unusual one, given by a band on
top of a chimney-stack 150 ft. from the ground.
“ THE FLAG LIEUTENANT”
AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Three men and a boat—Sailor Camhourne, Gough-
Bogle Waller, jun., and Thesiger Mackay, Esq.
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the Duke of St.
Jermyns is still being pursued by a choice assort-
ment of expensively-dressed Girl; also the male
section of the chorus disguised as Britain’s
proudest aristocracy continues to strew casual
proposals of marriage in the path of Angela.
■•The Catch of the Season’’ took a sporting turn
last Saturday, and when one verse of the Dook’s
“living tableau” song introduced the figure of
Blue Book’s jockey, clad in manager Williamson’s
racing colors, the house roared its approval. The
roar couldn’t have been much louder even though
the house had backed the horse in question, which
it certainly didn’t.
** * *
Melba can gather people together with a
wave of her hand—or so it looks to a mere out-
sider. The Exhibition, which is but a vasty barn
with a dome to it, was crowded on Saturday until
the audience mounted into the galleries and filled
those to standing-room-only. Melba was in
excellent voice, but the beautiful subtleties
of her vocalising were lost in the nooks and
crannies of the circus building. During the whole
of the “Lucia” Mad Scene a spout valve above
the left transept guttered with the flood waters of
the rain, and kept up an accompaniment like
bones to a rag time coon song. It may not have
reached Melba, but the sacred vice-regal enclosure
had the full benefit of the “extra.” Rossini’s
flaming air and chorus from the “ Stabat Mater’’
had full field in the vastness. Full of devils and
flames and weird fear of rabble is the “Inflam-
rnatus, ” with the orchestra and great choir doing
their durnedest and the woman’s voice shrieking
above it all. It’s a great chance for a
soprano, beginning with the intensely abrupt
attack away up at C in alt. All the same,
one feels that the sensational thing, often re-
peated, would smash the delicacies of a voice as
surely as Wagnerian opera does. An encore
to the “ Inflammatus.” was a gentle little song,
“Down in the Forest Something Stirred,” which
dips into the delicate phrasing that only Melba
seems to reach. “Se Satan Rose” was another
encore in still another mood of abandon. Manager
Lemmone brought along his flute for the decora-
tion of the “Jewel Song.” Marshall-Hall’s
orchestra, with many borrowed minions, plunged
into Wagner and Hamish MacCunn. Ranalow
did his best with *“ O Star of Eve,” with the
’cellos in the orchestra sobbing out an accom-
paniment, and Una Bourne seemed to tackle too
much for her strength in attempting a Liszt
Rhapsody in the barnsome building.
* * * *
There will be another “ Exhibition ” con-
cert on Saturday (23rd), and that will be Melba’s
farewell this trip, it is said. She is staying in
Melbourne over Cup week ; but between her two
capacities of keen business woman and good sport
the artist sides with the latter. She has decided
that during the coming gee-gee time sufficient
for the days will be the races thereof. The iuoie
especially as she has a personal interest in a gee-
gee or two.
** * #
At Melbourne Royal there is to be a
restoration of the “ Cinderella ” panto, on Satur-
day in place of “ Hook of Holland.” A lot of
people who never saw “ Cinderella” during the
hundred or two nights of its previous run will be
coming to Melbourne next week, and these new
arrivals, together with large contingents of local
inhabitants, are expected to hail with enthusiasm


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
A Great Law Suit Decided.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided
that Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against
coughs and colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years’ Reputation.
the reappearance of the weary Baron and his
family. “ Cinderella,” plain and simple, will be
something of an ad. for the newer version of the
story at the Williamson theatre, whilst the other
version invites further attention to the frivolity at
the Royal, so the two shows will amount to a
mutual improvement society. Meanwhile, Mr.
Hook has two more visits to pay to the cellar
where his famous cordial is maturing in the wood.
** * *
“ The Great Rescue ” is presenting its
scenic attractions at Melbourne King’s until
Friday night. Then “ The Flood Tide ” will rise
and wash much cash, it is hoped, into the
pay-boxes.
** * *
Wirth’s circus spread its canvas to the rain
in Melbourne last Saturday night, when the
crowd came up smiling to the vast tent as of old.
With picture-shows booming in the vicinity, and
the new roller-skating rink right up against it,
the circus seemed to be putting too great a strain
on public patronage, yet the multitude bulked
larger than ever. The conditions were discom-
forting. The canvas had been having a dry time
of late, wherefore the rain dripped through the
roof in places and put a damper on everything
but the spirits of the small boys who had
paid a shilling and rejoiced in the outlay.
About 20 of the Circus turns have an interest
which, for the old, is mainly historical. The saw-
dust of bygone ages is on them. They breathe
the sentiment of a treasured past. If the feats in
the arena were very different, or the elephants
broke out in new directions and the clowns forgot
to kick one another, it wouldn’t be a Circus.
Sameness is the immortal soul of the show. A
slight further advance in the education of the
horses is permissible, and a new joke is not much
out of place; but it is to the most tried and trusty
items that this writer bows most cordially.
The audience on Saturday roared its loudest at
the acrobatics of the Frantz Family, which is a
new edition of the family imported by Rickards
some years ago. The performance is slick and
rapid, and the furious somersaults of one lanky
Frantz in long skirts are as droll in their way as
the gravity of the bounding operator. A more
astounding feature of the Circus is Datas, the
Man of Memory. The figures and facts which
Datas has once photographed upon his brain-film
are transferred at will to the tip of his tongue.
He neither forgets nor mislays any date he has
commitoed to memory. On Saturday night the
boys refused a hearing to the man who wanted to
“introduce” him, and were rowdily disposed to
Datas when he introduced himself, but under
peaceable circumstances this gifted person will be
found equally questionable and convincing.
Tait’s Pictures (Melbourne) are now lodged
at the Glaciarium, which has been much benefited
from a spectatorial point of view by the recent
addition of a sloping floor. Saturday’s menu was
the customary mixture of tragedy and comedy.
There was a yarn about Louis XI., who was pre-
sented as a tottery despot with a fancy for inflict-
ing sudden bereavements on ducal families. There
was a tale of love and a story of a man who runs
about frightening maiden ladies with his suit of
leaves. Narratives of sentiment and excitement
were “ A Convict’s Sacrifice” and “A Negro’s
Gratitude,” while pictures of the naval training of
boys were furiously appreciated by a herd of
scouts who had been generously invited to the
performance.
** * *
West’s Pictures (Melbourne) now contain
a beautiful view—“ Big Game Hunting in Africa”
—which this paper dimly suspects to be a fake.
The frowning cliffs and pieces of rock seein painted
and done up; though it is only just to admit
that sundry men and animals look real. A
picture that would be enthralling to revolutionists
is “ The Sword and the King,” which depicts the
slaughter of a tyrant by a popular demigod ;
while the tale of “A Broken Violin ” causes one
to wipe away a stealthy tear. “His Brand New
Hat,” a comic film, is almost as agonising; but
the pictures of “ The Ziegler Arctic Expedition ”
and of “Animated Cotton” are clever and enter-
taining.
* * *
Rita Hope is to give a pianoforte recital
at the Melbourne Masonic Hall on November 13,
which is the Saturday after Cup week. At about
the same time last year, when young Rita was
just back from Vienna with the LesChetizlcy hall-
mark new upon her, she had a concert at the
Town Hall and proved to be a prdfitess in her
own country. This time she will figure more
ambitiously, for there are two or three concertos
in the programme. A colleague of the male per-
suasion is to assist, when necessary, at a second
piano whilst the little lady devotes her art and
energies to piano No. 1. The recital will be run
on what has come to be known as the Conserva-
torium plan. Invitation tickets are issued, and
the holders pay a booking fee for their seats, an
arrangement which appeals equally to the social
and financial feelings of the best musical people.
* 0 *- *
Two long strangers were added to the
Rickards bill, at the Opera House, the other night.
Walter Emerson is a comedian who might easily
pass for a giant in an emergency, and Charles
Johnson, who is only less lofty, calls himself the
champion colored cake-walker of the world, with-
out much fear of contradiction. Anyway The
Bulletin wouldn’t venture to contradict Johnson
at close quarters. The Trapnell Sisters are leaving
Melbourne this week, alas! but Dolly Harmer
and Bertha Stuart are still included with the
remaining members of the company.
Just one short year ago the Sydney Tele-
graph and Herald could not find language to
express their detestation of the caucus scheme,
whereby, they said, the minority in a party was
compelled to sink its individual opinion and vote
against its principles. But times have changed.
The Fusion holds caucuses now, and at one held
on Thursday last Prime Minister Deakin did not
hesitate to browbeat his party and demand that it
should vote solidly as he desired it, regardless of
its conscience. Members were asked not merely
to sink their opinions, but to go back on their
speeches. And neither the Telegraph nor the
Herald arose to express its detestation worth 2d.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A guinea prize in a London paper called forth a remark-
able variety of Shakspearian allusions to Bardsley’s
double century in the last Test cricket match. The bard
has quite a lot of references to “ashes,” “pavilions,”
“ matches ” and such things. “I’ll wipe away all trivial,
fond records” was a neat touch from “Hamlet,” and
“He hath in this action outdone his former deeds
doubly,” from “ Coriolanus.” But in this kind of com-
petition a pun on names always seems to score best.
Industrious searchers found “Even so thou out-runn’st
Grace ” (“ Timon of Athens ”), “ Gregory never did such
deeds as I have done this day ” (“ Henry IV.”), and (this
was the prize-winner):—
I do not think a braver gentleman,
More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
More daring or more bold, is now alive
To Grace this latter age with Noble deeds.
—Henry IV. (Part 1), Act V., Scene 1.
“ D.”: A fact which struck me while watching the
“ Candida” show the other day in a Sydney theatre was
the indubitable one that G.B. Shaw lacks what one may
call the “dress sense.” Why not a “dress sense” as
well as a “picture sense”? Shaw has absolutely no
glimmering of an idea as to what a modern male should
put on to prevent himself from looking an outrage
in the face of nature. He betrays this in his own
person as well as in that of most of his characters.
I have seen him bicycling about London 6ft. of
dun-colored Jajger clothing and boots and hat—an
apparition which any modest-minded man would
yearn to wipe off the face of the earth. I heard him lec-
ture years ago in a hall near William Morris’s house at
Hammersmith, and his elaborately careless all-red garb
burnt itself into my youthful brain, and stirred me to a
passion of inarticulate protest. Awful, indeed, are the
clothes which he gives his best-loved characters. For
example, Leonard Charteris (“ The Philanderer ”), the
man whom all the women of his set adore, “ is unconven-
tionally but smartly dressed in a velvet jacket and cash-
mere trousers. His collar, dyed Wotan blue, is part of his
shirt, and turns over a garnet-colored scarf of Indian silk,
secured by a turquoise ring. He wears blue socks and
leather sandals.” I think this deficiency in what I call a
dress sense amounts actually to a defect in the Shaw art.
Take the case of Charteris. We are asked to accept him
as a slayer of female hearts. Now the immemorial woman
can take all sorts of pride in a badly or care-
lessly dressed man; but she will not be seen, if
she can help it, in company with a Merry-Andrew. And
no woman loves the man she is ashamed to be seen with.
Women are notoriously the most conventional of
creatures. There are few that I have ever met capable
of philandering with a veritable Antinous provided he
was so ill-advised as to court the public gibe in “ a velvet
coat and cashmere trousers.” The thought of one of
these self-conscious beings, so keenly sensitive to the
ridiculous, whether in themselves or those around them,
gladly enduring the attention of one who, in addition to
the other things, wore “ blue socks and sandals,” strikes
me as being one of the most incredible things in literature.
“Harrison ,0.”: “ O.K.’s” remarks (B. l/7/’O9) concern-
ing the “ happy ending” which dramatic moralist H. A.
Jones almost invariably tacks on to any play of his have
set me thinking. After all, is the happy ending as popu-
lar as it is generally supposed to be? Plays such as “ The
Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” and “ Hedda Gabler” can afford
to conclude miserably ; the people who can appreciate
plays of this class prefer—or, at any rate, tolerate—an
artistic suicide, and do not demand an inartistic marriage.
But putting Art aside, when one calls to mind the most
popular dramatic successes, it is astonishing how many
end in tears, despair or gloom. “ The Sign of the Cross ”
ends with Mercia making a bee-line for the lions’ den.
The popular version of “Camille” ends in a sob of
agony from Armand as he falls across the corpse
of the frail, fair one. In “A Royal Divorce” Julius
Buonaparte is left standing upon a rock at St.
Helena, gazing with intense longing at a back-cloth
horizon. Just consider what an opportunity the drama-
tist missed here : he could have brought about a “ fusion ”
between Josephine and Julius, and left them standing in
a large patch of limelight while the lady blushingly in-
formed her lord that, after all his doubts and fears, there
was a possibility of her becoming interesting. The man
who would sacrifice such a conclusion to mere more-or-
less historical accuracy is deserving of the censure of the
gods. The most remarkable of all modern play-endings
is perpetrated by ’All Caine in the most volcanic of his
eruptions, “The Christian.” The last spasm of this
play is extremely difficult to classify, for it raises the
question : Is a marriage between a dying fanatic and a
reformed actress a “ happy ending ”?
“Locust”: The verdict against Wirth’s circus in the
recent accident case reminds me that the “ colossal ”
American circuses have a special man employed to nip
actions in the bud. In the big street parades, which are
a feature of the Barnum and other tours, when ele-
phants, giraffes, horses, animals in Cages, agents,
supers, clowns and other dangerous animals all
turn out and march through the town, there are
numerous accidents from pushing crowds, or by
reason of inquisitive little boys getting close to cages
to make dead sure if the inmates really are lions
or tigers. The “agent” is on the spot, and as soon as
there is an injury which might be actionable, he comes
up, purrs consolation, and offers a lump sum in satisfac-
tion, if the injured will sign an indemnity from legal
proceedings. It nearly always works, and has a wonder-
ful curative effect upon the victim ; for it is very difficult
for a patient who is claiming damages to get quite well
until the jury has assessed the damages.
The Taits are going to put the success of the Besses o’
th’ Barn band to the test of a revival. The Besses are to
tour shortly, and return to Australia in March
or April next year. A renewal of the old boom seems
hardly possible, but the band this next time will have
“ a champion cornet soloist,” and, if he be a real
champion, he will be a strong draw. The present gene-
ration of Australian has little or no idea of the exciting
possibilities dormant in a cornet solo.
Tom Driver, a compositor in a local printing shop,
lately drew the largest show audience that Wellington
(M.L.) can remember. Driver used to wander around
Australasia with a small conjuring show ; if he got a £lO
house he was delighted, though the only reason he didn’t
gather in more was that he didn’t scream loud enough.
So he dropped conjuring for a while. Then Bailey, the
“ medium,” came along with his “apports” and other
ghostly and spectral baggage. Tom Driver, who used
to be “ Professor Kudarz,” suddenly left his case to
gather the scalp of Bailey ; and amid tremendous applause
he produced spirits of a better brand than Bailey’s best.
The Royal Comics have lost one of their dainty dancers
—Jessie, of the Brown sisterhood, which has been in the
J.C. W. productions for some years. The lady who has
given over pointing a toe at the footlights did promising
work as Lucille in “ The Girls of Gottenberg,” and was
one of the Girdle “kids ” in “ The Spring Chicken.”
“D.J.”: A queer brace of musical fakirs has appeared
at Sydney Tivoli. They are tricked out in the alleged
apparel of the British workman—bowyangs, corduroy
breeks, short cutty pipes and so on. The curtain rises to
disclose them in the vicinity of a small harmonium.
One concludes that they are professional harmonium-
removers, and are there in the execution of their duty.
After a cursory glance at the instrument, one of them
advances on it, seats himself upon a box and causes
the property street to resound with “ The Lost
Chord.” The other joins in. Both sing the entire
ditty with much vigor. Meanwhile the harmonium
remains unmoved. The bogus artisans rise, acknowledge
the guarded plaudits of the audience with elabo-
rately clumsy bobs and forelock-draggings indicative
of the son of toil in an unaccustomed character, and then
once more assault the harmonium to the tune of
“ Sweet Genevieve.” They still don’t attempt to move
anything. The street remains deserted. No infuriated
employer turns up and asks what the blazes they mean
by wasting their time (which is his money) in so profitless
a fashion. The local policeman fails to emerge from
hiding. All is peace and leisure and dolce far niente.
Again the twain bursts into song. Once more the har-
monium stays unshifted. More bobs, more forelock-
tearings, and the turn is over. What I rise to ask is:
Why the clothes ? Anything less appropriate in the
circumstances it were hard to conceive. They aren’t
picturesque, and they tend to suggest that the
wearers are unscrupulous folks who go about
getting harmonium-removing money under false
pretences, and ruining their employer’s instru-
ment, to boot, by performing upon it, all unauthorised, in
the damp street air. The songs which these false alarm
toilers render give them a particularly snuffling and
hypocritical aspect. The ditties are all about honesty
and virtue ; the Tenderers are palpable neglectors of duty,
poseurs, deceivers of their good kind masters and all the
other things that are unsympathetic to a right-minded
'Arry Rickards crowd. If they sang about burglary or
even petty theft the effect would be better and more
convincing. Their staves, their clothes and their actions
disharmonise, as things are, most villainously.
“ Mugg ” : Snips, most deadly of buckjumpers, repaired
to the Elysian pastures last week with a broken foreleg.
He fell at Many Peaks (Queensland) with a local horseman
and had to be destroyed. I was maniac enough to get on
Snips once. A remembrance of the episode will remain
with me to the tomb. I never had a briefer ride in my
life. My legs gripped the saddle, and then a convulsion
of Nature seemed to occur—a wild phenomenon which was
part earthquake, part whirlwind, and part simoon,
with a dash of dynamite explosion and aeroplane
smash thrown in. When I was able to remember
my debts I was amongst the wooden benches sur-
rounding the arena wherein Snips gambolled nightly.
I had been thrown clean over the dividing fence.
A bump the size of a cricket ball disfigured the top of my
bright young skull. My back felt as though a Dread-
nought had fallen upon it from a great height. The
crowd was delighted. Snips was more formidable than
Bobs at the latter’s worst, for he was quicker-actioned
and more savage. Bobs has alw'ays struck me as
a sort of “ made ” buckjumper. He knew what
was expected of him as well as the Winston
seals, and did it conscientiously and effectively.
But he never brought to his work the insane,
frenzied, screaming enthusiasm that Snips did. • That
section of the world which admires to see its fellow-man
humbled in the dust (or amongst the benches, as the case
may be) and grievously injured and rendered a gore-
smeared laughing-stock, will be the poorer for the passing
of this demented quadruped.
“ Cynic ” : Somebody who professes to know what he is
talking about informs The Bulletin that he “ has been
applauding EllalineTerrissin adult characters for the past
20 years,” but the wild alligator omits to mention the
names and dates of the first productions in which he saw
the lady. Ellaline is the daughter of murdered William
Terris, who was born just 60 years ago and made
his first notable appearance in London, as a very
young man, in December, 1871. When I met him,
two or three years later, he was unmarried, I believe.
The alligator goes on to say: “The Dango lady
I know not, except from the wrong side of the footlights ;
but if she is 30 I will engage to eat the big drum.” I
would like to see him devour the instrument without
more ado. Miss Dango was introduced to Australia as a
sister of Lettv Lind, a charming danseuse and actress of
the Gaiety Co., who came to Australia in July, 1888, and
was then said to be “about six-and-twenty.” I don’t
know whether Letty was the eldest and Fanny the
youngest member of the family, but assuming, for the
sake of argument, a difference of 17 years in their ages,
it is still evident that the alligator aforesaid must either
eat the drum or forfeit his engagement.
Dear Bulletin,— Touching the youthfulness and charm-
ingness of the character Miss Dango plays in “The
Catch of the Season,” the fiend who wrote The Bul-
letin's notice rises to mention that he “didn’t pen it
under considerable of a misconception,” as “ Ceph ” sug-
gests. The fact, or allegation, that Miss Ellaline Terriss,
for whom the part was written (she being the wife of the
manager and part author) was older at the time than Miss
Dango’s present age has absolutely nothing to do with
the case. Neither is the fact that Miss Terriss can’t
sing any argument in support of the contention that Miss
Dango’s voice is equal to the requirements of the music of
a soubrette part which happens to be poetically dainty.
The part is that of a 17-or 18-year-old damsel, of beauty
so remarkable that all the men are struck silly by it. In
short, the character is Cinderella, and the Melbourne
stage just now has no lady on the musical comedy job
who is quite so young and charming as the ideal Cinder-
ella.—Yours, etc., The Fiend Himself.
St. Kilda (Melb.) is about to strengthen its attractions
as a show place by the sea. Edward Branscombe, encour-
aged by the financial results of the Scarlet Troubadours,
has fixed up, on similar lines, a little comedy-cwm-variety
co. under the name of “The Jesters ’’—nine souls in all—
who will start to jest at Arcadia on October 30. Arcadia
is on the St. Kilda Esplanade, opposite the Figure 8, and
near to where Dreamland fretted its fleeting day of yore.
Premier Murray will presumably go to the Melbourne
Waxworks and weep bitterly during the next few weeks.'
A keen, robust-looking alien, with a number of medals
hanging from him, has retired to the transparent seclusion
of a glass-case at the Waxworks with a view to living
there for 53 days, nourished only by soda water and
cigarettes. As a teetotaler, this disconcerting crank
holds the record for temperance; but as a smoker he’s
just a Fiend. On the one hand, the “Fasting” Man
appeals for Murray’s best blessing, and, on the other, he
is a shocking- example of the habit that Murray would
like to suppress by Act of Parliament. In Britain alone,
leaving- other countries out of the question, he has fasted
on soda water and cigarettes for nearly two years in
periods ranging from 14 to 52 days. Smoking as many as 50
cigarettes a day, he ought to be a nervous wreck. Taking
nothing but soda water with his nicotine, he ought to
have died of heart failure, orsomething, longago. Instead
of being wrecked or dead Sacco Homann, the fiend in
question, earns a good living by sitting in a glass room
and inviting the medical profession to assist at the
funeral of its pet theories. Other fasting men have
proved nothing that was not already known. This one
proves that cigarette smoking is the healthiest of occu-
pations for a lazy citizen who draws very little fresh air
into his lungs and takes liberal draughts of soda water
into his stummick. Apparently he feeds his will power
by doing what is said to weaken will power. He employs
two negatives to make an affirmative. He is the most
interesting waster in the world, for he spends three stone
of flesh at one sitting in baffling medical science.
“ Ossian ”: Melba probably struck her most mixed
congregation in Grafton (N.S.W.). Behind me sat Combo
and black Rosy, his gin. Combo didn’t care for it and
wanted to quit, but Rosy held him back —“ Him lovely
music, Combo.” So Combo grunted and went to sleep.
Presently Melba produced one of her trills. “ Combo,
Combo!” she said. “Listen, Combo—whaffor all the
same lolanthe’s whistle ! ” The lolanthe is the ferry boat
that shrieks its way up and down the local river.
From “S.”:
There is a deuce of a lot of aesthetic and religious
clamor against the public boxing displays going on in Mel-
bourne just now, and not a Woodfuil of the whole jugful
utters one passionate yelp against Marathon races. I’ve
watched boxing closely for 10 years, and have never seen
a boxer fought into a condition of blind weariness like
that of half a score of the runners who finished the 26-mile
race here the other day. Some of them could scarcely
stagger along, sagging pitiably, sightless, and quite crazed
from protracted strain. They were beaten 'into wakeful-
ness with wet towels, and encouraged along the final two
or three miles by clamorous followers who sprayed them,
squoze orange juice between their teeth, and performed
every office necessary to keep the done men from falling
in their tracks. This was a cruel exhibition, if you like ;
but no Woodfuil denounces Marathon races.
Colonel Burston is Melbourne’s gaud
Mayor for the second time ; he beat Davey, who
was Weedon’s understudy when the little man
was away fishing for a title, by 14 to 12. Burston,
who isn’t personally over-popular in the council,
can thank the late “ Bill ” Cook for his re-election.
Cook, a plasterer by trade, was a great under-
ground engineer, and got from “ Tiger ” Gardner
(the old South Melbourne “ruck” footballer)
and others a promise that Burston should have a
second term. When it was seen that Davey
couldn’t win, an effort was made to bring out
Gillott again; but the gentleman with the
milliner’s-rnodel figure wouldn’t take it on except
with the unanimous vote of the council ; and he
didn’t have a hope of getting that with Burston
in the field.
A cry from Newcastle :
The McMyler hoist and the generally inadequate coal
loading appliances of Newcastle are subjects upon which
Premier Wade has of late been speechifying with much
numerousness. Wade wants the country to believe that
he is doing great things for Coalopolis ; but, in attempt-
ing to prove that the McMyler is all that it is not, his
latest “ statement to the press” makes him look more
remarkable than ever. Wade said that the McMyler will load
Maitland hard coals without breaking them, and when the
soft coals of Newcastle are worked out the McMyler will be
just the thing. That is all very interesting in its way,
but Professor David estimates the unwon soft coal of the
Borehole and Burwood seams as 2,562,000,000 tons, and
during last year a little over 6,000,000 tons were raised
in the combined Newcastle and Maitland districts. The
unwon soft coal at that rate will last just over 400 years
before it is all worked out, and even Wade should be able
to realise that that is a long time to wait for improved l ,
loading appliances.
Bull Cohen, who is more Cohen than Bull,,
hasn’t now got even a Chinaman in S’Africa to'
show for the £200,000,000 or so that he spent in.
farm-burning and chicken-stealing. The cheap.
Chow miner whom the Yidsteins of Johannesburg
and elsewhere wanted, and whom Oom Kruger
wouldn’t let them have, proved such a horribly
expensive Chow when they did get him that they
were mighty glad to be quit of their bargain. So
when Bull proposed to ship back the whole snarl-
ling, scratching pack, Bull’s friend Yidstein said
as usual that he would be ruined, and then hung
round in fear and trembling lest Bull should
change his mind, and not take them off his hands.
So the Chow contingent has been gradually
shipped back out of his slave-* 1 compound,” and
last week the very tail-end of the curse said
" Whaffor?” and was bundled down to the coast.
A BRAW SCAWTCH JEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You know, I am Scotch.” (Laughter.) Foster
Fraser.
“ I am Scotch, but my wife is Irish.” (Boars of
laughter.)— Gov. Carmichael.
Speaking at a meeting of the Sydney Jewish Literary
and Debating Society, George Reid said he would like to
become a member, only he was a Scotchman. (Uncon-
trollable merriment.)
I paid three silver shillings for a stall—
Three hardly-earned and most infrequent bob —
And sat within a darkened lecture hall,
Among a mob
Of persons who had gathered there to hear
A travel-wearied journalist discourse
Re Russia—where blood flows like Christmas beer 1
Without remorse.
He showed us pictures of the mangled dead ;
But later how we rocked with laughter when
He slyly screwed his features up and said
“ Ah’m Scawtch, ye ken.” . . .
Next morn I ope’d my paper in the train
And saw the headline, “ Gov’nor’s Witty Speech ” ;
I read it through—the phrasing caused me pain—
I did not screech
With laughter. O, ’twas sad, ’twas passing sad
(To put it vulgarly, ’twas tommy rot).
I found one single joke— which made me mad—
“ I am a Scot.” <
I turned the page, another headline saw :
“ A Speech by Mr. Reid.” “ Here’s wisdom ripe,”
I mused,“This orator, this man of law,
Will scorn such tripe.”
My faith in him received a horrid blow ;
He said—unless the printer made a botch
Of setting the report: “ I’d have you know
(Yes-no) I’m Scotch.” . . .
No doubt I’m dull, but I confess I fail
To comprehend this deep and subtle joke :
Such wit I fear is hidden by a veil
From common folk.
O ! why allow the humor to escape
Poor common mortals till the Day of Doom?
Won’t someone please resolve this braw Scotch jape ?
Dispel the gloom I
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
THE IMPERIALIST’S VIEWPOINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Earl Gray is wrong in supposing that any baby navy
belonging to a colony can safeguard commerce on the
sea.—Sydney Sunday Times.
In the voice of the rooster at dawn,
Making melody loud on the lawn,
Lo, the Sunday Times speaks
On Defence, and it leaks,
Fairly leaks cold contempt of the spawn
Who no longer on Britain would fawn.
“Guard themselves!" cries the Times, shedding
tears ;
“ Why the thing is preposterous ! Years—
Countless years must go by
’Ere such people may try
To do that which a fair deal appears
To the Dago, with rings in his ears.
“ There is only one thing to be done
By good patriot-colonists—one
And no more ; ’tis to lie
In the shade (or a sty)
And hire others to handle the gun
When the foreign dog grabs at their bone.
“ For this proposition is plain,
If they struggled again and again
To produce fighting men
The betting is ten
Unto one they would have all their pain
And exertion and worry in vain.”
It’s an axiom, say those who shriek
For the Empire, that none but the weak
And the useless abide
Or are bred on this side ;
He who’s looking for fighters must streak
To the land which is ancient and bleak.
N.S.W.
SINGRMOINK.


RE&°
THE NEWEST GLOVES
at the FRENCH CIOVE HOUSE.
Even Gloves are subject to alteration of
fashion, and it is wonderful how such details
as the latest cut and finish in these articles
maygive just the right touch to a smart toilette.
THE LATEST PARISIAN IDEAS—
Colored stitching-s on White Kid Gloves.
3-BUTTON FRENCH KID, pretty fancy-colored
points on White Kid. Sky, Turquoise and
Saxe Blue, Rose, Amethyst, Helio, Moss and
Emerald Green, and Cinnamon—perfect fit
and fine quality—4/11J.
3-BUTTON FRENCH KID, self or black points,
Pale Blue, Pale Pink, Mauve, Topaz, Eau-de-
nil, Reseda Green, Moss, Pastelles, Drab,
Brown and White—very reliable—3/6.
Send for our New Springr Catalogue.
axtens & co" s&rr.",,
24-30 THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
QUALITY WEDDING RINGS
PLEASINGLY PRICED
You simply can’t do better than buy the wedding ring from us. We specialise
in this branch of the jewellery business, and are enabled to make you really
money-saving offers. You’ll see what we mean by studying the examples quoted.
As regards size—if unable to call, send for ring card or use a piece of wire to
indicate size.
Solid 18ct. Gold, 20/-
• 15ct. Gold, 15/-
9et. Gold, 10/-
Solid ISot. Gold, 30/-
15ct. Gold, 20/-
9ct. Gold, 15 '/-
Very Heavy Ring: in
Solid 18et. Gold, 40/-
]sct. Gold, 30/-
9ct. Gold, 20j-
CATALOGUE AND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
98 King Street, Sydney.
Society
PLNEOLD'S
WINES
Thus “Gent One,” from Melbourne :
Lastweekthe Vic. Full Court delivered judgment on
?an application by the Age newspaper for a new trial of
the libel case that had resulted in politician Swinburne
■ obtaining a verdict for heavydamages (and Costs) against
the journal aforesaid. Two sets of learned counsel spent
four days in piling up some more Costs, although it was
• obvious from the beginning of the hearing- that all argu-
ments in favor of a new trial were wasted on the Full
1 Court. The barristers were there to talk, and they talked
- on unchecked by the learned Judges until they could
think of nothing more to sajv After which the
learned Judges reserved their learned judgment, not
because they hadn’t made up their minds, but
in order that one of them might prepare a
preposterously long explanation of his reasons for refus-
ing a new trial, whilst the other two Judges jotted down
a few well-chosen remarks in support of their long-
winded brother’s deliverance. The Age’s application was
a lamentable mistake. The pretence of the Full Court
in professing to give the question its gravest attention
was strictly legal and quite according to precedent. It
is the business of Full Courts to give as much nega-
tive encouragement as possible to the piling up of Costs.
In this hearing, which lasted five days in all, there was
but one simple question to consider. A new trial was asked
for on the ground, mainly, that one of the 12 jurymen
who awarded heavy damages and Costs to the fortunate
Swinburne had conversed with a clerk in the employ of
the Age’s solicitors whilst the trial was proceeding. His
conversation, according to the solicitor’s clerk, had ended
with a suggestion that “ somebody from the Age office
had better see him," otherwise a verdict in favor of
Swinburne would assuredly result. The juryman, for his
part, denied that he had made such a suggestion. Had
he admitted it his bare admission would not have
amounted to any imputation on the honesty of the
other 11 jurymen who had practical]}’ decided to
find a verdict for Swinburne. But on the strength
of what their lawyer’s clerk told them concerning this
conversation, the barristers appearing for the Age had
the legal “gall ” to demand that the whole jury should
be disfranchised, and the libel suit tried all over again
before a new jury. Their “bluff” failed as a matter of
course, whereupon they withdrew from the case in mock
indignation, leaving the jury and Judge to laugh at
them behind their backs. The fortunate Swinburne got
his verdict a day or two sooner than would have happened
if the defendant’s barristers had remained on the job, but
otherwise “ the course of justice ” was unaffected. Vet
the appeal for a new trial was neither more nor less than
a second attempt to bring off the bluff that had so sig-
nally failed in the first instance. A number of other
arguments were dragged in, but none of these amounted
to a row of pins. The Full Court was asked to say that
if in the last stage of a costly law case the barristers on
one side can get information, through a juryman, that
their side has not a ghost of a chance to win they shall
have the right to cancel the trial. Naturally the Full
Court said “ Rats 1”
“ Craignathan,” where a fatal fire occurred
on Sunday morning, is an historic bouse at Neutral
Bay, Sydney. It was built in the thirties of last
century by persons now forgotton. Benjamin
Boyd, the ill-fated pioneer and speculator, after-
wards occupied it, and from a large tank on the
premises, fed by a small stream which still finds
its way to the head waters of the Bay, he watered
his whalers. Later on the old house became the
property of John Mann, explorer and surveyor,
who married a daughter of another explorer,
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell. When Mann sold
the place to Leonard Dodds, the latter added a
storey to the house and let it as a hash estab-
lishment. The locality is now known as Hash
Town, from the fact that one lady runs three
large boarding-houses at the Bay tram terminus.
•* * * •
From a man who has seen much service in
“ the East ” :
The heathen rages and threatens a boycott of Aus-
tralian produce. The local Chinaman says he wants a
competent Chinese teacher to diffuse a knowledge of
literary Chinese, presumably among the barbarians of
Australia, just when tne people of China itself are pitch-
ing literary Chinese and all belonging to it into the dust-
heap, and pinning their faith to European science. This
recalls the “ Hindu revival ” ; in that case—and it might
be the same in this—the Asiatic had to get Europeans to
teach him to understand his own language and literature.
When the Indian Government took in hand the investiga-
tion of Indian antiquities, the officials found to their
horror that the oldest sacred books of the Hindus were in
a language quite unintelligible to the most learned Hindu
pundits, who had long ago given the thing up as a bad
job or a sacred mystery. A German, Dr. Hang, tackled
the work* and in due time produced a translation of the
“ Vedas,!’ with a grammar and dictionary of the old
dialect in which they were written. In fact, he taught
the Hindus their own sacred language. British officials
have sinCe then compiled grammars and dictionaries of
several Indian dialects —Sindhi, for instance, which was
never before reduced to writing. Likewise, the European
interpreters in the Consular service have done very
much in the way of clearing up Chinese history and
philology. The Asiatic is a feckless creature, and if the
Chinese of Australia really want a competent professor
of Chinese they will have to get a white man to fill the
bill, for no yellow person really knows half so much about
his own?language as some dozen Europeans who could be
named?
NAUGHTY.
“ Let's go gay for once.”
“ Yes, let's visit this cincmatograjihc exhibition.”
Westralia is about to acquire a novelty in
the shape of an industrial colony in which all
shares, stock and land are to he held by
women, and unattached women at that. The
concern seems to Vie pushed along by the British
Householders’ League, of which Mrs. Emily
'Crawford, Miss Brooke (of the Worcester Agricul-
tural College) and Miss Hetty Sawyer, M.D., are
leading lights. Their intentions, though strictly
honorable, are somewhat vague at present; but it
will interest Australia’s Tories to learn that they
picked on Australia as a camping ground because
women have the franchise here. That, of course,
doesn’t apply solely to the Western State, but
possibly the relative scarcity of lovely woman
there may have had a deciding influence.-
MORE HORSE TROUBLES.
IST PUNTER : “ The mare ran badly. She never seemed to tale hold of her bit."
2ND PUNTER: “I didn’t notice. I know that Moses Lazarus has got hold of my bit."
“ J.” tells of a horror
The annual report of the British Humanitarian League
came my way last week. It ranges over every variety of
horror, from capital punishment to the “blooding” of
children at fox-hunts. Incidentally, it touches on “Snake-
feeding at Zoos.” My interest quickened, for I was privi-
leged once to visit a python during its dinner-hour, and
the memory has never faded. The mighty reptile lay
coiled in its glass marisipn asleep. The roof was lifted
and an infuriated gamecock was lowered protesting]}’
down. In order that it shouldn’t career about and in-
commode the serpent when the moment of its doom
was due to strike, a string was attached to its leg and
fastened outside. Then the python was stirred up with
a stick. A long, slow wave coursed adown its gaudy
frame, its gleaming eyes twinkled and its flat head was
projected in the direction of the ’pock. Was the bird
afraid ? No ; or, if it was, it was so in the sense only that
heroes are afraid. It remained captain of its soul. It
didn’t quail or fall back an inch. On the contrary, with
a kind of forlorn-hope-Balaclava-charge expression of
countenance, it actually advanced on its enemy, and was
only checked from spurring it by the limits of its leash.
Three several times it sprang at the awful face, now
stationary opposite it, and then desisted hopelessly. It
seemed to realise it had a waiting game to play, and drew
back so that when the attack came it would, at the
worst, have a few' inches of freedom wherein to
pass out fighting. And now' a strange thing hap- -
pened. The serpent grew cold on the business. Its
meal was too aggressive. To the anguish of the
attendant, it coiled up, with its head as far as possible
from the frantically-watchful game-bird, and composed
itself for sleep. With many an immoral objurgation, the
python’s valet dragged forth the fowl that knew not fear,
and bawled directions to a colleague outside. The col-
league entered shortly with a small, white hen. There
was nothing heroic about this bird. It looked harmless
and silly and respectable and unobtrusive. The roof was
lifted once more, and the new-comer placed inside. The
mighty bulk of the python reclined, immovable, near it.
It paid no attention, but walked about briskly, pecking
sharply at the grains of wheat on the floor. Again the
reptile was prodded, and again it raised its head.
The wretched hen looked unsuspectingly up to meet
the baleful glare of its companion fixed full upon
it. It fainted—that is the only word to express
it. Its legs gave gradually away and it collaused
to a sitting position. Violent shudders shook it." I
fancied I could discern an icy sweat upon its brow. The
python seemed gratified. Something resembling a smile
passed over its grim visage. Slowly it surged towards
the terror-stricken fowl. The latter moved not, but
rocked from side to side in helpless agony. The holocaust
was about due. I had paid a bribe to witness the
tragedy, and wasted time waiting for it to transpire, but I
had seen enough. I broke for the door and never returned.
I don’t know that I wouldn’t as soon attend a hanging as
standby again while a snake rang its dinner bell. The
snake, by the way, is a habitual swallower of its own kind
alive. An all-merciful Providence fixed things that wav.
The Truly and Horribly Good are an
amazing lot. It was in Melbourne that a gather-
big of parsons was found willing and ready to
express its entire confidence in that Queensland
preacher man who severely flogged a half-caste
<? ,rl on the back with a stmgaree s tail. And it is
also Melbourne which has risen in moral fury to
protest against the Lang-bqmres fight being per-
w * thin its s et , j n a ]| probability,
L and Squires won ’ t hit each other nearly so
o f ten as t h e preacher hit the half-caste girl, and
pro bably they won’t hit nearly so hard. The
Bulletin sometimes finds itself haunted by a sus-
picion that the Church is no more humane than
the hod-carrying profession, and that it simply
views boxing matches with the fury of the rival
showman. Floggings are different; there is no
collection at the door of a flogging,
• * »
T
Joseph Collinson, secretary of the Humani-
tarian League, London, defines “Incorrigible
Rogues” as they are understood in England
m r ' •. , . i r .... .. , ...
The title of the Vagrant Act, under which one Thomas
B J' rneB - <*>tat. 65, and allegedly, an “ incorrigible rogue,”
WIIS sentenced recently to 12 months’ hard labor, and 12
strokes with the birch, is a misnomer; and it is also a mis-
nomer to describe the persons who are liable to flogging
u,lder as “ incorrigible rogues.” Briefly, “incorrigible
ro k, ue ” 18 a legal or technical term designed to cover a
multitude of dissimilar offenders, but m practice it rarely
amounts to anything, worse than a person who has been
re P eate diy convicted at Petty Sessions of any one or
more of the following, viz., begging from door to door,
sln tring in the streets and soliciting alms, endeavoring to
oollect charitable contributions under false pretences,
exposing wounds or deformities in a public place, sleep-
lng out without visible means, destroying clothes jn a
workhouse or refusing to perform the allotted task, refrac-
conduct in police-cells, assaulting the constable when
apprehended for peddling .without a .license, fortune-tell-
mg, palmistry, etc. Some of these alleged “ incorrigibles ”
are unemployed laborers who have never been convicted
of any serious offence in their lives. They have been un-
fortunate in their battle with the world, and have gradu-
ally slipped out of work through inefficiency. According
to the recent report of the Departmental Committee on
Va k ran cy, such men form the readiest recruits for the
vagrant class. .. . That the harmless vagrant, the bet-
tlnB' nlan a,ld t,le fortune-teller should still be liable to
Gie torture of the lash is almost incredible,
Events run in a tragic cycle among the would-be
working classes in the Cold Land nowadays,
Freetrade forces the luckless ones into the ranks
c j j s. c ,1 _
?■[ u ' iem P lo y ed > and unemployment, forces them
( lf the .Y are not criminally disposed) to begging in
ol| e form or another, and then the Law forces
them to gaol and the triangles. In sooth it is a
bad thing to be a would-be toiler in Britain these
times.
AN APPALLING FAILURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fremantle, Tuesday.
Among the passengers arriving at Adelaide by the
Scharnhorst was Mr. W. J. P. Giddings, editor of Fauld-
jng’s Medical Journal. Mr. Giddings said : “ The status
of the delegates aroused great resentment among mem-
bers of the Press Club of Great Britain, where it was felt
that the delegates should have been composed of working
journalists, instead of alleged pressmen, nviny of whom
travelled merely on the names of their papers. . . . Mr.
Fink, representing the Melbourne Herald, was a lawyer ;
Mr. Syme, of the Age, a doctor ; and of the New South
Wales delegates one was proved to be an engineer,
another an auctioneer. Working journalists from over-
seas would have been much more welcome.
Fremantle, Wednesday.
Among the passengers arriving by the P. and O.
steamer Macedonia to-day was Mr. W. L. Baillieu, Minis-
ter for Works in Victoria, who is returning from a
private trip to the Motherland. Interviewed, he said
there was a wonderful amount of ignorance in Australian
affairs shown in England. He suggested what a fine idea
it would be for the Commonwealth to send over to Great
Britain a picked journalist with instructions to dissemi-
nate news concerning Australia and its resources with
the best methods. “ They have no idea of our aspira-
tions,” concluded Mr. Baillieu. — Sample of news items
dropping in re alleged “ Press” Conference.
Alas ! And is it possible ! Can it, indeed, be true ?
Should we not weep hot tears, bitter tears, burning drops
of regret ?
Have all our prayers and entreaties, and all the royal,
ducal and general shivoos miscarried and come to
naught?
Did our delegates, our representative journalists, mighty
Nation-Pushers and Exponents of the Crimson Bread
of Kingship fail us ?
Are their efforts, their speeches, their posings, their
sufferings of no avail?
Is it credible that those who suffered stomach and head-
ache for their country—
Who braved so many perils—
Attended so many parties—
iDragged unfamiliar clobber round in strange places and
amid unfamiliar company in the name and on behalf
of Australia—
Is it credible, I ask, that these persons did NOT accom-
plish their job?
We’ll not believe it!
Hence, horrible rumor, hence !
WHAT ?
Were all those meals eaten, those drinks drunk, those
clothes worn, those remarks made for NOTHING ?
Does no duchess understand that we are not all black in
Australia, no London editor believe that we have at
least nine more policemen than politicians?
Do the Royal Society, the Balloon Society, the Society
for the Protection of Alb-ns, and “Society” gener-
ally not understand that there are actually real
sparrotvs out here ?
WHAT?
Did Theodore Fink, Mark Cohen and the rest of them
leave the great British public in ignorance of the fact
that we understand high, low and broad finance and
practise it in all its blanches?
Is it possible that our aspirations were not referred to ;
that our ideals were taken as read ?
Did none mention WADE and the great city of Yass-
Gehenna, and Australia’s National Debt of so-elegant
and millionantic proportions?
, Himmel und Kiimmel ! Aeh Gott!
■ Oh, oh ! Those interviews !
-Oh, oh ! Those portraits in the Daily Nuisance and the
Weekly Pkrturbbr and the Court Toady !
| Oh, oh ! Those at-great-length-reported-and-immediately-
cabled-out speeches !
'Oh, oh ! Those royal, and ducal, and Lord-mayoral hand-
shakes, and that bonhomie of marchionesses off the
chain !
<Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oil ! ! !
All wasted —lost —vanished—shadowy—useless— gone !
They have no idea of our aspirations ! ”
OH ! . . .
Who are we to have aspirations?
Brothers, if all those mighty thinkers, writers, philoso
phers, poets and journalists—
Those Movers of Things Here—
Those Who Chose Themselves To Do The Job—
If THEY could not explain, develop, illustrate our poor,
little, inarticulate aspirations and things—
Who CAN !
Oh, doctor !
oh, lawyer!
Oh, auctioneer !
Oh, aspirations !
Oh, our poor country !
ICHABOD.
N.s.w.
O. O. CABOT.


A Woman’s Vote—Result
When our Australian women exercise the
franchise, it is a foregone conclusion, that
the women’s vote will be on the side of
progress —quality and not quantity of mem-
bers. We see it in everyday life—there
are three women to-day using Sunlight
Soap for laundry and housework to one
using any other soap in the world. Why?
Because women quickly recognise quality,
and the progress effected by the Sunlight
way of washing described on the cardbox ot
every tablet. Try Sunlight Soap next wash
day and you will vote there is nothing better.
sure to stay. That’s why he
uses CHERRY BLOSSOM
POLISH, which gives the best
results and is most economical.
What polish do YOU use? Black
. and Tan Tins of Cherry Blossom
for 3d, and 6d. from most
dealers. Write us if yoti cannot
get supplied.
sfd
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
fd
A SUMMER LUXURY AT SMALL COST
Peapes & Co.’s Crash Suit at a Guinea,
A Two-Piece Suit of very superior style in Crash, cf
the color of a Panama, which would go well with it.
The Crash material we have made up has the appearance of a flannel suit, but is
much lighter. The coat buttons high up, and can be worn without vest, has no
linings, and the amount of hard work guarantees permanency of shape.
A SPLENDID SUIT AT A MODERATE PRICE.
Messrs. PEAPES & CO. LTD., [ORDER FORM.
300-311 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me one of your GUINEA CRASH SUITS. My
chest measurement ; length of sleeve from centre of
back ; length of leg inside
Name
Address “
DEAPES & CO. LTD.,
309=311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria’s honorariums have been taking a
serious view of their duties again. The other
day two of them, at Port Melbourne, considered
the case of James Armstrong and his wife Ellen.
Armstrong had obliged the lady with a black eye,
a bruised forehead arid a cut face, so the awful
honorariums rewarded him with a fine of one
shilling ! They would doubtless have handed him
a trifle from the poor-box, only unfortunately
there was nothing in it at the moment.
* ■* * «
Hobart folks have just learned that
persons who die at the local charitable institution
are interred in true “ rattle-his-bones ” fashion.
Like Jehoiakim of Judah, they are “buried with
the burial of an ass.” The bodies are placed in a
rough coffin), a bit of tin is tacked on for a name-
plate, and the name or number of the departed is
scratched thereon with a
nail or something of the
sort. Tha coffin is then
carted to the cemetery and
dumped into a deep hole
wherein perhaps 10 or 15
predecessors already repose
on top of each ocher. The
pressure on the bottom
predecessor is terrible. It
wouldn’t be so bad if the
coffins were decently
covered with earth; but
the other day a newspaper
man glanced into the open
hole and discovered a dead
man’s coffin-plate staring
up at him with a surprised
expression on its kerosene-
tin countenance. It had
stared up atthe sky through
the interstices of a wooden
shutter flung over the
mouth of the hole for over
a fortnight. In the sub-
sequent trouble it trans-
pired that a pauper’s
funeral costs, at contract
price, 305., five of which go
to a clergyman. The items
are coffin (including the
tin naipe - plate), 15s. ;
burying the same (whien isn’t done), 10s.; prayers
(which a priest admits in a letter to the papers
are not always read at the time the box is dropped
into the hole), ss. All things considered, 30s.
seems a ruinous price to pay for the job. Crema-
tion would be quite as cheap and a lot healthier
and more decent, and no wandering pressman
would be frightened into convulsions by a
fortnight-old corpse’s label staring up at him from
the bottom of a dark hole.
* * • *
“The Heathen” writes in his blindness:—
The Anglican Church seems to be an unhappy and con-
fused institution these days. The period of unrest and
recrimination began with the mysterious Canon Nash
shindy—a religious riot remarkable for the fact that the
cause of it was never once put into plain speech publicly
or printed in black and white for a harassed people to
read. In the art of skating round a subject and avoiding
the point at issue, the Nash case is a model of clerical
agility. Since the stage-thunder of that threepenny
persecution died down, the Anglican forces seem to
have been afflicted with discontent; and the everyday
cynic doesn t hesitate to ascribe it to Providence—a
bored and impatient Providence, tired to death of kitchen
clatter and small-beer vengeance. The discontent was
first voiced at the recent Adelaide Synod by some of the
rank and file country parsons, who spoke forcibly regard-
ing the smallness of their stipends, and asserted that the
business of soul-saving in the Backblocks was more like a
scramble from the Insolvency Court than a dignified
carrying of the VVord. On the same day that these state-
ments appeared in print, the tearful remarks of Sydney’s
new imported Archbishop were also presented to the
readers of the morning paper. He had not, he asserted,
dreamt of coming out here to crowd the religious field
and take the highest place and salary ; but the “ call ”
had come and he felt it his solemn and sacred duty to
ansvyer it. His friends also felt that way, and thev had
g*ot round him and unred him om So he was coming" at
full speed. Up to then the commissioned officers of the
Anglican soul-forces had not been heard to complain, and
the inference was that they at least were comfortable and
contented. But, a week or so back, Bishop Barlow,
of Goulburn (N.S.W.), rose up and denounced the practice
of raising" funds for the Lord’s work by means of race
meetings, dances and sports. Presumably, he objected
to being" placed in the humiliating" position of owing" the
upkeep of his gaiters to the bookmaker and the swift
animal at six-to-four. No alternative means of support
was suggested in reply; so it is reasonable to suppose
that he is still subsisting precariously on the proceeds of
four furlong flutters and the Merry Widow waltz. Hardly
had his protest faded into the back-numbers on the files,
when Bishop Anderson, at a meeting of parishioners
in Deniliquin, remaiked that “ it was a scandal and dis-
grace that clergymen were not properly supported.
During 12 years he had been compelled to spend £4OO a
year above his income for the privilege of being Bishop of
Riverina. He did not believe if he resigned that they could
get, the position filled. If the people could not pay, the
Church ought to put, up the shutters and close." The last
sentence puts the whole thing on a hard business basis,
and the introduction of the shop-word “shutters” is
particularly apt. Put brutally, itseems to be: ‘‘ If you can’t
pay us a living wage to save your souls, we might as well
nail up the shop, stow away the Bible and let you slide."
It is a fairly violent statement; but, if what the annoyed
shepherd says is correct, some violence is called for. To
the onlooking Pagan, the astonishing part of the whole
thing is, that while the workers in the Anglican part of the
vineyard assert that though they are shamefully underpaid
a strange archdeacon, who says he was perfectly happy
in his English charge, should be dragged across the seas
at great expense to fill the highest position and take the
biggest salary the Church has to offer. A religion run on
such lines will never gain the confidence or esteem of the
workers.
* • * *
The Commission that into the
management of Pentridge (Vic.) gaol got a size-
able hint lately from a couple of witnesses, the
foremen of the tailoring and the brush and broom
factories. They declared that practically every
prisoner under them loafed for all he was
worth. The prisoners could easily produce twice
as much in the time; but, these witnesses
said in effect, there was no incentive to do
so. As long as a man behaved himself,
the lazy one got his liberty as quickly as
the bogger-in. The remedy seems obvious.
Let the sentence be so many pounds instead of so
many days or months or years—so many pounds
to be earned by honest toil over and above the
cost of the prisoner’s board and lodging—and let
the gaol be made a hive of industry at which a
dozen or a score of trades are constantly in full
blast. Then the habit of sprinting like the very
devil would grow on the criminal community. As
things are the prisoner learns to be the slowest of
slow workers. As things might be he would learn
to be a streak of lightning.
A JUST COMPLAINT.
MISTRESS: “ The fact is, servants nowadays want
better treatment than their mistresses.”
MAID: “ Yes, mum, that's just the trouble. I
will not have master kissin’ me in the hall.”
Wilks’ Postal Commission almost justified
its lengthy existence the other day. when it dug
out some startling information about the oldish
damsels employed in the stamp branch of Mel-
bourne G.P.O. Several of these ladies got into
the branch as supernumeraries about 20 years ago,
and are still supernumeraries on a salary of one
whole quid a week each. Apparently they couldn’t
get appointed to the permanent staff with all
that staff’s superior privileges, although they
were doing the same work as the permanent
hands; and so they worked on while their
youth and beauty faded just as relentlessly as
their ardor. Permanent old age came upon them
in the middle of their temporariness.
APT.
FIRST MAN WITH
THE FACE: "Two ter
Dartin' hurst, please.”
At the Victoria Barracks, Sydney—soon
to pass into the hands of the old bricks and
timber speculator—there are some venerable relics
sprawling on the lawns as though they belonged
to nobody, and hadn’t a care in the world, or a
sin to answer for. One rusty piece—a squat,
podgy old girl—is of an unknown age, suggesting
that she was turned put during those times when
brands and dates did not matter, Half a
dozen are long guns of 4in. or sin. calibre,
with “G.R.” in raised letters of a glorified
size—probably meaning George Rex or George
Reid. A diminutive brass chap recalls an age
when the fighting masters went nap on that class
of machine. There is a swaggering piece pro-
claiming “G.R. and T.” on one part; on the base
it mentions that its German master had it made
in Germany—“l. and_P. Vergruggin Fecerunt,
1779.” The other members of the gun family are
mostly of early nineteenth-century origin ; but
science has placed an immense gulf betwixt them
and the death engines carried on the Dread-
noughts of these days.
The report of South Australia’s Lunacy
Commission ought to make even Private Enter-
prise do a little blushing. An official visitor
said :
A little while ago the potatoes were bad. I complained
right through about it, and they (the asylum authorities)
replied, “ Oh, well, it’s between seasons, and you cannot
get good potatoes, and the price is so low that the con-
tractor cannot be expected to supply them better at this
time of the year.”
It s a pathetic thing, this regard of the asylum
authorities for the poor contractor who tenders to
supply a standard of quality, and apparently
doesn’t carry out the bargain. Again :
They buy the bread by weight. The consequence is
that in the case of a contractor tendering at a low price
it is to his interests to see that the bread weighs heavy,
and that as much water is used as can be got into it.
The bread is often sodden, and pressed together in the
hands it makes almost a lump of dough.
The unfortunate Kings and Queens who inhabit
Parkside are compelled to eat this stuff whether
they like it or not; yet, as one witness declared,
the food had been so bad sometimes that the
mere attendants on the Kings and Queens would
not eat it. Probably Private Enterprise will offer
some explanation, but it’s up to the asylum to
make its own bread and to grow its own potatoes;
and if Private Enterprise must supply something,
it’s also up to the Government to pay a price
which won’t offer the shark any excuse to play
horrible tricks on these unfortunates.
“J.”: Assuming that Socialism is the
wild impracticalitv and
the direct evidence of
half-wittedness which
the faithful local daily-
paper reader avers,
there must be a serious
kink in the intel-
lects of some of the
- English - speaking
' people’s brainiest
folks to day! Where-
ever I turn I am
pained to find promin-
ent intellectuals ap-
proving this allegedly
pestiferous doctrine..
Last week a batch of
-English bishops hadl
all sorts of good
words to say for
that which G.
Reid recently
declared
was :u
■ tiger, an
atheist,
and a
burster of
virtuous
homes. G.
B. Shaw, the
most brilliant
play wrig h t
now operating
in Sha k s-
peare’s tongue,
is a militant
Fabi a n. He
would national-
ise anything. He
• has had 15 years
of municipal ex-
perience, as a result of
which he is stronger
than ever in the view
that the enterprises,
which aren’t bettered
from the public stand-
point by State owner-
ship are too few to be’
wort h mentioning.
Wells, Britain’s most,
thoughtful novelist now
that Meredith has gone,
owns frankly to a firm
belief in the economic
creed which Johnson of
Lang and Willy Kelly
pronounce to be below
the notice of persons of
intellect. The author of “Strife,” the amazingly
clever play which, I see by the cables, J.C.W.
has just procured for presentation in Australia,
holds with Wells and Shaw that the doctrine
abhorred by J. Cook is a sound one. I could
extend this list for another column without putting
undue 'Strain on my faculties. I see that ex-
Prime Minister Rosebery said the other day:
“We ” (i.e., educated people) “are all Socialists
now.” ' But then he probably hadn't considered
the quaint little section in Australia which stands
by the Anti-Sosh phantom with blind trust and
desperate enthusiasm.
The oceans always seem to be having trouble
witli their beds. The captain of the steamer
Wonga Fell, which arrived in Sydney lately from
Ocean Island, reported that on the passage across
the Pacific his ship suddenly found the waters
running about beneath it in all directions. The
force of the liquid riot threw the Wonga Fell tem-
porarily right off its course and shook it till its
teeth rattled. It was almost as hopeless as trying
to skate across the backs of a mob of stampeding
pigs, and navigation was practically suspended
until the rolling ship managed to kick its way
clear of the turmoil into calmer waters. The only
explanation the puzzled mariner could offer was
that the Pacific had been having some trouble
with its bed and was struggling to adjust it. The
clothes had slipped off or something.
At some time or other nearly every man
has looked at the sea and wished that he knew of
some way to harness the breakers so that he could
get an unlimited supply of power for nothing, and
thereby be enabled to manufacture some super-
fluous thing for next to nothing, amass an
immense fortune and pass the rest of his life
doing nothing. Some men have tried to make:
the sea work for them, but the results have beem
poor, and the waves mostly roar and rage with-
out profit and do nothing for their salt. A Vic-
torian at Sorrento is the latest to tackle the-
problem of harnessing the sea in a practical way,,
and he seems to have got nearer success tham
most. He has a model machine on the ocean side,,
and it generates 3-h.p. His confidence in the:
apparatus is such that he threatens to instal a-.
50-h.p. plant with which to light the town. It
he succeeds in making the ocean take off its .coate
and work for nothing, Niagara will retire to the
back row as a power source. A lot of waterfalls
have steady jobs now, and there doesn’t appear to
be any reason why the sea shouldn’t start work.
It is old enough, Lord knows.
THE ELEPHANT AND REFRESHMENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Sydney Zoo the receipts for last month were :
Prom gate, elephant and refreshments, £222 17s. lOd. ;
and payments, £5OO 16s. 3d.— News item.
The elephant looked at the old Bath bun
When the gate was closed and the day was done,
And he telephoned through his dusty trunk
When twenty-two gallons he’d softly drunk—
“ Friend Bath, I think it’s a shame, don’t you?
We two and the gate keep the whole darned Zoo !
Old Stripes is a bit of a draw, I know,
But a Bengal tiger don’t make a show.
Why, he and the Lion can’t raise a roar
Between ’em ! They lie on the dusty floor
And sleep like two loafers. They never growl;
The most they will do is to yawn and prowl—
While the people linger, and peer and say,
“W’y, they ’aven’t no life in ’em t’day ! ”
And they wish the family props were there,
So that they might stir up the lazy pair.
Then what does the blessed hyena do ?
D’ye think he brings custom to the Zoo ?
And the sacred bull and the cold, flat snake—
Just passengers both ! D’ye think they'd take
Two shillings a week if they toured the towns
In a circus teht? If they took two brow'ns
They’d be doing w'ell! Oh, it makes me wild
When I walk around and some shrill-voiced child
Screams out that I and the bears in the pit
Must be very poor ’cause our clothes don’t fit !
That’s the sort of remark that hurts my pride
When I’m walking round at so much per ride !
It’s enough to sour an elephant who »
Carries tons and tons for a loafing Zoo.
Why, Bath, there are times when I feel that I
Could chuck the job. Well, by-and-bye,
I might resign. Of course, Bath, you know
That the only reason why I don’t go
Is that in this dashed White Man’s countree
There isn’t much use for the likes o’ me.
Now if I were back in old Ceylon,
That’s where a good elephant can get on !
I could get some work with a builder, or
I might take a job dragging guns to war.
There, always an elephant built like me
Could be sure of somethin’ ! Par’s I can see
There is nothin’ to do out here but track
Round with bundles of kids upon your back.
But I wouldn’t mind if they wasn’t so
Rude and ungrateful!.. . Well, I must go !
Good-night!. .. Yes, old fellow, it’s me and you
And the old gatepost that keep this Zoo.
N.S.W.
KODAR.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT « ZZTSTId
Royal Afrricultural Society’s trials in Eriyland. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Ruston
Proc + or, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR”
BELTING
n£ C IST
r £«eo
RFT TING Traf * e Mark stands for the best Belt
Di>l/ llllv. for all Mining purposes. Sole Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, MELBOURNE? BALLARAT & BENDICo!
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Newton Moore, Treasurer of Westralia, expects
to end this year with a surplus. It is a way Wes-
tralian Treasurers have. They always expect to do
that. But if Newton Moore gets what he expects it will
be the first time a Westralian Treasurer has done it for
sevfen years. The State’s record since Federation got
into its stride has been as follows:
Revenue. Expenditure.
1902 .. £3,354,123 £3,151,427 Surplus £202,096
1903 .. 3,630,238 3,521,763 * „ 108,475
1904 .. 3,550,016 3,698,312 Deficit 148,296
1905 ~. 3,615,340 3,745,224 „ 129,884
1906 .. 3,558,939 3,ft32,318 „ 73,379
1907 .. 3,401,354 3,490,182 „ 88,828
1908 .. 3,376,641 3,379,006 „ 2,365
1909 .. 3,267,014 3,368,551 „ 101,537
For the current year the Treasurer, who has only lately
taken over the job, figures on a revenue of £3,436,118 and
an expenditure of £3,386,624, which would give a surplus
of £49,494. His predecessor was nearly as cheerful in
his estimates a year ago ; he counted no iess than 123,565
more golden chickens than he hatched. Newton Moore
expects to produce his surplus through increasing his
revenue by £169,104 while increasing his expenditure by
only £18,073. As £54,546 of the increased revenue is to
come from railways at an additional cost of only £14,415,
and as railway revenue is a very ticklish item to forecast,
this year’s surplus doesn’t look by any means too
safe. From dividend duty he also expects an increase
of 30 per cent. ; and that isn’t assured either.
Westralia has, in fact, got into the habit of
over-estimating its income ; and thus successive Trea-
surers have dodged the unpleasant task of imposing new
taxation. All that Newton Moore threatens in that way
is a trifling increase in the probate duties, by which he
expects to get an extra £19,868.
Still Newton Moore is entitled to credit for
tackling the outgoings, and cutting down some of the
shameful waste. True, the total expenditure will
be, he estimates, £18,073 more than it was last
year; but all of that and £36,962 besides is
due to increased expenditure under special Acts
—which mostly means interest on last year’s heavy
borrowings. Tne estimates proper have been cut down
from £2,337,261 to £2,300,299, in spite of an increase in
the Education vote and a few others. In Westralia’s
champagne days the public service got into a bad way.
Money was so plentiful that it didn’t seem necessary to
inquire whether, if a friend wanted a billet, there was
anything for him to do, or if he could do it, anyway.
Further, there wds such a rush of work in some depart-
ments that anybody who could sit on a stool and hold a
pen was put on. The champagne has now turned to
plain beer, and things in the service have been more or
less systematised; so a cleaning up became necessary.
Whether the right men are being swept out can’t be toid
at this distance ; that and the rest of the shaking-up pro-
cess is a detail which must be left to the heads. But if
once again the promise of a surplus isn't realised, the
broom and the pruning-hook will have to be got out once
more ; and taxation will have to be laid on with a trowel,
instead of with an afternoon-tea spoon.
And not only taxation either. In fact, one of
Westralia’s worst failings has been its neglect to charge
a lequately for services. It has been bled all round and
all tne time—from the days of the Midland Railway con-
cession onwards. Considering the millions’ worth of
gold which is being hustled out, the business depart-
ments—railways, waterworks, etc.—ought to have been
giving a big profit. This gold-getting boom can’t
last, and the country should have made hay
while it did last; yet in 1908-9 what are called
the “trading departments” showed a loss of 10s. 6d.
per head and the “public services” 7s. Id. per head
of the population—a ridiculous result for such a State to
show. A good deal of the trouble has arisen from the
fact that the biggest industries in the country were in
the hands of people who didn’t care tuppence about
Westralia. Their one object has been to take out the
kernel and leave Westralia the shell ; and the Govern-
ments have been too much afraid of the bogey of driving
capital out of the country to stand up against them.
Local bodies have also been spoon-fed ; and this was to a
great extent part of the same swindle. Newton Moore
undertakes to do a trifle towards stopping these scandals.
The charges for some services have been increased, and
the municipal subsidy—to the horror of Propputy—is to
be kept down to ss. in the £.
The net loan indebtedness —that is, debt less
sinking fund—was £19,718,368 on June 30. Of the total
£1,464,535 was borrowed last year. Details under this
bead are not yet available. It is characteristic of
Westralian State finance that the Loan expenditure is
scarcely ever thought worth more than a mere men-
tion. Dozens of items have been charged to loans
which ought to have been charged to revenue,
and nothing has been said about it. The result
has been that the deficits have been represented to be
smaller than they would have been if the charges had
been made properly. “Repairs to a glass-house for
breeding fruit-pest parasites” is one item that has been
laughed at already. Of the £18,469,989 borrowed to June
•30, 1908, only £10,254,315 was. put into railways and
tramways; the balance had gone mostly into things
which yield no direct revenue, and very largely into
things which Cohen’s money never should have paid
for. And until Westralia keeps a much closer watch
on its Loan expenditure this sort of foil}’ will
no doubt continue, with the result that later on, when
the big foreign capitalists have got the kernel, they will
qqit the State, and leave the farmers and the small pro-
ducers generally to hump the burden of interest, and in
the end to face the bill for the principal.
* ♦ * *
The Savings Bank of Victoria
Written Re-
Earnings. Interest. Expenses. off. serves.
1903 £326,999 £216,503 £49,618 £19,913 £215,636
1904 347,955 265,616 49,445 19,039 229,491
1905 368,285 273,646 50,535 32,279 241,316
1906 388,279 287,686 51,636 14,046 276,227
1907 417,984 310,935 55,400 15,886 311,990
1908 v 456,727 332,951 58,069 16,355 361,342
1909 485,424 365,188 59,924 9,703 411,951
The Savings Bank of Victoria has two departments—the
Savings Bank proper and the Advances to Settlers, or
State Land Bank, Department; and the foregoing is an
attempt to show the complete results of the former
during the past seven years. The earnings include the
earnings of various reserve funds, including- the de-
preciation and fidelity funds, but excluding the
officers’ provident fund. The amounts written off in-
clude some that have been writi en off depreciation fund
without remark. The writings-off had perhaps better be
shown in more detail:—
Depreciation Bank Debentures
Fund. Premises. and Stock.
1903 .. .. £5,497 .. £14,416
1904 .. 4,029 .. 15,010
1905 .. .. 7,279 .. 25,000
1906 .. £1949 .. 12,097 ..
1907 .. 3151 .. 12,735 ..
1908 .. .. 16,355 ..
1909 .. .. 9,703 ..
In the past two years the depreciation fund has gained
something, probably from amounts previously written off.
The interest paid or credited to depositors
varies. In 1893, the year of the trouble in Melbourne, it
was 4 per cent, all round: from 1895 to 1908 it was fr° m
3 to 2 per cent. ; during the past year percent, was
driven for some money. The increase of deposits has been
magnificent. It isn’t much use going b ick beyond 1897,
because before that year what were known as the Post
Office Bank and the Commissioners’ Bank worked separ-
ately. Since then this has been the progress :
189 S .. .. £8,099,364 1904 .. ..£10,582,808
1899 .. .. 8,517,006 1905 .. .. 10,896,741
1900 9,110,792 1906 .. .. 11,764,179
1901 .. .. 9,662,006 1907 .. .. 12,792,590
1902 .. .. 10,131,604 1908 .. .. 13,428.676
1903 .. .. 10,341,857 1909 .. .. 14,101,710
There was a time when the idea was carefully cultivated
that it really wasn’t safe to trust, the State with any
money—some politician would be sure to get hold of it
and either put it into his own pocket at once or go
through the formality of bribing or rewarding some con-
stituent with it. It must be hard work to get anybody
to swallow that yarn now. Besides, Victoria has had
some very bitter experience in the matter of trusting its
all in the other sort of hank. And, if it conies to that,
this bank has had bitter experience too. Even now it
holds some old Private Enterprise bank-wreckage of the
face value of £9739, which it reckons to be worth, with
accrued interest, only £5408.
The total funds, including the reserves, at the
disposal of the Commissioners on June 30 were
£14,515,898. The principal assets at that date were :
Government debentures .. .. ..£7,481,234
Loans to Advances Department (i.e., State
Land Bank).. .. .. .. .. 906,450
Mortgages .. .. .. .. .. 1,555,414
Bank deposits (fixed) .. .. .. .. 2,291,697
The balance is mostly till money, and Board of Works
and other debentures. Foreclosed properties represent
£109,140 and premises £140,000. The latter have been
steadily written down out of profits ; and, besides, a
fairly handsome reserve fund nas been accumulated.
Only something very grave in the way of disaster could
make such a wreck of the securities as to wipe out these
reserves ; for the whole credit of the State is at the back
of nearly two-thirds of the securities.
* * * •
The Victorian State Land Bank
Loss by
Discount Carried
on Loans Written to Re-
June, Loss. Floated. off. serves. Deficit.
1897 .. £1,462 £1,462
Profit. Reserves.
1898 .. 1,608 £l6OB 146
1899 .. 5,551 5551 5.697
1900 .. 6,846 6846 12,543
1901 .. 8,150 £2931 5219 17,762
1902 .. 9,090 4414 4676 22,438
1993 .. 8,047 1385 £2OOO 4662 27,100
1904 ~ 10,280 5374 2000 2906 30,006
1905 .. 9,560 8241 1319 31,325
1906 .. 10,048 2417 7631 38,956
1907 .. 9,503 1834 7669 46,625
1908 .. 9,849 1417 8432 55,057
1909 ... 10,177 8856 1321 56,378
This State land hank was star ted in 1896 to help the
farmer, and was put under the general management of
the Savings Bank, of which it forms a department. The
funds were originally supplied by issuing £25 debentures,
repayable by lot as the farmer paid back his instalments.
Later on the bank was authorised to issue £lOO
debentures repayable at fixed dates. The term is usually
from 10 to 12 years ; but if money is dear at the moment
when the debentures are issued, the term is shortened.
Since 1991 all the debentures issued have carried interest
at the rate of 3£ per cent. ; but they have never realised
par. The discounts total £36,868; that is to say, the
bank, in consideration of the low rate of interest, under-
takes to pay back £36,56S of principal more than it has
received. Part of this amount is very rightly written off
out of profits each year. In the foregoing table the total
amount outstanding, and not represented by assets, is
deducted from the reserves shown in the balance-sheet:—
Reserves £75,987
Less Discounts (net debt not repre-
sented by assets) 19,609
True reserves £56,378
During the past year £300,000 was raised, nominally at
3J per cent. ; but in one case the minimum price was
97, and in another 96, which meant an actual cost in
interest of £3 16s. 4d. per cent, in one case and £3 18s. 2d.
per cent, in the other. When the public does not apply
for the whole of an issue of debentures offered by the
Commissioners, the latter take up the remnant with
Savings Bank funds. Of the total outstanding on June3o
the public held £658,675 and the commissioners £921,175.
The interest payable by the farmer has for the
most part been 4£per cent. In the droughty timeof 1903-4,
how’ever, the department itself had to pay as much as
£4 2s. Id. per cent, for money; and as expenses can’t be
kept under half-a-sovereign per cent., it became neces-
sary to put up the price for new loans to 4f per cent.
But that only lasted till money got a bit more plentiful,
andthe.priee is back again to 4£ per cent. Tbe next
table shows, the total of advances outstanding and some
other points:—
Expenses in
Mortgages Proportion to
Out- Working Mortgages.
June, standing. Expenses, s. d.
1899.. £758,983 £4165 11 9 per cent..
1900 .. 895,913 5813 12 11 „
1901 .. 1,021,240 6537 12 9 „
1902 .. 1,144,826 7155 12 6 „
1903 .. 1,267,207 8022 12 8 „
1904 .. 1,337,817 8272 12 4 „
1905 .. 1,369,673 9080 13 3 „
1908 .. 1,350,623 8692 12 11 „
1907 .. 1,251,051 8506 13 7 „
1908 .. 1,225,431 7866 12 10 ~
1909 .. 1,312,204 8187 12 6 ~
The gradual reduction of advances in 1906-7-8 isn’t any-
thing to grieve about. No doubt in some cases it meant
that the private Cohen, being for the moment very flush,
was cutting in at a lower rate than the bank’s steady 4J
or 4£; but it also meant that times were good for the
farmer too, and he was paying off debt instead of loading
himself up with more. Still the farmer can make up his
mind to this : if he clears off to the private Cohen when
money is cheap, and sneaks back to the public Cohen
when it is dear, the public Cohen will never be
the success he ought to be. When you come to think
of it, £1,312,204 is a very poor proportion of the
total amount advanced to Victorian farmers. If the
bank had three times the business, it ought to be able to
cut down its expenses by at least 4s. per cent. ; and,
under ordinary circumstances, that would allow the
hank to lend at a steady J per cent. less. The farmer has
learned a good deal about some aspects of co-operation.
He hasn’t yet learnedmuch about co-operative borrowing,
though.
The bank is accumulating a sizeable reserve
fund ; and as its own interest earnings have to be added
to it, it ought to go on growing faster and faster every
year, provided, of course, that nothing goes wrong.
Nothing has gone wrong lately, and there are no fore-
closures on hand, and practically no arrears of either
interest or instalments. But the top of the hill will be
reached sometime, and then securities will be thrown on
to the bank’s hands. Certainly this bank is very well
situated : the regular repayments of principal make it
unlikely that any but the newest securities will be
thrown at it when the slump comes. Consequently
though the reserves are undernper cent, of the advances,
they are really much less insignificant than they look.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909.. £l7OO 5 per cent. =£1250 £450 £4,258
1901.. 2074 6 „ ~ 1500 574 4,832
1902.. 2302 6 „ „ 1500 802 5,634
1903.. 3939 8 „ „ 2000 1939 7.573
1904.. 4226 8 „ „ 2000 2226 9,799
1905.. 6724 10 „ ~ 2500 4224 14,023
1906.. 5172 10 „ „ 2500 2672 16,695
1907.. 5118 10 „ ~ 2500 2618 19,313
1903.. 6013 10 „ ~ 2500 3513 22,826
1909.. 5712 10 ~ ~ 2500 3212 26,038
The paid capital of this co. is £25,000 in 200,000 shares of
2s. 6d., with a liability of £4 17s. 6d. The reserves have
now therefore passed the paid capital. Of the share-
holders’ funds £20,000 is on deposit with the Govern-
ment, and £30,716 is out on mortgage ; and between these
and anything that the co. may have in the way of an
inner reserve, consisting of reserved commissions, it is
very likely that the interest earnings alone are now
almost enough to pay the dividend. This'would leave
nearly the whole of the commission earnings, less work-
ing expenses, to go to the reserves. The growth of the
reserves looks rapid ; and by this time, if it had been some
other sort of co., the directors would no doubt have trans-
ferred some of them to capital. But, as a matter of fact,
the reserves haven’t grown as fast as the risks, judging
the risks by the total value of trust estates in hand. For
instance: —
Trust Estate Total Proportion of
Balances. Funds. Funds to Trusts.
1899 .. £1,230,958 £28,808 £2/6/- p.c.
1909 3,075,817 51,038 1/13/- „
Down to the present the risks don’t appear to have been
very serious ; but a trustee co. is much more likely to be
hit when property values are running down-hill than
when they are climbing up, as they have been lately. It
is when beneficiaries don’t get as much as they had ex-
pected that they look around for somebody to blame ;
and very rightly they will not hesitate to try to make the
professional executor pay.if they don’t think the work
has been done properly. And when a trustee co. is hit it
isn’t usually for tuppence or anything small like
that. The large additions to reserves may therefore
be regarded in part as premiums paid into
an insurance fund; and whether they will be
called for later on nobody can yet say. Assuming
for the present that all the profits are true profits, the
earnings in the past year were at the very fine rate of
£ll 18s. lOd. per cent. This co. follows the safe and
prudent practice of not crediting itself with corpus com-
missions until they have been actually received. All
trustee cos. eharge so much (generally 2J per cent.) per
annum on the income of an estaie, and so much (gener-
ally 2£ per cent.) on the capital value—the latter payable
only once, of course. Some take credit in their earnings
for the latter 2J per cent, in a lump sum ; this co.
apparently spreads its revenue from this source over the
whole period that the estate takes to realise and wind up.
9 m * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tasmania): —
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1900.. £4403 7 per cent. =£2756 £1647 £21,286
1901.. 3793 7 „ „ 2756 1037 22,323
1902.. 4541 7 ~ ~ 2756 1785 24,108
1903.. 5894 8 „ ~ 3150 2744 26,852
1904.. 5474 8 „ „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905.. 3876 8 „ ~ 3150 726 29,902
1906.. 3781 8 ~ ~ 3150 631 30,533
1907.. 5697 8 ~ ~ 3150 2547. 33,080
1908.. 4968 9 ~ 3544 1424 34,504
1909.. 5520 10 ~ ~ 3937 1583 36,087
This co. has a capital of £187,500, in £5 shares, of which,
however, only £1 per share, or £37,500 in all, is paid up.
With ordinary luck, the reserves should therefore be
bigger than the paid capital by the end of this year. In
a small insurance concern like this, results are bound to
be rather erratic : a fire or two more or less will make all
the difference in the look of things on September 80.
Generally speaking, though, the co. has a very low loss
rate; and seeing that it doesn’t take marine business,
which is mostly got in large lumps, the expense rate is
also very moderate. This shows some comparisons :
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Bate. Bate.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37T p.c. 44'8 p.c.
1905 .. 5844 2959 2248 50'6 „ 38'4 „
1907 .. 6043 1043 2398 17'2 „ 39 ; 7 ~
1908 .. 6233 2263 2401 36'3 „ 38 \5 „
1909 .. 6352 1651 2496 25'9 ~ 39’3 „
The least satisfactory feature about the business is that,
of the capital and reserves, totalling £73,587, mortgages
represent no less than £71,896. Apart altogether from
the risk of the mortgage business, there might be un-
pleasant consequences if something serious happened to
Launceston, and the co. had to find a large sum to meet
claims at short notice. The dividend for the past year
includes 1 p.c. by way of bonus —which may mean that
the directors don’t make any promises for the future as
to that small addition. The profits in the table are
shown less bonus to staff.
•* • * *
Wunderlich, Ltd., of Sydney and Melbourne,
manufacturers of ceiling and rooting materials, etc. (the
co. began with a disclosed deficit of £1737, representing
preliminary expenses):—
Dividends.
, , Towards Nomi-
• Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Aug., 1908.. 7,923 . 962 7i p.c. = 4387 2573 835
Feb., 1909 .. 10,629 962 8 „ ~4680 4887 5,722
Premiums on new shares .. .. 1376 7,098
Aug., 1909.. 9,971 962 8 p.c. =4901 4108 11,206
Early in 1908 the Wunderlich brothers, after building up
a reputation of which anybody might be proud, turned
their concern over to a new company, partly with the
object of taking in the metal and tile department of
W. H. Rocke and Co.’s business in Victoria. At the outset
the shares were held in a few hands, and the Sydney Stock
Exchange, regarding the concern as a private co., did not
list the stock. In view of that, the first two balance-
sheets did not disclose the goodwill item, which was
lumped with freeholds and leaseholds. Later, however,
the stock was listed ; and the goodwill item, which had
been increased meantime by the purchase of businesses
in Queensland and Westralia, stands in the last balance-
sheet at £64,289. In the foregoing table the reserves are
described as nominal; in the light of the information now
given there is, of course, an actual deficit of £53,083, re-
presenting the amount of the paper asset less reserves.
The present paid capital is £150,011. Of this £27,500
is 7 per cent, cumulative pref. shares ; on these
the dividend is limited to 7 per cent. The balance
(£122,511) is in ordinary shares. The directors
are entitled to issue another 15,000 pref. shares. Unless
the div. is six months in arrear, pref. shares carry no
right to vote at shareholders’ meetings. At present, the
pref. shares call for £1925 a year ; if the full 42,500 were
issued, the div. would be £2975, It isn’t very much for a
co. of this size to pledge itself to carry. Further, as the
pref. capital is preferential as to capital as well as to
dividend, the security for this class of share is just about
as silt-edged as it is possible for an industrial security
to be.
Then there are the ordinary shares. These,
with certain reservations, are entitled to the balance
of the profits. The reservations are, however,
rather important. The three Wunderlich brothers
are permanent directors, to whom, for their services, a
total of £3OOO a year is payable, plus 5 per cent, of the
total half-yearly net profits, provided that enough is left
to pay the pref. div., and 6 per cent, to ordinaries. Also
they are entitled to anything up to a further 5 per cent,
on the net profits in excess of £lO,OOO per annum, sub-
ject to the ordinaries getting three times as much, over
and above the 6 per cent. For the past year the net
profits were £20,500. The amount the ordinaries received
in excess of 6 per cent, was£239s; so that, in addition to
the first 5 per cent., the managihg or permanent directors
would be entitled to an amount-equal to one-third of that,
under certain circumstances. Being limited, however, to
5 p.c. on the profit in excess of £lO,OOO, they could last
year draw only £525, in addition to the first 5 per cent.
( = £1025). The total directors’ commission was therefore
£1550, which would be equal to a 5 per cent. div. on a
pref. issue of £31,000. In the accounts the profits are
shown net, after the deduction of the commission to the
managing directors. Out of the profits provision has also
been made for depreciation, amortisation of leaseholds,
etc., and an employees’ bonus and pension fund. The
amount of these provisions is not disclosed.
The goodwill is a very heavy item. At the
outset of the co. it represented nearly half the paid
capital. The original issue of capital was £144,500, plus
seven shares no doubt taken up for registration purposes.
This capital was apparently made up and distributed as
follows :
Wunderlich assets .. .. •• £66,000
~ goodwill .. •• 38,500
Rocke and Co. assets.. .. •• 17,000
~ goodwill .. .. 20,000
Subscribed by Bocke and Co. .. 3,000
Total £144,500
Bocke and Co. (which is W. L. Baillien and others) held
the “ B” shares in the old Wunderlich Co. ; it was in
return for this stock that the 27,500 pref. shares in the
new co. were issued. Also the same people are entitled,
and may be called on, to subscribe at par for the 15,000
pref. shares previously referred to. This is open until
June next vear.
* * *
The L.angridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne): —
Added Nomi-
Written to Be- nal Be-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1899.. £2768 2 p.c. =£1682 £545 £541 £31,001
1900.. 2918 2£ „ „ 2024 283 '6ll 31,6 U
1901 .. 3149 3 „ ~ 2382 1924 30,455
1902 .. 0962 H „ ~ 2703 2729 28,985
1903.. 3981 3* ~ ~ 2665 853 463 29,448
1904.. 4225 4 ~ ~ 3042 1378 29,253
1905.. 4335 4 „ „ 3012 5401 25,05
1906 .. 4404 4 „ ~ 2966 2514 24,099
1907.. 4724 4£ „ ~ 3323 ' 1424 24,0,6
1908 .. 4838 5 „ 3667 2810 22,437
1909.. 5336 5 ~ ~ 3662 3462 20,649
No Melbourne building sooiety came out of the boom
troubles of the early ’nineties better than this one. All
the way through the management had held the opinion
that the law which allowed societies to take from deposi-
tors three times as much as they had got from share-
holders was dangerous. Having restricted its own bor-
rowings, it was therefore able to pay all deposits as they
fell due. The only trouble was with the investing shares :
an arrangement had to be made with regard to them. In
1893 the reserves were £21,269. The whole of that was
passed to a contingency fund, to meet probable losses on
securities ; and, to further help the society out, dividends
had already been dropped, and they were not re-
sumed till 1899. That contingency fund, to which
additions were subsequently made, has now got
down to £7138. In the table on top of
these remarks this fund is included with the reserves;
hence they are spoken of as “ nominal.” Whether the
£7138 is enough to square things up can’t be told. The
total foreclosures amount now to only £28,084 ; and they
must be a poor lot of remnants if they won’t fetch
£20,946. Down to 1902 the society lumped its assets ;
since that date this has been the movement: —
Deposits, Fore- Other
. etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1902 .. £12,616 £51,854 £68,857 £lBOB
1905 .. 12,229 59,172 64,245 3678
1906 .. 12,545 67,007 48,189 964
1907 .. 16,399 73,473 44,105 1087
1908 .. 19,294 81,587 36,797 859
1909 ~. 18,057 86,209 28,084 1814
In 1902 the contingency fund was £24,979. It is now
£17,841 less, and meantime the book value of the fore-
closures has been reduced by £40,773. But there is no
way of telling whether it has taken £17,841 to make
good the losses on the sale of £40,773 (book value) of
assets, or whether other assets have been foreclosed
during the period; in the latter case, of course,
the loss has been proportionately less. In either case,
however, it isn’t a cheerful record. The advances —
which may be put down generally as new business—are
highly profitable ; you can’t, however, tell from a
balance-sheet such as this whether the loans are made on
a safe valuation or not. It is a pity that the old fore-
closures are not kept separate from new ones, if there are
any new ones. And if there are any new ones the losses
on them shouldn’t be charged against the old contingency
fund : to do that simply swells current profits by relieving
them of a charge which they ought to carry. The present
capital is £64,270 in permanent shares and £9439 in in-
vesting and paid-up shares ; and in proportion to this the
liabilities are very small indeed, and the risks are corres-
pondingly moderate.
The Federal Building Society (Melbourne)
Business Profit on Total Dividend Nominal
Sept., Profits. Sales. Profit. (4 p.c.). Reserves.
1904 £26,488
1905 .. £4323 £1495 £SBIS £3854 28,452
(4J p.c.)
1906 .. 4924 684 5608 4336 29,724
(5 p.c.)
1907 .. 5605 425 6030 4817 30,937
(6 p.c.)
1908 .. 6299 144 6443 5781 31,599
(6i P-c.)
1909 .. 7140 7140 6263 32,476
This is the old Federal, passed through the fire of purifi-
cation, and cleansed. The unregenerate Federal had a
great spree during the Melbourne boom-time, and when
it woke up in the morning it found that it owed £389,939,
and had on hand a large assortment of very dubious
assets. So it swore off for 12 years, ant) lived on porridge
and hopes ; and in 1904 it decided that the time was ripe
for a change. A new society was therefore formed with
a capital of £96,351; and, in view of the re-valuation of
assets then on hand, the new- concern started with re-
serves of £26,488 indicated above. Since then a good deal
has been done in the way of getting rid of the remnant of
the old properties, and rapid progress has been made in
regard to new business. This shows how :
1904. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Deposits, etc. .. £18,691 £25,048 £32,651
Advances .. ..£63,160 124,510 136,217 143,452
Properties in pos-
session.. .. 54,071 26,252 , 20,124 18,813
Cash balances .. 4,779 2,548
For the first few years the properties disposed of showed
a surplus over the new valuations ; but in the accounts
for the past year no surplus is mentioned. Three things
may have happened : (1) there may have been neither
profit nor loss ; (2) there may have been a profit, but it
may have been used as an internal reserve to
write down assets ; or (3) there may have been a loss,
which has been set off in some way against the year’s
revenue. The last seems from the accounts to be the
least likely. No trouble has apparently been met with in
letting out the money derived from sales ; in fact, the
new advances have called also for an increase of deposits.
The latter are still, however, very moderate in comparison
with the capital and reserves. The advances give a very
profitable return, the interest earnings being £7 12s. per
cent, gross on the average sum outstanding. Whether
the society has lent too much on the securities can’t, of
course, be told while things are on the up-grade ; it takes
a slump to discover that weak spot. Bet as the reserves
alone are equal to 20 per cent, of all the non-liquid and
shrinkable assets, not only the borrowed money, but the
capital also, is so far well covered against anything in the
shape of an ordinary catastrophe.
The Australian Alliance, which an English co.
is to take over, has a life department, though no new
business has been done for many years past. It is said
that;, though complete arrangements have not been
made, the National Mutual will take over this part of the
concern.
X * * *
According to the official reckoning, this is what
Australian mines have yielded so far :
1908. Aggregate.
Gold .. .. £13,051,853 £501,457,010
Silver-lead .. 2,731,078 57,812,363
Copper .. .. 2,402,351 ' 51,721,366
Coal .. .. 3,762,914 63,440,306
The rest .. .. 2,706,976 38,686,078
£24,655,172 £713,147,123
Victoria still is easily first in the matter of total produc-
tion, being about £100,000,000 to the good of N. S. Wales.
Westralia, though its gold-winning only started in 1886,
now stands next to Victoria in regard to total output.
Practically all inside 20 years it has shovelled £85,004,291
worth into the lap of the world ; and the old lady
hasn’t been in the least embarrassed. Of the total Aus-
tralian output last year Westralia supplied more than


Strength an<3
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your Bankers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CQNTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
NOBEL-CLASQOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
' Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
half £q 999,882. For every 1 man employed above and
below ground in the gold mines of that State £443 16s.
worth was produced. Per man employed the next most
prolific branch of the mining industry in Australia is the
Broken Hill silver-lead-zinc business, in which last year
the average yield per head was £390. Probably the
poorest is the N.S.W. tin industry, where the average was
only £B4. This low figure is due largely to the small
quantity of machinery employed, and the counting-in of
many Chinese and other tin-fossickers.
W * * *
Last week in both the Federal and the N.S.W.
State House members showed that they were getting the
knife ready to rip open the “horrible understanding” in
the Inter-State coal and shipping business. Neither
Government will vet commit itself to any thing definite,
though the Commonwealth Attorney-General says he is
probing the matter to see if it’s all in accordance with the
Anti-Trust Act. The most serious aspect of the case yet
put forward is that coal is being sold for foreign use for
about Bs., while for use in Australia’s own factories the
price is 11s. ; and if that is the result of an “ understand-
ing” no Protectionist Government, at any rate, can put
up with it for long. #
That the Broken Hill South Blocks is likely to
get a good western ore body at depth has been empha-
sised of late bv the crosscutting done in the hanging-wall
side of the lode at 526 ft. Strongly mineralised ground
has been carried down on the west side of the present
lode, beginning at the 200 ft. level, and the deeper the
sinking the better the values. The theory 1 is that this
western body—if there is one—is the continuation of the
big South mine lode, which at the 970 ft. level is now out
near the boundary of the South Extended, on the
western side of the South mine. If this is so, and the
ore shoots continue in the South Blocks pro-
pertv, the underlay will carry the ore at a
depth of 1000 ft. or so under the Zinc Corporation’s
plant, which is on the western side of the South Blocks
hill. Color is given to this theory by a story told of an
old-time manager of the South Extended. He was sink-
ing, a shaft due west from the present new shaft of the
South Extended, and at a depth of a few hundred feet he
cut sulphides in the bottom. That stuff was no good in
those days, and would only have blown out the show 1 ; so
the manager threw back the dirt and blotted out the
traces of his guilt. This shaft is on the supposed contin-
uation of the main South lode, and is no doubt connected
with the ore passed through in sinking the present South
Extended shaft.
« * • *
Long ago The Bulletin pointed out how poor
was the encouragement for throwing money down a shaft
on the eastern ridge of the White Leads flat, Broken Hill.
The only encouragement that could be got by anyone in-
clined to test the eastern ridge was the long line of
abandoned mines which stud the plain on the western
ridge, and that was a very negative sort of encourage-
ment. In spite of all, the Silver City Blocks has,
nevertheless, plugged along for several months
past. The other day there was a great Stir in the
shareholders’ camp, all because of a little lode
material that had been cut in the bottom of the 85ft.
shaft. The daily papers cackled over this joyfully. A
picked sample was assayed, and it turned out to be all zinc,
without a trace of lead or silver !
• * * *
Broken Hill Junction is swapping horses while
crossing the stream. But the responsible people would
probably say that there are other streams still to cross,
and that those who have been in charge of affairs haven’t
proved much good as horse-marines. In opposition to
the two retiring directors, the Broken Hill contingent
put up two shareholders, who won on a ballot. There-
upon the rest of the Board resigned, along with the
secretary. As the mine has not paid a dividend since
1897, and now wants £30,000 or so of new capital for new
plant and development work, it seems a fair thing to give
somebody else a show. The old hands, anyhow, can’t
complain that they have been rushed off the premises
before they had had time to show what they vvere made of.
Wyalong (N.S.W.) isn’t feeling well over the
collapse of its pet property, the True Blue, which only
12 months ago employed 200 miners. Recently several
thousands had been spent in poppet heads andmachinerv
at the Brilliant shaft. For 10 years the mine returned
handsome dividends, but a break in the shoot of mineral
ore, and the refusal of the majority of shareholders to
finance the co. over what the manager considered was
only a temporary difficulty, brought the end within
sio-'ut. The whole concern, including the battery, went
to"the Junction Co. for £lO,OOO. The Brilliant shaft is
down 1400 ft. on stone, but for the present at least the
new owners don’t intend to continue sinking.
Kyloe (N.S.W.) Copper Co. wasn’t much good
at guessing when its new mill would be able to make a
start. First it said the end of August; but it will be well
into November before the wheels go round. Still, even
then, unless many alterations and adjustments are found
necessary, the Christmas dividend may arrive. After
a rather "depressing time the workings underground have
within the last fortnight told a very cheerful tale. At
the bottom (400 ft.) level there is a drive out north and
south; the ends are about 400 ft. apart, and both
wings are in good ore. One has from ift. to Bft. of it,
of which nearly sft. is worth about 20 per cent. ; the other
is sft. wide, mostly very good milling ore, but carrying a
vein of rich stuff. It has been looking lately as though
the lens which carries rich ore was narrower at the 400 ft.
than at the level above, but the recent developments are
putting a comfortable end to that theory.
Kangiara (N.S.W.) has joined the crowd of
those that have rushed into the lead-smelting business
and have arrived at the usual conclusion—that unless
you have a very big mine, capable of supplying a perfect
furnace mixture, it is more profitable to let someone else
recover the values. The Kangiara’s lead bullion and
copper matte have not yet been disposed of, so final
returns are not known. As, however, a large pile of ore
from which great wealth was expected has been carefully
picked over, and the plums subjected to a erhde and ex-
pensive smelting treatment, there is little chance of the
anticipated revenue being recovered. Rumors of a
larger plant have not been so popular lately ; and
if is guided by the results achieved during
the recent campaign, the management will probably
think matters over a long while before doing
any more smelting. The statement that the plant
has only been experimental is doubtless true, as far as re-
sults go ; but this view was adopted only when the final
result became obvious. Before the campaign commenced
the objective was to smelt the whole of the oxidised ore
with a proportion of raw sulphides. This scheme was
abandoned as soon as a metallurgist arrived on the scene.
Oxidised ore was discarded, and only those sulphides which
passed a careful hand-sorting test were sent to the roast
heaps. Roasting, likewise hand-sorting and elimination of
silica and zinc, were not given a place in the original pro-
gramme. The co. is now erecting a concentrating mill.
This plant consists of a small rock breaker, one pair fixed
rolls, May jig, stampers and tables. Some of it is new ;
some of it scraps. This plant promises to later on join
the smelter ; thep no doubt it will also be spoken of as
“experimental.” The usual difficulty experienced with
concentrators is loss in fines, more particularly when
working on friable sulphides in a hard, silicious gangue,
as at Kangiara. Mutilating these sulphides by means of
stampers has long since been abandoned by most metal
mines. The trouble is that, though you certainly reduce
the bulk, you don’t improve the original grade by much.
Attention is for the moment being concentrated
on the hand-picking and selling of the selected ore. This
promises to be the operation which must furnish all profits.
Its disadvantage is that about 50 p.c. of the values are
left from even high-grade ore, and it has yet to
be demonstrated whether these discards and the
lower-grade mine ore can be profitably handled.
Wet weather and bad roads have prevented th#
dispatch of picked ore for some months, but teams are
now being driven furiously between the mine and the
railway. Besides the accumulated picked ore, the dumps
are being turned over on the surface, so shipments
may be fairly large for some time. The dividend pro-
mised next month depends on the quantity of shipping
ore which can be rushed through from the accumulated
ore, the stopes and the dumps. The main shaft is down
200 ft., and after sinking a well a start will be made to
crosscut to the lode. No. 2 level needs to come up to the
most optimistic prophecy to prevent the co. striking
trouble. Bv the time this level is driven, all the plums
will have been removed from No. 1, and the dumps
picked over. Low-grade mixed ores will then be left with-
out a plant to handle them. A continuance of the shoot of
rich copper-gold ore met with over No. 1 north drive is
badly needed to postpone the troublesome problem of
plant.
At Kangiara Blocks the surface is being vio-
lently disturbed in search of an ore body. Costeens and
pot-holes, dug on the slightest provocation, give the
lease the appearance of an alluvial rush. These, in
addition to a couple of shafts and a few crosscuts, have,
so far, not disclosed anything worth looking for.
* * ■* •
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has blown in No. 3
furnace, which is probably part of a policy of impressing
the market. The last return was 515 tons copper, 13440 z.
gold, and 77540 z. silver. But still not a word is said
about the tonnage or the purchased ore. Last year’s
report provided such dismal reading that, unless costs
have been reduced or the extraction of copper per ton of
ore has increased, there is no cause to rejoice over an in-
creased output. It is never safe to assume that because
a mine is producing heavily it is making good profits ;
Mungana (Chillagoe) is a case in point. Great Oobar’s
best hope is a reduction of working costs to something
like 20s. per ton ; if it can do that, an extraction of 2 p.c.
copper and ss. worth of gold and silver per ton of ore
would allow a reasonable profit, with copper at £6O per
ton. But its capitalisation is far too heavy, and its
finances are in a bad way.
Ooolgardie Redemption (W. A.), after a shame-
less existence, has come to an ignoble end. Several
distress warrants for unpaid wages have been returned
marked “No effects,” and as the State holds a first mort-
gage for £lOOO, and as someone else has a second mort-
gage for £2OOO, the above endorsement is easily explained.
Meanwhile the lawyers are “ acting ” for unsecured credi-
tors, and various officials, not liking the look of things,
have “ chucked ” their jobs. Indeed, were it not that
shareholders’ interests have been so neglected and that a
number of workers have lost their wages, the spectacle of
a crowd of people trying to levy distress on such a
notorious bag of tricks as the Redemption would be
ludicrous.
*• * * *
Golden Links (W.A.) has just added 12 acres to
its holding by the purchase of the Golden Eaglelease. It
appears that the drill in its wanderings proved the Link
shoot to extend into the latter property, with the result
that the owners were asked to name a price.
* 9 * *
For the half-year to the end of July Golden
Pole’s receipts (principally tributors’ bullion) amounted
to £18,604 ; and but for writing off the whole of the ex-
penses in connection with the abandoned Kohinoor South
option (£7389), a working profit of £Bl6 would have been
shown. All the tribute agreements except one expired
on August 31 ; and as there was not sufficient ore devel-
oped to keep the mill running full time, the Board
decided not to renew the agreements for the present.
The mine has been thoroughly l sampled, and on the
advice of the manager the co. has decided to do a little
development work on its own ; and while doing so the
payable ore still available, amounting to between 2000
and 3000 tons, will be stoped out and treated. The co. ■
now l has about £6657 in hand, and the profit derived from
these reserves is expected to sw'ell this sum a little.
* < * *
According to the general manager’s estimate,
Ivanhoe (W.A.) had 963,797 tons of 48/3 ore in sight at
June 30, as compared with 934,098 tons of 49/8 ore at the
end of the previous half-year. After checking measure-
ments and taking samples throughout the mine, the con-
sulting engineers (8., M. and Co.) reckon the total
tonnage at 1,125,753 tons, worth 47/10 per ton, as against
1,112,502 tons of 48/11 ore at Dec. 31 last.
Great Fingall (W.A.) is still deep-sinking. An
inclined winze below No. 13 level has followed down the
mostly unpayable but strong ore body for 700 ft.., and it is
intended to go to 1000 ft. before taking a spell. Some
diamond drilling is being done north of the main fault at
No. 13 level to see if the shoot of gold continues north of
the disturbed section, but so far nothing of value has
been struck. The vacuum slimes plant recently installed
on the property continues to do satisfactory work, and is
now 1 treating 25 per cent, more stuff than was originally
estimated.
* * * *
Whim Well’s sins are finding it out. In his
preliminary report on West Pilbarra (W.A.), Assistant-
Geologist Woodward condemns the co. for “discontinu-
ing development and concentrating its entire energy on
scratching ore from the old upper workings upon a
s.vstem which would be expected of a party l of tributors
who have no interest in the future of the mine.” In
another part of his indictment Woodward says it is quite
distressing to see such a fine body of ore worked in this
way, as it not only l means the discarding of all ore (about
three tons out of every four) that will not assay 16 per
cent, in order to make a profit, but the output r-presents
only l about one-tenth of what could be raised if there were
smelters on the spot, andif a 5 per cent, ore could thus be
made to pay. So far the lode has proved to be the largest
and richest oxidised body yet discovered in the West,
and, judging by its promising appearance at water
level, Wpodward thinks that prospects at depth are
encouraging, but still problematic until development has
been done. In the meantime all the cream ore that the
co. can lay its hands on is being shipped to the smelters,
and only the other day a dividend was paid so as to make
things look more attractive still. In other words, the
real and permanent interests of the mine are being
ignored, and when the rich stuff gives out the market
will collapse like a pricked bladder.
Associated Northern (W. A.) has taken an option
on the Forest Belle, at Mt. Ida. There is an Bft. reef in
the property 1 , and as it has crushed well and looks, well
as far as opened up, the chances of a deal being effected
seem rather hopeful.
* * * *1
For the half-year ended July 31 Gwalia South
(W.A.) crushed 11,599 tons, and also treated a miscel-
laneous lot of residues; for a return of £28,450. Working
expenses mopped up £14,287 ; and after deducting £8849
for depreciation and development, a surplus of £5313
remained. The 2s. dividend paid in June absorbed £6OOO,
so that, as The Bulletin remarked some time back, the
co. has, in order to keep up appearances, been living be-
.vond its means. Of course, now that the price of shares
has come down a bit, shareholders are gravely informed
that, in view of diminished profits, further distributions
are “ off ” for the present; but this is poor consolation
for those who got in when regular dividends were being
talked of and the market was at its top. Luckily, the
co. still has£s6oo in hand, and so as to make a splash in
development, and to prospect for the continuation of
some promising shoots already proved in the adjoining
Sons of Gwalia, shareholders are to be asked at the meet-
ing to empower the Board to increase the capital from
£30,000 to £50,000 by the issue of 40,000 new 10s. shares,
and to dispose of the lot at not less than £1 each. It is
estimated that recent developments on the western lode
have added 20,000 tons of 355. ore to the ore reserves in
this mine.
* * * *
Rutherglen (Vic.) is in a poor plight. Ask the
mine director why, and he swears that it is because so
much of the miners’ time is taken up in travelling be-
tween the shaft’s mouth and the working face. The
managers say ditto, because they can tell which side their
bread’s buttered on. But the men know that the wash
is poor, the ground heavy, the distance from the shaft
great, and the ventilation often dreadful. The old idea
was to work from a central shaft in a big alluvial claim ;
but that plan will have to give way to working
from two or more shafts. The Great Southern
has gone slow on divs. Some say the narrow gutter
has scoured the gold out. The truth is that the bottom
is uneven and the wash irregular. Great Southern Consols
doesn’t seem to approach the dividend stage now any
more rapidly than in the days of yore. More profits are
probably being picked up by some people by watching
the Cathcart market than by watching the Consols.,
Then Southern and Prentice are going the way of all
Bewiek-Moreing’s deep-lead shows. The firm doesn’t
seem able to get low costs, and high costs won’t answer
with poor ground. Rutherglen, therefore, looks like
providing a crop of tombstones unless some new tribu-
taries come along to sweeten up the wash of the big
mines.
If the gods are still at Walhalla, they are not
getting fat out of the Long Tunnel in these days. The
grade of the ore in the mine has at times lately got down to
under 7dwt.; and the gold is worth only about £3 12s. 6d.
per ounce. Fortunately the Board had the strength of
will, not often found in Victorian directors, to build up a
reserve, and they clung to it as tight as a limpet to a
rock. Even now, when the battery is up, the power-
station completed and the winding-engine at wprk,
there is still a bit of oof left over for emergencies.
What is wanted is that there shall be less scraping-up
of stone. Walhalla folk say it is the contract system
that’s wrong. The fact is there ought to be more'faces
on stone, more stopes opened up, more progressive work,
and more stuff going through the battery. With the new
plant this should be possible. Anderson has-his chance,
and if he gets stone he will most likely put things right.
Walhalla people believe in him, and in Finlayson, even if
they haven’t got much faith in the Melbourne crowd.
London came into the market, as it was ex-
pected it would; so shares in New Brilliant Freehold,
Charters Towers, have taken a long jump. No. 2 east
level, on the main footwall formation, has been driven
621 ft., and driving is also going on along what the Free-
hold supposes to be its top boundary, adjoining the
East Mexican ; but most of the stone on the footwall side
is being left intact, pending a proper definition of the
boundary l . Rather a good little reef branched off on the
hanging-wall side from No. 1 east, and the face at 77ft.
from the junction with the main level shows Ift. of heavy l
mineral stone. Then there are Nos. 6 and 7 on the
hanging-wall reef, which retain the same numbers as in
Mills’ United. An average of £5 6s. 3d. from 422
tons gives a fair idea of the quality of the
stopes over the two footwalls and the two
hanging-wall levels that are being worked. But the
diminishing size and erratic values of the reefs as they go
eastwards makes any comparison with Mills’ United im-
possible. The reef recently cut in the N. B.F. shaft shows
how topsy-turvy things are in the neighborhood, for it
faulted in the middle of the shaft, and there is now only
lft. of stone showing on the footwall side instead of 3ft.
No. 2 level (from the shaft side) is now being driven east
and west; the eastern face is of interest to the Brilliant
Blocks, whose boundary is less than 170 ft. away.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, has given up
prospecting the 830 ft. level, not having been able to get a
payable show. It will now confine its attention for a
while to the Day Dawn reef on the New Brilliant Freehold
boundary l . This boundary l level is a continuation of No. 6
from Mills’ United ; small crushings taken from the reef
in extending the level for 100 ft. into Mexican ground
were worth over £ll per ton. The boundary isn’t yet
defined exactly, and the hope of getting a larger slice of
the good stone has put Mexican shares up a bit, though
the mine mainly depends on an extension of the payable
shoot for some distance over No. 6 level. The develop-
ments in No. 5 and the crosscuts into the footwall gave
very little encouragement; y r et, with good stone so close,
it is quite possible for things to improve further along the
Freehold boundary, which extends for 1200 ft.
* • • ■»
Stannary Hills (N.Q.) has hit the Ivanhoe lode
in the bottom level from the new 1 shaft, and for a start
got into 8 per cent, tin stuff. The striking of the
lode here was practically a foregone conclusion ; for the
ground had been proved in the workings from the old
shaft. The Ivanhoe claim has been the co.’s stand-by ;
but to get the best results from the reorganised mill the
co. needs to develop a patch of more cheaply-got ore
handy to one of the other shafts. And there are still
hopes of that.
■ • • *
One Williams, late of S’Africa—which is a pretty
broad address—has been enlarging the hopes of the
Sapphiretown (Q.) gem-seeker. He has discovered the
“ bantam,” or quartzite pebble, which is a camp-mate of
the diamond in S’Africa ; also a species of decomposed
lime common in diamond fields ; finally l , he reckons that
the present bottom, of granite, is but the cloak of dia-
mond strata deeper down. In fact, he has got nearly
everything—except diamonds. Sapphiretown, which has
grown tired of chasing a satisfactory market for its
sapphire gems, wishes him much luck, anyway l .
* m »
The opening of the Pieman track is responsible
for the Stanley Reward Tin Co., of Hobart. The Stanley l
is a small tributary of the Pieman, in very rough country,
and the river flats have been carefully shepherded for
years. The wash is deep, and in places very rich ; but
the width of it is very doubtful. The vendors collar not
only 20,000 paids out of 50,000 shares, but also £lOOO in
cash ; and, in view of the size of their bite, the least they
could have done was to produce some more definite in-
formation about their property, presuming they believe
that it would stand testing. The co. will have to get an
elevator to work the ground.
* * * *
Mt. Lvell (Tas.) consigned 4373 tons copper
for the half-year closing Sept. 30 ; but it didn't produce
that much. Tonnage treated has been considerably reduced,
though a better extraction has partly lessened the gap.
Six months since the management estimated that copper
values had improved from 5'75 percent, to 6 per cent. ;
also ore reserves have very much improved. In the
ordinary course this w'ould be followed by a bigger metal
output; but Mt. Lyell has been satisfied to regulate
its consignments out of its stocks of metal, for the copper
market hasn’t been sufficiently tempting lately to induce
it to rush matters.
* * * »
It is worth while keeping an eye on Tarcoola
Blocks, in the Far North of S. Aus. So far it hasn’t had
success enough to make anybody wealthy, but it has
mostly l earned its own keep. Lately l the co. recon-
structed, and a little more energy has been put into the
prospecting at the deepest levels. The country is partly
slate and partly l quartzite. While they l are in the
quartzite the reefs are rarely worth much ; but when
they get into the black slate good values are carried.
Until quite latelv the bottom workings have been nearly
all in quartzite ;'but within the last few weeks the pro-
spects have considerably improved, and the outlook
is now very healthy.
* * * *
S. w.: Your calculations are wrong. The bor-
rower will goon paying 6 per cent, on the entire loan for
31 years ; but the Savings Bank, which does the lending,
doesn’t have to pay interest on the whole loan for 31
years. If it can’t find other borrowers, it can pa.v back
some of the depositors at the end of the first six months,
when the first instalment comes in N. Ambulans:
(1) Australian public debt, Jan. 1, 1901, was £199,499,525.
On June 30, 1908, it was £247,974,624 ; and the total has
since been brought up.to about £256,900,000. (2) No;
but between 1903 and 1907, the employees in Australian
factories increased from 195,810 to 248,841. Results of
the Lyne tariff can’t yet be put into total figures
Portee : Evidently you mean British. Probably the best
of the group ; but it will be a miracle if any of them can
be kept propped up to their present height.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * • *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20'
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet I inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. VVm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * »
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor ” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
* * * *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The. dimensions of
this furnace are as follows —168 in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
thev are reversible from top to bottom—-thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, Silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Ilardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney. 1 * [1
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grim wade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
*** • *
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited : “We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in twelve
months can secure proposals for more than a million and
three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for £1,278,000.
However vigorous the driving may be, such a result
could not be attained if the Society did not offer what
many people want.”*
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
# * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * » *
TUOKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * •
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tf.nax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co,,
Ltd., corner King arid Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, whichis common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
# * - *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Cot.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * * *
“Sarco” is a name now recognised among
engineers as synonymous with “Fuel Economy.” Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd.,' 7 Bent Street, Sydney, are sole agents
for the makers of Sarco Specialities, which regulate and
record combustion, draught, steam supply, and in fact
keep a continuous check on all sections of the boiler
plant, a check which results in a surprising reduction
in the fuel bill. The manufacturers intend to publish
periodically a “ Bulletin of Power Plant Practice,”
one half of which will deal with the question from a
broad engineering point of view, and the other will be
devoted to Sarco Appliances. Gibson, Battle will send
these bulletins regularly to anyone interested in the
subject.*


K
m
CORTICELLI SPOOL SILK wears well in the garment:
the seams don't rip, and each stitch holds secure. We guaran-
tee CORTICELLI SILK is smooth, even elastic, and strong,
and that every spool is “ Full Measure.”
CORTICELLI COSTS YOU
LITTLE more than Common Silk, but YOU GET MORE
SILK, better Silk and stronger Silk, when you buy ” CORTI-
C?LLI." which has held the WORLDS RECORD for
superiority for over 70 Years.
Think of what this Means!
Corticelli Silk Mills,
ESTABLISHED 1838. .
AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE : 91a fORK STREET, SYDNEY. I
KENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
fd
ďsf
[YOU CAN .CLIMB
TO THE*TOP!
where there * always ‘plenty
o I room,' by equipping
yourselT with our course* of
POSTAL Instruction
in Shorthand. BooMccepinij,
Penmanship. Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching is thorough, no
stereotyped methods; every-
thing made simple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
Irom the most capable
experts in Australasia. *
Send lor "Home Study,"
sfd
STOTT &> HOARES
BUSINESS CjOLLEG
MOORE ST SYDNEY
SI
3
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
A SIMPLE REMEDY.
Said to Relieve Rheumatism, and Anyone Can
Prepare It.
Thousands of men and women who have felt the sting
and torture of this dread disease, which is no respecter
of age, person, sex, nation or rank, will be interested to
know that while for many years rheumatism was con-
sidered an incurable disease, now it is one of the easiest
afflictions of the human body to conquer. Medical
science has proved that it is not a disease in itself, but is
a symptom caused by inactive kidneys. Rheumatism is
uric acid in the blood and other waste products of the
system, which should be filtered and strained out in the
form of urine. The function of the kidneys is to sift
these poisons and acids out, and keep the blood clean and
pure. The kidneys, however, are of sponge-like sub-
stance, the holes or pores of which will sometimes, either
from overwork, cold or exposure, become clogged and in-
active, and failing in their function of eliminating these
poisons from the blood, they remain in the veins, decom-
pose, and settling about the joints and muscles cause the
untold pain and suffering of rheumatism and backache, -
often producing complications of bladder and urinary
disease, weakness, etc. .
The following simple prescription is said to relieve the
worst cases of rheumatism, because of its direct action
upon the blood and kidneys, relieving, too the most
severe forms of bladder and urinary troubles: Tincture
Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup Rhubarb, one
ounce; Liquid Darkola Compound, one ounce; and
Syrup of Ginger, five ounces. Mix by shaking well in a
bottle, and take one teaspoonful after each meal and
one before retiring for the night.
The ingredients can be had from any good chemist,
and, being purely vegetable, are entirely harmless and
safe to use at any time.*
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Sandgroper ” : For the Queerest-named
Station Stakes I enter the Shadow of Death, in
this Yalgoo district (W.A.). The station itself is
not a large one, but is more or less famous for the
wayside house on it, which till recently was
known by the same name. The Oldest Inhabitant
says the name was given because the natives aver
that the ghost of a monstrous William goat
appears at certain times on the ridge overlooking
the house.
THE HEATHEN
CHINEE IS
INGENIOUS.
CHOW BUSH-CARPENTER (after several disastrous
attempts with, the adze): “ Yesserday, ling-
hark ’im leg. Welly so’. No goo’! To-
day, ketch-'um two oil-drum. Leg insi’.
All Iff’
“Wang”: The gUn-wisdom of “ Monta-
lex ” (B. 16/9/’O9) reminds me of a wonderful fluke
made by a lucky fool with whom I once had to go
shooting. The fool was on a visit to the station,
and one day the boss presented him with a gun
and instructed me to arm myself and take him
out for a day’s rabbiticide. The boss, not being a
wildly generous person, had provided the visitor
with a muzzle-loader. “ Cartridges are too d- d
handy and expensive for a mug,” he explained.
Nevertheless, the fool was in great glee. The
ancient piece of ordnance was quite up-to-date for
all he knew to the contrary, and he energetically
loaded and discharged it for seven solid hours
without even hitting me. Late in the afternoon
we turned homewards unburthened by anything
dead. The fool was loading up for a possible shot
on the way back, when there was a flash and a
roar and the ramrod whizzed skyward past his
nose. He staggered back with a look of horror
and sat down with unnecessary violence amongst
the bracken, just as a fat crow came flapping down
from the blue with the ramrod spitted neatly
through its chest. The fool was highly delighted
and amused, but I extracted the ramrod thought-
fully, and offered to carry his gun home for him.
I had a dim sort of idea that if the crow hadn’t
been around the ramrod might have been my
share. It was a more or less absurd idea, but I
had it. I scratched an impromptu grave for the
bird. It seemed hard for a wise bird to be killed
by an ass.
» • * *
“Phil Hamm ” : He the wheelbarrow as
a means of shifting Matilda and other worldly
goods (B. 16/9/’O9). I remember an
itinerant temperance apostle who used
to tour the Grenfell and other districts
of N.S.W. in the early ’eighties. He
always pushed his little lot before him
in a barrow. Besides blankets and
water-proofs, the little lot mostly con-
sisted of tracts which alleged that the
road to Hell was paved with empty
beer bottles. But in these degenerate
days it is found that it makes the back
ache less to push a pram. Last year I
struck a traveller near Parkes whose
perambulator contained a decent-sized
swag, small tent, kit of tools, and odds
and ends. For comfort he reckoned the
ordinary fashion of “waltzing Matilda”
wasn’t in it alongside his method.
“ I tan ”: Dr. Ilayner, of Auckland (M.L.),
comes back from a visit to Uncle Sam with a
statement that he has secured the rights to the
Burbank thornless cactus, and that the Australian
claims to the vegetable have been bought in Sydney
for a fabulous sum. If the Dominion does not
know anything about the pear cactus, Australia
does, seeing that it has been robbed of
thousands of good acres by the curse. If
the Burbank variety is thornless, and will
continue thornless, all right. But it has
been stated publicly in America that the
Burbank freak creation, when planted out, de-
generates, and speedily becomes the common old
spiny curse, the same as its forefathers.
It is like the rare six-legged cat whose
descendants won’t remain six-legged. Fur-
ther, even if the Burbank pear is a successful
fodder in Yankee land, it does not prove that it
will be so in Australia; for the common cactus
kind is produced in Texas for its fodder value,
whereas in Australia the same article goes off
tremendously in nutritious constituents, probably
on account of its wilder growth. Anyway, the
pricky pear that we know is such a colossal curse
that the Australian and, Dominion Governments
should sit on their doorsteps and watch that this
alleged new thing does not get entry except under
the strictest supervision ; or if it is proved that it
does degenerate in America, then it should be re-
fused admittance no matter b«w much supervision
may be lying around.
A DILEMMA , FRANKLY STATED.
THIRSTY PERSON (Sunday, 7 a.m.): “ Look (hie)
’ ere! If yer lesh me in yen'll- he fined fer
Shunday trnding, an' if ye don’ lesh me in
I’ll have t’ drink yer milk."
“Wang”: Speaking of decadent town-
ships, one of the most sorrowful examples of the
type is Steiglitz, about half-way between Geelong
and Ballarat (Vic.). Away back in the “ early
days” some fossickers settled themselves at Steig-
litz, and dug holes in the ground, and in a desul-
tory way kept scratching and getting enough gold
to make ends meet. Then the prospects and their
enthusiasm petered out, and Steiglitz relapsed
into its primeval state. About 1890 things began
to hum again, consequent upon the discovery of
much of the yellow metal. The principal mine
was the New Mariner, which was turning out
many ounces each Week, and alleged mines sprang
up like wild cats Springing up trees all over the
place. I had my first experience of share-speeu :
ating in connection with one of these claims.
An alleged friend induced tne
to part up all my rabbit-skin
money, and buy shares in some-
thing else with fur on it. Leigh
Road, or Bannockburn as it is
, now called, was the nearest rail-
way station to the El Dorado,
and Cobb and Co. ran a line of
coaches twice a day between
Steiglitz and Leigh Road. For
three or four years things boomed
at the town with the foreign
name, and the cats multiplied,
arid the coaches rattled gaily
backwards and forwards' every
day. Then came another slump,
and the mines, one after the
other, closed down, and the wild
cats pegged out, or bolted to
some other place, and the gay
coaches stopped running, and the
Plough Hotel stables became de-
serted, and the beer in the bar grew
less numerous, and Steiglitz lost
most of its population. To-day a
couple of unhappy looking pubs, and
two or three shops, arid a trio of
churches and a lot of humpies that
are falling to pieces, are all that is
left of Steiglitz to remind the infre-
quent visitor of the glory that has
departed. A visitor there is a
curiosity, and the oldest inhabitant
totters lafter him, and in return for a
pint tells him of the bygone days. Soon there’ll oe
no oldest inhabitant, and when there isn’t there’ll
be no Steiglitz.
Some imported curses recently proclaimed
noxious weeds by a worried Bananaland shire
council, whose dominion is threatened with
annihilation : Bathurst burr, Scotch thistle, lan-
tana, castor-oil plant, African box thorn, bindii,
Noogoora burr and prickly pear. And there are
dozens more, all imported.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Be the discussion
between “Gip” and “ Polstan,” as to the drown-
ing of snakes. I lived for 10 experienceful years
in the Big Scrub. During the first five floods
were common. It used to rain between the
showers. I often found dead snakes after the
flood waters had subsided. They had not died of
whooping cough nor of measles. They had not
been drowned. My theory was, and is, that the
fierce swimming exercise, which the snakes were
unused to, overheated them, and caused them to
catch chills, congestion of the lungs, and various
pulmonary disorders ; and exposure and want of
suitable food finished them. Of course the dead
snakes that one finds after floods do have adrowned
look, which misleads superficial observers like
“Gip.” “Gip” only guesses. I agree with “ Pol-
stan.” He knows.
* * * *
When J. B. Patterson and his Lands
Minister, Jock Mclntyre, hit upon the Village
Settlement idea to solve the Victorian unem-
ployment problem, a settlement was planted
in Kamarooka forest, a most barren region,
20 miles north of Bendigo, and 20 miles
from anywhere else. By dumping the
settlers there it was thought they
would have to stop, since they
couldn’t well get away in a hurry.
One by one, however, more than
half the settlers managed to clear
out somehow. The rest hung on
to their uninviting land ; and
then, when a new race of settlers
began to spring up, it was found
that the youngsters had to either
tramp about seven miles to get
to school or else run wild. In
winter, the tramp is often through
gluey mud ; in the summer, it is
along a treeless track, swept by
hot winds. After a few years the
settlers agitated for a school, and
at last the Minister was appealed
to by Labor-member Tunnecliffe,
who had meantime been elected
for the district. Then the Minister
said he would remove the nearest
school on to the settlement. But
the cocky or two who live handy
to the school started to pull the
other way ; and, although the
Education Department every
month or so sends along word
that the school is going to be re-
moved immediately, nothinghas been
done, except that the site for the new school has
been purchased—butthat wasyears ago. Yet, when-
ever Fat wants to throw a particularly fierce gibe at
“ the unemployed,” he mentions the old village
settlements, and says that the failure of these
places is quite enough proof that you can’t do
anything for these worthless fellows. What the
“ worthless fellows ” have to put up with if they
stay on their settlements, Fat never mentions a'
all.'
IN THE DAIRY
DISTRICT.
SCHOOLMASTER (to the only arrival): “ How is it
you've turned up this morning? ”
BOY: “ Please, sir, our cow died last night.”
ITOOKASHOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Wednesday.—The Peary Club, New York, has
issued its mueh-heralded statement in disproval of Dr.
Cook’s claims.
The statement asserts that Commander Peary examined
the Etah Eskimos, including the boy Itookashoo.
Far away, it is true,
Lives poor Itookashoo.
In the chill Polar breeze,
With a name like a sneeze
And a nose very blue,
Dwells good Itookashoo.
Where the Polar bear prowls
And emits hungry growl's ;
Where the floes crack and drift
And the black, yawning rift
Awes the blubber-fed crew,
Shivers Itookashoo.
Where the Peary doth rage,
And at so much per page,
Doth imperil his soul
By describing the Pole,
Whilst his proud nigger pipes
That he hoisted the Stripes
And the Stars on it too,
There sits Itookashoo
In the midst of the lies
And the ice, with his eyes
Peeping out from his furs,
Lo ! he gaily occurs !
With his comedy name
He enlivens the game,
And it matters not which
He supports. Little Tich
Couldn’t cheer us up more ;
So we give him the floor
With a joyous “ Whirroo ! ”
And, “ Bedad, is it you!
Your name is your fortune, young Itookashoo I ”
N.B.W.
FOE.
BACK AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you cast off the social veneering,
The white and immaculate vest —
Arid in dirty old “ moles ” go careering
Across the big plains of the West,
I)o you growl at a burning or wetting,
At the pitiless sun or the rain?
Or rejoice in the glory of getting
Right back to the savage again ?
Do you pine for Society’s bondage,
The hollow old lies and the “ frill,’
As you shoulder the sweet, dewy fronoage
When the breath of the morning blows chill ?
When the fragrance of common “ Black Nugget ”
Makes a high-priced Havannah seem plain ;
You.could take your old briar and hug it
Going back to the savage again.
When the fierce black nor’-easter comes raging,
Like a demon to swallow your boat,
Is there aught the old hunger assuaging,
Like the sting of the spray at one’s throat?
As the combers go racing before us,
And we shoot down each long leaden plane,
How we laugh as we join their wild chorus,
Going back to the Vikings again 1
Though coldly Convention may ravage
The instincts of heart and of mind ;
Still we yearn to go back to the savage,
And cast all our cant to the wind,
And we turn from new gods as we make them,
To old ones barbaric and vain :
Till at last we abandon and break them,
Going back to the heathen again.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


Dr
FOR
MiiiMilesß
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
Terrible Fate.
It’s a terrible fate to suffer from serious lung,
trouble. Ward it off with Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Attention is directed to the subdivision of the
famous Kilkivan estate, which is beingofferedat Kilkivan,
Queensland, on the 4th December, 1909. This property
is subdivided into 34 attractive dairy farms, and the
country is described as eminently suitable for the purpose.
The terms of payment are easy, viz.—one-fifth cash ; 15
per cent, at the end of two years, and the balance in
eight equal annual instalments, with interest at five per
cent, per annum. The auctioneers are Messrs. Hain and
Searight, 12 Loftus Street, Sydney, who, having inspected
the property, specially recommend it to buyers in search
of ideal dairying coun try, and the public are assured that
the subdivision is a bona-fide one, and the lands are for
absolute sale. Plan and pamphlet particulars may be
obtained from the auctioneers upon application.*
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties .
Send lull particulars, with all plans and reports
available, to “ MINE,” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
SQUATTERS, DO YOU
WANT A WATCH THAT
YOU CAN SWEAR BY?
THE "FxS R” WATCH
will go to within a minute a month, is
guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order for 2 years (breakages excepted).
They are levers, are fully jewelled,
have compensated balances and
brequet hair springs.
They will stand hard riding and
knocking about. They are made in
ever3 r style of case. -
Write for Watch pamphlet.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures Cash.
/
s
V
In Gent.’s Oxidised
Steel Open-face
cases, 15 jewels, 33/*
In Gent.’s Oxidised Steel Open-face cases, 7 jewels, 28/-
In Gent.’s Silver Hunting: case, Fully jewelled, 52/6
In Gent.’s Silver Open-face case, Fully jewelled, 45/-
In Gent.’s Silver Demi-Hunter, Fully jewelled, 60/-
Thus Sydney Evening News (16/10/’O9) :
Premier Ward had occasion, when speaking' in Maori-
land the other day, to deplore the malicious remarks
made by their own people about, the country. If this is
the case in Maoriland, it is infinitely worse here. A
large section of the community never loses any oppor-
tunity of publishing abroad the most malicious and un-
truthful reports about Australia, and it is a pitiful thing
that the Labor party should be systematically employed in
doing this. In Canada, both press and people suppress
every detail that would tend to do the country any
harm abroad. For instance, nothing is ever said of the
long, bitter winters, as this might frighten away immi-
grants. There is a tacit “conspiracy of silence ” among
Canadians on this subject, and a stranger would infer
that he was going to a particularly genial climate. This
pride and confidence in their country has made Canada
the best-known and most important of the British
Dominions. In the United States, also, during the
depression last year, an organised and determined effort
was made by the entire press and people not to make
public the facts about distress and stagnant trade, and to
show a bold and cheerful face to the world. It is a pity
we have not the pluck arid patriotism to stand up for the
country we live in, and forcibly discourage the man who
libels us abroad.
And in the same issue the same Evening News
tried to impress upon the stranger what a “par-
ticularly genial climate ” this country owns :
Each morning, drought or no drought, the sun rises, a
red and fiery ball, breathing heat from the very moment
of his appearance above the horizon. At 6 a.m. the
mercury is already among the eighties, and it
keeps steadily climbing up, up. till, often for
weeks together, it reaches well over the cen-
tury. What wind there is in summer is generally
hotter than our hottest north-easters in the city ; and
when it blows with violence it comes accompanied by
veritable simoons of fine sand and dust —sand that stings
the skin where it touches ; dust that blinds and chokes,
and permeates food, clothing, bedding, everything. . . .
And the nonsense that is talked about “ the dry
heat of the interior,” and its consequent lessened
power of fatigue compared with the “muggy” atmo-
sphere of Sydney! Possibly, regarded from a meteoro-
logical standpoint, it may be drier. But the fact that
the exertion demanded, by slow riding on horseback is
sufficient to bathe both horse and rider in perspiration,
does not seem to say much for the dryness from a
practical point of view. As for the manual laborer, the
sweat fills his boots and flows over the tops. But. the
nights—the citizen cannot begin to conceive the horror
of them.
And so on. It’s really nice to have a paper
which will put in a good word lilce that for this
country now and then.
* * * *
1 ‘ Portite ”: The old gaol at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.) is to go. It was built by convict labor in
the ’3o’s, and has for years been one of the show
places of the locality. Its chief asset was the
alleged grisly “ memories” which hung around it.
Whenever a stranger arrived at the Port he was
hustled to the ancient place of reputed blood and
torture. Then the oldest horror-mongering in-
habitant let himself go joyfully on the subject of
the hardships the convicts underwent there in the
long ago, and told shudderingly of floggings,
hangings, drawings and quartering.*, and other
occurrences dear to the simple, honest, blanky-
minded bush person. The identical spot where
the criminals used to be scragged was indicated,
and the dark cell was dragged out into the light
of day and expatiated on at length. Now all this
is to end, and the district will be the poorer, con-
versationally, for it. Often have I been shown
the cells wherein Ned Kelly, Rufus Dawes, Deem-
ing, Starlight, Guy Fawkes, and other notabilities
in their line of industry foregathered at different
times ; and my marrow has grown chill at the
yarns of .what they did during incarceration. An
interesting feature was that, as a matter of hard,
unimaginative fact, thedashed old jug never had any
gore spilt in it worth mentioning, and at no time
harbored any of the famous evildoers whom tra-
dition ascribed to it. An aboriginal named
Terramidgee was the oidy person who died
violently there. He helped to murder some
cedar-getters at Gogo, and was strung up on the
green in front of the Port’s place of bogus horrors,
the entire nigger population of the surrounding
country being given free passes to witness the
show. The other habitues of the place either died
there of complaints such as croup, measles,
asthma and so forth, or went free and pegged-out
elsewhere. But that is a mere detail to an up-
eountry thrill-purveyor.
HAYSEED'S IRRELEVANCE.
“ Want a diary, sir?” “No. Took some medicine yestidy.”
“ Billy T.” : When Bussby, the celebrated
and most eloquent apostle of the hydropathic
cure for our Great Australian Thirst, came to
Crowfoot, the big apple centre, the only convert
he could make was Norwood ; but as Norwood
had been the ground-and-lofty exhibition drinker
of the district for 25 years, to have secured his
adherence to total and eternal abstinence was an
achievement, and Bussby was extremely proud of
it. Bussby was an itinerant curse-lifter, and
carried on his campaign in surrounding townships
with the aid of a horse and trap. Eventually his
nag maimed himself in a rut, and Bussby sought
to swap him for Norwood’s pale mauve pony.
Norwood declined a deal. Pressure was brought
to bear, and still Norwood resisted. The proselyte
was interviewed and cajoled. He was stubborn.
Reasons were asked. “ I won’t part with that
pony,” said the brand new Rechabite. “ He’s the
only horse I can get on and trust myself to when
I’m thoroughly drunk.”
“S.S.S.”: That letter which the seagull
took to Goode Island, Torres Strait (B. 30/9/’O9),
wasn’t written by a lovelorn Jap, I guess. The
writer was much more likely to be a Manbiang
maiden. To turn seabird or beast into a postman
is a well-established Torres Strait custom. When
a Manbiang or other island maiden takes a fancy
for a Badu buck she writes to him, and ties the
message to a turtle or a gull. If to a turtle, she
puts the message in a tin. The creature may
take it where she wants it to go; anyway she
has committed her fortune to the gods. If the
Badu boy does get the message, he paddles across
in his oanoe, and he and the lady go before the
Council. Each of these tiny islands has four
councillors, who take themselves “ big serious,”
and adjudicate. If the Council consents, the men
go forth and spear a dugong, and the women
make a mighty coppa-marie, and there is a
marrying.
IN BUSH SOCIETY.
HOSTESS (to celebrated musician who has just finished his marvellous performance of his most
miraculous masterpiece): “And now, Professor, won’t you play something?”
MUM'S HOLIDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old man’s takin’ Roaney out (the bntchm’ straps is
bad), . ,
The ducks and geese is screechin’ out and Rover s barkin
mad,
The fowls an’ turkeys flock aroun’, the kids hez stopped
their play, t
An’ rush like rabbits through the house, ’cos mum s
come home ter-day.
She’s on’y bin away a week ; it seems a year an more ,
An’ Billy’s split his Sunday pants, an’ Rosie’s eyes is sore ;
The emu swallowed Harry’s watch ; the calves got in the
hay,
An’ dad’s bin narked as forty cats whi e mum has bin
away.
She never had no hollerday, as fur as I could tell,
And so the ole man “reckoned we could spire er fur a
spell ” ;
But, Lord, afore she’d scarcely gone, the hens forgot to
lay ;
An’ all the kids went runnin’ wiid when mum had gone
away.
Our old cow, Daisy, slipped her calf (them dogs o’Smith’s
is brutes),
An’ Joe he fell an’ sprained his wrist, through cartin’ in
some roots ;
The Cochin chicks hez got the pip, the goslin’s went
astray ;
An’ Sue, the fat ole sow, pegged out, since mum has bin
away.
But now she’s home we’re right again ; the place is bright
indeed,
An’ dad is whistlin’ down the yard (ole Roaney’s right
for feed),
But, ’pon me word, I often think, when workin’ in the
hay,
The world’ll stop, as sure as eggs, when mum is called
away.
S.A.
M. J. O’HAIR.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Wo notice (exceotof a, hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Wamc and
address must appear on J fSS. Wo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Laborite : Had no intention of leaving Lesina
out, and didn’t notice that he was left out until you
wrote. By way of answering' a Queensland correspondent
whose letter arrived at the last moment, we hacked the
list out of the Worker,, and the compositor did the rest.
L. S. Brand : It’s not poetry, and this paper isn’t
plaving Sir Pandarus to your Cressida Mot Momsor:
Babyish... .R. E. Selby : “ The Will of Bob Robb ” placid
repetition of weary idea. “Passing Out” has finished
the movement W. E. Grant: No talent in them.
Nothing in them but words inartistically arranged
J.C. : If, as you say, you can write poetry as good as
Banjo Paterson’s or Henry Lawson's at their best, send it
along. Mone} 7 while yon wait S.K.C. : “Idolatry”
tapers off badly J.C.B. : Spoiled by such common-
places as you’ll find in the last line of the first verse.. „
Wavback : Doggerel—the smallest breed of dog. . .A. E.
Johnson : A wise mother would have slippered that weep-
ful girl, with her Jim and her Billy and her Jack.
W. H. Roberts: Ancient wheeze....l. Franklin:
Nice for J. P. to be chased by Holly and Ivy.
W.S. : Depressing account of tinpot show
A. Elliot: “A Song of Hope” cheerful sentiment
wedded to sad verse. May use other item J.A.M. :
“ Constancy ” knocked out first round. “ Nature’s Gifts ”
may make good E. B. Hodge: Tame-cattish.....
Boronia : “The ringing cheers dispel all fears of disas
ter’s frightful care.” Not so. Australia would be safe if
barracking and “Awake! Arise!” poems were the
weapons in demand P. E. Coleman: Postpone saying
things till you’ve something to say and have learnt how
to say it J.G. : Hope told a flattering tale. W.P.B
E.M.8.: Story of naval snob and pretty girl whose “ un-
wary tongue often led her into side-paths,” wholly
uninteresting... J.G.M. : Poor yarn badly told. Brandy
lyric also thrown out Masher: Hash-house episode
doesn’t thrill... C.W.M. : Long and dull and old
Jenos Dueale : “ Her Sister ” —a mile-long preface to two
words. Verses about Flossies as irregular as the ladies
J.A.K. : “Not to-day, thank y0u.”... Butcher: Con-
sidered, as requested. W.P.B Cocytus : Your Muse
bumps badly.... The Peg : Ten to one he never thought
of you or your curse or the nameless baby when he got
drowned. It’s an easy death.... Isidore : Australians
take but a slight interest in a quack who died some 400
years ago. It’s the quacks who’re alive now that want
watching H. E. Moore: Your ideas of a par. are
generous 88, W.A. : Jumbled-up narrative about cats,
niggers and reprehensible dusky maidens too long-
winded .. A. Roberts: Not so long, next time
E. Midgley: Another weepful sentimentality about
“Home, sweet home C. Smith: Cohentingenter’s
poems about the war should have been hurled
against the foe—not kept till all the interest
has died out of the shameful business .Kan-
garoo: Labored humor, and not much of it..,.
X.Y.Z. (Bunbur.v): Those chestnuts were full-grown
when your oldest jarrah was a youngster John
Reynolds, Brunette Downs, back of Camooweal, who
lately lost his horse and then missed the track, and was
for eight days without water or tucker, writes to thank
manager Lowe, the employees, and the black-boys of the
station who found him at.d pulled him through. (This
sort of thing is a bit off The Bulletin’s beat; but the
paper is prepared to go a good way off its beat to oblige
a man who is pioneering at the back of Camooweal.)
S.S.B. : Certainly ; but don’t try it on a Monday or a
Tuesday Diamentina : But why, if these things are so,
does the North Gregory R ibbit Board describe its dis-
trict as the driest in Australia? And why has the city of
Birdsville done such a perish? Bendimeer : Yes, but
you can’t rouse people by remarking :
Sad it is and alarming ;
Something is far from right.
Cornev: All damnatory clause and no creed
N. Temple: Ladylike namby pambyisms G. L. Somer-
ville : Verses without distinction W. J. Buxton : Of
no use to either paper... .Nomadic : Neat, but too much
like “ poking borak” at a subject that is too serious for
jests H.M. : Your “Inebriate's” game has been
worked too often before.... Nulla Nulla: Dim scrawl
received. Terribly hard on the eyes. Why put so much
water in the ink?, D. E. Jones: Half-hatched funni-
ment concerning Pearblossom and the man who wasn’t
the Prodigal Son too recondite for this hurrying age
Happy : Juvenile... S. M. Miller :
Oh, but it cannot be—
Get thee from me.
Also don’t gum S.A. stamp immovably on matter to be
returned Warrenjella : Poetic remarks to Bunchy re
Quondong Gully (“ When daylight spands the East ")and
nauseous details of effect of over-eating on an empty
stomach “Europed,” as .you call it G.J.R. : Un-
rhythmical jingle J. Butler: “Song o’ the Ants”
declined with unspeakable thanks Papillon : Too
long and thin and commonplace J. A. Kearns:
“ Beached and Repaired ” a good Sunday-school story
H. Street: Beauteous narrative about a pup
cheerfully turned down Aster Nirvanas:
Something deep within my chest
Shouts loud for publication.
When the something deep’s within your brain, send it
along, and we’ll do the rest E. M. Gooley (or it may be
Pooley): A kiss that comes all the way from Heaven is
likely to get lost or cold or useless or stolen before it
strikes earth. But you sing prudently if not truly i
If you kiss another man’s wife,
You get your think-tank dinted.
....Dele: Jag-worshipping poem not inspiring... .J.
Oorridon : Denouement of “ The Gentle Sex ” obvious
front the jump... .The Pile : Thanks ; but noted already.
.. ~P.R. : Improbable occurrence in a “London suburb”
leaves us doubting and uninterested.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
P.: Too thin C.N.L. : Not quite up... Oreti: That
story is stained and perfumed with the reek of a thousand
smoking-rooms Wilfred: No good to us ; no good to
anybody. . ..A.D.M. : That patch is worked out
Weetah : Humor in them, but crude as yet. Keep on
E. George : Picture unsuitable, and no stamps for return
—only envelope... P.McP.: The artists didn’t bite at
your titbit. . Brack : Loth to encourage such draughts-
manship as yours, and the suggestions are commonplace.
P.R.C.: You throw no bright new light, and very
little old brown light, on the subject of land monopoly
Judith Cole: Drawings below par, and the appended
jokes have a familiar ring Alice P.: Your women are
expressionless and wax-doleful ...Polar: Too vast and
elaborate J. Hannan: Don’t send such aged jests ...
G. Ross: Poor, dreary sort of .thing.... Blotter: Your
feet evidently were never measured for the path of art....
J.K.: Two pictures: one bad, the other worse ...H.
Mohr : Horrible, dull, foolish, ugly, uninteresting and
wearisome Smith: One of those things which nearly
arrive, but never by any chance get there.


IT MIGHT BE WORSE— THIS TIME.
BRISBANE, Monday.-Important developments are taking plaes in reganl to the large territory to be served by the Dalby-Tarra line. To-day 11 Vietorinns arrived. They are the advance guard
of 150 famikes who have agreet to take up land in the Moonie Valley conntry, out from Ddby. A ferture of the group is that it is eoinpased wholly of Metbldist families, The families will arrive
in March and April next. Same of the most prominent merubers of the group are from the Lilydile distciet. Another group, also Metho lists, have taken up land in the vicinity. They also hail
from Vietorin.-Melbourne ARGUS.
Young Victoria: “Behold the evil result of your untaxed-land monopoly! We’re losing our bone and sinew!"
Patman (apologetically): “But is this an altogether unmixed evil?"


Cardinal Moran professes to be a bit
of a dab at “ some kinds of women’s
work,” and an impression is abroad
that he knows ail about darning stock-
ings—so he says.
It is now up to Dill
Macky to half-sole his
own boots or “ get
left.”
AN ADAMLESS EDEN.
Perth, Thursday—Negotiations have
been proceeding for a considerable time
for the establishment of a purely
woman's colony at Wilson's Inlet,
between Denmark and Albany. Only
widows and spinsters are being allowed
to come in.
That Australian bush tiger has turned up again. Two road-
makers, while at work near Jamberoo, heard him roar very
distinctly, although the weather was quite foggy at the time.
They downed tools and fled.
“For what,” they asked in telling the tale, “wliat’s a pick
or a shovel agin a tiger?” i
i] ' be tyz
J>ypivfy l/tfi/lKS't ty
This Is how the local butcher protects
himself whilst delivering the goods In
the Tiger Beit of Australia.
AIRSHIPS AND CRIME.
PRECAUTIONS IN RUSSIA.
London, Wednesday.—Fearing that airships might be used for
criminal purposes, the Minister of the Interior in St. Petersburg
has ordered the
police to attend
ascents, and to
establish a sur-
veillance over all
members Of aero
l clubs. c-.
But a time -will come!
Dire effects upon Constant Reader of
reading dally cabled accounts of the
Cook-Peary dispute In his morning
paper. After a week of this, the patient
is usually carried shrieking to a padded
cell.
HAD IT BUT BEEN SO IN THE
BEGINNING !
Scene : Adamless Eden. _ Eve (to ser-
pent): “I say, o!d feller, you’d
better eat It yourself; there’sno, Man
here to get Into trouble over it.’’/
Still, it’s a melancholy pleasure to
know that Dr. Cook is making £4OO
per night lecturing, while Peary looks
on and keeps up a devil of'a thinking.
Suggested uniform for this
branch of the “foorce. ”
ALL OVER THE SHOP.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
best of quality.
PERFECT PURITY.
%
C HAMPt igne OF TABLE
Light, Crisp and Invigorating. French Natural Sparkling Table Water.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
George Rignolcl celebrated his 70th birth-
day at his Middle Harbor home last week.
Among the celebrators was Rev. George North-
Ash, of Neutral Bay. Mr. Asli buried the first
Mrs. Rignold and married George to the second.
The following mystery is from the Adelaide
AIi)VKRTXSKR (12/10/’()9): —
HEMMING WAY-STARR. —On the 6th of August,
by the Rev. J. Goodwin, Maud Heinmingway, of
Oarrieton, farmer, to Grace Starr, widow of the late
Stephen Starr, of Kooloolie.
The wedding of Maud and Grace sounds like
something out of the beaten track. Still this
paper has known a man named Maria.
Died in Sydney a few days ago, aged 80,
a Kanaka king, Philip Hitoti Henry. Henry, the
son of a Wesleyan clergyman, was born in Tahiti
in 1829. A native chief who was childless adopted
him in Pacific Island fashion by bestowing on him
his own name of Hitoti. So on the old man’s
death Henry became legally a Kanaka monarch.
He reckoned, however, that the life would be too
exciting, and he didn’t care for boiled missionary.
So he was just an uneventful bank official, and
never ate a missionary in all his days.
Parson Woodfull, the Methodist shepherd
who has been advertising his virtues from Colling-
wood (Melb.) of late years, is going to replace
Parson Worrall at the Methody tabernacle in
Golden Square, Bendigo. The difference between
Woodfull and Worrall is that the former is more
various in his advertising than the other shrieker.
When he gets to Bendigo he’ll discover some
awful social evils that the local inhabitants have
been blissfully ignorant of. Bendigo will never
know how very wicked it is until Woodfull has
been sending round the plate for a few months.
EMULATION.
President Roosevelt is heingpaid a dollar a word for his
hunting experiences. Well-known fact.
Picture of budding author writing a book with a
dollar a word and a fortune in view.
When the late Thomas Shaw, of Woori-
wyrite, in the Western District of Victoria, cursed
the Labor party and threatened to sell his land
and leave the country, he apparently had no land
to sell. At any rate, neither what was always
known as Shaw’s Worriwyrite estate (30,000 acres)
nor Yaneannia station, in N. S. Wales (about
500,000 acres), figure in his will, which has been
proved for a few hundreds only. Yet Woori-
wyrite alone is worth about £150,000. Apparently
Thomas had transferred his estates to his sons,
and had done so long enough before his death to
dodge the probate people.
Labor members nowadays turn up in
places that you wouldn’t have dreamt of looking
for them a few years ago. The chosen candidate
for the Franklin (Tas.) Federal seat is W. E.
Shoobridge. owner of Bushy Park, the finest
orchard and hop farm in the fruitful Derwent
Valley.
Mrs. Eliza Charlotte Kater, an old
identity, died on October 12 at The Meads,
Enfield (N.S.W.), aged 89 years. She was a
daughter of Major Edward Darvall, and married
Henry Herman Kater on July 30, 1840. Her
husband came to New South Wales in 1839 in the
ship Euphrates, which he chartered and loaded
with cattle and horses. The cattle helped to form
the celebrated herd of the late W. H. Suttor
of Brucedale, Bathurst. H. E. Kater. M.L.C.,
who married a daughter of William Forster, of
Brush Farm, one time Premier of N.S.W., is a
son of the deceased lady.
From the Oldest Inhabitant :
Apropos the Australian Alliance Assurance Company
and the London and Lancashire blend (B. 14/10/’O9l, this
is the story of how the A. A. Company was established.
In 1855 Michael O’Grady, of Roscommon, came to Sydney
from England, to found a branch of the People’s Pro-
vident Society, and in 1856 he established his head-
quarters in Collins-street West, Melbourne. He abandoned
the People’s Provident, and undertook the management
of the European Assurance Society. In 1861 he entered
Parliament for Villiers and Heytesbury, under the wing
of John O’Shannassy. He sat in six successive Par-
liaments, and was twice a Minister. The European
Assurance Society, being a dull-headed, unimaginative
brute, didn’t see any honor or profit in having its general
agent in Parliament, so Michael O’Gradv severed his con-
nection with it and joined with John O’Shanassy, R. S.
Anderson and others in forming the Australian Alli-
ance, which started business in 1861, at the south-
west corner of Elizabeth and Collins streets, where
Sayce and Cheetham had a crockery warehouse in
the mid-’fifties. O’Grady managed the Australian Alli-
ance till his death in 1875. His old English company, the
European, became in later years part of the notorious
Albert and European smash. Its end was bad but it
might have been a great deal worse. It at least helped
to make history. The most prolific cause of mortality
among British' insurance offices is simply that the
manager takes all the funds, sells the furniture, locks
the frontdoor and booksinlo the river. Then
the next Insurance Blue Book includes that co. in the
long list of those which have “Gone from Address.” A
single recent Blue Book recorded over a dozen such dis-
appearances. Sometimes it is added that Shyster and
Co., solicitors, 10 Back Alley, off Burst-street, can supply
information. Mostly nobody supplies anything, not even
the office boy’s back wages.
“ Srailer ” Hales, one time a Sydney pug
reporter, lias got his name into the cables again,
this time as the inventor of a “rifle grenade,”
which has been put through a successful test by
the German General Staff, whereupon “ Smiler ”
pocketed a trial- order. One way and another,
Hales is seeing a bit of life and the world. He
started as a carpenter in S. Aus.; then he was
reporter, prospector and mining expert; and
wherever there has been a shindy during the last
15 years he has poked the stump of a finger into
it. That stump, by the way, is “Smiler’s”
trophy of one of his earliest shindies, arising out
of a paragraph he wrote.
“Lorenz” : G. Reid seems, of late, to be
aspiring to the mantle of Bent, deceased, as
champion egotist of the Commonwealth. Bent
said he had been everything, at one time or an-
other, from admiral to sea-cook, and from un-
crowned king of Vic. to street minstrel. Reid,
not to be out-bragged, has in quick succession
claimed to have been the most audacious truant
of his school-days, a most multifarious lover, a
bad Presbyterian, also an astoundingly good
Presbyterian, several sorts of Plymouth Brother,
and varied descriptions of Methody (all unusual
to a degree), a cricketer of note, a champion
lolly-shifter, and about 1400 other utterly unim-
portant things. At a recent distribution of prizes
at N. Sydney he delivered himself of the follow-
ing deplorable stuff re “fagging” as practised in
the schools of Hingland :
Don’t imagine that fagging is done with after you
have left school, /left school when I was 13 years of age
.. . and I have been fagging ever since—for my employer
earlv in life, for iny clients at the Bar, and when in the
House for my constituents. After I became Premier I
fagged for the Governor, etc., etc.
There is seemingly no text that Reid can’t work
into a reference to some past doings of his own, in
which respect he remarkably resembles the late
Bent. What he lacks is what Bent lacked—a
sense of proportion to enable him to grasp the
complete unimportance of his prattlings.
The tribute of Frank Croson to a noble
woman who has departed :
Victoria would have done itself more honor—though
the recipient would scarcely have appreciated it—
had it, instead of publicly burying Bent, handed a
State funeral to Selina Murray Macdonald Sutherland.
The Scottish identity, whose firm face and mannish attire
belied her heart, commenced her strenuous life when she
reached the Wairarapa district of Maoriland in ’6B.
Masterton (M.L.) Hospital, the Melbourne Maternity
Home, and the Melbourne District Nursing Society were
all founded by her ; but it was as Miss Sutherland of the
Victorian Neglected Children’s Aid Society that she was
best known and loved. Her later years were stormy
ones, but since she parted from the Scots’ Church Society
and started her last refuge, there has ne\er been any
hesitation or doubt amongst city constables and others
what to do when women and children needed help. Was
a derelict mite picked up on a doorstep at dead
of night, the invariable remark was, “Take it to Miss
Sutherland.” Was a wayward girl in- a mess and
friendless: “Go round to Miss Sutherland ; she’ll look
after you.” She always seemed to have room, and was
always able to do the best thing. A young woman with
a baby at breast was once sent from a Gippslarid town-
ship to Melbourne gaol in default of a fine. Miss Suther-
land heard of it. There was no long confabulation, no
parleying with red tape, no tiresome deputation. She
went to the two or three who could pull the strings, and
when the train reached Princes Bridge a cab was waiting
to take mother and baby to the Home till the fine could
be financed. That instance was typical of hundreds.
And the hopeless, helpless youngsters I Two hundred
and forty-eight passed through her hands last year, and
that has been going on for 20 years. No wonder there
were sad eyes in many homes when the news was told.
Even the recent legacy left by Miss Meglin, of Diamond
Creek (Vic.), which would have made her closing years
more fruitful and more peaceful, came too late : the land
was to have been transferred the very day she died. So
there is no reward. Neither honor, nor riches, nor fame
—as the world knows them. Only the knowledge that
she fully carried out the command of her Master: “Suffer
little children.”
NORMAN
LINDS A Y.
Melbourne’s pro-
tector of waifs and
strays, Miss Suther-
land, left little but the
record of her good deeds, her sole possessions
being about £lO in the Savings Bank, a gold
watch and chain, and a few household goods. The
cash and furniture go to the home, the jewellery
to a relative in Scotland.
“ Melb ” writes :
Baroness Burdett Coutts suggested “ The Catch of the
Season ”to Seymour Hicks. His heroine is Angela, the
Cinderella. The Baroness was Angela, a kind of Cinder-
ella, with two proud aunts, the Marchioness of Bute and
the Countess of Guildford. James Coutts, banker,
married his brother’s servant girl, Eliza Starkie. She
became the mother of Lady Bute, Lady Guildford and
Lady Burdett, wife of Sir Francis Burdett. Angela was
the daughter of the Burdetts. On the demise of Mrs.
Coutts, Coutts married Harriet Mellon, an actress. Lady
Bute and Lady Guildford turned up their proud noses.
Coutts left ail his money to Harriet. She became
Duchess of St. Albans, and turned up her proud nose.
She left all her money, about £2,000,000, to poor little
Angela Burdett.
The two biggest ecclesiastical guns at the
recent R.C. congress in Sydney were good
sports in their day. The Cardinal’s strong
point was the high jump ; he was easily the
champion “ lepper ” at the Irish College
in Rome. Archbishop Redwood, of Maori-
land, went over the sticks too; but he
preferred to be carried. He wasn’t exactly
a jockey, but he rode several of his father’s
horses on the old Hornebush (N.S.W.)
racecourse. The Archbishop’s father was
gamekeeper for the Cliffords, who lived
on the borders of Norfolk (England).
When the Cliffords went to Maoriland, he
also went; he took up land near Nelson
and Marlborough, and bred sheep and
horses. Some of these horses have run
on Australian racecourses, and the Red-
wood animal’s descendants can still hold
their end up.
The 11th Regiment left Sydney for
England in 1857 ; but though that is a good
while ago there are still living in New
South Wales? three old soldiers which it left
behind—Sergeant Lees, aged something be-
tween 80 and 90; Charles Smith, of En-
more, aged 82; and James Sangford, of Hamil-
ton (Newcastle), aged 87.
Mrs. Mary Campbell, a colored matron,
died a few days ago at the Macquarie Mission
Camp, Wellington (N.S.W.). Her exact age was
not known, but as her memory professed to go
back to the time when Wellington was a convict
depot, and she spoke of the flogging of convicts
on Die Hard Hill, she must have been of some
venerability. She was the last of the aborigines
who were ministered to by Parson William Wat-
son, who (assisted by his wife, Anne Watson) was
aboriginal protector at Wellington Valley in 1832.
N.S.W. Secretary for Railways, Hugh
McLachlan, brother of D. C., the Commonwealth
Public Service Commissioner, sweated himself to
death. He succumbed to mental exhaustion at
53, when he was physically sec up for another 20
years. A while back he went to the International
Railway Congress at Washington, more for a
relief from long and continuous strain than any-
thing else ; but he was rushed over thousands of
miles of railway lines, and he toiled all the time.
He didn’t recuperate in the least, and he resumed
a billet which required ceaseless attention and
activities when he ought to have been rusticating
on a farm, chasing the cow out of the corn or
shooing the crow off the fig-tree.
“Avia ” throws in some lumps of biography
of Zeppelin, the man who gave the stait to the
new craze for flying. Of Zeppelin :
Retired Wurtemberg cavalry general. Fought on
Union side in American Civil War. There got 1
about military ballooning. Won the Iron 9 ross , •
Franco-German War. Then started a-pestermg
airships. Floated a £lO,OOO airship co. at last. ay nuu-
summer, 1900, his first dirigible was built at HaKe Con-
stance. Only kept up 17min. Tried again in three
months. Kept up lhr. 20min. Funds ran out. Could
not trv again till January, 1900. Terrible storm . busted
the ship when 1500 ft. up. Had another in nine month..
Unqualified and practicable success; carried i j
passengers 69 miles in 2hr. 17min. The Ge man
War Office was then converted from scepticism
to faith. In June, 1908, the Zeppelin IV went round
and about over Lake Constance. On Ist July she electri-
fied the world with her famous cruise into Switzerland
12 hours at over 37 miles an hour. The Government
granted £25,000. Public enthusiasm swelled it to
£300,000. Government took over Zeppelins dockyard.
On March 19 this year a Zeppelin carried 26 military pas-
sengers over 150 miles, round Lake Constance, (“Oppin,,
imaginary borubs on St. Paul’s, Westminster Abbey, i
Houses of Parliament, Woolwich Arsenal, Buckingham
Palace, and so forth. Kaiser chuckling, the flagship is
now stationed at Metz, and a training ship at Beilin,
Nobody outside knows how many Zeppelins are being
built at his dockyard of Friedrichshafen. Biggest known
as yet, 453 ft. long, 43ft. thick, with two motors totalling
220 horse power.
Dr. Anderson is the most distressful
bishop in Australia. John Campbell, an old-time
Sydney merchant, put aside £lO,OOO so that
somebody might wear gaiters in Riverina
(NSW) But the investments have
shrivelled up worse than a last years
tomato; so when the Bishop of
Riverina has finished the annual
skirmish of the vineyard, he reckons
he is £4OO out of pocket on each
Dec. 31. So far as he is con-
cerned himself, he had the
luck to have a bit of property
which he has been turning into
cash and eating ; but when he
leaves lie has his dou hts whether
the diocese will be able to get
anybody else to take on the job.
Clerics with bits of property
are rare.
Sergeant Cawood, of Parra-
matta (N.S.W.). holds the Aus-
tralian record for long service
as a volunteer. He has entered
upon his fiftieth year of the
business. During the whole
half-century he has been con-
nected with the Parramatta
company, and is believed to be
the most continuous volunteer in the British
dominions.
Though, apropos Bent, lately deceased,
there have been frequent references to “ his
daughter, Mrs. Bleasby,’' as a matter of fact lie
left no children. Mrs. Bleasby was an adopted
daughter. Bent was twice married. His first
wife died within 12 months of her wedding
day Bent’s father also ventured twice into matri-
mony, the Hay (N.S.W.) councillor being Thomas’s
full brother, while two married sisters still live m
the electorate their half-brother represented.
Miss Sarah Ford, who was well known oil
the Australian stage in the years that the locust
hath eaten, died at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, on the Bth instant, aged o 0 years. She
was a daughter of Mr. W. H. Ford, now the
oldest living actor, and recognised bv the London
press as the father of the stage. He is an octo-
genarian and hangs out his aged shingle at South
Yarra, Melbourne.
THE COOK-DEAKIN ARMY.
The Law: “ Now , you be movin' on, me man;
if you knock the soldiers over I"ll run you in.”
Premier lou Ward telegraphed as follows: —
Might I be permitted to join with your many friends in
adding my congratulations to theirs upon the eventful
day that you are celebrating, and to wish you many
happy returns of the day.— J. G. Ward.
And Timi Kara, lately the Acting-Premier, sent
a long message —this and a lot besides
Warmest congratulations. . . . Yours is an exceptional
and splendid record of work well and faithfully done, and
one of which you . . . may be justly proud. In the long
period that your service covers you have drawn to your
side many warm friends from all sections of the com-
munity. . . . You will miss . . . the faces of many . . . but
it is a great consolation to feel that as our ranks thin out
those of us who are left draw closer to one another m
mutual esteem. . . .—J. Carroll.
All that because a lady had kept a pretty good
pub in a country township for 21 years !
A LAY OF WELCOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fife and drum band was present to welcome the
Premier. — Maoriland News Item.
J. Ward has come again, the skies are blue.
Fill the shrill fife and tootle—rootle—too
A lay of welcome.
His praise is borne afar ; he went to do
Vast deeds of prowess—boodle—boodle—boo !
He brings a million !
Thump on the drum, he left us in the stew
’Twixt beef and onions—doodle —doodle—doo,
He holds the ladle !
The spring has come, and all the world is new,
Be sure he’ll pull us throotle —throotle —through,
He’s been to Cohen.
A simple folk are we, our wants are few ;
All that we need is cash, and surely—surely—shoo
He’s gone and got it.
Someone must pay the piper, it is true ;
But does it matter who the—who the—who
The devil does it!
J. Ward has got the cash, the skies are blue,
Fill the loud fife, and (cootie —tootle—too)
Make him damned welcome !
MAOKILAND.
D. M. W.
abreast with modern science.
Great Remedy for Over-Fatness.
Medical science, which has made such extra-
ordinary progress within the last two decades, is
further enriched by a remarkable remedy for
obesity. The prescription is now given to tne
world, and one can make it up at home without
trouble after procuring the following harmless
ingredients at any chemist’s One half-ounce of
Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of Glycyr-
rhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., and
Peppermint Water to make up six ounces in all.
Now take two teaspoonfuls after each meal and at
bedtime, at the same time enjoying the most
wholesome food you fancy. This simple, scientific
and entirely harmless home treatment will make
you lose pounds of unnecessary fat-degenerated
flesh in a week, and in a very short while you will
have felt the last of the discomforts of corpulency
with its train of inevitable ills. You will find your
digestive powers much improved, and blood and
skin will be purified. Both physically and men-
tally you will feel much younger, and the wonder-
ful decrease in bulk will leave you brighter and
more energetic, as well as symmetrical in figure.'


Trout Streams of Kosciusko.
During the summer months, when the great thaw sets
in, and the melting of winter’s levelling snows reveals the
peaks and rugged gorges of Kosciusko, the world’s oldest
mountain, the call of the highlands gradually fades from
the ear of the ski-runner, tobogganer and skater, and
renews the enthusiasm of the trout fisher and moun-
taineer.
Those famous snow-fed trout streams —the Snowy,
Thredbo and Eucumbene —lie within easy distance of
the Government Accommodation Houses—The Creel,
on the banks of the swift running Thredbo an the foothills
of Kosciusko; and the magnificent Hotel Kosciusko,
situated on the uplands, at an elevation of 6000 ft. Round
about the hotel, trout streams may be seen in the making.
Thousands of tiny rivulets babble and splash among
granite boulders in their headlong rush from the uplands
to the valley bottom. A short walk from The Creel
leads to the confluence of the Thredbo and the Snowy,
which at this point have broadened out into noble
streams, and are well filled with beautiful fish. The
trout season commences on November 1 and lasts till
April 30.
From the Hotel Kosciusko a good road leads to the
cairn on the summit of Mt. Kosciusko. The scenery is
remarkably grand. A veritable wildferness of tumbling
mountain ranges stretches away in every direction—to
the south deep into Gippsland, and to the east to the
fringe of the Pacific.
The journey to Kosciusko is generally via Oooma, which
is 12 hours by rail from Sydney, and thence by motor to
The Creel and coach to tfie hqtel.
Full particulars will be supplied by the Government
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Sydney.
TROUTING ON THE KOSCIUSKO UPLANDS.
1. The Creel on the Thredbo River—a famous trout-fishing box. 2. The Snowy River, near the Creel.
3. The Hotel Kosciusko, adjacent to some of the finest trout waters in the world.


Walter Bradley & Co.
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
Don’t Cough All Night.
Restful sleep follows the use of I)r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. The best lung remedy in the
world. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
State wishes clearly, Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbta Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Take care of your stomach and you will
have little need for the doctor. When you feel
out of order take Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
THE BIG THING IN
CUBING INDIGESTION
*
Is to give the Stomach more
Strength.
*
A bad Sufferer with Indigestion
Tells how This can be done.
There is one great point about curing indigestion
and stomach trouble that sufferers with the com-
plaint must remember. When the stomach be-
comes too weak to digest ordinary food, the
pain and trouble caused by eating an ordinaly
meal is called indigestion. The stomach is
intended to digest good wholesome food,
and the condition called indigestion can only be
cured by restoring the stomach to a proper state
of health. If you take a purgative to move the
meal along or a slop diet, the stomach isn’t
gaining strength, is it?
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, which are a blood
former and nerve tonic, aim at strengthening all
the organs of the body. The fact that anaemic
people always suffer with indigestion shows the
intimate relation between the blood supply and
the digestive system. That’s why the blood
making qualities of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have
cured indigestion in a common-sense way. This
Brisbane man tells how he was cured
“ My occupation is a pretty trying oneattimes,
and though I am naturally robust I got a had
attack of indigestion,” said Mr. Arthur Cook,
Warry Street, The Valley, Brisbane. “My hack
began to ache terribly. When I stooped I’d feel
as if I were going to snap in two. My head would
ache terribly and quite daze me. Sometimes I’d
eat ravenously and then not fancy a bite for days.
I lost all energy. I got very pulled down. I
grew thin and very pasty looking. I didn’t sleep
well. Each morning my tongue would he furred.
After I ate anything it would form in a hard
lump at the end of my breast bone. I’d have a
nasty taste in my mouth and occasionally bring up
what I had swallowed. I’d have specks floating
before my eyes and I suffered a lot with heartburn.
The doctor’s medicine did me no good, so I
thought I’d try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. The
first three boxes didn’t seem to do me much good,
hut after that I started to mend. The food began
to digest and soon I could eat a hearty meal. The
strength returned to my limbs and by the time I
had finished the seventh box the ache was nearly
gone from my hack. I filled out again and the
headaches vanished. Ten boxes put me in the
best of health.”
The price is 2s. fid. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them, send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
h
y
VEIIY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Eniasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(ovp. ll•'liter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Three members of the Peake (S.A.)
Government are to retire early next year to make
room for tliree Butlerites. Honorary Minister
Addison will stand for the Senate, and Attorney-
General Mitchell is to go to the Northern Territory
as Govt. Resident. Lands Minister Coombe may
be made Commissioner of Police if he thinks it
good enough. He is a clever journalist, who can
adjust himself to almost any position.
Senator Trenwith has on hand a Bill “ to
amend the Constitution to give the Federal
Parliament power to adjust the industrial con-
ditions in the various States”; and if he can
ioree it to a division it will be interesting to watch
the side-stepping of the Fusionists. Only the
pledged Fusionists will oppose it, and they
scarcely dare do so directly. The elections will
be very near by then, and the electors will have
had time enough to analyse the excuses and not
time enough to forget them. By the way, what
are the odds about the Age backing Trenwith?
It dearly loves to be on the winning side ; but it
also dearly hates Trenwith.
Of course you want health, that is natural,
and Chamberlain’s Tablets will positively help
you to get it.*
Labor leader and local preacher Verran
(S. A.) is a hot opponent of gambling in all shapes,
and he feels very sad because Blundell, one of his
party, has brought in a Bill providing for a half-
crown totalisator. The measure has been intro-
duced to give “equal opportunities to all.”
Hitherto the machine has refused to look at any
bet under five shillings.
Ex-Senator D. J. O’Keefe, who lost his
seat by a few votes at the last Senate election in
Tasmania, has been selected by a large majority
of Labor League ballots to again chase the job.
Ex-State Attorney-General Gilmore is up in the
preliminary Labor ballot; but so far he isn’t up in
the front bunch.
Although she had to be hustled a bit, the
woman voter of Brighton (Vic.) did her duty
pretty thoroughly at the first State election in
which she was entitled to express her opinion.
Of the total females on the Brighton roll, no less
than 83 per cent, dropped a paper in the ballot
box. while the male element only scored 63 per
cent.
The old thing happened at a sale of dairy
farms on the St. Petrox and Lamb’s Valley
stations, outside Maitland (N.S.W.), the other
day. There were 11 lots or farms, and two
men bought six of them. The fear of a pro-
gressive land-tax may be making big landlords
cut up their principalities, but it wjll take the
tax itself to keep principalities from growing up
again.
Thus the Old Soldier :
Reuter cables again that the authorities in India are
getting anxious. “ The Amir of Afghanistan is said to be
unsympathetic towards India, while his brother, Nasr
Ullah Khan, is actively anti-British.” Nothing more
likely. They have been importing arms, ammunition and
very likely cannon through Persia, and perhaps think
they are ready to repeat the old plundering game.
Afghanistan has lived on the loot of India for the last 900
years; and even since it has been nominally under
British protection, the Amirs have been paid what was to
all intents and purposes blackmail to keep them quiet.
But times are changed, and the Hindu has forgotten his
fear of the Afghan, and has begun to agitate against the
Government, which is really his only protection against
plunderers. He claims, on the strength of his nominal
two-thirds of the population, the right to rule all other
races and creeds, and it is really a fine chance for the
Amir to set himself up as the champion of the 80 or 90
millions of oppressed Mohammedans, who are 53 per cent,
of the people of the Panjab, the nearest province to
Afghanistan, and 62 per cent, in Eastern Bengal. Still,
numbers never have mattered much in India. Till ’4B,
when the Punjab was annexed, for example, it was
governed by the Sikhs, who are only 7 per cent, of its
people.
“ Red Tape Junior ” speaks :
The eternal feminine cropped up before the Wagga
(N.S.W.) Land Board at a recent sitting, when the eligi-
bility of a lone woman as a closer settler was debated.
Woman, it is ordained, should aspire to closely settle in
the arms of her doting husband ; but the lady in this
case had settled on mother earth, and wished to get rid
of the job. The applicant was a single girl who had been
allotted an area of State land, and she wished to transfer
it to her father. The land had been worked and managed
by the father, who was ineligible under the Act to acquire
the land originally, and on the face of it the case looked
like dummying. The Board found that bad faith was not
proved, and having granted the application proceeded to
discuss women’s rights as far as State lands are con-
cerned. Single women, the Board considered, are a
nuisance. Either a parent appears, or a husband, whom
perhaps the Board would not have on its mind, becomes
virtually the owner of the selection, or the lady becomes
an old maid of unimproved value after a long struggle
with nature in the shape of drought, dingoes and land
agents. On the other hand, if a single woman of
undaunted mien, with an axe in her hand and a hatpin
in her mouth, should decide to chuck waiting in a city
restaurant at 10s. a week and chase the wily heifer to the
milking bail, why shouldn’t she be allowed to? Why,
indeed, should a woman be daunted by the said heifer if
she is capable of trimming race-nats for infuriated cus-
tomers? And, anyhow, women have votes, so it wasn’t
for the Board to say they weren’t to have selections.
The opinion the Board came to was that the single
young woman is a desirable settler and a great annoyance
FROM THE JAWBONES OF AN ASS.
Senator Neild (N.S.W.) seconded the motion. He ob-
served that he was not enthusiastic over the Yass-Can-
berra site, and did not admire the quality of the land
there, but because of its central position, among other
reasons, he would vote for it. —News Item.
NEILD: “ Yes, p'raps there ain' as many orange
groves an strawberry patches as there might
be, an ’ possibly sparkling brooks ain't too
plentiful, an' it may rain only once in a long
time, but—it DO be nice and central.”
Thus Dacey, alleged N.S.W. Labor
M.L. A., during the recent debate on the Federal-
State financial scheme
If the State passed a law to-morrow that the people
were in favor of, and the Upper House dared to interfere
with it, it would get swept out. It was 14 years since
the Upper House had dared to interfere with the
Assembly. ... It was a good bogey to put up, this talk
about the Upper House. The Senate was an anachronism.
... He would sooner have an Upper House than a
Senate.
So it seems that all the years Dacey, as a member
of the Labor party, has been objecting to the
Upper House he has been fooling the people, for
he now explains that those who, like himself, pro-
fess to regard the Upper House as an evil are
merely putting up a bogey. And Dacey prefers a
House of life nominees to a House elected by
adult suffrage. Surely it is time Dacey joined the
Wade crowd, where he appears to belong.
The decision of the P. and O. Company to
run its nigger-manned ships across to Auckland
(M.L.) is the sort of thing which shrieks for strong
measures of repression. The nigger is reprehen-
sible all the time ; but he is more so than usual
now, when Australia has to create a fleet of its
own and needs to rear all the reliable white sea-
men it can. The P. and O. was always a brutally
selfish and unpatriotic animal, which, so long as it
saw a little extra profit ahead, apparently didn’t
care twopence if the breed of British seamen died
out for want of employment and the British navy
was left derelict on the seas, and its further
extension hereabouts will be a calamity.
THE ROAD TO RUIN.
But no sooner had the Fusion Ministers got together
than everything seemed to become topsy-turvey...Here,
then, is an absolute reversal of the previous Liberal
policy, etc. —The Age, angrily.
Mr. Joseph Cook: He is a national leader still, in spite
of what you say.
Mr. Wise said that Mr. Deakin was a leader who went
behind Mr. Joseph Cook. —Another Age item.
THE KIN: “ Yah, stoppit, stoppit! This ain't
the way I meant I go! ”
“ H.R.” writes from up North :
Re “ Sara S. Nolan ” and her wild, weird whoop against
defence. It may surprise the lady to know that not only
is the conscription law still in force in Britain as regards
the county militia, but the press-gang law is still in full
force, just at it has been for centuries past. Of course,
it isn’t used now, seeing that there is no great naval war
on hand, but then it never was used sfive in the case of
naval war. As regards the lady’s comforting assur-
ance that there will never be war with Germany
because that country’s very existence depends on its trade
with the British Empire, she will probably be surprised to
hear that the British Empire depends more on Germany,
in a trade sense, than Germany does on the British
Empire—that is to say, Germany buys more from the
British Empire than it sells to it. Instead of talking
ignorantly through her Merry Widow hat, let the lady
hunt up the article on Germany in the ‘‘Statesman’s
Year Book” and learn something. I, for one, have no
desire to see money spent on armaments if they are not
necessary, but a lady who has contrived to be out-
rageously wrong in every important statement she makes
fails to convince me re the lack of necessity.
The uselessness of Bruce Smith’s nigger
friend as a seaman was again shown in the case of
the British steamer Parua, wh.ch was Wrecked
among the Fiji Islands a few weeks ago. In the
dead waste and middle of the night the Parua
drove its lofty, thoughtful brow into a coral reef.
Straightway the colored crew went mad and
drunk and frantic and raving, and cantered all
over the place uttering a weird disarrangement of
sounds. In the end a lifeboat was manned, and
some of the passengers sent ashore. But instead
of returning to the ship for the rest of the
people the colored sailors left the boat on the
beach and fled inland, howling as they ran. As
it happened, the Parua had a deck cargo of tim-
ber, and out of that a raft was constructed on
which the rest of the people got ashore with diffi-
culty. Bruce Smith’s favorite nigger seaman
didn’t help them. He was still howling in the
adjacent forest.
The Labor party is beginning to see that
there’s a heap of waste going on in the Melbourne
municipalities, and that it is the producer who
has to stand the racket of it. Consequently, one
or two schemes are brewing : (1) in the direction of
amalgamating South Melbourne, St. Kilda and
P’ran ; (2) ditto as to Richmond, Collingwood
and Fitzroy ; and (3) in getting a comprehensive
report on tramway electrification and electric
lighting, the 20 suburban councils being invited to
combine for the purpose. The matter is still in
the conversational stage, which means that there is
no present fear of Socialism arriving and bumping
capital out of the country before it has had time
to collect itself, so to speak. Still, it is cheerful
to note that someone is making a start.
The exploded McMillan pushed himself
into print the other day to deplore the wickedness
of a N.S.W. proposal at present under discussion.
As every railway built with public money, and
every culvert laid down, and every harbor im-
provement made adds a fraction to the value of
the big idle landlord’s territory, the Government
proposes, in a very small limited way, to give the
big landlord notice that it doesn’t intend to go on
giving bigger and bigger prices for his land—it
wants the right to take it over later on at its
present value. “Such an Act must paralyse all
efforts and stopall improvements, ’’wails McMillan;
which proves that McMillan is still either a very
ignorant or a very unscrupulous person, seeing
that any improvements made either before or
after the Bill passes are to be paid for quite inde-
pendently of the land. And the idea of para-
lysing the efforts of the big landlords of N.S.W.
is humorous, anyhow. The fruitful Peel River
Estate, for instance, had been so energetically
improved that, when an accident happened to the
man who was valuing it for the owners, the driver
had to wander nearly the whole of a day and a
night before he could find anybody to go to the
injured man’s rescue.
A recent Sydney Telegraph letter anent
the Dreadnought drunk contained a wen y
appropriate printer’s error :
The Lord Mayor, Mr. Alien Taylor, with the courage of
his convictions, has recognised that an opportunity
arisen for doing lasting and permanent good, and ms
proposal of a naval college and Dreadnought tram g
farms fits the bill. If any man deserves public tbanksh it
is Allen Taylor.—Yours, etc.,
j. Earle Hermann.
He doesh, unquestionably (hie !) he doesh.
The administration of the Old Age Pen-
sions Act is very languid in Westralia. Senatoi
de Largie mentioned, the other day. that a battler
of 80 had toddled into a Groper country
town to apply for his pension, and had
been kept waiting under consideration
for such a time that he had become
stranded and hadn’t a copper to toddle
back with. It seems that the I used
Government has appointed one special
magistrate to deal with pension claims
in Westralia, which is a territory of
975,920 square miles, and that makes
things a trifle slow for the aged and the
toothless.
The Socialism-This-Very-Minute
party, which is the boss deposit-loser
of Australia, has again nominated three
candidates to contest the Senate elec-
tions in N.S.W. Then there will be
three Labor candidates whose chances
the Sociaiism-This-Very-Minute people
will do their best to ruin. And if the
Labor men won’t declare themselves on
the fiscal question there may be a Pro-
tectionist Democrat as well. Consequently the
three Fused Tory Freetraders will very probably
get back, when with better management they
might get slops.
The other day the Lalbert estate, at
Armadale (Vic.), was auctioned, and the lot
realised at the rate of £lOOO per acre.
Landlord,” remarked the evening Herald, “ has
held this choice block for some time, until it has
become surrounded by some of the finest suburban
homes.” And then Mr. Fat Landlord got his re-
ward—£looo per acre, mostly value created by the
builders of “the finest suburban homes,” and by the
State, which has provided the suburb with a rail-
way. No wonder Mr. Fat Landlord bitterly
opposes the land-tax, which would have secured
to the State a little of that £lOOO. But why the
State should present Mr. Fat Landlord with a
House of his own in which to prevent the State
from getting a bit of its own, the Lord only-
knows.
OUR DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have wakened—like Van Winkle, we have risen from
our sleep ;
And we find our dreams exploded and our visions stale
and cheap!
We were dreaming of a city such as Athens was of old,
But we find they’ve planned a suburb, where the Herald
may be sold !
They require a tawdry village, near enough to heed the
call
Of a press that reeks with venom, and is poisonous and
small !
We had pictured us a city ’mid a thousand silver streams ;
But we woke to find Yassberra, and to hear the Herald’s
screams !
We were dreamers—we were foolish, for we thought that
men of sense
Would be speaking for Australia, and would cast the
Small Things hence.
We imagined that the Rulers who controlled this blessed
land
Would be Statesmen, would be Doers—and it’s hard to
understand ;
For we thought that Alfred Deakin was a person with a
spine;
But we find he’s tame and abject, only fit to cringe and
whine !
When we left him he was soaring like an eagle to the
sky ;
Now he’s Fused and tightly hobbled—will Jehovah tell
us why ?
We were thinking—we are puzzled when we think of
what we thought,
For we cannot see a symptom of the things Australia
sought !
iVe had visions of a Gateway where the arsenals might
be —
Where the battleships might flourish in the dockyards by
the sea !
But we find a shoddy harbor, not a real Australian port—
And we’re somewhat flabbergasted that the facts have
fallen short!
We were thinking of Australia, but the truth is very
plain ;
Yea, the Insects thought of ’Berra—and the contrast
gives us pain !
We were dreaming of a city with a Democratic press ;
But we find our dream is busted, so we speak with
bitterness.
We had visions—see the wreckage ! —of a press that would
expound
Views that fitted Big Australia with a gospel strong and
sound !
We imagined that the Herald and the Argus and their
tribe
Would be smitten night and morning by the nation-
building scribe !
We had thought—in short, we reckoned that this con-
tinent would gee ;
But we find that sundry prophets slump and shrivel
horribly !
We were thoughtful—in our visions, lo ! we gladly sailed
away
To the island once discovered by one Raphael Hythloday !
Yea, we thought our keel had grounded on Utopia’s
blessb 1 shore—
We explored (in dreams) the City that was raised by
Thomas More !
We encountered the Republic Plato fashioned long b.c.,
And likewise the land ideal of the recent Bellamy !
All of these we contemplated, and applauded—in our
dreams ;
But, alas, the Chance has vanished, and the whole a
swindle seems !
For the views of men are sordid, and their ways are very
cheap—
Jones may shout and yell for Labor, but his arm is slow
to reap !
Smith may prate of legislation “ when the Nation shall
control ”
But he pusheth with the Insects when the log is swift to
roll !
Yea, the gas evaporateth, and it leaves a sediment
Which is useless for the purpose of this harassed con-
tinent !
Brown is apt to sink his gospel sixty fathoms in the
sea—
Yet he dredgeth up its ruins when it suiteth Binks, M.P. !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Royal Bank of Australia Limited,
Head Office: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FORTY-THIRD REPORT. Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 20th October, 1909.
The Directors have pleasure in placing in the hands of Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and Statement
of Accounts for the half-year ending 30th September, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £4595 15s. 2d. brought from.last half-year) amount to .. .. £22,569 18 11
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz :
To pay a dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum £10,500 0 0
To transfer to the reserve fund (making it £122,500) 7,500 0 0
And to carry forward the balance .. 4,569 18 11
£22,569 18 11
The cash reserves of the bank are higher than usual at the moment, owing to the increase of State Government
funds, consequent on the recent successful flotation in London of a loan for £1,500,000 —the extra funds, however,
will shortly be absorbed in the ordinary course of business.
The Directors would once more invoke the assistance of the Shareholders in spreading the business of the bank
by introducing new accounts, etc. ; their services in this direction in the past have greatly helped to place the bank
in its present flourishing condition.
By order/ f the Board,
H. T. WILSON', General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1909.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Dr.
To Capital authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each
..£2,400,000 0 0
Capital subscribed .. 1,200,000 0 0
Capital paid up
Reserve fund ..
Profit and loss account
300,000 0 0
115,000 0 0
22,560 18 11
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation.,
Government deposits—
Not bearing' interest
Bearing interest ..
£53,167 16 5
329,649 15 5
Other deposits—Rebate and Interest
accrued—
Not hearing interest £459,910 0 1
Bearing interest .. 639,901 4 9
Balances due to other banks
Contingent liabilities as per contra
£437,569 18 11
14,110 0 0
77,524 12 9
382,817 11 10
- 1,099,811 4 10
615 1 2
£2,012,448 9 6
504,319 0 0
£2,516,767 9 6
4
By coin, bullion and cash
at, bankets .. ..£456,371 8
Money at call and short.
notice 25,000 0 0
Notes and bills of other
banks .. .. .. 537 18 6
Balances due from other
banks .. .. 8,710 7 0
Bills and remittances in
transit, and payable in
London 278,033 5 11
Government, municipal
and other public
stocks, debentures and
funds 73,750 0 0
Stamps .. .. .. 81)0 510
£842,793 5 7
Real estate—consisting of
Bank premises .. 55,000 0 0
Other real estate at cost to bank .. 7,575 15 5
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 1,104,759 8 6
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
etc ". 2,320 0 0
£2,012,448 9 6
Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra .. .. 504,319 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, income tax and other
charges £7,817 11 2
Balance 22,569 18 11
£30,387 10 1
By balance at 31st March, 1909 .. .. £22,158 5 2
Less dividend declared 30th
April, 1909 £10,062 10 0
Transfer to reserve fund .. 7,500 0 0
17,562 10 0
Balance carried down .. .. .. 4,595 15 2
Profits for the half-year after deducting’
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts 25,791 14 11
£30,387 10 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£115,000 0 0
£115,000 0 0
By balance at 31st March, 1909 .. ..£107,500 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss account .. 7,500 0 0
£115,000 0 0
THE FEDERAL BUILDING SOCIETY.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the Year ending 30th September, 1909.
To be presented to the Shareholders at a MEETING to be held in the National Trustees’ Building, 121-25 Queen
Street, Melbourne, at noon on FRIDAY, 29th OCTOBER, 1909.
The Directors present herewith their Fifth Annual Report and Statement of Accounts, duly audited.
The net profit for the year is .. .. £7140 -2 10
Balance from last year 1599 3 4
Milking a total of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8739 6 2
which the Directors propose to apportion as follows :
Interim Dividend at 6 per cent, per annum (to 31st March, 1909), paid
30th April last £2890' 10 7
To pay a Dividend for the half-year ending 30th September, 1909, at 7 per cent.
per annum (making 6J per cent, for the year) 3372 5 9
To Reserve Fund (making it £31,000) .. .. .. .. .. .. . . 1000 0 0
Carrying forward .. . 1476 9 10
£8739 6 2
Messrs. Arthur Thomas Robb and Valentine John Saddler, who retire from the Board in accordance with the
rules, have been duly nominated for re-election.
Th * retiring auditors, Messrs. C. H. Tackett and W. N. (tobertson, have also been nominated for re-election.
J. M. PRATT, Chairman.
A. SCOTT, Secretary.
Melbourne, 13th October, 1909.
Or.
BALANCE SHEET.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital £96,351 0 0
~ R eserve Fund (used in society’s business) 30,000 0 0
~ Repayments .. .. .. .. .. 278 5 1
~ Deposits and Accrued Interest .. .. 32,372 14 10
~ Balance .. .. .. ..£8739 6 2
~ Less Interim Dividend paid
30th April, 1909 .. .. 2890 10 7
5,848 15 7
£164,850 15 6
ASSKTS.
Loans on mortgage and
balances owing by pur-
Cbasers of properties
upon terms .. ..£142,471 8 5
Arrears .. .. .. 980 4 6
£143,451 12 11
Properties in possession (at valuation as
taken over from tbe old society) .. 18,813 9 0
Fees and insurance premiums .. .. 37 9 6
Bank credit .. .. .. .. .. 2,548 4 1
£164,850 15 6
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim Dividend paid 30th April, 1909 ..£2,890 10 7
~ Management, including salaries, directors’
and auditors’fees .. .. .. .. 1,304 0 0
.. Advertising .. .. .. .. .. 89 10 6
Printing and stationery 42 2 4
~ Commission .. .. .. .. .. 297 12 6
~ Postages, petty cash, etc. .. .. .. 82 14 1
~ Interest .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,681 2 6
~ Kent .. .. .. .. .... 120 0 0
~ Charges on properties :
Repairs and sewerage connec-
tions .. .. .. ..£124 4 2
Rates 255 3 5
Insurances .. .. .. 25 0 9
404 8 4
~ Balance £8,739 6 2
~ Less Interim Dividend paid as
above .. .. .. 2,890 10 7
5,848 15 7
£12,760 16 5
By Balance at 30th Sept., 1008.. £5971 9 1
~ Less Dividend paid 30th Oct.,
1908, £3372 ns. 9d. ; less
transferred to reserve, £lOOO 4,372 5 9
—— £1,599 3 4
~ Interest . '.. ..10,628 13 5
~ Rents 364 9 1
~ Fines and commissions 16S 10 7
£12,760 16 5
A. £GOTT, Secretary.. C. H. TUCKKTT, F.C.P.A. i
Melbourne, 13th October,. 1909. WM. N. ROBERTSON, K.O.P.A. i
The transfer books will be closed from the 16fch to 29th October, both dates inclusive.
Auditors.
The Edison “ Fireside ” Phonograph
lias all the important features of the higher priced machines and
Will Play Amberol and Standard Records.
PRICE - £4 15s.
The Amberol Attachment for the “Gem”
is easily applied and enables this popular phonograph to play the new Amberol
as well as the Standard Records.
PRICE -18 s. 6d.
All dealers can give full information.
, NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, Ltd., Dept. 8., 340 Rent Street, Sydney.
EDUCATION
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS -
Stott’s Correspondence C°M
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers 1 go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
penmanship
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And ull BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS .
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates' for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT. COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
772 QUEEN STRIET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brookman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREE , ADELAIDE, S.A.
AT LAST
~ t t
A Standard Typewriter at a Reasonable Price.
•*aWSt
r
ssr.
SV"
■
: v
is
'-;:a
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight i2lb.
THE BRITON
NEW MODEL NEW OFFER.
This typewriter is too well known to need lengthy description. It is the
ideal writing machine. Simple, never gets out of order, even with the
heaviest work. It will take as many carbon copies as you require, and will
cut a perfect stencil. You can pay more money for your typewriter, but
you cannot buy more real honest typewriter value.
We ship this machine, charges prepaid, to any town in Australasia, give
you ten days’ free trial, warrant it for two years. When you have tried
it, remit to us £9 ros., and it is yours. If you want to pay in instalments
we charge 10s. extra.
Write to-day, giving references, and ask us to ship a BRITON to you
for 10 days’ free trial.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cof. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Hobart ; 17 Grey St., Wellington, ,:f.Z.


The
Favorite Liqueur
Heerii\g
Peter
F
CHERRY
BRANDY
WHY GO GREY?
Premature greyness is due to scalp disease, and is
curable under the right treatment. The scalp becomes
healthy and the natural color returns without using any
dyes or stains. The right treatment must be individual,
prescribed only for the case in question, and it need not
be expensive.
I have cured hundreds of patients. One writes as
follows:
“ The treatment has done my hair good in every way.
There is a fair amount of young hair growing ail over.
The hair looks very glossy, and there is not a single grey
hair left. lam indeed pleased with the results.”
11. C., Hobart.
Call for free consultation any day but Saturday,
between 2.15 and 4.45 ; or, by appointment, Wednesday
evening between 6 and 7. If you cannot call, write,
enclosing Bd. in stamps for descriptive booklet and
testimonials to MRS. COWLING, Dept. B, HYGEIA
INSTITUTE, Ocean House, opposite Government
Savings Bank, Moore Street, Sydney.
a
"V.
Am 1 late, deah ? You’ll forgive
me, won’t you ? Ifeel so fri’fully
tired and seedy. What time did
you get away last night? I
had to stay at Auntie’s and this
morning when 1 woke up she
was standing over me with a
cup of that wretched tea of
hers-T-it’s so horribly scenty —1
simply had to drink it, but l
hav’nt felt well ever since. Why
on earth she gets the awful stuff
1 don’t know. Mother’s tried
time after time to make her use
R ob u r but she won’t, she says
“ she doesn’t believe in things
that are advertised” and says,
“she doesn’t care whether they
are good or not, she won’t use
them,” so old fashioned, isn’t it?
And she can’t be made to
understand that everything that
is any gocd is advertised in
these days. Oh! 1 say! there
are the boys! Come along, deah.
We’ll make them tak.t us down,
to afternoon tea. I’m just dying
for a freshly-made cup of Robur.
It’s the only thing that’ll put me
right.
The Block Girl.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Octobeb 19, 1909.
My Dkak Abini,—
I went to meet Mrs. Lily E -avton Asche deter-
mined that I would not ask 1 ler any stereotyped,
moth-eaten questions. I did not want to hear
where and when she made her first appearance, or
of the opposition of her people—conservative,
church-going folk—to her adoption of the stage as
a profession, or of her dreadiul attack of stage
fright at a psychological moment, or of
the stamped leather work with which she
tilled her leisure hours. Neither did I yearn for
heroics in praise of Australia, its audiences, and
the beauty of its women. Probably in any case
the visiting Lily would have talked none of this-
tiipe, but in case she might I drew up this list of
questions so that there should be no common-
placeness about my interview :
What age are you ?
What make-up do you use for daylight wear?
What is the length of your stride when travelling at
your utmost speed ?
Are you a Unitarian ?
Do you drink—milk ?
Do you sometimes borrow Petruchio’s ear-rings?
Are you a Suffragette?
What is your opinion about Cain marrying a monkey ?
Of which Polecat are you a partizan—Peary or Cook ?
Have you often dropped dead?
Did you ever hunt the wild ass in Persia?
Do you regard whale fishing as a sport for women ?
Unfortunately, I left the list in the tram ; con-
sequently there was no interview, only a pro-
longed causerie warranted not to reproduce suc-
cessfully in print, except in spots. One of the
exceptions concerns the fair creature’s house at
St. John’s Wood. It is an old place with an old
garden—the kind that recalls gardens in the verse
of Austin Dobson. The Asche pair had abode
there a year before one of them found a secret door-
in the floor of a summer-house irr the garden. It
opened on a spiral staircase of stone that led to an
underground room with thick concrete walls. A
suggestion of a fireplace is present, but nothing to
indicate the raison d'etre of thechamber. Possibly
it was a secret meeting place for some who were
agin the Government. It is too far from the coast
to admit of its having been a smuggler’s lair ; it is
older than the invention of the duty on whisky,
so it did not house an illicit still. A coiner’s den
or monk’s cell it may have been. Records credit
the one-time presence of a monastery in the
neighborhood.
A mention of “ Attila,” the play Mr. Lawrence
Binyon wrote for the Asches, is the cue for the
lady to speak admiringly of one Ricketts, a new
designer who planned one aspect of the pro-
duction. His genius runs to barbaric grandeur in
decoration and the weird and startling effect.
In the feast scene on Attila’s bridal night
(Sydneysiders who have read the drama will
remember that the great Hun married a lady
just to fill in a few unoccupied days whilst he was
waiting for a more exalted Burgundian princess
who was on her way to him), the banquet chamber
is pillared and decorated in blood-red. The
Hunnish King and his bride are robed in red, and
the dancing women are clad in red sheepskins.
Stephen Phillips? "Yes!” She looks a little
surprised, and asks : “ Anything of his been pro-
duced here?” "No. Some of us gloated over
the reading of his play poem ‘ Herod,’ and would
like to know if he wears nice ties,” “ I played
in ‘Herod’ when I was with the Beerbohm
Tree management,” replies the Lily dame. "It
was when the late Queen died. Miss Maud
Jeffries was the Queen Mariamne of the piece.
When she was taken ill I did my best in the
part.” She switches off to a panegyric on the
Jeffriesian art and beauty iq the r6le of Herod’s
Queen. (N.B. —This Herod —Herod the Great—
must not be confused with the foolish person who
gave away a head that wasn’t his to the Salome
girl now dancing at the Tivoli.)
The latest papers from London mention the
gifted Stephen Phillips’ bankruptcy. His
liabilities amount to £3OO. Not £300,000 —just
£3OO. And the receiver mentioned that the
bankrupt could not attend his examination
because he had not the means to travel from
Brighton, where he lived. As he is a distinguished
poet, this state of things may be Phillips’ own
fault. Indeed, report said of him some time
agone that he was well on his way to the demnition
bpw-wows. But the man who wrote “Herod”
ought to Vie retrieved by the State and kept
honorably and judiciously in the Hotel Cecil.
In the search for a word to describe the Asche-
Lily, "exotic” is the best that presents itself.
And her vivid coloring—large brown eyes, golden
brown hair and vermilion lips are most artfully
enhanced by her gowning of old rose in something
soft and silken and an Indian necklace of big
green, jade-like beads on a gold cord. She con-
fesses to a passion for old-rose tones. She
is a good height, too—half an inch short
of sft. Tin., and neither plump nor thin. Her
nose isn’t the transverse section that it seems
to be in her portraits and in certain lights on the
stage. It is probably the poetical type of nose
that Herrick (or was it Herbert ?) wrote verses to.
Mr. Oscar Asche, off the stage, looks like a
superior Eskimo. Perhaps he is one by descent,
as' his people come from near the blubber-oil
tracts of the tribe which is now so much in the
Polar limelight.
The Asches and some of “The Flag Lieuten-
ant” company have been sharing repasts with
the Dudley Excellencies at Federal Govern-
ment House. Dear, dear; how times have
changed for the better in the mummer’s case !
Once, if he did not belong to some baron or
other person of high degree, and wandered abroad
without a license signed by two Justices of the
Peace, he ran the risk of being grievously whipped
and burned through the gristle of the right ear
with a hot iron. That was an Elizabethan enact-
ment. And when he died he was often denied
Christian burial. In some old statutes he is still
classed with rogues and vagabonds. The wheel
has come full circle for the mime, and he is
swellin’ wisiblv either from the pride of life or the
Governor-General’s lunches.
The Oscar Asches have taken a flat at Cromer,
whence Mr. and Mrs. Jim Osborne have just fled
for their station. The actor-folk moved into their
new abode with a retinue of maids and valets last
Saturday.
Some day I shall stain the white radiance of
eternity with a woman’s blood. The tragedy will
occur at a matinee, and the victim will be the
woman who sits in front of me wearing a hat like a
balloonist’s parachute. At “The Tame Cat”
matinee on Saturday, the uglj' fashionable view-
obstructor raged in the front row of the circle
with uncommon ferocity. One particularly
objectionable big black hat, like a first-class
hearse in chip, made me its victim. Unfor-
tunately I hadn’t a match and no man was near
to give me one. Chip burns pretty well, and
there was a large area to be cleared.
Lady Dudley, her two elder daughters, and
Captains-Courageous Rome and Gilliat were pre-
sent to see the male Tame Cat rescued from the
beautifully manicured (or should it be pedi-
cured ?) claws of the cattess. The play was
reproduced by the Sydney Comedy Club in aid of
the Bush Nurses’ Charity now being organised by
Lady Dudley, and there was a well-filled house,
mostly of well-known persons.
Several of the players were shaky in their lines,
and they were seldom quick enough in pouncing
on their cues. They ought to rehearse their
pounces. Mrs. John Sandes, who was the
Elaine Cordemoy of the comedy, played
after a stately fashion in grande-dame style.
Miss Viva Frankel, as the Marchioness of Calm-
seas, was most satisfactory. She did what most
girls will not do —made herself up to look
the fatal forties, and she infused the right
amount of acid into her tones and manner.
Miss Winifred Birch, as Marjorie Heinault,
the nice girl who loves the Tame Cat,
looked an ideal ingenue. One doesn’t often
see on any stage so pretty a figure with such un-
commonly good lines of shoulder and back, iknd
she played well, too, with girlish gravity and re-
straint. Miss Elsie Prince managed well the part
of the girl (Moth Vayne) with the chronic head-
ache and a craving to be cuddled. And
Miss Dora Linden (as Pamela Gapp, badly
afflicted with canineolatry), was very amus-
ing with her loathly small dog. All
the women in the cast were unusually good
for amateurs, and the men were not so bad as to
be beyond hope. Mr. Fletcher, as the masterful
man of the piece, did capitally; and Mr. Leslie
Casey, as Cecil Thayer, the lovable Blamed Cat,
can afford to purr and arch his back with satis-
faction.
Young Dion Titheradge was greeted with “ All
hail, thou Benedict, thou new-married man ! ” by
some of his fellow brass-bounds in “The Flag
Lieutenant” on Saturday night—before or after
the play, of course. He was married on Saturday
at the parental home, at Rose Bay, to Miss
Margaret Bolton, an English girl who came out
by the Ormuz under engagement to the 21-year-
old youngster.
Mr. Harry Rickards of the Tivoli is probably
more easily pleased than Herod (which I suppose
was Hebrew for Harry) of Galilee. The fore-
going opinion was built up after seeing Miss
Athmore Grey do the Salome dance. Herod 11.
was no youth when he saw the Salome dance. He
had divorced his first wife and stolen his second
one from his brother. He had been walloped in
battle by his first father-in-law-and-cursed by the
first apostle. And he was a drifting, unambitious
man without enthusiasm. Now, when that bat-
tered tetrarch was roused to such wild excitement
by the Salome dance that he gave a fresh human
head in payment, it must have been something of
a dance. I should say the lady was in .the air
most of the time, and only struck the floor for
meals. I don’t think the original hop was at all like
Miss Grey’s wiggle-wagglings. When the curtain
goes up, revealing a twilight stage with burning
braziers and an ancient Hebrew or Sanscrit floor-
rug, you sit up, stiffen your moral spine and pre-
pare for shocks. You really desire shocks, but
hope they won’t be too severe or in any wise in-
artistic. Half of what “ fetched ” Herod will
serve you, for you aren’t prepared to give the lady
the head of Rev. George Walters. On comes Miss
Grey, a tall, slight damsel wearing an incredible
number of chiffon scarves. She dances as lightly
as a thing of air and indiarubber. No fault is to
be found with her graceful lightness. In her cat-
like pounces and skips she sheds One by one many
of her chiffon drapings; but to the last sheseems to
retain as -much clothing as a few of our Directoire-
gowned women wore at recent festivities. Indeed,
there was a lady at the late A.J.C. races who
would have made Herod’s eyes bulge in Galilee.
She wore obviously one long, costly satin gar-
ment, and—after all, the Directoire cult is based
on naturalness and gets as close as fashion may to
the nude. Miss Grey’s dance is a meaningless
series of; gyrations, and even when she retrieves
the prop“erty head and nuzzles it on the old Coptic
rug your\>ulse doesn’t jump half a beat. The
head, witUjts matted hair and beard, looks as if
it might be ’ like the original. John Baptist
doubtless had no chance of engaging a barber
while he was in gaol.
I feel sorry for Salome. So far as the evidence
goes, she had never seen John and hadn’t the
slightest interest in him. In the lightness of her
heart and her feet she danced before her step-
father, and the old man bade her name her reward.
She had visions of buying the best spring hat to
be found at Anthony Hordern’s in Caesarea and
selecting a bangle at Stewart Dawson’s in Tyre.
She went to consult her mother about the bangle,
and that fierce, middle-aged woman made her ask
for the wet, staring head of an apostle whom she
didn’t know from a crow. So she got no hat and
no bangle, and the blood off the head spoiled her
second-best school frock ; and that night Salome
cried herself to sleep and. refused to be comforted.
Yet she had to do the evil deed for fear of being
spanked with the cedar of Lebanon.
To make a real Salome dance you want a two-
storey stage. The upper storey should be a great,
richly-decorated room in the palace, with the
tetrarch loafing wearily on his throne and his
court around. (Why shouldn’t Mr. Rickards
appear as Harry Antipas ?) Then Salome should
dance before Henry, and the thing would look
real. The lower storey should be a gloomy cell
containing (1) a loaf, (2) a jug of water, (3) a heap
of straw, (4) John. Then the soldiers should
come down and behead John in a proper historical
manner.
Miss Athmore was here a few years ago—five or
six possibly—as Jennie Grey, and those who
remember her Carmen dance (clad in black and
scarlet and with a cherry in her mouth) wish very
much to see her in the same again. There never
was a more graceful high-kicker. The Carmen
dance would have got her anybody’s head; the
Salome dance wouldn’t.
The child, the foolish virgin and the vacant-
minded married woman who used to adore the
Teddy bear and transport it hither and thither,
are replacing it with a billikins. The new idol
has a semblance of humanity. In fact, billi-
kins is a grotesque human —a queer combination
of youth and eld with long, narrow, slanted eyes
and a huge crescent of a mouth that curls up at the
corners. He is Vhomrae qui rit, and a most
hilarious-looking one at that. Gazing at him one
feels the corners of one’s own mouth going
up, and one’s eyes narrowing to take the
humorous view of things—the billikins view.
There are variations of the billikins, but
all wear the wide, impish grin, even though
they wear nothing else. Mr. J. C. Williamson
brought an assortment of billikinses to his pro-
geny from his recent trip to foreign lands.
J.C.W. searched the earth with a microscope
for singers and players, and would seem to have
engaged everything of note in plays and mimes
for years to come. He did it all in a- very under-
fed condition—hot milk and toast was his dinner
what time he was in London —so small wonder if
his trip left him as bony as his own race-
horses. Every night he went to see a
fresh performance—to inspect it critically
with a view to business. And as acute-
ness of judgment is not enhanced by the
absorption of much food, J. 0. W. got through
his judgment nights on the milk and toast already
mentioned. At Milan, in his Italian search for
vocal talent, he met many young women students
w’ith beautiful voices and attractive appear-
ances—girls that he would have engaged for
work here; girls who lived, not from choice,
on an inadequate quantity of food, but who
cheerfully endured the semi-starvation because
they were meantime “pursuing their ideals.”
This “pursuit of the ideal ” is a tragic business.
If they quitted or interrupted the “pursuit” for
work in Australasia they might miss the rdle in
grand opera that is the “ ideal ” for which they
are starving. So they continue to cultivate music
on a few olives and spaghetti.
The Parbury-Willis wedding transpired at St.
John’s, Darlinghurst, last week after this, my
screed, had gone to press. Mr. Colin Parbury is
a tall, straight-featured young man who suggests
in appearance a quietly-dressed beauty-actor. He
is Very, very lovely and romantic-looking, and
withal doesn’t wear, so I am assured, a purple tie,
a pink shirt, a red waistcoat and blue socks. His
bridb, a dainty, and merry little girl, is a
daughter of the Mrs. Willis who espoused
en seoqndes noces Mr. Magistrate Macfarlane.
A Willis married a Knox in the dim past, and so
the big sugar family was represented in force at
the ceremony, and “Rona” was loaned to the
bride’s mother for the subsequent reception.
Later, the newly-weds took the usual old high
road that brings up ultimately against the same
old Port Hacking edifice, which has housed so
many honeymoon couples in its time.
One wonders often in the above connection
what sort of servants the Arthur Allens em-
ploy in their “Moonbarra” home. Are they
confirmed romanticists, skilled in the ways
of those in the first flush of youthful
affection ? Do they rattle the door-handle tact-
fully ere entering the drawing-room with after-
noon tea, and stumble with considerate uproar
over the dining-room mat as they bring in the
fish? In all likelihood, yes. Else they were
hardly suited to their highly diplomatic job. The
question then presents itself : Where are such
treasures to be found ? The ordinary householder
has difficulty in these days of the country’s pros-
perity, with domestics marrying and setting up
on their own, to find a maid with sufficient intel-
lect and regard for her employer’s comfort to
parley adroitly with the gas-collector. The idea
of setting out in chase of one or more capable of
satisfactorily coping with the exigenciesof a honey-
moon home is calculated to simply stun the
experienced housewife.
TheSkeys, husband, wife and two infants, left
for London last week. She was Miss Beatrice
Smith, a Melbourne beauty. He is what is known
in the King’s Navy as a “ Staff-Surgeon,” and he
performed his daily toil on Garden Island till the
call of duty came and summoned him away. He
is a mighty cricketer before the wicket and was
on several occasions the mainstay of Lord
Dudley’s Government House XI.
The twain were held up in Melbourne on Satur-
day to combat an action for breach of contract.
An ex-nurse claimed £lOO from them (1) because
they weren’t taking her to England ; (2) because
they had sacked her (allegedly) without just
cause. His Honor decided that there was nothing
in the nurse’s contention that she should be
franked to the absentee landlord’s Mecca. As to
the sacking, it was, in his view, more or less
unjustified. Mrs. Skey relied on the facts (1)
that the one-time child-minder had smacked the
children. (“But,” said the Judge with the
Sapience of the much-married man, “doubtless
they deserved it.”) And (2) Mrs. Skey contended
that the nurse had demanded to be called “ Miss,”
|and that didn’t appeal to the Bench as unreason-
able either. The upshot was that plaintiff got'
nothing by way of damages, and each side paid its
own costs.
What I may term a juridical romance is in the
air. A grave and reverend justice-dispenser of
this city proposes shortly to wed with a maid
many years his junior. The prospective groom,
who for long years had worshipped at no other
shrines than those of law and music, unexpectedly
encountered a twin soul a month ago, and with
the hot-headedness of eld (it is a fallacy to talk of
the young being hot-headed ; this is a quality
which far more often characterises the sexagen-
arian) he proposed and was accepted. The wed-
ding bells can already be heard in the mind’s eye,
so close are their feet on the threshold —in a
manner of speaking.
The proposed annual flower carnival is nearing
realisation. And doubtless a “ Wattle Day is
in course of flowering. It may all lead to some
nice girls—really nice girls, charmingly dressed
and with their heads screwed on the right way
taking up positions beside the G.P.0., and selling
flowers until they get married or otherwise make
a fortune. Of course, the “social” objections to
this are many and forceful, but what a field for a
smart, innocent-faced woman with her eye fixed
on the main (which is the man) chance ! Why
should ugly, prosaic males sell violets, flannel-
flowers and roses? And when Wattle Day comes,
who is to be first in the field with the natural
Australian scent—extract of wattle-bloom. It is
a delightful odor, and, I am told, was dealt in on
a small scale long ago by a Victorian chemist
named Watts. He is dead and surely in Heaven,
if the angels smelt it on him when he knocked at
the pearly gates.
The extensive Mort family is in mourning.
Mrs. Mort, widow of the late Thomas Sutcliffe
Mort, died at Haslemere, Surrey (England), last
week. She was a Miss Macauley, and was the
second wife of her husband. There are two sons
of this marriage. Both of them live in London
and are by way of being barristers.
The T. E. Donnes—Mr., Mrs. and small boy—
late of Maoriland, have taken a flat out West-
minster way in London, and settled down to the
work of acclimatising themselves. Mrs. Donne
sprained her ankle on landing, but as the weather
was the color of that famous friar of orders grey,
and as damp as if the friar had got bogged, it was
rather a pleasure than otherwise to be docked for
repairs. When the atmosphere is such that even
the sea-serpent steals an umbrella out of a sunken
ship for fear he may get his feet wet, it is good
to lie up.
That clever girl, Miss Miles Franklin, who
wrote “My Brilliant Career,” is announced as
publishing through Blackwood “ Some Everyday
Folks and Dawn.” It is an Australian story, and
the women in it are among the first in fiction to
vote at an election.
Yours affectionately,
ARENEHI.


ex
3 ;
Pu£
u
7 S'«
m
'r
V.
/
7
r
✓
/
A'.,
'i-.i
5^
■*=»
sfd
J/'h.
'7
Rj
V ''frfj _ r i
5®
Wit
«K
i' ?
"v
r?m
m
>■<'st.
-v-.-if*
n.l.
C-O-B-R-A 15he. Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Plays a little
Cricket too ;
When the bear
With “COBRA”
All three wickets
Would demolish,
Polish
Chunder trembles
In his shoes.
(Which reminds him
YOU should use
“COBRA” on the
Shoes YOU cherish —
“COBRA” will not
Let them perish.)


ALWAYS ORDER
WhisKy and
Schweppe
(See Red Seal on Every Bottle.)
The Lloyd George Budget, which has
delighted the Radical world, may be said to have
been forced on England through the disastrous
results of Freetrade. But many claim it as the
direct inspiration of D.C.L., the whisky of the
wise. Anyway, the beaming rays of the scholarly
brand are undoubtedly responsible for illuminating
the human intellect to many of its most brilliant
achievements.*
x
-mm
K k
r%
N3»_
' X
%
umi %
Uncouallcd
for Quality Si Wear
Jo Ensure Satisfaction. You Must Use
'DUN LOPS. Obtainable Various Styles
|l All Leading Boot Stores. ji
;diirrfd
Unsure ™
Comfortable
&tasy/ /( s
Walkinrf/2
J/K
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
Gives Years of Hard
Service.
Does Not Kink or
Burst.
Specify "DUNLOP” Brand
ft' You Want the Best.
Obtainable all Leading Stores.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 18, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
Caulfield had the dust of centuries and the day
of its life on Saturday for the Cup. Everybody
went out, gasping in the heat and taking in good
healthy loam at every gasp. The Carmichael
lady had washed-out purple roses in her black hat
and wore a faint purple frock; but in this
instance his Excellency was the really frocked
one. His frock coat was a pale lavender grey,
and his tie was a bunched-up petunia in a
vivid purple and white check. He wore a
mesanthebryum or labyrint’nodon or something in
his buttonhole, and looked as if he had backed
Blue Book. Miss Stuart Monteith, waving a green
veil from her red head, was in the party. Also
Mrs. Bogle and a stray Bosanquet. One Miss
Bosanquet is over from Adelaide. Possibly the
twin and mamma and papa will follow later. The
lonely Miss Bosanquet is a dark tropical lily with
black eyes and a radiant pallor. She was fitted
like a glove in a petunia-colored silk frock,
and had her lnur swathed tight in the very
newest way. The new way is to flatten and bind
the hair as if it had just been tubbed. Several
smart girls plastered their hair in. like fashion
under monstrous lids that have the benefit of
shadiness, at any rate. They are as good as a
parasol as a disguise. The inseparable Beau-
champ sisters —Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Thomas—
topped simple muslin frocks with pancake
umbrella hats of black, waving a garden of dyed
pampas grass from aloft. Mrs. Willie-motor Kelly
had the prettiest frock on the lawn—baby lace and
muslin covering pale blue, and pink roses in her
black peach basket hat. Mrs. Ernest Brookes
hobnobbed with the Willie pair. She carried
mole-colored chiffon velvet, with many coster
buttons and several interstices of Erin green.
Jack McComas was in favor as lap-dog. Jackie
loves to fetch and carry for pretty ladies. The
Ham-and-Clegg maidens attracted notice, one by
a parterre of scarlet and pink geraniums on her
hat, and the other by her successful attempt to
look like a Hook of Holland Dutch boy, with her
skirt buttoned up to her blue blouse shirt. Mrs.
Menzies worea dainty blue rig-out, and tried to hide
under a black town hall of a hat. Mrs. Purvis, in
all-blue toggery, hung some beautiful seed pearls
round her neck. Sister Miss Green togged in
tussore and black. The Madden feminines were
not apparent. Papa Madden and Mr. Vallange
wandered in unusual freedom from feminines.
The Vallange youngsters were giving a monster
party at “Cloyne,” and grandma and all the
aunties were throwing their souls into the
preparations. Mrs. Sheilds brought a daz-
zlingly pretty girl, who raised much com-
ment —there was even more comment than dust.
She was in white, with a severe black scarf round
shapely shoulders. A fine white face—adorably
young—just peeped from a bighat weighted down
with marguerites. Mrs. Norman Armytage was
in pink ; so was Mrs. Harry Cornish, ana they
both looked pretty. Everybody racy in Mel-
bourne and Sydney was panting at that meeting.
J. C. Williamson looked happy at Blue
Book’s feat. Ernest Raleigh was a lonely
solo from the beauteous duet, for Mrs.
Frocky Raleigh has decided to stay in
Sydney for a while. What will become of
first nights at theatres and the big race meetings
it is hard to say. A new type of dress paraded in
various persons on Saturday. It has either a
sash round the middle distance of a skimpy skirt,
or else is blessed with a small bow on a carefully
selected part of one’s anatomy. These dresses
must not be sat on —one sitting would be hopeless
to the contour of the bow until an invigorating
iron had got to work on the crush. They seemed
useless and bothersome decorations, those bows.
If they were made pneumatic they would be
comfortable to sit upon.
Talking about the necessary tea of an after'
noon at a Caulfield meeting, the V. A.T.C.,
that most kindly and aggressively wealthy club,
needs a prod. Between the carefully-appointed
members’ tea rooms and the awful scramble there
is no medium. Everybody cannot be a member
of that blissful club, and every woman cannot
secure a personal and tangible member at the
moment when she is longing for tea. So the
majority is forced to the public tea rooms at the
back of the stand* There is no reason why these
should not be dainty and clean and blessed with
an abundance of waiters and a generous supply of
small tables. As a matter of fact, there is a
barrack-like place that beats any railway restau-
rant for horrible hurry and slapdash serving. It is
worse, much worse, than the non-members’ tea
room at Flemington, which is saying much. A
long bar, very few tables, some waitresses throw-
ing wild hunks of cake at scratching women, a
wreck of bottles of chemicals meant for non-
alcoholic drinks and the chance of thick cups of
dubious tea—these are the leading features.
Cannot a club like the V. A.T.C. do better than
that for the public that spends its half-guinea ?
Henley intends to knock things this year. The
rule of the river is to be stringently enforced.
There will lie no more dallying of supercilious
motors when the course should be cleared. Every
mooring place is booked, and the house-boat people
are breaking their necks to outdo each other in
decoration. Every girl in Melbourne is paying
more attention to her Henley gown than she is to
her Cup dress. The Tasmanian rowers are over,
and are lashing the Yarra into foam. Unless the
weather bumps the Henley people, there’ll be a
great day next Saturday.
The Glassy Harem being closed, skate-maddened
youth looked round for new ice fields to conquer.
Wirth, like a crafty spider, had an acre or so of
smoothness ready, so youth rolled there and
fell and bumped to its bruises’ content. The
Wirths’ Park Rink coruscated on Wednesday
night, possibly because Wirth and Co. are so
excited about their opening circus that they had
to break into song or bust. It is a beautiful rink
for those who have conquered the rollicking roll,
and trams and cabs deposited hordes of weird
creatures at the doorway—prize-hunters in all sorts
of togs. A tree-fern took the cake of the evening.
It was a royal tree fern, uprooted bodily and still
fragrant of gullies and fresh earth. It was in an
apparently-pot, and it skated round on human
legs. An attendant arrested it for being so far
from home, and led it gently to the judges. This
attendant also had the duty of handing up the
“most elegant gentleman,” and His Elegancy
had much ado not to show elation. The attendant
refused to take a fee for escorting the “ best lady.”
The best lady was so numerous that two of her
took prizes. A pair of gorgeous butterflies in
silver and gold tore the blue ribbon between them.
The teams let a Gottenberg sextette jump clean
away with the reward. The Wirth rink boasts a
balcony for lookers-on which gives the show a
theatrical feeling. Also the roller rink spares the
non-whirler the risk of pneumonia.
The following notice on a fence in a popular sea-
side resort heralds the summer :
No hot water. No camping allowed. No meals at any
hours. No room to let. No boarders taken. Strictly
private. Trespassers prosecuted. Beware of the dog.
In this city, where even an oyster coming out
of its shell cries piteously for a mayor or governor
to open it—well, in this city a miracle has hap-
pened. The main hall of hundreds of thousands
of pounds’ worth of railway station buildings
opened itself. There was no champagne, no
golden key, no speeches, no nothing. Just a
vague drifting away of barriers and the stupefied
gaze of citizens who were used to dodging raw
masonry and loaded cranes, and who were now
confronted suddenly with a cave of grey stone
and sea-green tiles, wherein sit spiders of ticket-
men catching flies of rushed humanity. That
would be reasonable enough, but the flies, after
they are in the cave, have to traverse a 40-acre
paddock—an expansive flagged field—before they
plunge down the chutes that lead to their various
platforms. The healthy and active can swear and
bark their shins and tear the skin off their teeth
in the catching of the nervy train, but the
fat and the aged, the maimed and the halt
don’t take a train unless necessity pushes them
painfully thereon. As for real invalids, they are
not taken into the reckoning. No cab or ambu-
lance or hearse could get within half a mile of a
platform. Every other railway station in the
memory of ordinary mortals has a roadway that
cabs can traverse, but not this one. Even the vast
entrance porch has a flight of steps as an effectual
barrier to even a barrow ; also as a hidden menace
to a thronging crowd with its feet out of sight.
Layer after layer has been added to that ugly
barrack. Its squat beginnings were unpromising.
Then the addition of mosque-like domes of copper
gave a radiance of hope. Massively severe but
domedly handsome was the structure. Alas, the
layers did not stop there ! Scrolls and dinky
towerings were added to the domes. It seemed
as if the decorations would never end. Plaster
lines and potterings accent red brick facings. A
blind, staring clock tower has a face like a red-
white cow. The expensiveness of the white
elephant has been howled at. “ Well, if you will
have expensive local materials ! ” snort the Heads.
Yet in all the tens of thousands of “extra ex-
pense” the bills show a meagre £3OOO for using
solid local materials in preference to the shoddiest
tender from “ abrawd.” If ever there was a dis-
comfortable approach to one’s train it is the vast
rabbit warren with which the Railway Importants
have blocked up our valuable commercial street
frontage.
In aid of the Melbourne District Nursing
Society, and under the patronage of a Governoress
or so and various gaud-mayoral ladies, there is to
be a Cafe Chantant on Thursday at the St. Kilda
Town Hall. Murmurs from busy society
charmers promise all sorts of fancy dress and
dancing “turns”— amah-tnah, of course. Florrie
Green is training most of the unprofessional toe
in the way it should go, and some dazzling
maidens are letting out the most hidden secret
that Tom Payne of the pantomime is coaching
them.
Melba, at her huge Exhibition con cert, had a
deluge of rain to contend against. But weather
and such small deer make little difference to that
lady when she condescends to warble. Before the
rain there was dust, yet the five-bobbers and
the mere half-crowners waited for hours in
the flying elements for a chance of front-row
accommodation in the balconies. The cavern was
full of people, from the half-guinea pigs in the
blessed shadow of the vice-regal enclosure (red
carpet on the corridors thrown in) to the crowded
two-and-sixpenny seats and the standing-room-
only at the back of the choristers. There was the
usual army of fashionables, but they might just as
well have been Mary Ann or Bridget for
all the show they could make in that vast
ant-hill. The people scuttled in as best they
could, and got out in the same haphazard way.
The rain was like a broken waterspout, and over-
anxious train-catchers left before the rush and,
incidentally, before the last number—as also
did carriage folk who were afraid of the
crush in the queue. So Melba sang her last
encore to the staccato shouts from beyond of “Mrs.
FitzJobson’s mot -ah!" and “Mrs. Gaspipe’s
keb !” Last Melba Exhibition concert was also a
flood-wet night, and some mismanagement planted
the cloak-rooms in undiscoverable places, so
every woman who had not arrived per motor
walked into the audience hall in the full glory of
rain-coat (that smells like onions) and goloshes
and dripping umbrella. Thus a vast and
motley smell went up to Heaven with the
same breath as the song. At this concert
frantic ushers shoo-ed people right and left like
goats and muttons, to ticket off their outer gear in
draughty side apartments. Melba came in a closed
carriage drawn by a Cinderella pair of cream
ponies, so she did not get a bit damp. Her frock
was some marvellous shimmering thing of white
and silver, with a toreador sash affair of petunia
velvet, and round her neck she hung enough
diamonds to keep her from starvation for many a
day. She blazed like a comet with a ruby-
headed diamond snake coiled in her hair. Has
anyone ever noticed that Melba’s eyes are red
—not red-rimmed, but with a distinct red
glint in the brown? Somebody once told ir.e
that Parnell’s eyes had that all-conquering
red in their make-up. One scarcely imagines
anyone with red eyes being meek or tame.
St. Francis’ Church choir—6o of it—was at the
concert by Melba’s invitation. Rebottaro, the
gallant conductor, presented Melba with a horse-
shoe that must have fitted a prehistoric mammoth
horse, and decorated it with her racing colors.
Melba is throwing herself keenly into racing this
season. She is to be done with concerts and such-
like ties in time for Flemington. Having to sing on
Saturday night, she could not face the Caulfield
dust. A pack of Conservatorium girls (“ Cons ”)
made themselves obvious “ among those present ”
by chattering like magpies all through the concert.
Their criticism was a thing that must be aired.
No musical people know-so much as a “Con”
girl, and as for a Philharmonic chorus lady—well,
she doesn’t give a fig for stars. She feels
that, given the opportunity, she would stand up
and show just how that trill ought to Vie done.
Melba sings again on Saturday night—audaciously
bumping against Henley.
Last week, Miss Ruth Lincoln-Hook of Hol-
land took a rest and gave a chance to an under-
study. Miss Benetto, a pretty little danseuse,
fluttered out of the ballet for the star part, and
made the chorus envious by her warbling.
Frederick Ranalow, the famous baritone of the
Melba eo., after jolting over Australia for the
past eight months, returns to London by the
China on the 26th. He has sung at 70 concerts,
and says he’ll take with him on the voyage a peck
of the Turkish swpetmeat known as “ Peace to
your throat.”
“ Baby ” Boyd is filled with the arrogance of
extreme youth. The fever of “ private views ”
of paintings that is an epidemic among our artists
has attacked him for the second time. Since un-
loading £OO worth of canvas and daub on to a
gentle public the youth has worked 20 hours a
day at gum-tree forest. He is showing the
results at his studio, Oxford Chambers, from Tues-
day (26th) to the end of October.
Surely all the artists in Melbourne are taking
turns to give a private view or public exhibition
of their masterpieces. The latest card of invita-
tion is from Miss Esther Mullett (gold medallist,
London), who has hung her pictures at the club
rooms, in draper George’s building, Collins-street.
The gaud-Mayor and his lady undertook to open
the show jointly last Tuesday afternoon. The
press view was fixed for Monday afternoon,
when the thoughtful inducement of “after-
noon tea” was added to the attraction.
All things considered, the tea inducement
should never be omitted. And the mere man
might be glad of a drop of something in it.
A society wedding that managed to get through
without developing a theatrically society flavor
happened last Tuesday. Russell, of the Grim-
wades, and Mab Kelly carried out the process of
knot-tying in a decorous and quiet way.
Only the very next of kin and friends were
given a ghost of an idea as to the place
and time. Scots-Kirk Marshall managed the
proceedings, with the help of Meenister MacCrae,
incumbent of the Toorak Presbyterian Kirk,
where the wedding march was played. Mab
Kelly wore her Directoire satin frock, ’broidered
thickly with silver roses. As soon as she became
Mrs. Grimwade she jumped into Dutch blue
shantung for travelling gear. A couple of
Weatherly cousins and one Grimwade backed
up the scheme as bridesmaids in pink
and white and blue. The Norton Grim-
wades and the Harold Grimwades and the
rest of the big chemist clan came to
see the thing through. Bowes Kelly brought his
girleens in youthful white muslin. Mrs. Mamma
Kelly, in pearl-grey satin, helped Papa Kelly
receive the guests atMontalto, and the Toorakety
house was smothered in white roses for the event.
The bride expended the wedding breakfast on the
waifs of the Neglected Children’s Aid Society, who
were likely to get more good out of it than a worried
over-fed tribe of society guests. The newly-weds
motored to Macedon, where lies the mountain
humpy of the Grimwades.
The young Winter-Irving Staughton matron,
who went for a fling to Colombo with Miss Norah
of the hunting Powers, is back again with her
chaperoned damsel in tow. She had a few hours
in Melbourne to say “Hullo! Mummy’s dar-
lings!” to the small infants who were not wanted
on the voyage ; and then the giddy wanderer
dashed off to Sydney races to air her new
Directoire gowns. A mother's homely responsi-
bilities sit lightly on some matronly shoulders.
The little Harbinson doctor could not abide
widowerhood long. He has rushed into matrimony
with the nightingale who tended his wealthy
wife. Mrs. Harbinson No. 1 was one of the
Laidlaw ladies, who own wealth by the bucket-
load and rich pastures on the Heidelberg bends of
the Yarra.
From “Rosna,” who doesn’t know how well off
she is in Adelaide :
The Commerce delegates, having exhausted all the
revels in the sister States, put their baggage down in
South Australia last week, and officialdom stopped work
to show them around. We let them know we have a
little thing in the way of an Outer Harbor, and a few
wineries that are not to be despised, and a Victoria Park,
where we can give garden parties ; and, moreover, some
vice-royalties who are as good and picturesque and
affable" as anybody’s. There were hundreds of women
and some men "at the garden party, and 59,767
crimson roses hung their heads over the arches
and nodded to their little brothers who came by
the thousand in the girls’ hats. Mr. Herbert Phillips
and a pretty blue-clad daughter had to do all the ardu-
ous hand-wringing, while the committee stood by and
felt so clever to have avoided it. The Exes, were there
with a daughter in a braided pale-pink cloth coat and
skirt, and a large cream hat with pink plumes in it.
Lady Bosanquet’s chiffons were striped and pink and
heliotrope and cool. Then there was the Way dame in
purple and fine silk, arid Mrs. Mayoress Mayfield in black
lace, with a white-muslined daughter.
Next day the visitors u ere sent up to Hill River, the
Angas sheepcote, where they were given luncheon in the
wool-barn, and afterwards shown the blithesome jum-
buck being relieved of his overcoat and his leggings and
his wool hat. Another day was spent at Seppeltsfield
winery ; and on Friday the Government showed its visi-
tors the harbor, which is very useful, even if it isn’t so
ornamental as some other people’s. The same night the
Bosanquets shook hands with the Congressers and other
people at 9.30, and handed them out something for
supper. , .
The American boys have also been getting their slice
of attention. They had a “ civic reception,” which was
dull, and two packed concerts at the Town Hall and
Exhibition, which weren’t; and they helped at sundry
smaller-fry performances, and handed the bulk of the
profits to local charities. One day Archbishop O’Reily
o-ave the vounjrsters a luncheon party, and another day
some North Adelaide folk, the Saunders, had them at a
o-arden revel. And finally, on Wednesday afternoon,
when a youthful heat-wave was grappling with our tem-
pers his Excellency left his cool hearthstone to hand
them the South Aus. flag, which has a magpie laughing
in the corner of it. ”
The G. F. Clelands had a party at Braemar, Mount
Lofty the other day to say good-bye to their eldest
daughter, who goes hence to make some Maorilander
happv The warden is a gorgeous haunt of every flower
that blows, set amidst a forest full of gums and heather.
Some 50 or 60 men and maids gladly left, town in its dust-
cloak to-be there; and the bride-elect and her six sisters
saw to it that it was a joyous revel. .
On Tuesday Miss Guli Hack guided her part-singing
class through its last maze of song at the Conservatorium,
for at the end of the year she will leave them in favor of
Mr Willie Magarey. It was an Occasion with an “O”
like the dome of a cathedral, and all the Commerce
visitors were there to listen to the song-birds. The stage
was smothered in wistaria, amidst which Miss Hack con-
ducted her choir in a pale-green, silver-moonbeamy
raiment. Flowers by the hundredweight were sent up
to her. The angels themselves had scarlet and white
roses concealed about them, and at the end of the final
ditty they showered them upon their much-adored con-
ductress. The vice-royalties, the Chancellor Ways and
the Vice-Chancellor Barlows stayed behind to tell Miss
Hack some of the nice things they thought of her.
There are so many fetes and things to open that some
days the vice-regal family has to divide so that it may
conquer. On Saturday Lady Bosanquet recited the
necessary few words in the service of “Minda at the
Exhibition Building. “Minda” is the goodly charity
that houses the weak-minded children, and it is thirsting
for funds to extend its new premises at Brighton. This
big annual f6te is one that always arouses special interest,
and even local millionaires often spend quite sixpence
at it.
While the Rowing Club was having its first afternoon
tea alongside the Torrens the Hunt Club was shutting up
its season by leaping over Gumeraeha for the twenty-third
time. Society took its fiery smoking steed out of its
motored grange, and watched the pursuit of the wily
aniseed bag, which had a hard run for its life, and was
finally' killed after fleeing 10 miles over 60 fences. The
Crozier girls were in the motoring crowd ; also some
Melroses, Murrays, Cudmores and Hacks.
Mr. Bevan’s singers were reinforced into quite a large
company for the first Arthur Sullivan lecture, presented
to the citizens with the Mayor’s regards last week. After
a crowded audience had applauded its gloves into holes
the mayor and mayoress had a supper party, where the
youngs performers mingled with their Exes, and other,
people of tone and tonnage.
His Ex. is going down to Mount Gambier this week to
look at the dead or slumbering volcano, and generally to
give a fillip to the locality. One of the twins will go with
him, and will stay with the Kiddochs, who grow sheep
thereabouts.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANANA.


Hotelkeepers, Chemists, Confectioners, Cafe-Owners,
i.W
4
**»
(3\nd
111
gSawiaaß
THE “GLACIER”
SODA FOUNTAIN
Constructed of Finest Italian Marble.
Handsomely Mounted with
Nickel-Plated Fittings.
Fitted Internally with our Patent
Cooler.
Produces a Well-Mixed, Ice-Cold,
Effervescing Drink.
Storekeepers
Make Money this Summer by installing a
"GLACIER’
Soda Fountain
AND AN
“ADSTRAL’
Aerated Water
Machine
CATALOGUES and full PARTICULARS on request.
THE. “AUSTRAL”
AERATED WATER
MACHINE
Produces the Very Best Soda Water
for less than ONE PENNY
PER DOZEN.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, and all
Syruped Drinks for Less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN.
Requires no Skilled Labor —only
One Youth to work it.
Over 2000 Machines in use through-
out Australia.
PRICE £lB and Upwards; Cash or Terms.
Queensland Agents : ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 110 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS AND PATENTEES—
ECKERkSEEY &, 50N5, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
3
II «• Ml til l< lIIH 1 1 nil n il "M
3Nar.oai3W ‘ 03 S 3QVMWIH3 'NQII3J
■ itiiimiMiwiiMmsimiMiiiuHi.
niiiiiiiiiii»ii»ii« ««»»»• iw *'*«»»* immiMinyi-
iiiiiii ii iiuiiiii in 'limn Mii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiM/k 'if -ISOfl
\VIVVV3k d.ViNU’VWVA’VV ,Wv'A;V\ A>\\\’v'«VVx\\X\\\\
jmy \xx* v\xj its bum *hk
mwdm aim
sasnuM
£se) *»iu»to
'lBQ?® Q|G‘£>
THE AUSTRALIAN REMEDY FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness, and
Acidity of the Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to Vaccination and Teething.
A Cooling Medicine for Spring and Summer.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.


OFEN
FACE,
12/6.
HIGHER
GRADE
15/-
■s
M
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face Keyless
WATCHES, Splendid Timekeepers,
Extra Strong Short-wind movement,
12/(5
Higher Grade, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
SHOP BY MA
f
“CITY PRICES” straight to you in your own home without the expense of a
trip to the city. Our Up to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT can supply
you as easily and advantageously as if you were a resident of Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to-day for a copy or our 304-page
Illustrated Catalogue. It will help you in
making your Xmas selection. Sent Post Free
to any,address.
SHOPPING BY POST.
No matter where you live, you can rely on
our up-to-date Mail Order Dept, to serve you
promptly and satisfactorily. All goods sent
carriage free to any address.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
so:cn»
GOLD,
£3.
sfd
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
an ce
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5/10/. Guaran-
teed 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Isct. Gold Shamrock Leaf
BROOCH, set with fine
White Pearls and Sap-
nhjre or Turquoise,
£4/10/-.
Pearls and Dia-
monds, £B/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Extra
Strong Safety Chain, £l3/15»/-.
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/, £3/10/.
Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, GO/, 70/, according to size.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon Circle
BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire, 1 O/O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £l>.
All Diamonds, £n.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Dog and
Kennel CHARM,
770.
9ct. Gold, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 12 Id-
15ct. Gold, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX Richly Hand
Engraved, (>/<>•
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Smaller, 4/6, 5/6.
In 9ct. ' Gold, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
3jet. Gold Scroll BUOOCII, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£l2-
TRA
A. SAUNDERS.
Cct. Gold “Southern Cross” BROOCH,
Set Red, Blue, and Green Stones,
112/<>.
Without Map of Australia, 12/6.
15ct Gold, set with Tourmalines, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
38ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mouse
and Candlestick
CHARM, 71 6-
A. SAUNDERS.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, Silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns,
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold-filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, 80/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/7/6; Iset. Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
PENDANT,
set Bloodstone
and Sardonyx,
12/0
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£ lO
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, 25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby, and Sapphire, —/!>•
ALL GOODS SENT POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Rustic Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A .SAUNDKRS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline t>r Peridot, £2-
A. SOUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Slipper
Lace Pin, 4/(»•
Larger, 5/6, 7/6.
In Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, 7/6-
Smaller, 6/6. Larger, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Real Amber Stem, Solid
Silver Mounts and Screw, Straight or Bent
Stem, 12/0-
Other • Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
■ A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Goid Thistle
CHARM. Ame-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT and NECK-
LET, set fine Pearls and Ame-
thysts, £4-
loct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set fine Pearls and Ruby i
Sapphire, with Extra Strong Safety Chain attached.
£2.
sfd
VHflpgpßpHi aggppi
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather,
* nicely fitted Pure Silver Mounts and Lock,
10/6
Other styles, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
sfd
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe and Whip
SCARF PIN, 7/6.
Larger, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather,
nicely finished, S/(i-
In Seal Leather, 6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/S, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl-set Bird
__ and Sprays, 20/--
A. SOUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Good Wishes” Bar and
Heart BROOCH, 10/6-
loot. Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
. . . Double Cut Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS
Chain PURSE, Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, White Metal
Chain, 8/6-
Other styles, with Silver Chains,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 21/, 22/6, 25/.
A. S.iuAUERS.
Set. Gold Signet
RING, 20/-.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18et. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand-Clasp
RING, 25/--
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
t
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap-
phire, 8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Jet. Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12/6-
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, S/6.
i A. SAUNDERS,
l-'-t. Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Rubies and Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/-.
For pierced or un-
. pierced ears.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
Engine-turned Cases, f-Plate Lever movement, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance, £2-.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6. In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l3,
£2O, to £5O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 years.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EAR-
RING Z, set with
Tourmalines, £i£.
For pierced or
unpierced ears.
Other Styles, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/.
9ct.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS, 17/6-
15ct. Gold, 35/,
Silver, 4/6.
L SAUNDERS.
&ct. Gold Enve-
lope CHARM,
12/6
Any name en-
graved free.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, §l3, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


The <(
&
P. D. Q.
99
A Better Safety Razor
for Less Money —!
* A Guinea Razor for
sfd
’Twas an ingenious BRITISH Brain that made the P.D.Q.
possible..
The keen, twin-edged Silver Steel Blades simply glide over
the face —leaving-in their train a smooth, soft, velvety,
comfortable skin.
The P.D.Q. is the newest—simplest—safest—most compact
—best and cheapest high-grade “ Safety ” on the market.
As good as any—better than many.
Ten double-edged Silver Steel Blades —heavily Silver-plated
Frame in handsome Morocco Case the complete
outfit, 15/6.
Ask your storekeeper for the P.D.Q. —or send Postal Note
for 15/6 to sole N.S.W. Representative—ANDßEW
McGEE.
Storekeepers supplied at wholesale rates.
Stropping Machines for Gillette and P.D.Q. Safety
Razors, 5/6 and 6/6.
THE P.D.Q. is Sowing
the Seeds of Satisfaction
Everywhere l
THE P.D.Q. requires no
honing.
THE P.D.Q. is always
ready.
THE P.D.Q.—The Easy
Shaver.
THE P. D. Q.—You are
always “ next ” when you
own one.
The Razor that WAS
wanted.
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading: Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
Saloon Open All Day Wkdnesdj
5 8 7 Castlereagh Street,
cor. Hunter Street, Sydney
CHEAP DAIRY FARMS!
QUEENSLAND THE LAND OF PROMISE
Subdivision.
16,600 ACRES of FREEHOLD LAND
IN
34 HIGH-CLASS FARMS.
154 MILES FROM BRISBANE. RANGING FROM 122 ACRES TO 2821 ACRES'
Railway running right through the property. No block more than 4 miles from rail.
THE RICHEST OF LAND AT LOWEST PRICES.
FOR ABSOLUTE SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION
AT . „
KILKIVAN TOWNSHIP
ON
Saturday, 4th December, 1909.
“ KILKIVAN.” One of the oldest Stations in Queensland. In the valley of the Boonnra
Range. Unsurpassed for its rich, nutritious soil. RAINFALL REGULAR AND ABUNDANT,
averaging 36 INCHES. NO DROUGHT ANXIETIES. EVERY BLOCK ADEQUATELY WATERED
FROM NATURAL SOURCES. THE DAIRYMAN’S AND MIXED FARMER’S PARADISE. LARGE
AND REGULAR RETURNS. FIVE CREAMERIES WITHIN REASONABLE DISTANCE.
LAND ALL RINGBARKED. DEEP ALLUVIAL SOIL.
Anything: may be grown, LUCERNE, PASPALUM, MAIZE, OATS, POTATOES, ONIONS.
No better opportunity to be found throughout Australia.
Inspect and Buy BEFORE PRICES ADVANCE as they SURELY WILL.
I IRFPAI TFBUiK OF PAYMFVT v ’ z > 20 P er cent - Cash; no further payment for two years,
L/lDLrArliu I VI rnllHlflli, then 15 per cent.; balance in 8 equal annual instalments;
with Interest at 5 per cent, per annum, payable half-yearly.
Plan, Pamphlet and all particulars obtainable from the Auctioneers,
HAIN & SEARIGHT,
Property Salesmen,
12 Loft us Street, Sydney,
and at KILKIVAN, QUEENSLAND.
NOTE.— BUYERS MET AT KILKIVAN RAILWAY STATION AND DRIVEN TO INSPECT.
KILKIVAN
Here’s Striking Proof
of a Rupture Cure !
Unsolicited testimony to the efficacy of the Sherman Treatment is about the best
evidence we can give you as to its bona tides. If you call in at our rooms we will gladly
show you the originals of many such letters as the one below. It speaks for itself of a
wonderful cure
By the Dr. Sherman Treatment.
Cheltenham Road, Devonport, Auckland, N.Z.,
Mr. A. W. MARTIN, 3rd May, 1905.
Dear Sir,
Unsolicited, I beg to testify to the relief 1 have experienced from Dr. J. A. Sherman’s INVALUABLE
METHOD OF TREATMENT OF RUPTURE as supplied by you. Two years ago I ruptured myself
lifting a ladder out of a well 26ft. deep. About seven months afterwards I received a truss'and direlotions
as to treatment, which I strictly observed. I wore the truss about six months, but had to discontinue
wearing it, owing to the constant pain and agony I suffered. Fortunately, I saw your advertisement in
the Auckland papers and consulted you, and obtained Dr. Sherman’s Method of Treatment. Although I
am within eight months of 80 years of age, I am now' able to walk about almost as straight as I did before'
I met with this misfortune. lam well known in Auckland and Devonport, having been an officer of the )
City Council of Auckland for the period of 28 years.
You can use this letter as you like, as I consider Dr. J. A. Sherman’s Method of Treatment of Rupture
SHOULD BE MADE KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD.
Yours sincerely,
(Mr. Goldie now wears no appliance.) GEORGE N. GOLDIE.
CONSULTATIONS ARE FREE—REMEMBER THAT!
HOURS:—Daily (Sunday excepted), 10 a.m. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours Friday evenings, 7to 9.
Country sufferers should take a day off and arrange a visit. The matter can generally
be fixed up in the one day, and the time spent will be well worth while. If you really
cannot fix on a visit, write for my two boosts giving details and showing many illustrations.
A - \X7 /SL T) Sole Control| er in Australasia of
• A 9 the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method,
Dept. B, Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 Moore Street, near the G.P.0., Sydney.
Combi licit ion Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
■V
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; ip Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing- Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out Tiie Laughing Camera.
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
sfd
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open. Makes a splendid
use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife,
directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
knife for general
Price, with full
sfd
THE POLYCHROMATIC BILLIARD BALL.
fds
After introducing any
number of silk handker-
chiefs, each of a different
color, the conjurer re-
quests the company to
select any one of the
handkerchiefs (no forc-
ing). Seizing the selected
handkerchief, the per-
former waves his hand
gently up and down, w hen
the handkerchief becomes
smaller and smaller until
it finally disappears alto-
gether, having given place
to a solid billiard ball of
the same color as the
handkerchief. This is a
very novel and inexplic-
able trick, while. • the
apparatus that we furnish
for this trick is made of Very substantial and superior
material, and quite impossible to get out of order.
Suitable for either amateur or professional.
Complete with red, white and blue handkerchiefs.
Price (with full instructions), 1/6 ; post free, 2/-
Send lor our Illustrated Catalogue
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY, Hay market, SYDNEY. '
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager,. Postal Address: Box 3, Ilaymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Cinematograph
Accessories and Films.
As the largest Cinematograph House in
the State, we can supply complete outfits,
parts, accessories and Films on the
shortest notice and at bedrock prices.
IF YOU HAVE A CINEMATOGRAPH
send for our New List of specially-
priced Films. We have
Over Half a Million Feet of Films
to choose from for sale or hire.
Splendid popular subjects, fresh
and new, including
THE FAMOUS PATHE at 4d. per ft.
Mail us Your Address for our Catalogue.
ar°
J3><b
JORDAN'S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
CINEMATOGRAPH EXPERTS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAI, HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
(Drawn from photo)
“The ehampion”
the only machime on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK U p TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
II “Champion” Phonographs
8 Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the ‘‘Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any < harge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, " ho will
promise to give a Practical Demonsti at on of its vonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using orr new and p pular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-ye'ar guarantee by the makers, and a written
or.arantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entiiely and abso.li.tely
free. Write at once to the ,
ANGLO-AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S W.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents ' baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., tos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
Take a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets to-
night before retiring and just see how good you
feel to-morrow.*
Chamberlain’s Tablets are different from
harsh pills and drastic purgatives that gripe and
irritate the stomach and bowels. They produce a
natural action.*
Missing Friends.
EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN.
IE EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN, formerly
of Irthlingborough, England, who was last
heard of in Queensland in the year 1899, or any
issue of his, will apply to the undersigned, they
will hear of something to their advantage.
Anyone giving authentic information of the
above to the undersigned will be well rewarded.
SHARMAN JACKSON & ARCHER,
Solicitors, Wellingborough, England.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN,SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Now is the time for punters to reflect sadly upon
the delusive character of those occasional Tuesday morn-
ing pars in the daily press, which are inspired by book-
makers soon after the publication of the weights for the
big-Spring handicaps. Paragraphs such as this: “Long
Legs has been mentioned prominently this week in con-
nection with the Caulfield Cup. He is an aged gelding,
and has only won a single race during his career. He
has not, however, appeared many times in public.” Or
this: “Stickjaw’s chance for the Melbourne Cup has
been freely discussed at the clubs during the last few
days. Stickjaw is a five-year-old that has been
long expected to win a good race* and his pedigree sug-
gests that t e Cup journey should not be too far;for
him.” Long Legs and Stickjaw and others of their kind
were never likely to see the post for either of the Cups.
The only people who mentioned them prominently, or
discussed them much in the first instance, were the book-
makers who hoped to get a few “ fivers ” out of them by
getting their names before the public. A par. in one or
other of the daily papers does the trick, and some of the
least enlightened of Ikey’s clients make an early invest-
ment on the “mug-catching” gee-gee with the idea that
it is likely to see a short price on fche day.
* * * *
“A Chat with Prince Foote’s Owner,” published
in Melbourne Herald the. other day, threw a pretty
strong sidelight on modern turf morality. Mr. “ Baron,"
it seems, “dwelt on the fact that he had lost Superb
(winner of the Doncaster Handicap in 1597) as the result
of an accident in the Caulfield Cup. Recently his Eng-
lish importation, King Berry, was killed in a race in Syd-
ney. The fear is entertained by Mr. ‘ Baron ’ that Prince
Foote will not meet with a clear passage in the V.R.C.
Derby, and he expressed a hope that the stewards will
give the matter their attention. His colt was blocked
three times in the A.J.C. Derby.” The question is not so
much “ will the stewards give this matter their atten-
tion?” as “ what will their attention be worth when they
have given it ?”
* ■* * *
In the running, as in the result, this year’s
Caulfield Cup was exceptionally unexciting. There have
been others —many others —which left 95 per cent, of the
audience sad and sorry ; but in most of those cases the
race itself gave various promises of popular victories and
a pretty general feeling of hopefulness had prevailed
until the end was near. This year the race came to pass
as sadly as a funeral procession. The roar of the multi-
tude never rose many degrees above anxious silence, save
at the very finish, when Pendil, with a too-late run, was
seen to be rapidly gaining on the leaders. None of the
other public fancies flattered their backers at any stage of
the proceedings, foralthough Golden Slipperand Artillerie
were in the first half-dozen half a mile from home, and
the former was running second at the turn info the
straight, neither of them seemed to impress the onlookers
as being likely to win.
The fact that the time —2min. 35sec.— nearly
equalled Poseidon’s record for a Caulfield Cup was due to
Mindful, who took up the running after a furlong had
been covered, and paced the field for a mile. Punters
knew nothing about Mindful, the mysterious mare from
old man Wilson’s stable, consequently her name was not
shouted. Following in close pursuit were two or three
other despised outsiders, and when the time came for a
very significant move to be made, the horse that dashed
to the front was Trelo Vouni, a 50 to 1 chance. The voice
of Ikey Mo could be heard inquiring “ What price Trelo
Vouni?” whilst the troubled public remained silent as
before. Then came feeble exclamations of “ Kyeadgerie ! ”
and “ Dhobi !” bursting- forth from a broad, comprehen-
sive murmur of disappointment as a brown and red jacket
was seen to be ahead of all the other colors. J. C. Wil-
liamson’s Blue Book had emerged unexpectedly from the
ruck, and was notv in a position to win. Then the colors
of Aborigine (white and red spots), unfamiliar to the
crowd as the colors of Blue Book, sw'ooped down on the
leader, and lastly the brown jacket and white cap, which
signified Pendil, came w’ith a belated rush. Pendil would
have been a comparatively popular winner—but Blue
Book and Aborigine ! ! All the people who had backed
either of the dead-heaters didn’t amount to a 20th of the
number who would have rejoiced over the victory of, say,
Post Town, not to mention the stronger favorites. Here
w'ere tw’o winners instead of the usual single cause for
exultation, but the exulters were so few that the noise
of them hardly sufficed to penetrate the gloom. Caul-
field racecourse had never looked more gay and crowded.
Everything in the garden was lovely except the faces of
the losers, whose name was legion.
Still there were chances of winnings to come.
A steeplechase following the Cup had seven starters, and
the public backed five of them at prices ranging from 9 to
4to Bto 1. One of the horses they didn’t back was
named Secret, and this neglected animal cantered in. For
the next race Irishman started at 6 to 4, and suffered the
ordinary fate of hot favorites. There remained one more
chance for punters, so they picked their fancies for the
Recovery Stakes and handed over the remnants of their
stuff to Paddy Mo. The fancies were distributed
among a dozen or 15 of the starters in a
field of 24. The winner turned up in Marcus.
Out of compliment to Ikey it was said to have started at
50 to 1 ; but, as a matter of fact, Marcus never had a
price put on him. This rankest of outsiders having
beaten the favorite in the last few strides, the public went
home full of bitterness.
Aborigine, of course, bad the support of a few
Maorilanders for the Cup, but the general public was
“ off ” him because his weight w ; as considerable, and his
recent “ form ” w'as discouraging, and he had been
scratched for the Melbourne Cup only a few days before
this race. It was reasonably argued that the stable
couldn’t be very sweet on Aborigine for the one Cup if he
had already been scratched for the other. Blue Book cer-
tainly represented a decent chance on “ paper,” but he had
never gone for a 12 furlongs race since he failed badly in
the-A.J.C. Derby, two years ago, and for the job on hand
his appearance had only one recommendation. A mighty
big horse is Blue Book, and leggy at that. A glorified
mount for a police trooper, or a modern majah-general,
he looked as he was being saddled up in the next stall to
Aborigine. The black Maorilander is much the hand-
somer animal of the two, and judging from their finish
last Saturday, he is the better stayer.
Blue Book has been backed for the Melbourne
Cup, seemingly, and even with a 101 b. penalty for the
Caulfield dead heat, his weight w'ill be only Bst. 101 b. It
is not the burden that will stop the big horse, provided
he is as good at two miles as, say, Pendil. Pendil gave
him 61b. last Saturday. At Flemington they will meet
on level terms—Bst„ 101 b. each. The big horse has none
the w’orst of the handicap argument—but can he stay?
The present writer can’t accept Blue 800k —high in the
leg and somewhat common-looking—as a first-class Cup
horse until he has done something better than his Caul-
field Cup performance, whereas Pendil last year won the
Australian Cup and Champion Stakes. He and Trafalgar
are of proved stamina and just now they look the most
dangerous opponents of Alawa among the top weights.
Alawa’ s victory in the Eclipse Stakes last w’eek
was a brilliant performance. Up to now this noble-
looking son of Malster has gone on improving with every
gallop, and is almost certain to start first favorite for the
Melbourne Cup if he gets through the last stages of his
preparation. Sent to the post for the Melbourne Stakes
next Saturday week he should win, for although the
apparent value of his recent form has been discounted
bv thb failure of Artillerie and others in the Caulfield
Cup, it is not on what he has lately done that Alawa is
judged. His manner of doing it and his jolly appearance
after his races were equally indicative of greatness in the
gee-gee ; and it is to be hoped that he will come up fit
and seasoned for the passage on Cup day.
The Westralian racing clubs don’t know how to
use a good thing when they get it. The totalisator is
legalised there —in fact, it is the only legalised mode of
betting—and yet, though the clubs draw the usual per-
centage from" the machine, no less than 39 Noses have
been licensed by the W.A.T.C. ; and there are plenty of
them who tout for five-shilling bets, and some get down
to half-a-crown. At the round of three Goldfields’ meet-
ings last month—Boulder, Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie—
£lol,B42 was put through the machine ; and it is reckoned
that at least £50,000 more would have gone that way if
the shadow of Aaron Noses hadn’t fallen between the
public and the tote. What the clubs squeeze out of Noses
in licensing fees is a small matter compared with what
they lose in percentage monev.
* * * *
“Snell”: Kid McCoy, a lad who may safely
be picked for featherweight champion of Australia in the
near future, provided Woodfull and Co. do not succeed
in having a law enacted making- it criminal for men to
hit each other with gloves, notched another victory at
Melbourne Sports Pavilion the other night, when he
whipped Soldier Rogers, a much more experienced
battler, very handsomely on points. Kid McCoy has
nothing the matter with him but his name (the folly of a
rising boxer taking on the name of a big man in the
game as a noin de plug becomes evident when he has
risen). He is quick, strong, shifty, with spry heels and a
cold head. He has gone over all his opponents to date
with scientific precision. He put a most workmanlike
finish on Mr. Rogers, and is now in a position to invite
one of the best to get into the ring with him.
* * * *
The Melbourne syndicate which is part B.
Jenkin (lessee of the Cyclorama, where the scrapping up-
roars are heard on Monday nights) and part certain Rich-
mond Bungs, struck trouble when it was some way
through the'erection of its stadium for the Lang-Squires
fight. The edifice was to have sprung up on a vacant
acre in the middle of Richmond, but the neighbors pro-
tested and the godly people objected, the property-
owners chipped in, and the Council refused to register
the premises. As the penalty for defying the Council was
only a £lO fine at most, it appeared that Jenkin and
co. would go ahead; but a deputation to Premier
Murray so impressed that tired politician that be
promised to bring in a Bill forbidding all such contests if
a cash reward was the inducement, the amateur being
still at liberty to spoil his fellow’s countenance if he were
able and willing.
* * * *
In accordance with his promise to the recent
deputation the Rev. John Murray, assisted by his curate,
the Rev. W. Watt, lost not a day in introducing his Bill
for the suppression of stoush in Victoria. The measure,
which is an amendment of the Local Government Act,
provides that no “ boxing contest ” shall be held in the
State except by permission of the municipal council of
the district where the service takes place, and that any
permit so granted may be withdrawn by the council or
cancelled by the Chief Secretary at any time ; the rules
governing such contest must be handed to the council
previously; and any constable or John may at any
time enter any premises where he has reason to believe
boxing is being carried on, and, failing correct names
and addresses heing given, may arrest all and
sundry. Penalties range up to £lOO for promoters and
participants, and £2O for spectators. The point of the
Bill lies in the definition of “boxing contest,” which is
“any boxing match, boxing competition, or boxing ex-
hibition, for admission to which a charge is made, or at
which a collection is made” (the Rev. Murray’s saving
clause), “ or at which those persons present are invited or
permitted to throw money into the ring, or otherwise
deposit it in the building or elsewhere.” It is a fairly noni-
prehensive definition, and the Bill, if administered without
bias, would speedilv put a head on all and sundry goes
in the Murray State, whether professional or amateur.
But it is fairly certain that uprisings of the cheerful
youths who paste each other annually at the Masonic
Ball in the presence of the law and the learned professions
will receive the enthusiastic permission of the City Coun-
cil, while the encounters of Messrs. Squires and Lang*,
and the budding pugs who meet at the Cyclorama will be
turned down in shocked disgust. Yet when the "V .M.C. A.
athletes hold a boxing contest the parsons and pietists
who witness it are permitted to “deposit money else-
where ” —in the savings bank, for instance, or in the plate
next Sunday—so it looks as if there was room for a heap
of argument over this measure. Anyhow, the Bill hasn t
passed yet, and there are good reasons for believing it
never will pass. There is a section in the Vic. Assembly
that objects to being rushed along by reverend gentle-
men who are professionally opposed to all shows
save their own. And the gross unfairness of the measure
will shock a lot of people. No boxing-match is to be
held without the permission of the local council ; but
when that is given and on the strength of it a match is
arranged at considerable expense, the permit may be
withdrawn at the last moment in deference to the row
made by a crowd of parsons, or it may be cancelled at the
11th hour and 59th minute by a preacher-bossed Govern-
ment. It would be much more honest for Murray to
propose the absolute prohibition of boxing matches
either for money or otherwise. And, while he is about ft,
he might as weil put down the Melbourne Cup.
* » • •
Judging by the cabled accounts, Stanley
Ketchell put up a good fight against his colored brndder,
chamoion of the world Jack Johnson. It was not till the
12th round that the coon managed to out the white man
completely, and during the interval between the start and
the finish, the little chap seems to have peppered his
bounding black opponent, fairly' hard at times. Ketchell
had learned something from Burns’ downfall, and de-
clined to allow Mr. Johnsing to use his most formidable
wallop, the right upper-cut; and the champion
managed to land it only about twice. It was Johnson s
superior weight and strength that settled Ketchell,
who is said to have shown remarkable skill and excellent
speed, and in the 11th round to have smitten the
champion so hard on the jaw that he was forced to clinch
till he recovered. Then the end came suddenly through
Ketchell doing as Burns had done—charging in to meet
the heavier mass of brown stoush. Johnson backed
away, stumbled and went down, but rose in a crouching
attitude. Then, with a sudden spring, he caught Ketchell
off his guard, and rained a shower of blows over the head
and face, finishing with a left to the body and a couple of
tremendous bashes to the head which sent the white man
down and out.
*** • '
The first round of Melbourne pennant cricket
finished on Saturday'. East Melbourne, which had the
softest proposition in its battle with South, won
on the first hits by a margin of three wickets and 249
runs, M'Miehael, the well-known East bat, contributing a
fine total of 173. P’ran, last season's premiers, suffered
the degradation of being walloped by’ Richmond by’ 72 runs;
while University, after a pitiful exhibition of batting,
was defeated by Carlton by 217. Collingwood created a
trifle of excitement by raising its previous Saturday’s total
to 84, and just lost to Melbourne by the irreducible mini-
mum, viz., one run ; and Northcote lost to Essendon,
which was 106 runs in front. The debate between Fitzroy
and St. Kilda ended in a draw. ’Roy closed down with
seven for 264, but failed to demolish the whole of the
Saints in the time allowed, the sacred creatures being
eight for 148 at the gong.
. # * *
Sundry irreconcilables of the old Cricket-on-a-
Boodle-Basis party have been opening their heads con-
siderably’ of late. So far the Board of Control has made
no sign ; but it is said to have been taking voluminous
notes and collecting evidence, and in the near future it
may call upon sundry'indiscreet gentlemen to show cause
why they should not be booted quietly out of classic
cricket.
» ■* « *
When the Burwood cricketers dismissed Pad-
dington for 58 Noble’s club naturally followed on, and,
pulling itself together, it slogged up 217 for the loss of
five wickets. But, unfortunately’ for Paddington, this
made no difference. The game was decided on the first
innings, and Paddington went down by 208 runs. The
feature of the second innings was the 101 put up by
Garnsey before Reid bowled him. But the day’s excite-
ment was in the match between North Sy'dne.v and
Waverley'. North declared with eight wickets
down for 367 runs, and Waverley went in and
blew great guns. Mackenzie made 51, Gregory
slapped up 143, and Hewlett came along with 92,
so Waverley scored 389 for five wickets, and won the match
with 22 runs and five wickets to spare. Another century-
maker was Law, of Petersham, who notched 111 against
Central Cumberland, which had retired after making 261.
With the aid of Law’’s century', Petersham amassed 272,
and thus won out by 11 runs. VVhich was a nice close game.
For the rest, Sydney downed Gordon by 91 on the first go
and Middle Harbor accounted for University by 16 on the
innings.
* * • *
It was a mixed day, and although some batsmen
did well, the bowlers had something of a carnival. Smith
of Burwood took six Paddington men for 32 runs. Proud
of Gordon took five Sy’dney wickets for 27, and Reed
assisted him with four for 30 ; but on the other side,
Finneran of Sydney took five Gordon wickets for 63
runs. Stack of University’ downed five Middle Harbor
wickets for 57, and Finneran in a second innings between
Gordon and Sydney took four Gordon wickets for 46.
*‘* * *
The chief lesson of the National Rifle Associa-
tion’s meeting at Randwick (N.S.W.) is that the size of
the bull’s eye must be reduced. The way the bovine
optic was riddled became absolutely monotonous. Evi-
dently the modern sighting appliance has been brought to
a degree of perfection which makes the present size of the
mark equal to what a haystack was a few y’ears agone.
But it was not only at the fixed targets that the
shooting showed a marvellous improvement. The “ run-
ning man ” came in for a bad time. In the “Hutton,”
with 10 shots at 300yds., nine shooters banged the object
with every bullet ; and in the “ Philip Charley ” 10
shooters got home with every bullet every time the ob-
ject came into view; while in the “Finn” eight men
pinked it every time it bobbed up.
* * * ■*
“The King’s,” with a first prize of £lOO, was
the tit-bit of the Jubilee meeting. In the first stage, at
300yds. nine “possibles” were put up; at 500yds. 56
riflemen put all their shots into' the bull’s eye ; and at
600vds. 13 more “possibles” were added. The second
stage, at 600yds., saw seven “possibles” go up; but at
700yds. no rifleman found the bull's eye with all his
shots. The final stage—Booyds., 900yds, 1000yds.—
found the hole in the marksmen’s reputations, and
only’ in a few instances were the maximum points
scored. Out of all this bustle T. B. Roberts (S.A.) and
S. A. Kefford (N.S.W.) struggled through with 299 points
each but of a possible 325 ; but, in the shoot-off, Roberts
won the big money. The other riflemen were close
behind—fwo scores of 298, one of 297, two of 296; in
fact, 24 shooters were within nine points of the winner.
Young Roberts (who is only 20 years of age) comes from
a family which takes a delight in mercilessly slaughtering
the cow’s optic.
In the club matches, it was Parramatta (N.S.W.)
R.C.’s gala day. The crack team from the worn-out town
gathered in “ The Sargood,” “ Governor-General’s Cup,”
“The Harris Gold Cup,” “The Longfield Aggregate”
(which carries the A.N.A. £l5O trophy), besides narrowly
missing much other ornamental dross.
* * » *
Victoria gathered in the “ Cotxynonwealth,”
known as the “ Inter-State ” in the years a-rear, with a
score of 1654. Queensland was runner-up
S.A. followed with 1643, while N. 8.. W. and i '■
together at the tail end of things with 1615 ea. b. it
33 matches Victoria has won no kss th an 15,
rest have been divided among theather states.
That Aviation Carnival at Rheims (France) was
the birth of a new sport. Now “ flying carnivals are
being organised all over the world. One is to take place
at Wembly Park, in England, where Blenot and Lieu-
tenant Latham will meet in a series of three i ma, ®hes,
the hope of demonstrating whether the mono P
is the superior air-horse. At Rheims there w ere
biplanes than single-decked machines in use, andl natu-
rally they carried off the majority of the prizes,
other hand, there seems to have been nothing that
the biplane did that the monoplane couW not also
accomplish. The great argument in favor of the mo ''°-
plane is that it is the nearest imitation of the bird, ihe
bird is monoplane every time. Looks as if, ini tnei near
future, these meetings will be as common as those de ot
to horse-racing, and that the bookmaker will lay the odds
i> the same old evil way, unless the tote supersedes him.
* * *,
As a long-distance traveller the aeroplane has
arrived, if that yarn of Forbes, the Yankee is true.
Forbes is said to have flown from St. Louis, in far Mis-
souri, to Richmond, in old Virginia, a distance of 731
miles, in 19J hours, or at an average speed of a trifle over
28 miles an hour. This is easily a world record.
The Arnsts, cyclists and scullers, are a mighty
family. No less than six of the brothers have nominated
for the Timaru to Christchurch (M.L.) road scurry,
booked (police permitting*) for October 30. Dick the boat-
pusher and Jack the pedaller will be on scratch, ana tne
other four will be strewn among* the front-markers.
* * * *
On Saturday last Vice-Commodore Norman
Murray and his merry men of the Sydney Prince Alfred
Yacht Club got to sea in a wild and headed
for where the white horses browse in Rose Bay. There
also was gathered together the Sydney Amateur Sailing*
Club. When the signal to dress ship blew aloft the
waters were transformed, and in a flash the bay was gay
with bunting. Even the snorting, puffing motor launches
were decorated to suit the occasion. As soon as the
water was bright with streamers the Commodore flew the
welcome signal “ Come on hoard ! ” They came. The
flagship was fairly hemmed in and its decks taken by
storm, and above the strains of music was heard the
fusillade of the marines. It was a great day.
* * * •
At the Prince Alfred Y. C.’s opening dinner,
Norman Murray proposed that the next season all the
sailing and rowing and motoring bodies should join to
make one vast . demonstration that would stagger
humanity ; and that, after humanity was staggered, the
whole force of men afloat in all capacities should be
formed into a naval reserve and do some training work
which w'ould make it of value when the day of invasion
and tribulation arrives.
* * * *
The Sydnev Roval Yacht Squadron has nomi-
nated the beautiful Awanui as challenger for the Sayon-
ara Cnp ; so Mr. Saxton’s craft will proceed to Port
Phillip and make an effort on behalf of Sydney to regain
the drinking vessel which, as everybody knows, was
originally subscribed for in the Ma capital. This will be
the Savonara’s third appearance as defender; and there
is an added interest this time as challenger and defender
were designed and built by the same man.
Hagney, who used to be a mighty wheeler
before the gods, is now a sculler of some fame, having
defeated big Ben Thoroughgood, and he is out after the
scalp of George Day—he who rowed the sensational race
w'ith Harry Pearce. Day has replied that. Barkis is
willin’ provided the race comes off at Woodburn, on the
Richmond River, on the 30th, and further states that he
can find £lOO for a side wager. If Thoroughgood is any-
thing of a judge, by the wav, Hagney is a coming cham-
pion who will one day give even the terrible Arnst all he
requires.
P. C. Ivens, who last week won the Victorian
sculling championship just howhe liked from A. Richards,
is a wonder and a phenomenon. This is the eighth time
he has demonstrated that he is the boss sculler of Vic-
toria, always winning with good margins. His latest
margin was 10 lengths.
The Touring Club of France has reached the
high-water mark in membership, with no less than
120,000 on its roll. The French Government recognisesit
as the representative of people who go about in
motor-cars, aeroplanes, or any other strange devices for
locomotion. Tt is.a name to'conjure with, and when a
member produces his badge, hotel-keepers fall down
and worship and the fellows who live on tips abase them-
selves before him, for to be written down as unsatisfac-
tory by the great club is to court extinction.
THE CUP AND THE CRUISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H.M.S. Cambrian left Sydney this morning: for South
Australia. She will make a short stay at Port Adelaide,
and then visit Melbourne. The Cumbrian will be the
only warship in Victorian waters during: Cup time. The
Powerful will be detained at Sydney refitting: a shaft, and
the Encounter is undergoing; an overhaul at Sydney.—
News item.
The lean, grey cruiser southward flies when hot November
comes,
And high noon finds her far at sea and steaming at
her top ;
The clear-voiced, lilting bugles blow —the rousing battle-
drums
At frequent intervals cheer up the floating lighting-
shop.
The Bulldog Boys trot round the decks with wide, ex-
pansive smiles
And polish up the hooded guns as if the angry foe
Was due to open fire within the next few hurried miles-
But, as they work, the whisper runs, “ Well, tell us
what yer know ! ” \
The grim , lieutenant on the bridge tramps ever up and
down ;
The silent helmsman spins the wheel and sternly looks
ahead ;
The thoughtful captain wears a dark and formidable
frown,
As though his warlike spirit were communing with the
dead ;
An atmosphere of strain and strife the peaceful spirit
feels
As southward on her lonely course the warship reels
and dives,
Till through the wind’s low crooning and the engines’
anthem steals
This little bit of comfort: “ Yes, I backed the thing at
fives ! ”
Deep down below the water-line among the sleek, grey
slaves
Whose journey song unto the stars by night and day
goes up,
The voices of the engineers who watch below the waves
Blend with the engines’ Song of Steel some notes about
the Cup ;
And deeper still, below the gleaming, steel-floored engine-
room,
Strange human murmurs still are heard around the
furnace doors.
And, like a prophet speaking in the shadows of a tomb,
The voice of some hot stoker says, “ It ought to start
at fours ! ”
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
A SLUGGISH LIVER
Made Operative by the Use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Piels.
Mr. John Butler of 211 Kent Street, Sydney,
having suffered from a sluggish liver, and fre-
quently from indigestion and constipation, tells of
the wonderful and permanent effects obtained by
using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
correct the liver, but do not gripe, and restore the
bowels to a normal and healthy condition, thus
overcoming constipation naturally and per-
manently.
Mr. John Butler.
(From a photo.)
“Having used Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
as a corrective for a slug-
gish liver,’’ he states,
“and occasionally for in-
digestion, lean assure you
that there is no better
remedy. I was in the
habit of taking Epsom
Salts, and from time to
time I tried other medi-
cines, but none have
proved so effectual or per-
manent in their results as
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They do not gripe
—like other physics, which
usually open the bowels
once and leave you just as constipated again
the following day. Your pills restore the
bowels to a normal and healthy condition, with-
out causing pain, or weakening the system.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching
remedy. They reach the liver as no other medi-
cine does. They put a move in your bowels,
strength into the kidneys, and life into your liver,
bracing up the nerves and muscles, toning up the
stomach, stimulating the circulation, and impart-
ing health and energy through the medium of a
well regulated system.*


SOME SECOND-HAND SNAPS !
fd
Think
of it !
Real Bargains—any one of these Cycles are wonderful
value for the money, and will pay you well to buy.
Naumanns, Triumphs, Red Birds, B. & B.’s. Humbers, Clevelands.
Speedwells, Crowns, Rovers, Pastimes, Gladiators.
From £3/15/- each.
Come along NOW, or send for our Price List straight away.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
‘ Largest Cycle Building
House in the State,”
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
ve
A NOTABLE FACT.
For 25 years we’ve been selling' the PLUM
RAZOR with NEVER a complaint.
Price 10/6. Post Free Anywhere
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong: Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB,
FEEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK. CUP week. CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY
CUP DAY
OAKS DAY
STEEPLECHASE DAY
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER.
TUESDAY, 2nd NOVEMBER.
THURSDAY, 4th NOVEMBER.
SATURDAY, 6th NOVEMBER.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
RECORD ENTRIES. ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
STEVENS RIFLES
“BULL'S-EYE KIND"
More Records hold than all other makes combined !
E. W. Fielding recently won the Tanunda, South Australia,
Kingship (a notable Rifle Tournament) for the second
successive time. Total of 148 out of a possible 156 points
under most unfavorable weather conditions.
Ask your Dealer and
insist on STEVENS.
There are no sub-
stitutes.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.CX, Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire*
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[1
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about thcA.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 yeas*3.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Legal Notices.
jpURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court made in
the Action 1909 Number 472 in which RICHARD
WHITE is Plaintiff and T. F. BRIDE The Curator of
Estates of Deceased Persons Defendant the persons claim-
ing to be next of kin to WILLIAM WHITE late of the
Temperance Hotel Little Collins Street Melbourne Laborer
deceased intestate who died on the Third day of August
One thousand nine hundred and eight at the Melbourne
Hospital intestate are by their solicitors on or before the
Tenth day of December One thousand nine hundred and
nine to come in and prove their claims at the office of the
Chief Clerk Law Courts Melbourne or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order.
The Sixteenth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and nine at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon at the
said office is appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 11th day of October One thousand nine
hundred and nine.
G. H. NEIGHBOUR, K.C.,
Chief Clerk of the Supreme Court.
Business Notice.
“SHELL''
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
How m L Deaf Ears Hear
He is wearing’ the
Ear Phone. Can
you detect it?
Being the story of the Ear
Phone, an invisibly fitted Wire-
less Telephone for the Ear, the
invention of Professor Edward
Hoffmann (author of “The
Sense of Hearing ”).
The book is most interestingly
written and fully illustrated,
and should be invaluable to
every deaf person who desires
to completely regain the power
of hearing. A copy sent free
on request. Address:.'
Professor E. HOFFMANN,
Dept. 1588,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair,
London, Eng:.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
THE STRONGEST AND CHEAPEST.
20 Per Cent.
Former
Send for Price List.
Reduction on
Prices.
GIANT FENCE CO.,
Oamperdown, N.S.W.
Celluloid Collar & Tie Former
With Pieces of Silk for Ties
Cheap and Good,
Only 1/6, posted
fd
The Lot for 1 /6,
including Postage.
A NEW AND
USEFUL INVENTION
"DESIDES being- a Great
Bargain, these arti-
cles are just what were
wanted and could not be
got. The Tie Former is a new in-
vention that has met with great
success in England and America.
With it you can take any short strip of
silk or o't her material and fold it into a
Handsome Tie, that will always
preserve its shape and will
wear much longer than an o~di-
nsry Tie. The Tie Former fits the
collar stud or button and always
keens the Tie in proper posi-
tion; it cannot slip. The Collar is
made gf excellent Celluloid, of the
fashionable double-over shape. Any
size from 13 to 17J. Better every way than linen collars.
Wash it in a moment with a sponge. With each order will be
sent Two Beautifud Silk Pieces, one of them
on the Tie Former to show how it is folded. The Lot for
Eighteen Pence, including postage to any address, or
with Four Pieces of Silk, all different, for Two
Skillings. Be sure to state size wanted.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union Wlfg. & Agency C©.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
MISS GLADYS WAHL BURG
WILL GIVE HER CONCERT AT
Y.M.C.A. HALL, SYDNEY,
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, at 8 p.m.
Assisted bv BREN AN MARS DEN, W. H. It. WOODS,
CYRIL MONK. GLADSTONE BELL, MISS ESTHER
KAHN, MISS LEONORE VERA BARNETT
(Acoompatiiste).
Plan and Tickets at Nicholson’s.
HEA T R E
Lessee
ROYAL. SYDNEY.
C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE ELAG LIEUTENANT.
. SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 23,
Sydney Grundy’s Famous Play,
A VILLAGE PRIEST.
G. S. TITIIERADGE as THE ABBE DUBOIS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
HER MAJESTY’S THE \TRE, SYD VIE Y.
Lessee and Manager : J. O. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8.
THE SPARKLING and UP-TO-DATE FRIVOLITY,
THE BELLE OE NEW YORK
AN UNPRECEDENTED TRIUMPH FOR THE
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Oly.dk Mrynkll and John Gunn.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
The Production on exactly the.same scale as in London.
Plan, Elvy’s. Day Sale, White Rose.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : GEORGE MARLOW.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
GEORGE MARLOW’S
Great Melodramatic Masterpiece,
MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
Prices—3s., 25., 13. Plan Elvy’s.
Amusements
I*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATR ESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices, fid, Is, Is fid, & 2s.
BIJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
Tivoli theatre, sydnev.
Sole Proprietor & Manairer —Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Emphatic Success of BROWN and ROBINSON.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, and AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
MISS LOTTIE KAY. MR. IRVING SAYLES.
THE TWO BELLS. MR. FRED. BLUETT.
MR, CLARENCE TISDALE. MR. W. A. ROBYNS.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
MR. 808 LLOYD. MISS NELLIE POWER.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. ‘ Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manairer, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WALTER EMERSON, Comedian.
CHAS. J. JOHNSON, Champion Cake Walker.
INEZ JONAS, Soprano Vocalist.
BERTHA STUART, Scotch Vocaliste.
DOLLY lIARMER, Character Comedienne.
THE WHEELERS. Trick Cyclists.
FANNY HALLE, Ladder Expert-
Plan at Allan’s. .LT PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
MELBOURNE.
William Andhrson.
THE KINO’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessee and Manager
SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 23,
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT CO.
THE FLOOD TIDE.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling-.
Box Plan at Allan's.
LjER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents the
SUCCESSFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE CATCH of the SEASON.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
<|*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 23,
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO. in
NEW EDITION OF CINDERELLA.
Prices —55., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
LAC
A R I U M,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.4.N.TAIT S
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
11l E ST’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
** THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES THE
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices —1/6, 1/-, and (id. Dress Circle, 27-
Box Plan at Glen's.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C.I/
yyiRTH BROS.’ AMPHITHEATRE,
WIRTH’S PARK, PRINCES BRIDGE.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES—WED., SAT., AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS,
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
NEW EUROPEAN ARTISTS—
THE FRANTZ FAMILY, Society Acrobats, i
DATAS, The Memory Marvel.
THE SPANISH BULL FIGHT.
THE RIDING HORSE.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Gallery, Is. Reserved Seats 45., at
Glen’s. Children under 10 half-price, except to Gallery:
AWIM TEN IMIS. DAVIS CUP.
AUSTRALASIA v. AMERICA.
N.S.W. ASSOCIATION S GROUND,
DOUBLE BAY, SYDNEY,
NOVEMBER 20. 27, 29.
Reserved Seals, 7/6 each ; Unreserved, 5/- ; Other Area, 2/6.
Box Plan opens at Paling-’s, November 13.
Preliminary Booking up to November 12 maybe made by
payment of extra fee of 2/6 per seat by letter to
T. H. HICKS, Hon. Secretary, Box 275 G.P.0., Sydney.
Under Distinguished Patronage EARL DUDLEY,
LORD CHELMSFORD, etc.
The BUILDING AUSTRALIA EXHIBITION
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY,
COMMENCING OCTOBER 2'7,
will show the LATEST ACHIEVEMENTS IN BUILDING
and ENGINEERING. The latter Section features
Australia Conquers
the Air !
FULL-SIZED MONOPLANE. AEROPLANE,
MAN-LIFTING KITES, and MONSTER
WAR-BALLOON.
AUSTRALIA’S FLYING FORTNIGHT.


HI FELL OUT
IN A DOZEN SPOTS
In Spite of All Kinds of Remedies—
Quickly, Completely and Econom-
ically Cured and New Hair Grown
—Cure Has Lasted Ten Years.
CUTICURA SUCCESSFUL
IN VERY TRYING CASE
“My hair commenced falling off until
I had about a dozen bare spots on my
head at one time. I tried all kinds of
remedies without success. Seeing Cuti-
cura advertised, I thought I would give
it a trial. After trying two sets of Cuti-
cura Soap, Cuticura Ointment and Cuti-
cura Resolvent and following the direc-
tions strictly, in a very short time my
hair began to grow and the bald spots
disappeared. They have not returned
up to the present time, which is about
ten years since, so I can safely say that
it is a very good cure. William R. Berry,
1, Love Lane Terrace, Pontefract,
Yorkshire, England, March 8, 1908.”
Reference: R. Towns <fc Co., Sydney.
MOTHERS
Are Assured of the Absolute
Purity of Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment
And of their unfailing efficacy in pre-
serving, purifying and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair
and hands, and in
preventing infan-
tile humours be-
coming chronic.
Warm baths with
Cuticura Soap and
gentle anointings
with Cuticura
Ointment, afford
instant relief, per-
mit rest and sleep,
and point to a
speedy, permanent
and economical cure of torturing, dis-
figure * milk-crusts, scalled head, ec-
zemas, rashes, itchings, irritations, in-
flammations and chafings of infants and
children, and afford rest and comfort to
worried, worn-out parents, when all else
fails. May be used from the hour of birth.
Ciitieura Remedies are sold wherever the British
Flag floats. Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney; India, B, K. Paul, Calcutta; U. S. A., Pot-
ter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props,, Boston.
. **~Post free, 32-page book giving description,
treatment and cure of Skin Diseases.
i i. / V \
m
H o
NERVOUSNESS.
We have an interesting- Booklet showing
the primary cause and method of perfect
home cure of nervous and allied troubles.
We will send a copy of this valuable
Booklet, post free, to anyone interested.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 5, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ANTI-FAT.
Don’t worry about your excess of fat. Fucus
Vesiculosus is the only herbal remedy known
to the world that will reduce your fat. We
charge only 10s'. for one month’s treatment.
Send for a Free Sample and Booklet.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 3, 44 Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEEMING’S
PRICES
18/6 8 221 6
FOR STYLE
IN
SHOES.
The above is the very newest fashion in Men’s
Shoes for Summer Wear.
In Tan or Black. Prices 18/6 and 22/S.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
All that is newest in /Footwear
is priced in it.
LEEMING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne [1
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAX A TINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
SY APPOINTMEMT
TO H M.TKE. KING
STILL THE ONLY TYRE
MICH
EVER CROSSED AUS
Motorists who study economy should become acquainted with the
differences between ordinary plain covers and
MKNELIN SQUARE TREADS.
To mention one difference. There are no joins in a MICHELIN
SQUARE TREAD. It is moulded in one piece, consequently it is much
stronger than the ordinary plain cover made in two pieces.
BARNET CLASS RUBBER CO., LTD.,
234 CLARENCE. STREET, SYDNEY.
289, 291, 293 Swanston St., Melbourne; 10 McHenry St., Adelaide ; and at Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
VIITTAWt 290 & 292 Bourke street,
Out IUDIO, Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
Excess FAT
REDUCEDI
Ten thousand fat women have
been reduced in
weight by from one
stone, even to eight
stone. . . There is
hope for you.
‘FATCURE’
cures obesity with-
out drastic dieting
or hilling exercise.
It strengthens the
heart and builds up
the entire system.
5 lbs. a week re-
moved in average
cases. Send 2d.
stamp for full par-
ticulars'and FREE
trial Sample.
Call if convenient.
58
c 99
«0
Vs:
rci
&
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
PATEN 73
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
By Appointment.
GEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL
Agents—Harrison &= Attivood , Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THAT HAVE CAUGHT ON!
They're books every Australian should
read.
They’re typical Australian from cover
to cover—full of intense interest from
start to finish. They’re written,
printed and illustrated in Australia—
you ought to read them—they’re pub-
lished in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Birtles; price, cloth, 3/6;
postage sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by “ Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6;
postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection, by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
From Selection to City, by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd” ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/ ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by Qhas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/ ; postage 3d.
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James Green ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D. Websdale ; price, cloth, 1/-;
postage 3d. And o((jep 0 ((j ep e q ua ||y g 00( j
books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
All Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
fd
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammatioa is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. W rite for booklet free, or send
Postal Note Jos. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G. P. 0.)
fds
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
cop.V of this new pamphlet to-day
Address— PlEßCE &’SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES' PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2£d.).
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
The Inky Way.
The cow leaves a very large, muddy hoof-print on the
journalism of the dairying districts, liere are some head-
ings, culled from one page of a paper which moos in a
cow locality: “The Profitable Cow—Statement by the
Dairy Expert,” “Cooked Food v. Raw Food for Stock,”
“ To Keep Clean Cows,” “Scours in Calves,” “ Increasing
Prevalence of Animal Tuberculosis,” “ A Test for Milk.”
And even after all that came “ The Story of Two Cows.”
It wasn’t a pretty little nursery tale, but a dry narrative,
full of fodder and facts, and it proved in a grim, statistical
way how the good, upright cow made a profit at the end
of the year; while the bad, idle cow owed several shillings
for board and lodging. The historic cow that jumped
over the moon was probably a frivolous beast whose per-
centage of butter-fat was disgracefully low.
*** " *
Hobart Daily Post, after running as “ Liberal ” for more
than a year, has now definitely gone over to Labor. The Tas-
manian Labor party, which is also the Opposition in the
Flyspeek’s Assembly, has acquired, or is acquiring, or is
advising its supporters to acquire, an interest in the paper
sufficient to control its policy and keep the Post firmly
planted in Labor principles. Jack Nettlefold, the founder
of the Daily Post, acting, so it is said, on the advice of
Attorney-General (now Judge) Nicholls, started out with
the intention of catering for and capturing the huge
crowd of “Democratic Liberal” voters that was alleged
to exist somewhere in Tasmania; but a year’s experience
and a general election has convinced the shrewd ex-tailor
that there is no crowd of “ Liberal Democrats ” in the
Island—that all the voters are either Laborites or Tories,
with nothing between but a barb-wire fence whereon no
man may roost in comfort. So Nettlefold wasted no time in
belaboring his “ Liberal Democratic League ” foes for
having failed him so miserably at the general elections ;
after which he flung the idol into the woodshed. Labor-
member Woods’ Clipper, the Labor weekly, is to be
absorbed in the new venture, and the Labor daily
promises to do its best to mortally offend the Tory
Mercury at least once during every 24 hours.
* * * *
Broken Hill—which runs the only union-owned daily
in Australia—will also be the first place in Australia,to
have a Journalists’ Association registered under the
Trades Union Act. The local inky-wayfarers formed the
usual non-committal association a few' months ago; but
after a while the members sat down and wondered what
>vas the use of it all. And after they had thought for a
while longer they resolved tp be a straight-out trades-
union and to affiliate with the Trades Hall.
* * * *
The hand of “Hamer” is rocking the cradle of The-
Clf.rk, the latest infant of the Sydney United Clerks’
Union. The child—a promising youngster—is to be
trained up mainly to “keep members of the union who
are employed outside Sydney in touch with its proceed-
ings ” ; and, for a start, it is going to have its little say on
the third, Saturday of every month. A child could talk
oftener than that without being sat upon by even the
sternest parent; but talk is money in this case, and just
at present the clerk hasn’t much money to spare. But
The Clerk (in larger letters) is going to try to improve
matters in that respect among others.
* * * *
“X.P.D.”: While telling the clerks to “buck up”and
barrack for decent pay, as other working men have done,
Tiik Bulletin might put in a word for pressmen. Twenty-
five-bob-a-week reporters (fair stenographers, some of
them, arid considered good enough to do the rounds)
were common enough in Brisbane a few' years ago—and
are still, for aught I know. I knew an educated man who
edited a daily in a Queensland town for £2 a week. Three-
ten is about high-w’ater mark for editors in average
Queensland country towns. Divide these weekly rates
by the average number of hours per week that a pressman
works, and see whether it pays best to be a medium
journalist or a good shoveller.
* » * *
“Sr”: I wish to claim the championship sash, wreath
or medal as the most rejected contributor to The Bul-
letin. Here is my latest performance : I have sent in 53
consecutive pars., and 53 times my copy has gone to its
wicker cemetery. I have spent 4s. 3Jd. in stationery and
2s. in stamps. I have spent 499 minutes w’riting my
brilliant MSS. and bought 10 Bulletins, costing 55.,
to see if any of it had reached print. I have
spent 120 minutes looking through the pages—mined
through the wild cat column, swagged through the
aboriginally column, investigated society notes, and
even inquired of the Red Page, sporting notes, ladies’
letters and sub-leaders for publication. lam prepared to
pay £37 to any contributor who can show a better record
of declines. I calculate my time with the above
exes, at £9 17s. s£d., and I demand that the
directors of The Bulletin, should take my case into
consideration, and, after taxing my Costs, remit payment.
If this par does not appear, I will send along 14 pars per
week for three years. If the staff refuses to w’ade through
these 2184 intended contributions, I will brief George
Reid—another reject—to sue the paper for £12,000
damages. I know' “Kodak’s” and “Hop’s” names by
sight, but not to speak to, and I ask their united votes
and influence in my interests.
* * * ♦
“F.J.W.” : Brethren, keep off Maoriland country jour-
nalism. Sometime ago I “wrote” myself through the
North Island, and—W’ell, here’s a fair sample. 1 struck a
towm that boasted a daily, as most M.L. towns do, and
the editor, w'ho was ancient enough to draw an old-age
pension, told me there was absolutely no chance for a
line. The proprietary was a limited co., and I soon
found the chairman of directors. He was the local
butcher. I explained my case to him, but he told me
they w'ere cutting down expenses. They had dispensed
with their real editor some months ago, and the book-
keeper had had the editorial job tacked on to his duties,
which included everything barring delivery, and the
butcher’s dog did most of that. I offered to carve him out
enough leaders to do for two months, or three years, or
anything. Well, there was a meeting of directors that
afternoon, and the butcher would submit my offer. As a
result, I waited on the tripe man again, and was
informed that they regretted they had no use for
leaders. In fact, they were overstaffed, and thought
of sacking the dog. “ Still,” he continued, stroking a
suspicious-looking sausage, “ we would like to do some-
thing for a brother journalist, an’, as Mr. is address-
in’ the electors to-night, you can go an’ do his speech.”
I “ took” the candidate, and handed in two columns to
the sub. (who w'as everything barring the dog), and the
old chap passed me out two half-crowns. He seemed to
think they had treated me extra-well, too
THE WORLD-SYMPATHISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sorrows of Peru,
Where Libel’s “imperilled,”
Draw tears as thick as glue
From Sydney’s Moaning ’Erald.
She weeps with woe sincere—
She scolds with vim and zest;
The brutal Cossacks hear
In far Sclavonia West !
Her righteous wrath hath wings
And flieth far away ;
She writeth down the things
Bad men do day by day !
Right boldly she attacks
The fiends who hold in thrall
The dear, delightful blacks
Of sunny Senegal !
And oh ! her heart is sore,
And ah ! her “ leader ”’s long
Upon the sinful war
In Timbuctoo or Bhong.
With pain her bosom throbs
As if ’twould break in two,
When she thinks on the jobs
Done in Kalamazoo 1
The treatment of the blacks
Or yellows, browns or reds,
Makes Grandma’s sorrow wax
Till o’er the world it spreads.
Her sympathy exudes—
Her wrath each “ w'rong ” excites
For nudes and semi-nudes,
BUT NOT AUSTRALIAN WHITES !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


n
m.
■M-.
r'V'
an.*
\
/■/
m
A) \
V,
cr
/'." \W
$0
L ,^C\^
M
>\
Photography
is
Simple and Sure!
The reason why the Kodak instantly leapt into favor and has
retained the premier position of all Cameras is to be found in its remark-
able simplicity and convenience. Even young people can use a Kodak with
success, and in the hands of a grown-up it produces most beautiful pictures.
Don't you think it would make life pleasanter for you to have a
hobby that Kings and Queens deign to indulge in ?
Photography with a Kodak is not a luxury —it is often made to
pay its own expenses —and once you get into the swing of the art you'll
never drop it. The Kodak eliminates drudgery and cumbersomeness. It is
light, compact, reliable —a Camera that does away with the dark room, and
lets you do all work in the daylight.
Here are three of the popular grades. You can see these and others
in any of our stores. We'll be glad to fully explain all points in detail.
Write if you cannot call.
No. 0 FOLDING POCKET KODAK
takes pictures 2Jin, x l§in., and loads in daylight for 6 or
12 exposures. When closed it is only lfin. thick, and can be
opened or closed by an instantaneous movement. The lens
is of good covering power, with a focal length of Sin. The
shutter is Overset and actuated by separate levers for time
and instantaneous exposures. A set of three stops is pro-
vided and also a brilliant finder.
Price, 26/- Postage, 9ci.
No. 2 FOLDING POCKET KODAK
takes the popular 3Ain. x 3£in. pictures, and is beautifully
fitted and finished throughout. The body of the Camera is
made of aluminium, covered with a fine black seal-<rrain leather.
It can be used as a fixed focus Camera, and can be locked at
Bft., 20ft., or 100 ft. focus.
Price, £3/3/~ Postage, //-
No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK
weighs only 410 z., arid embraces all the practical features of
Cameras several times its bulk, yet retains the Kodak sim-
plicity. It takes grand pictures of lijin. x s£in., and is fitted
with a rapid rectilinear lens, the F.P.K. automatic shutter,
two tripod sockets, a brilliant reversible finder, with hood and
automatic focussing lock.
Price, £4/10 /- Postage, 1/3.
Baker Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
Sole Agents for Australian Kodak Ltd.,
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
No. GB9l9 —Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand. £3.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd
ST,SYDNEY.
THE true value at which we buy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the
quality and value of every article. We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality —just what
they are represented to be in material, make aTqd finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues —one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the other is our large general 112 page. Either, or all of
them, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. G 4067 —Best Quality Silverplated
Cake Fork, 2/- each.
No. E2234—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, 1/-
No. GSSS5 —Best. Qualify Silverplated Chased Cake
Basket, Sp eial Value, £l/10/-
No. 358 A—Best Quality
Silverplated, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
ft
m
wm
No. G3sso—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Sugar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand, £6/10/-
Ho. HBs2—Best Qualitv Silverplated Flower
Stand, £2/15/-
Ijiijpn!]
No. G67l4—Silverplate on Nickel Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, £l/17/6.
No. J‘292—Best Quality Silverplate.
Our own special design, at the
Manufacturers’ Price, £2/2/-
No. F 563 —Best Quality Silver-
plated Enjrraved Sutrar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/2/6.
No. 154990—8e5t Quality Silverplated Revolvin
Vegetable Dish. Each Dish can be removed
and used separately, £6/6/-
No. 388—Silverplated Jam Spoon, 3/-
Butter Knife to match, 3/-
No. Glsol—Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. F6s27—The “King: Janies” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silverplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. F6l4o—Silverplated Butter Knife, 8/*
ST®. .1014 —Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2/16/-


Chamberlain’s Tablets correct a disordered
stomach by strengthening and toning up the
digestive organs.*
Do you want to live happy and long- ?
Do you want to be healthy and strong?
Laxo-Tonic Pills take,
For it’s not yet too late,
And vour system will never go wromr-
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, lOid. and Is. (id.*
Chamberlain’s Tablets not only stimulate
the liver, but strengthen the miiscular action of
the bowels, thus causing them tb move regularly.*
FINNEY’S
REMOVAL
SALE.
The chance of fifty years
No need to send you a
Catalogue ; you can guess
what the reductions will
be like.
Just let us know what you
want, and we’ll show you
value such as you never
saw before.
Sale starts TO-MORROW
and lasts one month. '
The chance of fifty years !
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
Women.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOD be sorry for women, if there’s a God
who listens !
Sorry for rose-faced girls, the blossoms
that care makes sweet;
And for the evil women, the jaded, weary women,
Who drag their hopeless footsteps at night
through the flaring street.
God be sorry for women, for nobody else is sorry;
Themselves to blame if they falter from virtuous
paths of men.
If ’tis God who made them clinging and God
who made them loving,
Surely the One who made them must go griev-
ing because of them !
Think of the little babies, with eyes so clear and
trusting,
The tiny maids who are nestling so close to the
mother’s heart ;
And think of the awful trading, the beauty buy-
ing and selling,
The price men put on women in the crush of the
Marriage Mart!
Oh! if we could see our babies, our dear white,
dimpling daughters,
Setting their hopeful dancing feet the way of
the grievous end,
Would we not pray Death came early, and think
that the daisied sleeping,
The grave in the grassy hollow, was the
maiden’s truest friend !
But no mother’s love can shield them ; they lean
from their world’s wide window
Tip-toe, so gladly peering at the land of a
woman’s power,
And the Man comes strolling idly to see the bud-
face smiling,
And reach his hand to grasp it, the prize of the
full-blown flower !
God have mercy upon them, the drudge or the
fair Queen-woman
All red-mouthed with her laughter, a-sparkle
with gold and gem,
For only when brown earth covers the limbs that
were praised by lovers.
Should hearts that are wise in women be no
more sorry for them !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
One of Kidston’s Great Deeds.
Certain southern papers which support the Fused
Federal Government claim that one reason for
Kidston’s success (if it is a success to get back to
office with practically no followers of his own,
and to hold his job bv the grace of Philp)
was the agreement whereby the Common-
wealth is to pay the State Treasurers 255. per
inhabitant per annum for ever. Kidston, as one
of the gigantic intelligences which fixed up that
bargain, is said to have impressed Queensland,
and that country, it is alleged, has recognised in
him a true statesman. If these thing are so,
Queensland is the guileless purchaser of a gold
brick. Even if the agreement is ratified, that
State, like its neighbors, will one day get the
surprise of its life ; but, as it happens, there is
very little chance that the wretched thing will
be ratified. Already the Fused Administration
has been driven to hold caucus meetings, at which
Prime Minister Deakin has almost shed his
garment of affability in his efforts to coerce his
revolted followers, and a committee has even been
appointed to interview the insurgents individu-
ally, and grease them, and argue with them, and
talk them to death, and implore them not to do
this evil thing. And it has all been to no
purpose. The agreement, regarded as a per-
manent affair, is too hopeless. It is right enough
for the present; that is to say, that while Aus-
tralia is a thinly peopled country which lives
largely by growing wool and digging up gold—
while it manufactures little, borrows more money
per head than any other country on earth, and
imports more per head than any other
country on earth, paying for its imports
largely with its gold and its loans—its
tariff revenue is huge and out of all reason, and
the Commonwealth Government can pay the
State Treasurers 255. per inhabitant per annum,
and still be a vast deal better off than it was
under the Braddon clause. But when population
has doubled or trebled, the income from wool will
represent less wealth per head ; the gold will
represent less per head—much less, for the mines
will be wearing out; and the loans will represent
much less per head, for even if a State with
1.500,000 people can borrow £3,000,000 a year, the
same State, when it has 4,000,000 people, won’t
be able to borrow £12,000,000 a year—quite pos-
sibly it will owe so much that it won’t be able to
borrow anything. Therefore the country will
have to manufacture more and import far less,
and its tariff revenue will be so much less
per head that to pay 255. annually per in-
habitant to the States will be wholly impos-
sible. Germany, with all its wealth and
its high tariff, raises only about 15s. 2d. per
inhabitant by customs find excise; Denmark, a
very rich country, raises 21s. lOd. ; the United
States, 295. 6d. ; and heavily-taxed Great Britain,
31s. sd. With these examples in view it is quite
plain that when this country settles down to a
normal condition the payment of 255. per head
annually to the State Treasurers out of the tariff
revenue will be a mere whirling joke. The Fused
Government can’t but be aware of this, and there-
fore its proposed arrangement is a mere political
confidence trick. In return for some assistance
from the States to help its rocky finances in
the immediate present it is willing to promise
them something utterly impossible in the re-
mote future, when the Fused Government will
be dead and gone and someone else will have to
face the problem. The goods can’t be delivered.
The agreement may be put in the Constitution ;
but evqn if it is put in the Constitution 20
times over, and welded on and nailed down
and clamped and riveted, a time must come
when the States won’t get their 255. per
head, just because they cant —because there
is no blood in stones, and it is impossible to steal
the pantaloons of a Highlander who never had
any. So it. has come to pass that many of the
Fused Government’s own followers object to the
affable confidence dodge, and before the trouble is
over there may be a buried Fuse. If Kidston got
any votes at the recent Queensland election
because he helped to fix up the brilliant 25-shilling
agreement he had better hand these votes back,
for they were obtained under a misapprehension.
It’s only the very outermost rabbit that
hasn’t now been scared by some motor-car or other
in Western Queensland. Between Longreach and
Winton—the coach-stretch of 130 miles where
Cobb and Co. has had a sort of monopoly for years
—the chauffeur has entered into competition with
the ancient whip. The coach, however, hangs on,
and gives the passenger more bumps for less
money ; also it isn’t so particular about the size of
the wardrobe you carry. Private persons also
scatter the petrol’s fragrance on the Western
breeze. Kidstonite Cannon, Labor-member
Payne’s opponent for Mitchell, bombarded
an extra-large electorate of scattered shanties in a
car. Bunning, a Western squatter, has also been
travelling over the Mitchell and Gregory districts.
Starting at Longreach, he honked to Winton and
Buckingham Downs, and thence went to far-off
Boulia and back. Bets were made that he would
get lost in the sand ; but, though he often dis-
appeared axle deep he was able, with the use of
tree-branches, to manoeuvre his car over the loose
patches.
Canon Jones, of Indooroopilly (Brisbane),
who has been saying “Lastly, brethren.” for 50
years, mostly in Queensland, has been remin-
iscing. He and five other parsons came out from
the Cold Country with Bishop Tufnell, Bris-
bane’s first Bishop. The party arrived in Sydney
in August, 1860, and went on to Brisbane in the
Yarra Yarra. There were only six Other Anglican
reverends in Queensland when they arrived—
three in Brisbane, and the others at Drayton,
Ipswich and Maryborough. Among them was
A CANDID VICTIM.
MADAME: “ You will shortly be swindled out of a sum of money.”
VICTIM: “ Yes, I know — half-a-crown.”
Robert Creyke, who subsequently became
the first Registrar-General of Queensland,
and whose widow is still living at Cleveland,
about 20 miles from the Queensland capital.
The principal Anglican church in Brisbane was
St. John’s, which stood on the site now occupied
by the gardens adjoining the Executive Buildings
in William-street. The bells of St. John’s now
do duty at Sandgate, one of Brisbane’s marine
suburbs. There was a stone church in Leichliardt-
street, and another in South Brisbane not far
from where the Victoria Bridge now crosses the
river; also there was a slab tabernacle at
Kangaroo Point. In the country there were
preaching emporiums at Dalbv, Drayton (a slab
one, still standing), Warwick (pulled down this
year), Toowoomba (then called The Swamp),
Gayndah and Maryborough.
When the Queensland Government used to
employ private well-borers to tap land intended for
selectors, it struck so many difficulties that at last
it invested in four boring plants of its own. And,
of course, the S. M. Herald announces that the
thing has been the usual failure, because, as it has
pointed out in a thousand articles, Private Enter-
prise can always do the thing cheaper and better.
At least, it ought to have said that, but it didn’t;
in despair, it lias left off trying to make the yarns
it tells in its news columns square with those it
tells in its leaders. Instead, while it continued to
curse “Socialistic interference with Private Enter-
prise” on one page, it reported as follows on
another:—
It is computed that' the Government plant can work
more economically than the private plants ; at all events,
the Government has been getting its work done at
cheaper rates, and the plants have worked satisfactorily.
Then the Herald turned its editorial blind eye
on its own remark, and kept on writing furious
Anti-Sosh articles, as usual.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 16, 1909.
Mt Dear Thargomindah.—
You never know what angel you may be boiling
the billy for unawares. Still the angel sometimes
drops you a hint. The other day this sordid para-
graph appeared in the news columns of the Rock-
hampton (Q.) Bulletin
Herbert Lionel Henry Vane-Tempest, Marmor, laborer,
was adjudicated insolvent in forma pauperis yesterday.
The fees of Court were ordered to be remitted.
That was the billy-boiling. And this was the
hint (you had to look for this in the In Memoriam
advt. columns): —
VANE-TEMPEST.—Sacred to the memory of Mary
Vane-Tempest, the dearly beloved wife of the Right
Hon. H. L. H. Vane-Tempest, Wynyard Park,
daughter-in-law of the late Marquis of Londonderry.
R.I.P.
There is a good deal of mystery about these ex-
tracts. The only H. L. H. Vane-Tempest men-
tioned by Debrett is a courtesy lord with a house
in Grosvenor Place and an estate in Wales. He
doesn’t seem the sort to go laboring in Queens-
land, nor yet to go bankrupt there. And he has
no wife. However, the Rockhampton Bulletin
is doubtless right in its facts, in which case some
of the stately homes of England are in for a sur-
prising social find.
One of our very nicest bachelors has repented of
his evil single ways, and decided to take upon
himself the degree of benedict. This is Carl
Palmer, youngest son of the late knight of that
name. The lady who has had a hand in working
the reformation is Miss Minnie Lightollar, the
youngest child of the doctor of that ilk.
Sweet Kittynell Stewart and co. are having a
hilarious time of it as regards houses, and the folk
who “ go to the play ” nearly break themselves in
two with laughter. Apart from the Widow
Bellairs herself, Mistress Marjory Chard, who
speaks the prologue, is a vast success, and as to
her casual invite, “ O come with me to Bath
to-night”—well, I haven’t met a man to date who
isn’t ready and willing to go to Bath with her
then or any other time. On Saturday “Sweet
Nell ” and her oranges go up, and the house pro-
mises to be a crush.
A wail reaches me from a local lady whose
good-heartedness and avoirdupois are about
equal. She is at present visiting your part of the
world, and has been asked out to play bridge at
some score of houses perched, chalet-like, upon
the heights of Mosman. The usual climb of 90
steps seems likely to work a late reformation in
the matter of cards, unless she can buy an aero-
plane.
By last mail from Bangkok comes a cheery
screed from Bob Lowry, a Brisbane journalist
who, after a successful campaign upon the South
China Morning Post, seems to have dropped
into a snug billet under the Rajah of Bhong—P
mean the King of Siam. The Australian ink-
slinger has been appointed chief law-reporter at
the Bangkok Supreme Court, where he experiences
a pleasing change in working hours, for Siamese
Judges don’t work late.
Siam seems to have a fairly wide choice in the
matter of advisers to the throne. The chief
General Adviser hails from the land of the Stars
and stripes, while the Finance Expert comes
from England. The Lord Chief Bobby is British
also, i’hfere is a German secretary of some sort,
and the Admiral (Siam has 22 small vessels) is a
Dane. The Judges are Siamese, but even they
have European advisers to help them fine the
small brown drunk.
A catty story is going round re the very slight
response made to some 100 invitations which were
lately issued to a wedding. It seems that the
family does not hold a high place for hospitality,
and when a previous offspring was wed it asked a
heap of folks to a very saving breakfast, and
scooped in a fine collection of house furnishings
from the invitees. It was considered that the
thing had been overdone, and this time the
attendance was small and the house cat is very ill
through trying to overtake all the superfluous food.
Speaking of weddings, a second orange-blossom
event came off in the Murray Prior family on
Monday, when Phylis Claudia gave her hand
and heart to Edgar McConnell, son of the Laird
of Cressbrooke. ' The Arch-Anglican Bishop tied
the knot, and there was much rejoicing. When
the victims had fled to the south, the groomsmen
and their merry maids put in the evening with
Kitty Bellairs.
The Newcastle bowlers, who are just finishing up
a visit here, are great sports in a social way, and
have been, on an average, to three teas a week
ever since they arrived. This excessive drinking
has evidently ruined their nerves, and not one of
them can now get within a mile of the jack.
Fourteen quarts of hot tea would upset anybody’s
aim.
The Boy Scouts are out, and it is as much as
Angelina’s life is worth to occupy a seat with
Algernon in the park. These small fiends infest
the land, and have already upset two promising
matches.
Tooth-doctor Moran and Mrs. Moran are home-
ward bound from Europe upon the Canadian liner
Aorangi due here at the end of the month.
Another pair about to arrive home are the
Hartigans—now frequently alluded to as the
Outagains.
The most startled, surprised and angry man
this week is ex-Minister for Mines Jackson. He
took things in an election way with refreshing
calmness, and everyone said, “Oh, he must be
safe.” One Minister’s wife asked Mrs. Jackson
if she wasn’t going up to give her husband a hand,
but that lady explained that there was no need.
And now Mr. Jackson may seek for his lost job
amid the ruins of Nineveh or in some such place.
Next time Pa seeks the electors’ favor the Jackson
family will take no chances.
Jackson’s defeat recalls the fact that he himself
got into politics by knocking out old Isidor Liss-
ner, the then Minister for Mines. Jackson now
sings quite a song about the folly of electors who
do themselves out of the honor of being repre-
sented by a Minister, but I can’t recall any such
sentiment expressed by him when Isidor the elder
walked the plank.
Touching that matter of the Agent-General-
ship, which office, the Kidston person announces,
was offered during the recent election to a pro-
minent business man. The offer seems to have
been made right enough, and to Mr. E. V. Reid,
of Walter Reid and Co. ; but then Kilp must have
known that E. V.R. was safe to say No. Now if
he can stall off the claims of Joey Bell, he will
probably slip into the job himself with a “no-one-
else-would-take-it,-old-chap” sort of air.
The annual banquet of the Pioneer women was
well and truly spread at the Eschenhagen Pie-
shop on Saturday evening. There were some
speeches, and from what one could hear of them
between bursts of melody arising from a stone-
masons’ social held near by, it was evident that
optimism was in the air. There were lashings of
roses on the table, and many pretty gowns
around the festive board, and a half-dozen guests
(one from your State). Mrs. Joey Bell had Mrs.
Clifton and Mrs. Harrington Morris alongside,
and dames Cullen, Bond, Pagan and other
inveterate clubbers were near by. The mention
of absent friends brought up the name of the
former secretary, Miss Edith Dickson, just now
sojourning in Brussels, and everyone wished her
back and called her a jolly good fellow.
Sincerely yours,
MAEIO.
George Hall, a youth attending the Towns-
ville (N.Q.) Grammar School, is something above
the ordinary as an athlete. At the recent school
sports he won almost the entire programme. He
threw the cricket ball 101yds., covered 20ft. 3in.
in a broad jump, cleared sft. s|in. in a high jump,
got over 100yds. in llsec., 440yds. in 57sec.. and
880yds. in 2min. 21sec.; won the mile handicap
from scratch (time not taken), won the 120yds.
hurdles in 19sec., and was third in putting the
weight. Most of these things he did on the same
day. Hall is a native of Charters Towers, and
has lived all his life in the North, where, accord-
ing to the Stinking Fish gospel, the “whiteman
can’t live,” and the youth grow up like weeds.


CANE SUGAR AND WHITE FARMERS.
Dr Maxwell, one of the world’s authorities on the
sugar industry, wrote :—
“7n other sugar-growing countries the
estates are in the hands of extensive
owners, or controlled by large corpora-
tions, which state carries with it the
consequence that a minimum number
of white men are located on the land.
“In Queensland this ownership or occu-
pancy embraces a vast number of
STRONG, PROGRESSIVE WHITE
MEN, who are planted all over the
sugar-growing areas.”
The late W. H. Traill (formerly editor of The
Bulletin) wrote
“ The unmistakable fact is that the sugar
industry in Queensland is only in its
infancy. The pioneers have warred
with difficulties innumerable. Many
brave men fell in the conflict. But,
reinforced, others fought on, and
stormed one after another the entrench-
ments of inexperience, plant diseases,
labor troubles and other minor obstruc-
tions by scores.”
The Queensland Government has advanced
£589,000 to start central mills, which
give the small cane-grower a chance to
make a competency on land in the
vicinity of the mill.
These mills may in time become the co-
operatively owned property of the cane-
growers themselves, on repayment of the
interest and principal advanced by the
Government, out of the share which
they now receive as shareholders in
the communal working of the sugar in-
dustry.
A BEAUTIFUL BIT OF NATURAL
SCENERY, NEAR THE QUEENSLAND
CENTRAL RAILWAY.—The spot is said
to have been the hiding place of a gang of
bushrangers.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLII.
FORTUNES IN SUGAR—IV.
By J. D. FITZGERALD, Barrister-at-Law.
Before dealing with the vast possibilities of the
industry by a comparison with other countries, or
treating of the central mill system and its conse-
quences, a word might bo said here —which will
conclude this article —upon the by-products of the
cane. In the annual report of Mr. E. G. E.
Scriven, Under-Secretary of the Queensland
Department of Agriculture and Stock, speaking
of molasses, the principal by-product of sugar-
cane, he says :
Although molasses is of value for a variety of purposes,
its storage, especially at a busy time, and its transport
offer difficulties against its being systematically put to
profit. There was less molasses entered on the returns as
produced in 1907 than in 1906 ; 7,272,905 gallons against
8,373,581 gallons, perhaps due to the better quality of the
cane-juice handled in the former year. Of the output
for last year 520,000 gallons went to distilleries, and were
converted into rum ; 223,573 gallons of that spirit being
the outcome. Approximately, 536,000 gallons were burnt
in the furnaces as fuel; 960,000 gallons employed as fer-
tiliser for the land ; whilst about 2,000,000 gallons were
otherwise utilised, mostly for feeding stock ; the balance
in hand of the year’s production at the end of 1907 was
734,000 gallons ; all the remainder being unaccounted for
— i.e., run to waste.
Enough has been said to show the “ small man ”
what his chances are in the cane-fields. This
mode of settlement is especially suitable for
enterprising immigrants whose families are capable
of rendering such assistance as will obviate the
necessity of hired labor, which is difficult to be
got—difficult because every man of nous in
Queensland is seeking with all his might to
become his own master by selecting land. Sugar
offers these attractions :
1. A small area can be worked profitably.
2. Small capital is required.
3. Land is available in the best spots.
4. Climate and soil are admirably adapted to
the industry.
5. The central mill system gives a ready mar-
ket and a prompt cheque to the planter.
6. The State services are benevolently active.
The crux of the problem of making the sugar
industry a success in Queensland was the legisla-
tion by which the difficulties of the planters were
met. Twenty-five years of industrial and legisla-
tive experiment is to-day at the service of the
cane farmer, and of the immigrant who embarks
his capital and labor in sugar. Upon the decline
of the system copied from the United States—the
big plantation and the colored proletariat—and
the advance of the small occupier, who, with his
family, could grow, treat, cut and deliver the cane,
the necessity for handy mills became imperative.
The principle which is everywhere coming into
play in Australia (a good social and communal sign
—the principle of closer settlement) has been de-
veloped in connection with the sugar industry.
The Sugar Works Guarantee Act, passed in 1893,
and its Amending Acts, provide that the settlers
working cane are enabled to register as a company
to carry on sugar works. They can raise funds by
the issue of debentures, the Government guaran-
teeing the payment of interest and principal, and
securing itself by a mortgage over the cane lands
and the sugar mills.
Up to date the Government has advanced
£589,400 towards the establishment of these central
mills by settler groups. The result has been that
the industry has gone ahead by leaps and bounds.
Queensland to-day not only supplies her own
wants, but exports to the other States of the
Commonwealth, and oversea. In 1906 she sent
2,832,118 cw t. of sugar to
the other States of
Australia of the value
of £1,615,338, and still
the Australian market
is unexhausted, for in
that year £439,000
worth of sugar was
imported into the
Commonwealth from
Java, Fiji and Mau-
ritius. Then there are
the markets of the
world, which have
hardly yet been touched
by the Australian
sugar industry. The
export overseas in 1906
only amounted to
185,000 cwt., valued at
£140,000.
Comparisons of the
area and also the
product of the United
States and Queens-
land, which have
already been given,
may be applied to
sugar-cane. The great-
est amount of sugar
produced in the United
States is from beet,
and not from cane. In
1906 the sugar products
in that country were:—
1906. lb.
Beet sugar .. 967,223,000
Cane sugar .. 544,320,000
Maplesugar.. 11,928,000
And the values, re-
spectively, were :
Beet prod uct.. £6,000,000
Cane product.. 7,200,000
Maple product.. 270,000
• £13,470,000
Thus, without taking
into account the by-
products, we can get at a glance the value of the
industry to the great Republic. We should have
a splendid market for Queensland sugar, after the
wants of the Commonwealth are supplied, and
there is a surplus for export. Britain in 1907
imported 21,500,000 cwt. of raw and refined sugar,
valued at £19,143,000, and if the “preference”
idea takes root in England as is expected, an
exclusive market for colonial products will give a
splendid opportunity to bur producers, and
amongst them no one will benefit more than the
cane planters.
CLEARING SCRUB AT QUEENSLAND AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
Coming back to the central mill system, a few
figures will show the position of the State with
regard to the financing of the new policv.
During the period from 1893 to 1907, 14 mills had
Government advances to the amount of £589,482.
A SPLENDID COLLECTION OF A FEW OF THE NORTHERN STATE S PRODUCTS,
INCLUDING CHEESE AND PRESERVES, EXHIBITED BY QUEENSLAND
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
Upon this sum £193,700 has been paid for
interest, and £210,326 on account of principal. The
amount owing in June, 1907, was approximately
£428,500. The Government, in pursuance of the
new policy, exercised the strictest supervision
over the mills. There is a regular official in-
spection of plant, and reports are furnished to the
Minister at intervals. To the “ small men ” it is
of interest to learn that they have been safe-
guarded so far as participation in the profits of
the mill itself are concerned, and they are let into
the co-operative principle of mill ownership.
Thus, where the mills had been taken over bv the
Treasurer as mortgagee, a speedy recovery of the
prosperity of the venture and a change of manage-
ment led to the increase of the number of growers
of cane. The growers were divided into two
classes, the ‘‘shareholding” growers and the
“ non-shareholding ” growers. The former used
to receive in some cases a higher price for their
cane than the latter, and, in addition, had the
advantage of becoming co-operative owners of
the mill if they succeeded in paying off their obli-
gations to the Queensland Treasurer as mortgagee
in possession.
It was soon observed that the increase* of the
number of non-shareholding cane-growers was
the chief factor in the success of the mill as a
commercial speculation, and. therefore, the chief
cause of the release of the mill from its financial
embarrassments. The Government saw that, as
things worked out, those growers who were
guaranteeing the success of the mills would not be
participators in the benefits created by their
presence and enterprise, and that a substantial
injustice would be done them. Certain proposals
were made and, after much negotiation and some
litigation to determine the scope of the Govern-
ment's powers, agreements were signed which
place the “ non-shareholding ’’ growers in a better
position. The intending immigrant should care-
fully note this settlement, for the interests which
await him, ready to spring into existence the
moment he arrives in Queensland and goes into
sugar-growing, are carefully safeguarded. The
compromise was on these lines :
The absolute ownership by the State of the mills of
which the Treasurer is in possession until such time at
least that a mill has repaid all moneys owing to the
Treasury.
The execution, by canegrowing mortgagors, of agree-
ments to grow cane, and the releasing of the mortgagi s
over their lands.
LOADING BANANAS AT CAIRNS, NORTH
QUEENSLAND.
The organisation of new companies after the Treasury
moneys have been totally repaid, which new companies
shall include all cane suppliers, and none other than cane
suppliers; and each grower’s interest and share owner-
ship in the mill shall" be proportional to his guaranteed
supply of cane, according to conditions that shall be de-
termined upon.
The earnings of the mill will be applied (1) to
pay working expenses and upkeep ; (2) in paying
arrears of interest and principal; (3) the balance
will be divided equally between the suppliers of
cane on the one hand and the Treasurer on the
other hand ; the amount due to the suppliers of
cane being distributed amongst them pro raid
according to the deliveries of cane made by them
respectively ; and the amount due to the Treasu-
rer carried to a reserve fund for the benefit of the
business, but will be available at any time towards
the payment of capital or other moneys owing to
the Treasurer in respect of the undertaking.
Here will be found a true co-operation between
the growers themselves on the one hand, and
between them and the Government on the other,
for mutual advantage. The immigrant can see
the advantage of this all round.
The Government is in the position of the trustee
of a valuable estate; in this case, responsible to
the whole people of Queensland, now and to come,
as cestuis qui trustcnt , for a diligent trusteeship ;
or like directors of a joint stock company. They
know that the more they develop the properties
the better it will be for themselves and for every
one of the shareholders. They have this huge
territory of 670,000 square miles, full of natural
wealth, requiring only the application of human
labor and capital to bring forth the marvellous
riches now lying in the fallow territories.
The access of population aids those who are
already in the country —who are represented
by the Government. The Government acts
as agents for the present inhabitants in inviting
the suitable and ambitious settler in Europe, or
elsewhere, to come along to a country which awaits
him with a hearty welcome; which offers him,
not a renewal of the struggle with
and harsh climates from which he escaped, but a
share in the system which places the land and
the money and the resources of the State at his
disposal, to assist him to become an independent
producer of wealth ; which supplies education for
bis children, from the elementary schools to
Oxford University; and which admits him into
its political system as a citizen and a voter under
the freest conditions in any country in the world.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mei.rournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fiikmanti.k Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA E N GLAN D.
ORSOVA .. Twin-Screw
OTWAY ..
OSTERLEY
ORVIETO
OTRANTO..
ORONTES
OMR AH ..
OPHIR
ORMUZ
12,036 Tons.
12,077 „
12,129 ~
12,000 ~
12,124 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
6,465 ~
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible*
Premiums moderate and without restriction as p;>
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitftmv distributed. i’
Chief Office for New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, Iy.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank nf Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEOLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. r-T^
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mrigr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
nVJOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
LAI SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING of
The Permanent Trustee Comp my of New South
Wales Limited will be held at the Royal Exchange,
Sydney, on Monday, the 25th day of October,
1909, at 12.15 o’clock in the afternoon, when the
subjoined Resolution will be proposed :
RESOLUTIO \l.
That Article 73 of the Company’s Articles of Association
he amended by striking out the words “ five hundred ”
in the second line thereof and by inserting the words
“ one thousand ” in substitution therefor.
Should the Resolution be passed by the requisite
majority, it will be submitted for confirmation as
a Special Resolution to a second Special General
Meeting which will be subsequently convened.
Dated at Sydney this 11th day of October, 1909. •
By order of the Board.
A. P. BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
TH E TWENTY-SECOND ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING of Members will
be held in the Royal Exchange, on MONDAY,
OCTOBER 25, 1909, at Noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Bal mce-Sheet to September 30,
1909.
to elect Two Directors in place of A. G. Milson, Esq.,
and E. H. Rog’ers, Esq., who retire (under clause 77 of
the Articles of Association), and who offer themselves for
re-election.
To elect Two Auditors in place of Messrs. W. Clarke
and F. Phillips, who retire, but are eligible for and seek
re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
M inager.
17 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
October 11, 1909.
A POLICY FOR. the COMMONWEALTH
Price Cd, ficm The Bulletin Office.
Shipping:.
Nord Deutscher L/loyd.
four-weeklTmail service.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples. Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles. Gibraltar. London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
r „ ...... Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 698. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.998
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Mkbks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gihlis, Bright & Co.); J. Campbf.ll-Wood, Esq.
W. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Ali.f.n, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE. ’
« Twin Screw. a One class only,
t Taking passengers for the Melbourne Cup.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
OALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ś
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 27 (takinj:' passengers for
the Melbourne Cup).
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —OaDetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 CO 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyetij and Compant/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ŝ
CRUISES. N
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHtLP & CO; Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay Interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being:
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or w.thout associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Crant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
A situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
DetaUed.information .op.application to Branch Min isters, or to the Srcrbtart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Banking, &c.
JHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
. 412 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested))! Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35.000 0 0
Dirkotors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A , LL.D.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Man aster.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
NO RATS or MICE SEEN
Since using DAN /SZ VIRUS. Discovered at the
Pasteur Institute, Paris. See testimonials.
Single Tubes, 26, five for 10/- Post Free from
DANYSZ VIRUS, 4M ' 6 mTSh B ™' l '
and 13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Harmless to other animals. All chemists and storekeepers.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks, in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 Ring Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
fsdfs
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
/ “ Post Free.
We make this Special 'Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corne- Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [3
Hotels, &c.
mi
sec
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
BECOME A TYPIST! ifiSVSa-a
“EEZYTYPER”
df
Typo all your letters,
set out price tickets for
windows, etc., etc.
Very useful for chemists,
jewellers,stationers, etc.
Made entirely of metal
(including type, figures,
and punctuation marks)
therefore nothing to get
out of order easily. Very
little practice necessary
to obtain a good speed.
This machine is a fine
present for young people
PRICE
ONLY
6/9
Carriage paid to any address
in Australia, Tasmania, or
New Zealand.
Pnrp If you order at once and mention this paper for
mCX the information of our advertising department,
•we will enclose free a Puzzle Matchbox (usual cost, 9d.)
Send Postal Notes to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
theadelaidelsteamship CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE Co and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR .MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), November 2,
calling' at all N.-West
Ports to YVyndham.
(Shortest route to Tananu
Goldfields.)
S.S. Marloo, November 2
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns. ■
S.S. Yong-ala, October 23.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 30.
Best anfl Cheapest Route to Goiafieias.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU.
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, Ueorge-screel, Sydney.
F.— H , S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,400 Tons. T. Davies, Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - - 26th Oct.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 2nd Nov.
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE- - 9th Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Sue*
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL* \ £49 10s ’ £l3 13s - £islss - £l7
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “ESSEX.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne:
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
W
MORRISS !
I jree Witches
CIOARETTEB
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.'
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T hen send for particulars
of our perfectfitting
Automatic air cushion appliance
the Best Rupture Applianc- of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.. Melbourne,Vic


sdf
H.Hillier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Phajtons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set. £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
RUBBER STAMP NOVELTIES.
Pen, Pencil and Stamp.
OMLY 1/6. r
s
This is absolutely the most
popular and useful novelty ever
sold. It comprises a beautifully
nickel-plated Pen, Telescopic
Pencil and Folding Rubber Stamp of your name
in any style of lettering, and fitted with auto-
matic self-inking pad already for use. ONLY 1/6
complete, post free to any address. A reduction
of 3d. each if you order three or more. Always
state name to go on the stamp. If name and
address required, add 6d. for each extra line.
Pendant Stamp.
df
Similar to the
Pencil Combina-
tion, only without
the pen and pencil.
■ and fitted with
ring instead for attaching to watch chain. Com-
plete with name and pad, Only 1/d. Jj’or each
| extra line add dd.
Locket Stamp.
With Name or Monogram for 3/-.
sdf
Gentlemen wear
these on their
watch chains.
They are beauti-
fully gotup.nickel
silver, and fitted
with ring for at-
taching to the end
of your chain.
Contai n s a d etach-
able rubber stamp
of either your
name, name and address, or monogram, and self-
inking pad. PRICE, with name (only) or
monogram (2 initials),3/- each.post free. If name
ind address, 0.1. for each additional line. If with
monogram of three in tials, 1/6 extra
Aluminium Sovereign
Case Stamps. E rrSSr“ y
Just the thing for
the ladies. Being made
of aluminium they are
very light, will keep
their colour for ever and
will not rust. They open
like a watch, and, as
with the Locket Btamp
shown above, the inside
contains a detachable
Rubber Stamp, also
automatic self-inking
pad. PRICE, with name
or monogram (2 initials)
3/-, post free. If address
required on Stamp, add
(id. for each extra line
sd
Nickel Watch Case
S-f rr\r\c Very Strong and
JiampS. Durable.
Same shape and on exactly the same
principle as the Sovereign Case Stamps,
only made of NICKEL SILVER; hence are
very much stronger. Very useful for trav-
ellers, collectors, and others for receipting
hills and other purposes. PRICE, with
NAME (onty) or Monogram of two letters
3/-, post free. If address required, add bu.
for each additional line.
Linen Marking Outfits.
Stamp, Pad, Ink and Box, for ONLY 1/9,
■ Be up-to-date, and use this splendid
Outfit for marking your clothing. ROB-
BER STAMP of your name in any style of
lettering, Bottle of Marking Ink (guaran-
teed not to wash out), and PAD complete
in a pretty little Box, all complete for
ONLY 1/9, post free. Or, if you would like
a more elaborate stamp with a nice bor-
der, send 1/- extra and you will be de-
lighted.
Monogram. Stamps.
Very Pretty and Fashion a I e.
f
It is quite the correct thing
now to send your stationery,
etc. with your Monogram
stamped thereon. Our Mono-
grams give beautifully clear
and distinct impressions. Any
two letters for ONLY 1/3,
post free. 3-letter Monograms
cost 3/1. Indelible Marking
Ink with suitable Lad, ONLY
9d, per bottle, post free.
Ordinary Pads (for papers, books, &c.), any
colour, II- post free.
Live Agents Wanted.
We want a few more ENERGETIC
AGENTS, where not already represented,
to sell our RUBBER STAMPS and other
FAST-SELLING NOVELTIES. BIG PRO-
FITS. Some Agents make £5 a week clear.
Catalogues supplied with your own name
and address printed on. Write for par-
ticulars to
A. J. SMITH & GO.
New Address : 338=340 KENT ST,. SYDNEY.
BRIAR
Pipes (GBP) Pipes
The only PIPES
That have stood
the Test of Time.
All Good Smokers Use Them
Ask: for them and see
.. that you get them ..
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
: Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C.Calvert&Co., Manchester, Eng.
LIQUEUR
p.O;l
o *® ORX^
* tKMIh DutllUry L* -
Ou*iv SCOTL^ 0
amni®
OU) SCOTCH WHfltf
m
7| GOOD
*1 FOR TESTING
Every drop is bottled by our-
selves, thus—and thus only can
we guarantee its quality, age and
flavour.
The entire production of our
Century-old distillery is devoted
to Old Orkney.
The pure Spring water from the
heather-clad hills ofOrkney gives
to 0.0. its great superiority
We always hold a 10 years’supply
in our own bonded warehouses.
Thus, wherever you buy it, 0.0.
is always the same.
Write for beautiful booklet en-
titled " Farthest North," and
nearest 0.0. Agent, sent post
frie from
McConnell’s Distillery, Lid.
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C
Proprietors of
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney. Scotland.
sď
Old
ORKNEV
G. U.S.P&
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
'the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Rent Street, SYDNEY.
HAVE vou tried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISU YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—tlie result will be so.gratifying to you that
you would not be without it for one day. Every French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and w'hite, re-
moves blemishes, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. per
large jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents only : THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS, 42a
Castlereagh Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest Manicure Rooms
in Sydney. Add 6d. for postage.
£9
=C
//
v\
'Z*'
a
Vi
It i
N!
take MU
f
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. Y.ou are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgustmg disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC RELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning 1 or
blistering 1 , and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day. •
£,500 REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold liy us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity, which can he instantly felt, and we will forfeit JBSOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
Ava-oi nvo
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
fs
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Joseph n. corcorap
GTFIOE HOURS: 9 am. to 5.30 pm.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name....
Address


" AWL-YOU-WANT.**
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
df
i Its immense value in repairs to Boots
'and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-w.int." Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent m sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Need es are interchangeable, extra ones can,always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Aw) (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—r bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post tree. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d„
post free; 2 for jd., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LOOK FOR THE
WINCHESTER
WHEN BUYING
Rifle or Pistol
Cartridges
Winchester Cartridges—
the Red W Brand are
sure fire and accurate. In
Winchester and other
makes of guns they al-
ways give the best results
and results are what
count. They cost a few
pence more than inferior
makes, but they are
pounds better. & £
Sold by Dealers Everywhere.
V
ic:
*
©
Sp
©
©
If you are
thirsty
try a
glass
of
/LIME
JUICE.
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
Is made from cultivated limes, and
Is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a coo.ing, refreshing
healthful drink.
MADE IN TWO KINDS -
Unsweetened, i.e.. Plain Lint- luce.
Sweetened — i.e., Pim-xice Cordial.
sd
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
CAPILLARINE the moustache producer
*4
Want a Moustache !
A moustache can be guaranteed to any man who will try CAPILLARINE.
Try it yourself—you’ll be delighted with the results. It actually
produces hair.
Price 10/0 a Jar, Posted Free to any part of the World.
Craig- & Aitken, 654 George St, SYDNEY*
Established 25 Years.
1
s
r
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
are Better—Stronger—and More Durable Tyres
than all others .
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision ,
• Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
s
I
R
0
0
fi
m
mm
a
THE CHARM OF CYCLING
is increased a hundred-fold when your Bicycle is fitted with a
BROOKS SADDLE.
Thousands of Cyclists have realized that fact—you should do so
too—as also that no other Saddle can even approach the
BROOKS in the matter of comfort and durability.
Write then for Art Manual, and remember the BROOKS is
stocKed by all Agents.
J. B. BROOKS & CO. Ltd., The Saddle Specialists, BIRMINGHAM
ENGLAND.
PLASMO N
PLASMO
Is an Unequalled Phosphatic
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD,
Containing
The Organic Salts and Phosphorus of Milk
in a natural state of combination and in a greater degree than any
other milk product. PIiASMOW contains a natural sufficiency of
organic phosphorus without the need of artificial addition of phosphates.
Plasmon added to food increases the nutritive value
ENORMOUSLY. — Lancet.
Plasmon, P asmon Cocoa, Plasmon Chocolate
and Plasmon Biscuits.
Of all chemists, grocers and stores.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
PLASMON, Ltd , London. Australian Depot, 5 & 7 Barrack
Street, Sydney, N.S.YV,
0
5f
Ne leaß, RO OFING*
CONGO stands unrivaled as the most durable, complete and satisfactory Ready
Roofing for all kinds of buildings and for all purposes.
Its peculiar and special coating on both sides makes it absolutely non-decaying.
Congo is unaffected by climatic changes, weather, heat or cold. It will not
leak nor rust, crack, shrink or swell.
It is as pliable after years of hard service on your building as when laid.
It is easy to lay, inexpensive and satisfactory.
A Sample will give you a good idea of what Congo Roofing is like.
We send it free on request.
Use Congo Damp Course to damp-proof foundations and cellar floors. Sample free.
G
NOYES BROS., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
■ C* DELMAR, Australasian Representative for "Congo,” Sydney, N S.W.
KIHG'S
For .22 Rifle Shooting both for
Sport and Range practice, these
f
sf
British made Cartridge* give
you the best results. The
hollow point bullet is pur-
posed (or sporting. All
Ammunition Dealers
Agents
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELEOURNE, VICTORIA
fsd
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
P'wffinmwww^
/ r..:l
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON q/
i) w ng
iS£=Jt £3Bl
Obtainab.e from all the leading' establishments.
pDPTDRE Treatment “ a R -
How I cured myself of a severe Rupture of many
years’ standing, without truss, bandages, or surgical
operation. Simple home treatment. Full particulars
and treatment, per mail 10s., postal note or money
order. Personal interview, evenings 7-9. Mention
this paper when writing.
J. D- RAMSAY, 98 Darghan St., Glebe, Sydney.
PSYCHO THERAPY
MENTAL AND MAGNETIC HEALING
The oldest and safest way of alleviating
all sufferings of the human frame. ■$
Up-to-date methods in Massage, Elec-
tricity, Hot Air, etc. All obtained at the
HEALTH INSTITUTE,
43 Phillip St. t Sydney (Opp. Works Dept. ).
VALD UNMACK, 8.A., 8.L.1. (Haun),
Late Masseur and Demonstrator of Massag'e to the
Sydney Hospital.
DON’T LOOK ni n
WITH
LOCKYER’S
HAIR RESTORER
in Bottles, 1/6.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the veiy worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/ $ and 11 /.
Thousands of Testimonials. ' '
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Messrs .Sayers, Aliport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b' I. W. NIOHO'.L. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25. HIGH STREET. BELFAST. IRELAND.
lH
ASTHMA CURE
I GHIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
1— i————■■
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chemists.
ON THE HOP’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.


“Locust ” writes :
Anions' the delegates to the recent Chamber of Com-
merce Conference were several municipal enthusiasts
from small places like London and Manchester, and large
places (municipally) like Bristol. When the Greater ]
Sydney question was broached to them, the Bristol man j
grew enthusiastic, and informed the writer that there ]
had been four Greater Bristol movements, in each of I
which the civic boundaries had been stretched, new popu- |
lation added to the city’s total, and the organised city
services extended to a larger radius. The City Council
of Bristol had put £5,250,000 into docks, wharves, com-
mercial stores, etc., for the benefit of the city, besides
owning art galleries, great parks, gas and water supply,
electricity, etc. The Manchester man proudly said that
he also had been associated with Greater City movements,
which had led to more scientifically-conducted civic
government. His council had put £5,000,000 into a
canal which it managed, and which gave Man-
chester many of the advantages of a seaport town. His
Council also had art galleries, libraries, bands, parks, gas,
water, electrical trains, etc., all held for the benefit of the
citizens, and the profits of some of which went in re-
duction of rates to the ratepayers. When these British
civic men heard that Sydney had 41 councils and five
shires for under 600,000 citizens, they smiled a wicked
smile which might have been heard in at least 40 munici-
palities, and which would almost have drowned the tur-
moil in the Leichhardt and Waverley Council meetings ;
and this explosion was followed by a silence so dead that
you could plainly hear the dropped “ haitch ” of Haider-
man ’Enley rebounding on the hasphalt.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
SPRING SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET , SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
THE BALLET GIRL
sfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fros, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
9
6
So
®p®i
r
There were heM a
important Tests
They wereffaxUed
Exhibition
Scientific
kNOt;
SSRKjjI
fjmmjm
ri
ii
i
Cfl
ass
sss
P^Wi
innipeg Industrial
( u?ere the stages.
The exhaustive, emended over ten days, and included
Bralle Power Steered off fly wheel.
There'were thirteen entries > including best known English, Canadian, and
AmeriCarfEngines. .
“I. WCd’Enaines fairly distanced all competitors, 15 and 20 h.p. Engines
EACH easily winning Gold Medals in their classes by 9 and 6 points respectively,
and 15 h p. “LHC.” winning Special Sweepstakes for highest points awarded
to any Oil Engine in any class-THE “BLUE RIBBON” OF CONTEST.
Fuel economy was a great factor in this victory
What “LHC.” Engines did at Winnipeg they are doing every day in
hundreds of places throughout Australia. Every purchaser is delighted with
his Engine and sends his friends to us.
Kerosene Engine dealers all over Australia have for years belittled Gasolene
Enqines, but most of them have already been forced by the success ot the
“1.1i.C.” to adopt a Gasolene Engine, and the rest will follow suit shortly.
Place your order NOW for an “LHC.” to be delivered in, the Autumn,
and avoid the disappointment experienced by scores last Autumn on account
of shortage of stock. #
Send for pamphlet giving particulars of this Test, and showing photos ot
the “1.H.C.” Engines winning the Winnipeg Contest.
International Harvester Company of America
( Incorporated )
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney: 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
17 Bank Street, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Australia.
[279)
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of. Twelve, 6d. . Packet of Ten, 5d
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over .50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrif,
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich; 1-s posted. Dn, Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly S' Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings,. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is (id each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Vkntim 1,0411 ism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle oe 'Tint'
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is (id.
Joys of Like, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Window Ticket Writing Explained. Is3d Mechanics
Workshop Handyiiook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted, My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is , post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. l>n. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is (id. How ro
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Like,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is : post. Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
OF Paris, Is ()d. History of thk Rod (i iatrell«TMon>
and "the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (match-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is (>ri.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for tip
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Houses.
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French I‘olisiiing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/...
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is -_d. Neu
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowlers Human Science.
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
sfd
sdf
fds
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- andpld, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning niar-
ria"e, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Ci 11'» V FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
]« posted. >4OO Sosos, and Bat, dads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,_ls 3fi
post. Slow to" Play Billiards, illustrated, Is od.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Va,mi> on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern EtigUEitk,ls. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules— for all Games), Is. Book oi
100 Gamks, Is. Man From Snowy Riv ku, .>s bo.
Poultry Kkkimng, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His. Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Cari-entei 1 ., Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Austr ali an Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, 1 uhlic
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s td.
SiiiiK Instructor: Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, is 3d. Mac-
faddkx’s Physical Training, Is. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s fid. How McDougal Topped the Score as
Other Verses, 3s (id. Bung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s guide,
5s (id posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptamkron, and mam'
others. all at 2s (id each posted. Bride of the first
Might, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, _ls post. Gay
Bike in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
[Mo Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t bo fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. i]<f hut <t blushed 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BERR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my .
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is 010 Bush Songs, Is lid post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
"s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book) over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abbidgf.d Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (tvhy pay 3 and 4
•■uineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
*
*
*
sfd
In the preparation of Benger s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain hie. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Bengers Food is sold
In tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W. --
to he LEADING
HOUSE —'
sfd
Sporting' Goods
Fishing' TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"THE MAINE
p/f/e
The Maine" S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can he taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight fitted with plain Y back sight ... 1C) If
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
Postage on one Rifle —Is 3d, N.S.W. 2s 2d, Inter-State.
Gold Medal
Awarded
Franco-British
Exhibition.
STANDARD
ggffiig
TWO
i
y-
Contractors to
His Majesty’s
Forces
and the R.A.M.C.
BRITAIN’S BEST DEFENCE.
GIVES STRENGTH THAT DEFIES THE WORLD.
*
The combination of all that is most nutritious in meat and malt as prepared in “Wincarnis ” gives a two-power standard
that cannot be equalled for giving Strength and Stamina, Vitality and Force to men, women and children. Being easily
assimilated, it benefits the tired, weakened or overworked body like a wave of renewed vigor, bracing up and generating
Health and Power to every organ of the body.
The supreme test of the real merit is in the Good “Wincarnis” will do YOU.
To feel Refreshed and Exhilarated—to experience that renewed Glow of
Vitality—to realise the Joy of Living—these are the gifts of Wincarnis.”
44 Wincarnis ”is an ideal wine tonic —a combination of choice wine, extract pf rifeat. and extract of malt.
It can be obtained of Wine Merchants, Licensed Chemists and Grocers.
Australasian Depot—FASSETT CEL JOHNSON, 5 arid 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY,, N'.S.W.
COLEMAN CEL CO., "Wincarnis WorKs, NORWICH, ENG.
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for*
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
. V v .. •'
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis;-Cough, ©roup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, expeippnce delightful and rapid relief©"and to-those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as if effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Vpice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known;where “ Coughs” have, on their-first appearance, been properly treated with, this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain. •. : ' ■ : <
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARIME,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


fd
VARICOSE VEINS
Suffered Terrible Pain
REXONA Quickly Cures
Anyone who has suffered with Varicose Veins will appreciate what a terrible
affliction they are, and how thankful Mrs. Ellen Coleman, dressmaker, 155
Darby Street, Newcastle (N.S.W.), was, when Rexona quickly cured her after
having tried everything else in vain. She writes as follows :
“ Never in my life have I ever seen such a wonderful ointment as Rexona.
The good it has.done me is certainly marvellous, and I shall always speak a good
word for it every opportunity I get. I had a bad leg and suffered from it for a
longtime. The trouble was Varicose Veins, and the pain was terrible. Of
course, I tried lots of different things for it, but nothing seemed to ease it until
I tried Rexona. This wonderful ointment helped it at once, and eased the pain
in less than five, minutes. I consider it an excellent remedy, and wish you every
success with it.'"’
Rexona is a Reliable Remedy for Bad Legs, Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Eczema,
Pimples, Sores, Chapped Hands, Chilblains, Piles, and all Irritations and
Eruptions of the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores in triangular pots at Is. Gd. and 3s. Sample
tin forwarded free upon application to the Laxo-Tonic Pill Co., 15 O’Connell
ftt.rppf; ft vrl nov TV . ft. \V.
oxona
THE RAPID HEALER
THE RELIABLE
fds
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL
MERIT.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/0 per 100.
“Yenidjek Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100. Suitable for pipe smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 0/0 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCK ART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
who will acquaint you of the nearest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
pnpwADnpn post PPFF TO ANY AnnRRSS. Packet of TWELVE. 6d. Packet of TEN, 5d
AN OLD VETERAN’S
Powerful Testimony.
17 Long Years of Indigestion Cured after
all Other Treatments Fail.
19
S'c/d
Mi
ons
AN interesting personality is Mr. Janies
Siddons, Master Mariner, Soldier, Ex=
plorer and Octogenarian, who gives a
graphic description of his terrible
sufferings from Indigestion, his vain
endeavors to obtain relief, and his
remarkable restoration to health by
Bile Beans, for the benefit of potential
sufferers among “ Bulletin ” readers,
as follows :
The Bile Bean Co., Veterans’ Home,
Sydney. Mt. Roskiil, Auckland.
Dear Sirs,—For seventeen long years I was a
great sufferer from indigestion, brought on by
hardship during many years of seafaring life. At
times 1 was completely prostrated with dizziness,
pains InThe side and back, attacKS of recching, sTcic
headache, and other distressing symptoms, and was
often utterly incapacitated for work. I tried many so-
called remed!is in the hope of ridding myself of the
Indigestion, but my efforts were in vain. I sought the
advice of doctors, chemists and other medical men, but
their treatment, too, proved utterly futile, and I continued
suffering.
The curative properties of Bile Beans were
brought to my notice by a friend in Gisborne, who strongly advised me to give them a trial. And
a sound recommendation it proved. lat once procured a box of the Beans, and started on them.
Even from the first few doses i began to feei their beneficial virtues ; the pains in my back and side
disappeared ; my appetite, which previously was so poor, began to return ; vomiting became a
thing of the past; my head no longer ached as though it were under a heavy weight; and my eyes
became clearer and brighter. I continued taking Bile Beans—gave them a fair trial and underwent
a thorough course—and was soon cured of the indigestion, after having been a martyr for seventeen
long years. In fact, I honestly believe that Bile Beans were the means of saving my life. 1 served
for three years in the Crimean War, and am well on in years now, having passed my 79th birthday i
but still very active for my age, and I attribute my health and activity to Bile Beans. If at any
time I feel run down, a Bile Bean puts new life and energy into me. 1 cannot speak too highly of
this great family medicine, and urge all sufferers to give them a trial.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) JAMES SIDDONS, Master Mariner.
BILE BEANS are the World’s
Standard. Remedy for biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation,
piles, dizziness, nausea, belching,
flatulency, heartburn, vomiting,
anaemia, offensive breath, impure
blood, loss of appetite, disturbed
sleep, debility, and all disorders of
the liver, stomach and digestive
organs. Bile Beans are obtainable
from all chemists and stores at 1/li,
and 2/9 large size (containing three
times the 1/11), or direct from the Bile
Bean Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ile
eans
South of Gabo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE young gales hatch below the Snares ;
As fledglings wild, uncouth,
Their fierce Antarctic dam prepares
Their flight of fear and ruth.
From icy nests on crags forlorn,
And bergs and glaciers bold,
They flutter forth, for aye to mourn
Their birthplace lorn and cold.
Full-pinioned, at the Tasman Sea,
They leave along the crests,
In shrieking, loud, witch revelry,
White feathers from their breasts.
They scream around the lonely isles
Like sad-voiced restless things
That sweep perforce the darkened miles
Witli strong, far-spreading wings.
From Wilson’s up to cloud-capped Howe
Their giant playground lies,
When on each sprav-drenched harbor brow
The “ Stand-off ” signal flies.
Then South of Gabo watch and ware
The sliipmen as they go ;
For o’er the hummocks, whitely bare,
The cutting sand-drifts blow ;
And cruel rock-knives, hidden, wait
With edges sharp as steel,
Along a coast of Evil Fate,
Each doomed shore-driven keel.
Here lie the dead ships one by one ;
Out here the surges croon
The Federal to her rest-place gone,
The sunken Ly-ee-moon.
Long kelp and seaweed, through the curl
Of combers all agleam,
The floating hair of some drowned girl
In waving tresses seem.
Here, graved beneath the golden sands
And iridescent shell,
Lost sailors out of distant lands,
Unsought, are sleeping well.
But South of Gabo, when those strong
And wayward winds are done,
’Tis all a deep, harmonious song
Of Sea and Land and Sun.
The little cutters spread their wings,
From Eden to Cape Sehanck.
The coaster’s rusty framework rings
The hymn of rod and crank.
The ketches, leaving in their wake
An odor of benzine,
With quick explosions noisy take
Their way across the green.
With wattle-bark and fish and maize,
From five to twenty tons,
The midget fleet goes down the bays,
And seaward daring runs,
With seasoned crews, of twos and threes,
To handle wheel and sheet,
Steal up and down the changing seas,
The fathers of our fleet.
Hard-fisted, lean Australians these
Who know the fickle bars,
The soundings and the mysteries
Of clouds and tides and stars.
When South of Gabo roars the brood
Of all the gales of Hell,
They—long before—for shelter Stood
And anchored safe and well.
But here and there along the coast,
Sea-worn and.salt with foam,
Old wreckage gives the brood to boast
Of ships that came not home.
Oh, South of Gabo—where the Heel
Of All Australia stands.
Their hearts are like the tested steel,
And iron are their hands.
And South of Gabo—where no eale
Of Capricorn they ken,
Is bred by rougher shores and seas,
A stronger race of men.
From South of Gabo yet may track
By sea-trail sternly forth,
The men who’ll hurl Invasion back,
Defeated, from the North.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
A Letter from a Japanese Boy
in N.S.W.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rp o Most Honorable and Ever Scraped to
Editor
The Bullock Team,
214 George-street, Sydney.
Expensive Sir,—
Am there an honest man amongst us ; then turn
him out, he be a spy. That—l speak from per-
sonal remarkings—are Australia’s mote-toe.
Said mote-toe I construct after converse held in
Lee Chang’s ignobleman house ; when Lee Chang,
I, Uncle Togo, and other sensibles, meat to cuss
out weighs of adding to store of lion Hope-I-am
already in this land of the fee.
Our objection it were to shoes hero to snuggle
some pounds of that prodigy of the Poppy from
ship lying about harbor to Lee Chang’s unspeak-
able den.
“I no do it, I too well known to lion Pole-
lice,” Lee Chang wine.
“Result of miss-spent-with youth,” I jeer him.
“While I be last purse to stand on toe of
younger man,” Unk Togo resign hisself to in-
devitable.
“Don’t munch on it,” I however bow him:
“Age all ways before innoscents.”
“Say our young fliend be given game of
chance,” Lee Chang grin tooth-lackey smile.
“Don’t allow auntssciety for young fliend to
dispoil your sleepyness,” I snap him, feeling all
once of retiring-room disposition.
“ Hope-I-am snugglers make much yen,” Unk
Togo reflection.
“How much?” —I show signs of compound
interest.
“ Five pounds gold for one pound Hop,” Unk
smile pleasurably.
“ What transplace if Hon Cuss officials catch
him ? ” I querylous.
“ They never catch smart Jap boy,” Lee Chang
sure of it.
“ But jest spose,” I spar for breathe.
“Then smart boy’s kind of Unk will pay his
finery,” Togo deliver liissplf.
Them are eventfuls, Hon Editor, which lead
down to me walking last Fryingday to Circuit
Key, and then taking prominent-aide on ship
whose hon name I lockjaw in my sole.
As I gain broach Circuit Key I notepaper Hon
Cuss official have eye on me, so I walk him look-
ing contemplate.
“Say,” I whisker, “is your honorable desirous
to make lots yen?” and I wink him with spare
eye.
“ How munch ? ” he greed.
“Five pounds,” I bait him.
“ How I make it ? ” he swallow.
“When you do your duty here again?” I
don’t answer him.
“Same time morrow,” he eager,
“Then morrow, same time, I come along;
see?” I show auntssciety.
“Yes,” he nod me.
“ In hon pockeat I have small parsley, you omit
to view him ; see? ”
“ Yes,” he nod repeater.
“It contain”—and I make nutamegaboneof my
hands—“ Hope-I-am. Can do ? ”
“ Yes,” he nod me.
So with nother whisk of spare eye, and holding
up my five fingerings, I walk slow away.
Next day, proud with knowledge of my guilt
edge, I visit ship, whose name even Hon. Bullock
Team could no draggle from me, and then walk
fearless toward same Cuss official; head up, vest
disbanded, eyes to shirt-front, feeling like Oyama.
As I come near he I notepaper hon. Cuss smile
his fellows, and show apparition of being a Muse,
so I wink him hard with spare eye; also hold out
envelopesome, containing,—what he showed
premises to well urn.
He take envelopesome, like big pig he are ; but
as I walk determined onwards, he cry :
“Full stop! Not so fast young follow-me-
ladder ! Come backwards here a mo.”
“Urn ? ” I note of interrogation.
“Come backwards here,” lie make bellows of
hisself, “and don’t ‘ um ’ me.”
“I contain no desirability to ‘um’ you, Most
Honorable Sir,” I make explanation at grate’s
length.
“Come backwards here and stopper doing
chores with your fat,” he volcano.
I walk lonely toward him.
“Now where’s that Hope-I-am, Master Cuss
briber?” he explosive.
“ Mister Cuss,” I splutter, “ I have no Hope-I-
am, I no snuggler, I very good Jap boy ; my
brother in Tokio he very bad boy; your Honor-
able properly demean him.”
“Ha, ha!” he fat laugh. “Tell that to the
horse spittoons. Come inside here and we’ll jest
make a sea.”
Crudely lie shove me in room, he and other
Cuss, then splunge greedy paw in my hon.
pockeat. Result:
One knife. .
One peace string.
One peace Lee Chang's pig-tail which I sly cutter.
One ticket for Alick’s Slanderous and other Man-Chaps
meat.
With roar he dive into other pock. Result:
hon handinchief to which I belong, and which
only last month I injest large sum in having
wash.
“Come on!*’ shout both Cusses; •“’nough of
this ! Will you prod-juice Hope-l-am, or shall
we have draggle it out of you.”
“ Hon Cuss,” I cry. “I honest Jap boy, Ino
Hope-I-am snuggler.”
“Oh, dry yourself!” my Cuss shout. “Once
and for all time will you prod-juice.”
“Hon Cuss,” I repeater; but they dry me up
and down.
“Disrobber yourself,” they scream in onionism.
It not hard, Jap boy no great on enclothes, and
next min I stand behind them in surprising
nudity.
They search my enclothes, they search my hon
personality, then look both at the one and the
other.
“ Sold,” .yap one.
“ Sold,” backchats t’other.
“For ten pounds,” I murmurous.
“ What ? ” they snap me.
“ I jest counting money I have Shavings Bank,”
I off hand, slippering, into my enclothes.
“ S’prfse you stink you are funny,” my bribe
Cuss after minute relieve hisself.
“Mis Cuss,” I splutter. “I no fun-fun-fun, I
jest ”
“ Stow away it," he fling out.
“ Have you now well done me, Hon Cuss?” I
bow them, having on enclothes: “May I ver-
mouse?”
“Not by long shoot,” they sure of it: “We
hold you lor attempt bribing of Cusses.”
“Yes!” one repeater, making apparition of
envelopesome I give him : “ Why you hand me
five pound notice?” and he cut envelopesome
dead.
“I hand you five pound notice 1 ” I blink him.
“ I give weigh five pounds gold ! Why Jap boy
only ten pound notice in wide world, and why he
give you honorable half?”
What he find in envelopesome I no wait too long
to divulge ; but I have fearsome that I leave in it
by mistakiveness piece of poets-try, which I write
as paroxysitu on sentimantle song : Love me and
the World be My Own.
I care not for Hon. Cuss a dam,
Who take ftlbs. he know are Jap Boy’s ;
But if he need some Hope-I-am,
He can search me and keep all he find.
“Believe that Monkey brand had the Hope-I-
am on him, yesterday, all the,time he were spin-
ning round mo his Cockle and Bully story about
fetching un to-day,” I hear Cuss official’s voice over
my departing back.
Extraneous how even most large fool can some-
time guess right by incident, ain’t it, Hon Ed ?
Hoping you are likewise,
I are.
Respectably,
Mudplem Nogi.
Copied verbatim from Nogi’s original MS.
By ALDRIDGE EVELYN.


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
"Every Picture
tells a Story/*
;-ii
(F
\
i
The Way to be Well is to
Keep the Kidneys Well.
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And little wonder.
A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much
stronger constitution than is given to most women —or men either for the
matter of that. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And
they let their needs be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for
help. The cry of the sick kidneys.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys; they are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s
Pills cure every ill of the kidneys and bladder, from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s disease. Read the following testimony:—
SYDNEY WOMEN CURED.
The Genuine
DOAN'S
effected
these
Lasting
Cures —
“ A Word
to the
Wise is
Enough/'
LEICHHARDT*
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says : —“ I can strongly recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for curing
pains in the small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it was difficult
to move about at all. I blame sitting too close at
work for causing the trouble. The pills effected a
permanent cure, for there is no sign of the ail-
ment now.”
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement four
years later “ The above is quite true, and time
has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
not only cure, but cure permanently. There
would be less suffering in the world if people only
knew the value of this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Commonwealth Street,
Sydney, says:—“l used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for aches and pains, in the limbs, which I
fancied were caused by kidney trouble. The pains
had troubled me for years, defying all treatment.
I found it very difficult to get up and down stairs,
and fits of giddiness which often came over
me made it more distressing. Sometimes I
would be laid up. Soon after I started using
Doan’s Pills relief came, and when I had taken
six boxes the aches and pains and giddiness had
disappeared.”
Three years later, when asked about her cure,
Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I am still quite well;
none of the distressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
HUNTER STREET.
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter Street, Sydney, says :
“For three years I suffered with kidney de-
rangement. The worst symptom was a constant
backache, which got worse whenever I stooped.
I tried many remedies for this complaint, but got
no ease. lam glad to say that I got a cure at
last. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.
They are splendid pills, and have made a great
difference in my health.”
Eight years later, Mrs. Mullins says:—“The
above statement is true, every word, and
I can now add the important fact that my
cure has lasted. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills deserve praise, and I will always recom-
mend them.”
Get Doan's
Backache
Kidney Pills*
Price 2/9 a
box (6
boxes 15/3)*
Foster-
McClellan Co.
76 Pitt St..
Sydney.
The Little Minister.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MAN of grit and forbearance, known
at many a bush christening and to the
earth-weary plodders on the outside
tracks. Here and there on the Hobs of the Edge,
where the lean, dry sheep seek the spindly shade,
his name held good among men who faced fire and
blood with both hands.
In after years the scent of wattle often mingled
with his voice when he preached in his little
weatherboard church. To-day the church is
empty, the mountain wind has torn asunder eave
and shingle, and there are times when an inquisi-
tive king parrot or magpie flutters in and perches
on the communion rail.
The Rev. Caryl Ford came to Taranbar long
before the railway had changed the face of the
glen and zig-zagged its way to the heights of
Mount Victoria. The people had a fine regard for
their little preacher ; they came, like the Coven-
anters of old, through sleet and rain to hear him.
His cottage adjoined the church. No one in
the district remembered his wife. She died, it
was rumored, after the birth of their only son.
Only one man ever heard him mention her name.
But even when a woman has been dead for 20
j'cars a man may speak of her with passionate
regret. No one questioned Caryl Ford’s past, not
even his son James. Now and then a wagging
tongue explained how he had shouldered his cross
a year after the birth of his son. The road had
been strewn with thorns and pain that was borne
in silence.
His study was scantily furnished—a few books,
a shelf for his pipes and a chair for his son. On
the east wall, where the sun often stayed like a
burning shield, was the picture of Helen Ford.
It was there so that James might not ask questions
in after years.
The little minister’s son grew into a limber
giant with the eyes of a woman and a wrist of
iron. He flung himself into sport with the
fervor of an athlete, proving himself a born
fighter and a captain of many games. Yet he
often marvelled, in his robust way, on the loneli-
ness of his father’s past life.
One day, while turning over an old portmanteau,
he came upon a faded letter, written in a woman’s
hand :
Dear Caryl,—l left Bourke with Malcolm Stair on
Friday last. Life among sheep and cattle and the way-
back schools was to me inconeievably dreary. .. . This is
no leap in the dark, Caryl. I was not born to perish,
even as a minister’s wife, in the wilderness. There were
days in that heated, iron-roofed bush hospital when I
cried for a flower, not for myself but for the little sick
children. . . . Nothing to see or hear save the bleating
of sheep and the hungry tramps. Caryl. . . blot out
for me if you can the memory of the rainless days and
nights that put dreams of Hell into my sick, lonely
mind. . . . When I have drunk my fill of life I shail
turn again to my son James. .. . And Caryl, dear,
have mercy on my name when he is near.
Helen Ford.
That night, with a shame-flushed face, James
Ford waited his father’s home-coming. The little
minister heard his son’s passionate outbreak in
silence. Then it seemed as though unending
deserts leaped between them ere he spoke.
“ What was there left for me to do? Malcolm
Stair was my friend and schoolfellow. He was
not a villain in all things. His sin was David s
sin. .. . Yet... he tore her from me. That is
the way of such men. It was not good for me, a
minister of God, to crave an unholy revenge. I
was strong enough to forgive and forget.”
“ Forgive. . . . Father, have you forgotten
that man? Can you forget?”
“ Aye, James, as I hope to be forgiven at the
last call. But it was years before I could stifle the
thing that was crying like a child in my heart.
The end came two years after she left me. She
died in Paris. I never heard what became of
Malcolm Stair. He may be wandering over the
earth hiding himself from a dead woman’s face.”
Autumn passed; the first signs of winter
appeared on the cloud-wrapped heights of Mount
Victoria. The shock came one Sunday in July,
when the hail was beating on the panes of the
little mountain church.
It was packed as usual. At the moment when
Caryl Ford ascended the pulpit an elderly man,
with a young girl on his arm, entered and sat
midway between altar and vestibule.
Something in the air, something sharp as steel,
caused the minister to glance at the newcomers.
For a moment he remained staring down as
though each feature of the man’s face was part of
his life tragedy.
The visitor sat beside his young companion
with head half bent. His face held a certain
rugged charm that one sometimes sees in old men
who have lived the open-air life for half a century.
The girl beside him wore a veil of gossamer stuff,
and the beauty of her form was like a flame in the
cold house of God.
At the end of the service, Caryl Ford passed
into his cottage with the man’s face fixed immov-
ably in his mind. The years had not altered it
much or furrowed it with the eagle talons of
remorse.
“Malcolm Stair, Malcolm Stair!” The name
dripped through his brain like an old blood drop.
Was it possible that he had entered the church
without knowing the preacher’s name? Or had
he come to ask forgiveness for an irreparable sin?
When James Ford entered the study he found
his father asleep with his hands over his face.
■»■*■**
It was a bleak August day. Grey rain-clouds
clung to the peaked summits or floated in foam-
like sheets from valley to valley.
Malcolm Stair had failed to recognise the white-
haired, white-bearded little preacher; even the
name had escaped him. His thoughts were
absorbed in the young girl he had married only a
few weeks before. They were on their way to
Bourke, where Malcolm Stair, owner of Glen-
dower and Airlie stations, intended to settle in
peace for the rest of his days. They had merely
intended to break their journey at first, but the
weird beauty of the hills and the invigorating air
prompted a longer stay.
Their apartments at the hotel overlooked a blue
expanse of valley and mountain summits. A coal
fire blazed in their bedroom. She was standing
near the window as he entered, her eyes fixed on
the wet white sky. Health sang in the wine-like
flush of her cheeks. He noticed how the fire glow
danced in amber tongues through her hair.
He placed his hand on her shoulder gently, and
in a flash saw how shrivelled and old it appeared,
lying so close to her beautiful flesh.
“ What are you afraid of, Malcolm ?” Her eyes
caught him so suddenly that he flinched and grew
pale. “ What are you afraid of ? ” she repeated.
“Of to-morrow,” he said, huskily. “Of the
despair that strips men naked. This aged love of
mine is a shallow thing, eh, Blanche ? Tell me !
His pale eyes looked into hers and his lips grew
dry as the centuries.
She laughed lightly and pushed him half play-
fully into a chair.
“ But there is something in your eyes, Blanche,’
he half whispered.
“When did you first notice it?” she asked,
steadily.
“ Yesterday,” he answered.
• * * *
The news flew about the township like a wind-
blown straw. Women caught their breaths, while
the young men laughed. It was a day of rain and
squalling wind. The distant peaks seemed to
pose craftily in the mountain’s silence, as though
a bolt had been flung among the scattered dwellers
along the ridge.
The little minister sat in his study, his slip-
pered feet resting on the bright fender-top. The
shaded lamp at his elbow flickered when the
draught from the open fanlight caught it. The
outer door shook once as though a dingo had
rushed against it. He rose as it flew open sud-
denly and faced Malcolm Stair, half crouching in
the passage.
“ Where is James Ford ? They said I would
find the Hell-cub here. Eh, God .. . and he a
preacher’s son ! ”
Mountain mud fell from his knees and hands.
It was as though he had fought his way through
racing torrents and boulder-strewn gullies. Hat-
less, wild-eyed, he blinked and nodded while the
rain drops fell from his matted hair.
The minister remained alert, as though a hunted
beast had come in from the storm. “James Ford
is my son, sir. And ... your face is familiar.
Pray be seated.”
Malcolm Stair stood against the door, his long
fingers curling like a garrotter’s at his side. “I
will not sit,” he said hoarsely. “I will not eat
or pray until ” He threw out his hands as
though tearing at the throat of an unseen enemy.
“ Preacher, where is your son ? ”
Hand on hip, the little minister nodded and
then returned to his seat at the fire. “I can
almost guess your errand, Malcolm,” he said
quietly. “ Please do not state it—yet.”
Malcolm Stair flinched as he stooped forward.
It was as though a cold breath had blown the
light of murder from his eyes. His face grew
bleak, his jaw hung.
“You have come to tell me,” continued the
minister, “that my son has stolen your wife. For
me the news had lost flavor an hour ago. Calm
yourself, Malcolm. I too have felt the loneliness
of my home, the motherless child crying in my
arms. Ah, man . . . look up, look up. Tell me
if you remember the day ye came like a thief into
my life, stripping me of honor and wife, running
like a wolf witli my love on your shoulder. Do
you remember?”
Each word cut bullet-like. The man in the
passage gaped and stammered as though white
steel had touched his spine.
“In a Paris churchyard the name of Helen Ford
is written over an insignificant grave—unremem-
bered.” Caryl Ford half-turned suddenly and
held out his right hand. “As a minister of God
I offer you my sympathies. Malcolm. lam not
responsible for my son’s act.”
He drew a photograph from a near shelf and
tossed it across the table. “ That is my son. A
fine lad, eh, Stair ? A sportsman, an athlete, a
gentleman. Look at him well.”
Malcolm Stair threw aside the photograph ; his
pale eyes could not see the erect young j o ’
the clear-cut handsome face of the minister sso .
“ Your wife will follow him. Malcolm, until sno
dies. Still there is no reason why you ana
should hate each other.” .
There was no response from the passage, on y >
whining of breath as though from a hurt beast,
Caryl Ford stole to a sideboard and reacnea
down a bottle with an unbroken seal.
“Stair!” His voice was clear as the middle
note of an organ. “A glass of wine with me,
because we stand on the threshold of comedy anc
hate. Let us be friends.” .
The wine-filled tumblers glinted redly m the
fireglow. With his long white hair flung P !l^
from his brow, the minister drank until the light
of youth leaped to his eyes and his face shone with
good humor.
“Drink. Malcolm, drink !” ,
In a flash the other’s glass lay shattered on the
hearth. A moment later Malcolm Stair passed
out into the mountain rain.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Pearl Diver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHERE the sun’s shimmer on the sea
Duns to a shaft of tawny light;
A hidden world lies but for me—
A world of beauty and affright.
Sea shell and red anemone —
Starfish and coral, cup and crown,
Upon the ribbed floor of the sea,
Deep down ! Deep down !
Eager to find the weed-grown shell
That guards its splendid treasure well ;
I search through many a coral town,
Deep down !
Round me the weight of oceans press,
But I am armored by the air ;
The silky seas give warm caress
To tempt me down to groves more fair ;
By copse of Sponge, and madrepore,
And sea flowers red and blue and brown —
I sink unto the sandy floor
Deep down ! Deep down !
Where the dead shells lie, white and stark ;
And pearls from pain grow in the dark ;
Where the sea-cresses writhe and drown ;
Deep down !
By coral lanes and spongy brakes,
Through sap-green waters to the sand ;
Where, in his pain, the blind shell makes
The pearl to grace my lady’s hand.
The shark, the sea-snake, and the ray—
The horrors that the dun depths crown,
I meet by reef and sandy cay !
Deep down ! Deep down !
Yet unafraid —below —ashore —
For death, once come, can come no more—
I seek the jewel for the crown
Deep down !
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
»
11
ik
c--'
A Grateful Mother Writes:
“ My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla —not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
■
CUSTARO
Custard rti> fruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When Stewed, form an exquisite
bish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Übe Standard Remedy whick has outlived the Centunee
JIIISLETBrS ETE lIITMEIT.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Wea i Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If nbt obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
i
Superior to *
. INJECTIONS
|CUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
I Cures the game
* diseases w ithout
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
śfd
Each Capsule hears the same 1®"“
COLORED
POST CARDS, by Harry J
Weston -‘ ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper C<>. 214 George St., Sydney.
ď
T h „ Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Testimony
t&ZT"
SOUS BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m, 2/9 & 4/6
đfs
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup. Ague.
-
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA , and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalocuhs Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCOR DEO N with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 32/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30 /-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
b‘\\ "./ ' / v a .' t/ / ' j *
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
You Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news : and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments ! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every case of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When Yon Ksc
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world' with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you —or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy—to know that all you require is a course of
Becchaa’; pill;.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels , Liver, and kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/li (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
.
}' r wrjrj*
--IF-
■ *7
m*
■
EVERY PASTORALIST S
FARMER WANTS
the BEST WINDMILL he can get for his
money, and should therefore buy a
“Steel Wings” Windmill,
which is moderate in price, excellent in
principle and construction, and guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
It has A BEARING ON EACH SIDE
OF THE WINDWHEEL, which ensures
easy-running. It is storm-proof.
It has a larger sail area and is more
powerful than any other type.
Estimates furnished free, and catalogues
posted on application to Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 64.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PRt PA ft A TION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Pa.nvkks Powkr.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Pricks Nutt.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted fre ,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Steele
e, 65.,
■
§* 3rifisb=flnstralasiati
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
DHr-A* f\(\ POST FpEE - £1 P er y e “C*
* 1 IvC j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit tlie Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the BEITiSH-AuSTRAr,ASIAN during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring: this business
**• to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding- up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib. left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-holt. Usual Price, £9, Sale Price ..£5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. ..£ll5O
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellentstock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price .. .. .. . .. .. .. 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & 00.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
LEARN TO SWIM
iVAter Wing’s
Ayv;
ws
WtisM,
2/2,
POST FREE
YOU have simply to attach AYVAD’S
WATER Vv INUS to your body, and yon
can’t go under. Water Wings will support
a man of 250 lbs as easily as a child of 50 lips., and
both on just the level at which a person can swim
or float comfortably. The Wings are made porous
for the reason that it takes less air to support a
large body than it does a smaller one, and they
allow just enough air to escape to adjust them-
selves properly to the size of the body. Fof
instance, a large Vdy, requiring less air to float
than a smaller one, forces more air from the Wmgs
than the latter, and is supported on the same level.
The weight of your body governs the amount of air
that stays in the Water Wings—in every case just
the necessary amount of air remains.
If you cannot swim, you will learn in one trial if
you get a pair of AYVAD’S WATER WINGS.
If you are a swimmer, you will enjoy greater
sport than ever m the water if you use the Wings.
Bear m mind, Water Wings are NOT dangerous.
Can he brought instantly into use. They weigh
enly 3 oz., and take up no more room than a pocket
Handkerchief. The price is only 2/2, postage paid
anywhere. If you order three pairs, we will give
you free a set of six very comical coloured Penny
Post Cards, entitled “A Day’s Outing at
Manly or the Post Cards and one pair of Wings
for 2/6, post free, b
A. J. SMITH & CO.
NEW address:
338-340 Kent Bt., Sydney.


Sandals for Bowlers!
df
Any man who likes to pay a
visit to the “ Green ” on his way
home from work would appreciate
a pair of our popular “ Underall ”
Sandals. They are made to put
on over the ordinary boots so that
no precious time is wasted in
changing.
The lower priced pair costs 3/11 >
while a leather pair, with leather
straps and thick red rubber soles,
is priced at 7/6. Call in and
choose a pair, or send your order
by mail. You’U find the Sandals
very satisfactory.
A complete Catalogue of Sport-
ing Footwear will be posted
on request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO,, LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
»
55
<5
sfd
s> #
SOLE ACENT,
T. K. STEANES
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADL
sdf
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
rriHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
J. Series, IV„ V., Vi. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
*
The beverag'e
that benefits.
At all times
asR for and obtain only
sd
McINNES BOBBIE INDICATOR.
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used by the
Lar&est Power Users of the World.
“SENTINEL”
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
AIR COMPRESSORS
HIGH SPEED ENGINES
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubricatic
J. W/LDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S.&A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
and
YOUR INQUIRIES
ORDERS along for
SPARE PARTS.
I
Cement Making Plants.
im-
Units.
"ME?? ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO. 162 ■'“E"
' AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, dATESEND ON TYNE. ® 11 *' ' "
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Officei Mutual! Life Buildings, Martin Place, Sydney.
MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
A'-,' 1
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILLS
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILLS
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
fsdf
sdfsd
AIR COMPRESSORS
BELT and STEAM DRIVEN. Any Capacity. '
ROCK DRILLS
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
The New Giant
AND v
The New Slugge r
ijSft'w.
msm^
fWgVfigk
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St, Melbourne
■
