

‘DEWARS
Distillers
to
gj
By Appointment
H.M.The Kino.
KY.
r. a. watkins sz> co.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
2?
SOLE AGENTS FOR
McLaren
Traction Engines.
See Wild Cat Column.
128
Street, Sydney
AND
* Mel bo
e.
KCOBAK^T.
ffle*
Ijadiey’s Orient (joiei
PIONEER
LEATHER
E LX i N G
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
—A
Pint Apple Erand
>,f¥
Take it back,
I must have
v&m
♦
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW
LATCH
WITH THE
A Paying Investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks=Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
/
> A
£A)
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
Wo make it a point of never being; out of anything'.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts.
We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Your Orders solicited.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGK STREET-
SYDNEY.
DRINK
SEC
HANSENS
unke
WHOLESOME DELICIOUS JUNKI
is made with + hese Tablets, and contains in itself the natural digestive principles
which enable i. 1 ' to be taken and “retained when other foods are rejected/’
f(
Restores Health.”
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS and others.
“Assists Nature.”
HANSENS
A ready-to-use Roofing
that sets the standard for
all others, and is infinitely
superior to either slates,
tiles, or shingles.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Insist on having MAL-
THOID, as it obviates all
roof troubles, is easy to
lay, and gives unbounded
satisfaction.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
fgjnfg
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TO
Locomotive Builders,,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by TH E BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
AW’D - 1 ' f . '
GAS GENER ATI NG PE ANTS
C. A. MacDONALD, 65 PSTT STREET, SYDNEY-
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 19 06,
against all makers.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HEUDON SPA is a Natural Mineral Water
springing from unknown depths ...
QOLLIN & CO.,
The Bulletin
Vol.3o—No. 1518.]
[Thursday, March 18, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post ts a Newspaper.


George Robertson & Go. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREA
HHHHH s y Ei ii
STREET,
New Books, including those reviewed on this Page.
Hyatt, The Charm of Paris, 2s 6d, postage 3d.
Mortimer & Coulthurst, Oil and Bromore Processes, Is 3d,
p. 3d. Birrell, A., Selected Essays, is 3d, postage 3d!
Wallace, Ore Deposits for the Practical Miner, 15s,”p. Is.
The Accountant’s Manual, Vol 51., cloth 15s, postage 9d!
Stephen, Digest of the Law of Evidence, N. S. Wales
edition, 12s ; postage 9d.
Frekienrick, Reinforced Concrete, leather 15s, postage Gd.
Jerome, Passing of the Third Floor Back, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Sudermann, John the Baptist, 6s, postage 6di
Kennedy, Servant in the House, 6s, postage <jd.
Gould, Nat, The Buckjaunper, picture boa r( j 3 2s, cloth
bound 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Hutchinson, Dog Breaking’, 3s, postage 6d.
Skinner’s Mining Manual, 1908, SP 8 * Is.
Avebury, Lord, Peace and Happiness, fs, P.ostage Bd.
The British Empire, Its Past, Its Present, »iid Its Future,
6s, postage 9d. I
HUDSON’S
“ED MENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voiees
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
■ 7 '
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
B *3
o «
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 pest free on receipt of
stamps frem HUBSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Plays About Christ
HE growing habit of publishing
_ in book form is one of the
most hopeful signs of the renais-
sance of the drama. We are not likely
soon to see the work of the best modern
German playwrights in Australian
theatres \ but translations of them are
slowly becoming available to Australian
readers. One of the most interesting of
these plays, John the Baptist, by Hermann
Sudermann, is now published by John
Lane. This play was barred by the
German censor, and his veto was lifted
only by the personal intercession of the
Kaiser. The subject has been dealt with
by Wilde, in the well-known drama
which has created a furore throughout
the world (except Australasia). Suder-
mann’s tragedy is a bigger, but less in-
teresting ; a more psychological, but less
poetic thing. He crowds his stage with
characters, and provides a gorgeous set-
ting. But with him it is the soul of
John, and not the love of Salome, which
furnishes the pivot of the action. We
see John proclaiming his message of the
One who should come, but quite uncertain
of that One’s personality, and quite mis-
taken as to his message, seeking every-
where for the unknown Christ. We see
him distrustful of himself, torn by doubt.
He preaches vengeance, a king coming
with a sword to right his people and
avenge their sufferings. His first clue of
the meaning of Christ comes when in
conversation with Simon the Galilean :
Simon : Greater than law, greater than sac-
rifice, is love ! (Sensation and dismay
among the people.)
John ( approaching the Galilean in great ex-
citement ): Who taught thee that 1 (As
Simon is silent, more urgently.) Who
taught thee that 1
Simon : (Shakes his head).
John : This knowledge, that comes straight
from thy simple and timid heart, awes
me, for it cannot be thy own. . , .
Amasi : Ah, now I have caught thee ! Thou
who poisonest a thirsty people with foul
water ! Where is He Who shall come ?
Where is thy Messiah ? Where is the
King of the Jews ? Aye, show Him to
us !
The People (fiercely ) : Yea, woe to thee if
thou canst not show Him to us !
John (firmly): Here cometh the King of the
Jews whom ye acclaim ! "
[Enter Herod.]
Meantime John is seeking news of
Jesus, the prophet who is rumored to
teach in Galilee. He gathers some in-
formation from two Galilean fishermen.
First Galilean : Yes ... I knew His
father well. He is an honest carpenter,
■ and very pious, too. He well deserves
that his son should be a joy to him.
John : Tell me more of Him.
First Galilean : He put up a bedstead for
a friend of mine.
John : Tell me of the son. . . . Thou hast
seen Him ?
First Galilean : Many a time . . . from
my ship. There is always a great gather-
ing along the banks, is there not, Abia ?
Second Galilean : Yes, the banks are
always quite black with people. And
the fish take notice of it. That is not
good for our trade . . .
First Galilean : It may be very well for
Him to heal the sick, but the worst of
it is He doeth it on the Sabbath. That
is bad, bad ! And then, His friends are
not well chosen. Circumspect people,
naturally, are not disposed to mix with
Him. For how can one trust a man
who sitteth at meat with publicans and
sinners ? And then, He is always at
weddings and feasts. Ah ! No, no.
John : . . . And what is it He teacheth ?
First Galilean : All sorts of folly. For
instance, that we should love our
enemies.
John : Love our enemies ?
John ponders this strange precept, and
soon the chance comes for him to act on
it. He is the leader of the people against
Herod. As the tyrant approaches a dis-
ciple thrusts a stone into John’s hand.
Herod : Thou on the steps. Knowest thou
me not ? '
Josaphat (whispers): Hurl the stone !
John (firmly-) :In the name of Him. (He
is about to hurl the stone, then pauses,
half-questioning, half-swooning) ....
who . . . commands me ... to love
thee—
He does not hurl the stone, and allows
himself to be seized and pinioned. And
in prison to him comes Salome to woo.
Salome : No one knows how powerful I am
to-day. When I stretch my limbs (She
spreads out her arms) it seems to me as
if I carried the whole world like this . . .
only to hug it to my heart.
John : Maiden, thou hast a playmate.
Salome : I had her. Now she is dead.
John : (Bows his head, his suspicions realised.)
Salome : I had her slain because she went
to thee. No one shall go to thee except
me. Seest thou now how pious lam !
My soul feels thy strength, and feels it
with joy. . . . And I have decked my bed
with beautiful, many-colored rugs from
Egypt* and I have sprinkled my pillows
with myrtle, aloes, and cinnamon. I
will give thee my fair young body, thou
barbarian among the sons of Israel !
Come, let us make love till morning.
John: Verily, thou art powerful; thou
carriest the world in thy arms . . . for
thou art Sin itself.
Salome : Yes. Sweet as sin. .. . That
am I.
John : Go!
Salome : Thou spurnest me ! Spurnest me l
(She rushes through the gate.)
But her revenge is held out to her by
her cunning mother, Herodias. Under
her prompting Salome agrees to dance
before Herod, and demand the head of
this insensate prophet. She is particular
about it being brought to her on a golden
dish, and that John should know whom
his executioner is.
Herodias : I will grow over him, as the
sword groweth forth from the sleeve of
the executioner.
Salome : And I will grow over him like a
sweet grape-vine.
So before Herod, at the feast, Salome
dances, and Begs for the head on a golden
dish, insisting upon the golden dish.
But Sudermann has more of the Greek
tragedian in him than Wilde. He does
not bring on Salome to gloat over the
head in public. Salome rushes out to
greet the executioner, arriving with the
head on the golden dish.
But what Sudermann gains in re-
straint he loses in the dramatic effect
achieved by Wilde :
(A huge black arm, the arm of the executioner,
comes forth from the cistern, bearing on a
silver shield the head of Jokanaan.
Salome seizes it.)
Wilde’s Salome is an artistic tour de
force, Sudermann’s Johannes a tragedy,
subtle, big, convincing, thorough.
More remarkable is a play recently
produced in New York, available now to
us in book form. The Servant in the House
has made its sensation by the deliberate
introduction of Christ in a modern play.
The same idea has still more recently
been utilised by Jerome K. Jerome, erst-
while humorist, in his drama, The Passing
of the Third Floor Back. Here a mys-
terious stranger comes to a lodging-house
of mean people and cads, and by his mere
presence works a miracle in their charac-
ters. “The Third Floor Back ” oasses out
of the boarding-house, leaving it regene-
rated. But The Servant in the Bouse, by
Charles Kennedy (Harper) is a little
more definite. The “ make-up ” of the
servant, a butler in Indian dress, is
deliberately a copy of the conventional
portrait of Christ, the illusion being
strengthened by his flowing Eastern gar-
ments. The scene of this play is “here ”
and the time “now ” and in its construc-
tion Kennedy has absolutely preserved
the “ unities.” For the scene, a room in
a vicarage, remains unchanged through-
out the drama, and each act begins, in
point of time, exactly where the prior
act left off. Thus, except for the con-
venience of the audience, the drama
could have been played in one long act.
What this shows of the 'constructive
ability of the author can only be imag-
ined by those who have tried to write
plays. Manson, the Indian butler, comes /
tathe house of the vicar, and in tha/
home of religious and social pretence I e
finds his work. Mary, the vicar’s iii4ce
has a celebrated uncle Joshua, Bisht/p Q f
Benares, who has built a great chijtrch
This famous brother is eagerly expected
on a visit to the vicar, for tho re j s
trouble in his church. Some people say
the reason why people do not support it
is the drain. It smells. A knock comes
at the door, and the vicar, going to wel-
come his illustrious brother, sees another
brother, Robert, a “bad egg,” in his
navvy’s dress. He has come to look at
the drains —“ my job, yer know, drains ! ”
In the second act Robert, who is wet
through, is clothed by Manson in the
vicar’s cassock, and proceeds to eat the
breakfast provided for the Bishop of
Benares. The Bishop of Lancashire, very
deaf and almost blind, arrives with his
ear-trumpet, and mistaking the navvy for
the vicar, sits down to table with him.
He also takes Manson for the Bishop of
Benares, and makes him sit down with
them. And Manson tells the Bishop of
Lancashire and Robert about his church.
Manson : I am afraid you may not consider
it an altogether substantial concern. It
has to be seen in a certain way, under
certain conditions. Some people never
see it at all. You must understand, this
is no dead pile of stones and unneces-
sary timber. It is a living thing. When
you enter it you hear a sound—a sound
as of some mighty poem chanted. Listen
long enough, and you will leaxm that it
is made up of the beating of human
hearts, of the nameless music of men’s
souls—that is if you have ears. If you
have eyes, you will presently see the
church itself—a looming mystery of
many shapes and shadows, leaping sheer
from floor to dome. The work of no
ordinary builder ! The pillars of it go
up like the brawny trunks of heroes :
the sweet human flesh of men 'and
women is moulded about its bulwarks,
strong, impregnable ; the faces of little
children laugh out from every corner-
stone ; the terrible spans and arches of
it are the joined hands of comrades ;
and up in the heights and spaces there
are inscribed the numberless musings of
all the dreamers of the world. It is
yet building—building and built upon.
Sometimes the work goes forward in
deep darkness, sometimes in blinding
light—now beneath the burden of un-
utterable anguish, now to the tune of a
great laughter and heroic shoutings
like the cry of thunder. Sometimes, in
the silence of the night time, one may
hear the tiny hammerings of the com-
rades at work up in the dome—the
comrades that have climbed ahead.
Robert : S’pose there’s no drain 'ands
wanted in that there church o’ yours ?
Manson : Drains are a very important ques-
tion there at present.
Robert : Why, I’d be cussin’ over every
stinkin’ pipe I laid.
Manson ; I should make that a condition,
comrade.
Robert ( rising , he pulls off the cassock ; goes
to the fire for his coat; returns , drags it
on): I don’t know ! Things ’av’ got in
a bit of a muck with me ! I’m rather
like a drain-pipe myself. ( With sudden
inspiration) There’s one thing I can
do !
Manson : What’s that ?
Robert : Renahnce ole Beelzebub an’ all ’is
bloomin’ wirks ! ’And us that brarss-
band !
(He alludes to the ear-trumpet. Mansdn obey-
ing, Robert jabs it into the ear of the
Bishop, who seems quite surprised.)
Robert : ’Ere ! ’Av’ you ever ’eard of ’ell ?
Bishop : Of what ?
Robert : ’Ell. (Spelling) H, E, double L,
’ell.
Bishop : Well, my dear sir, I think I ought
to !
Robert : Then, go there ! Aymen. Now.'
I’ll go an’ ’av’ a look at our Bill's drains,
damn ’is eyes !
The Bishop thus learns whom he has
mistaken for the vicar, /
Bishop : Do you mean f 0 tell me that I’ve
been sitting dow£ to Breakfast with a
common workiqd m an ?
Manson: Yes j/have you never done that
before ? /"
Bishop : My 'dear sir, whatever do you take
me f.j)p 5
Mansoit • A. bishop of God’s church.
Bishop : Precisely ! Is it your custom to
Keakfast with working-men ?
Man? 1 on : Every morning. You see, I’m
J prejudiced : I was one myself once.
hop : You ?
f.anson: Yes, a long time ago, though;
people have forgotten.
Bishop : But, my dear brother, I am per-
fectly sure you never told people to go
to
Manson : Oh yes, quite frequently ; it would
shock you to learn the language I really
did use.
In fairness to the Bishop of Lancashire,
let us recall the remark of one of the
characters :
You can’t expect everybody to be an ideal-
ist ! Remember, he’s a practical man : he’s
a bishop.
At last, Manson, the servant in the
house, seizes his opportunity and says,
“ Make me the lord and master of this
house for one little hour ! ” He proceeds
thereupon to cleanse it of its abomina-
tions. He turns the Bishop of Lancashire
out. The Bishop is furious.
Bishop : You are a scoundrel, sir—a cheat,
an impostor ! And if I could have my
way with you I would have you publicly
whipped : I would visit you with the
utmost rigor of the law. I would nail
you up, sir, for an example.
Manson : I have encountered similar hos-
tility before, my lord—from gentlemen
very like your lordship.
[The drain-man, joyfully investigating the
stink, finds it ends in a grave under the
church.]
Robert : One o’ them whoppin’ great beer-
vaults as you shove big bugses’ corpses
inter ! . . . Talk abart corfins an’
shrouds an’ bones an’ dead men gone
to rot, they wasn’t in it, wot I sa:.
dahn there ! ... It was a fair treat, it
was, I tek my oath ! (Rapturously''
Why—why it may cost a man ’is life to
deal with that little job.
Vicar : My God ! the tiling’s impossible !
Robert : Impossible ! Means a bit of work,
that’s all ! . . .
Auntie : What ! To go into that dreadful
vault, and
Robert : Why not; ain’t it my job ?
Auntie : But you said—perhaps— death.
Robert : It’s worth it, it’s a lovely bit of
work ! . . .
Vicar : Then, by God and all the powers of
grace, you shall not go alone ! Off with
these lies and make-believes !. . . This
is no priest’s work—it calls for a man !
(He tears off his parson’s coat and collar.
He rolls up his sleeves.)
Robert : This ain’t psalms an’ ’ymns an’ ole
maids’ tea-parties, mind you ! It may
mean typhoid !
Vicar • I understand.
Robert : Rats.
Vicar : Yes.
Robert : They don’t leave you alone : they
got teeth, remember —poison in ’em !
Vicar : I will go with you.
Robert (after a slight pause, dropping into
a quite ordinary tone) : Then let’s ’av’
sum mat to eat, an’ get along.
The play closes with Manson’s dis-
closure that he is the Bishop of Benares.
The vicar, amazed, asks “ In God’s name,
w r ho are you ?” ; and Manson answers,
“In God’s name—your brother.”
It is a great play, theatrically. The
symbolism is a little too obvious, the
characters too much like types. But,
after ail, the play’s the thing.
Chambers’ Journal for February (from the
publishers) contains another .article on
notable Australians, derived from Fred
Johns’ book and Ambrose Pratt’s David
Syme. Naturally, it is pointed out that
Scotland supplies lhost of our “ notables ”
Scotland does a good export trade in that
line. Vincent’s cartoon in The Bulletin just
after the death of Syme is referred to as
condensing the history of a lifetime.
Colonel Foster; Director of Military
Science at the University of Sydney, reprints
in pamphlet form his papers on Defence of
the Empire in Australia (Rankine, Dobbie
and Co.). The leading argument is that
Australia depends mainly on the British
navy, and defence must be considered in
relation to the Empire as a whole.
Subscriptions for Hugh McCrae’s Poems
should be sent to Mr. J. Lane Mullins,
Challis House, Sydney.
Mr. C. R. Blaxland sends a reprint, for
private circulation, of his- grahufnfifcr’s
Journal of q f oiir of Discovery over the Blue
MoupTalns in 1813 (Dimmoek, Maitland), to
■Set at rest the doubt (see B. 4/2/’O9) that
Gregory Blaxland was the leader of the ex-
pedition, He organised the trip, and his
name has generally been placed first of the
exploring trinity, in the histories and on the
tree-stump at Katoomba.


A
nee
Guard Lever Harrows
eh
J
J
1057
J J J j
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition of the
Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy ground.
The ends of the tooth bars being protected prevents injury from colliding with trees or shrubs,
and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or to clear
the Harrow of trash.
Made in 2 Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the section. The teeth are 8 inches long by
J inch square,
2 Sections of 25 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft., complete, 60/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft., complete, 65/-
Wiard Steel Beam Ploughs (Right Hand).
Forged Steel Beam, Chilled or Steel Moldboard, Jointer or
Coulter Scotch Clevis. Handles raise and lower. Wheel
adjusts to either side of beam.
m
A strong and serviceable sub-soil plough, intended to follow in the furrow of the turning
plough, and to loosen the soil in the bottom of the furrow from three to six inches deep.
this plough is being used by some of our best practical farmers, and is especially adapted
ror use in the culture of the sugar beet and similar crops, where deep cultivation gives the best
results. For ditching purposes it has no equal. Weight, 1061 b.
tt 0 ' O ne -horse Plough, will plough 4in. to 6in. deep, 4in. to llin. wide; weight 841 b. £ 2/10 /-
xt o ' One-horse Plough, will plough 4in. to7in. deep. Bin. tolOin. wide; weight 801 b. £2/10/-
1061b’ JB3/7/6 e plough Gin. to 9in. deep, lOin. to 14in. wide; weight
One-horse Swivel Plough, will plough 4in. to 7in. deep, Gin. to lOin. wide; weight
771 b., £2/4:/-
Revolving Coulters with Clamp, 12in., 15/6 ; 14in., 17/6.
No. 607 x.
Canton Scotch Clipper Ploughs
(No. 607 x).
lOin. Steel Beam, for two horses, weight 911 b.,
Fitted with one Share 70/-
Extra Shares, 9/6.
Empire All-Steel Cultivator,
with Attachments shown in the sketch (No. 604),
weight, 901 b., 34/6.
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as
with the attachments it can be used for culti-
vating almost any crop.
Extra Tines, l|in., 6d. each.
Sweeps, 10in., 1/- ; 12in., 1/1 ; and 14in. 1/2 ea.
Pair of Hilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension pieces to make into 7-Tine Cultivator,
7/6 pair.
EK!
No. 604.
We are now stocking Canton No. 4 Disc Ploughs, which for general use every-
where, in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil, is better adapted than any other make or style.
The discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the single disc will turn furrows from 3 to 12
inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions between each disc. The
discs are all ball bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle to revolve
freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely over and is thoroughly
pulverised.
The Canton Disc Plough has been universally successful, and is quoted complete
with Swingle Tree and Neck Yoke.
2 Furrow, Weight 7801 b., £l5/10/- ; 3 Furrow, Weight, 9001 b., £2O.
Canton No. 4 Disc Plough.
New Universal Carden Plough
and Attachments.
With Rear Wheel, 17/6.
The Pront Wheel is adjustable and is 15|in.
in diameter. The handles are also adjustable.
The finish is in the same style as our other im-
plements of this well-known line. The attach-
ments are:—l Landside Plough, 1 Sweep or
Scuffle, 1 Rake and 1 Double-Tongued Cultivator.
fgj
ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LISTS POST FREE
ON APPLICATION.
Wiard Patent Steel Beam Ploughs.
fgjfg
Wiard Patent Steel Beam
Swivel Ploughs with
Straight Coulter.
No. 120, Steel Beam (as illus-
trated), sin. to Bin. deep, Bin.
to 12in. wide, weight with
Clevis, 1181 b., 78/6.
These are the first practical Steel Seam, Side-hill Ploughs ever produced. The
beams are of highest grade forged steel, and are stronger than any other beam made. They
are so adjusted that the plough works perfectly when reversed either way, and all the parts
are attached in the simplest but strongest manner.
The florgan Spading Harrow.
%
/
This engraving shows the Morgan
Spading Harrow with cleaners, put up
for two-horse work. We have secured the
exclusive right to sell the Morgan Spading
Harrow for New South Wales, and our
experience of its sale has only confirmed
the opinion, formed after special investi-
gation and extended inquiry, that it is the
best implement for pulverising the soil, and
that, as now perfected, it is unquestionably
the best and cheapest Harrow ever in-
vented.
These Harrows are fully rigged with
whiffletrees, neck yoke, cleaners and
transport wheels.
New Attachment, introduced by
us, to do away with the ordinary pole,
making the Spading Harrow turn round
in its own length, and saving the chafing
of the pole on the horse’s side and neck,
complete, 25/-
No. 602 —A, 3ft., one horse, 16in. spades, £5/17/6.
No. 602—A, 4ft., light, two horses, 16in. spades, £6/10/-
No. 603—A, sft., light, two horses, 16in. spades, weight 4001 b., £6/12/6.
No. 603—0, 6ft., heavy, two horses, 18in. spades, weight 5001 b., £B/2/6.
No. 603 —C, 7ft., two or three horses, 18in. spades, weight 5501 b., £B/12/-
No. 603—C, Bft., three horses, 18in. spades, weight 6001 b., £B/17/6.
Sets of Discs, to fit 3ft. and sft. A, so as to immediately convert them into Disc
Harrows (by this addition the purchaser has Two Harrows in One) —
3ft., 44/-; sft., 54/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


jfg
AND OTHER
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
ICjtcl,
S YDNE "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXFUitTS, who pay special attention
to weighing., classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered prorrp,';.lv.
J Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. 1< nil particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Tommy Burns' Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pajfes, 400 colored plates
and eng-raviny'S, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book.
or Nature, the only <renu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. ITow to
Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, 1/-.
Lover’s Guide. 1/3.
t»~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
jfg
jfgj
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling- the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Tried. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, 3d.
Till? Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage Co arn- address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201b Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
MODEL 190® .33 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
&
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
NATURAL
ENO’S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900.000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
W INES The Best Brands only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CD TAILOR-MADE
• MJf» CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
TAILOR
roRStTS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been bailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From g/|| | 0 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
>. „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
E
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIAi
fgj
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL.,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
Kidney Troubles,
Flatulence and
Biliousness.
A COMPLETE CURE.
“ In the background of my memory there is a
distinct recollection of many days and weeks of
physical ad versity, such as I almost dread to re-
call,” said Mr. Frederick William Martin, of No.
51 Pitt-street, Waterloo, when requested to give
an outline of his infirmities, now happily over-
come, “But,” he went on, “since anything I
tell you may prove a source of comfort and en-
couragement to other poor mortals, I’ll gladly do as
you wish. Yes, I was ailing for a very long time.
A more bilious subject than I used to be you
would have to travel a long way to find, and then
I doubt if he could speak of as many disappoint-
ments connected with his illness as I can—how I
gave first one medicine and then another a trial,
meeting failure after failure, till one could scarcely
believe there was anything in an apothecary’s
shop that had not been resorted to, and all to no
purpose, when I would give all the drugs and pills
and things up in digust, only to start again later
on, through the demands of my sufferings, and go
through the same experience again. At last I
consulted a doctor, a vain hope it appeared to me
after what I had taken already, and so it proved
to be, for my health was no better than before.
To get up of a morning and feel that there is no-
thing pleasant to be done or thought of during the
day, may not seem in itself a very serious affair ;
but it indicates that a person’s health is not what
it should be, and if allowed to go unchecked
through neglecting to take some good medicine,
the consequences may prove more serious than
you would imagine.”
“You believe, then, that if you had taken a
remedy when you found yourself suffering from
lassitude and inability to eat and sleep properly,
you would have avoided the sickness you en-
countered?”
“Most decidedly I do. I verily believe that if
I had taken a bottle or two of Clements Tonic at
the outset it would have saved me pounds and
pounds, besides the intense misery I endured.
This is what I always tell my friends, to attack
their ailments at once with Clements Tonic, not
to wait till they get a firmer hold of the system,
because the troubles then take longer to eradicate.
My appetite faded, till it had completely vanished,
and I simply forced myself to eat; my nights be-
came more restless, and I got up feeling that 1
did not care whether I stood on my feet or sank
to the bed again. A dimness affected my eyesight,
a bitterness spread on my tongue, which was
always coated white, and from daylight till darl<
I was never free from headaches. Small amounts
of food made my stomach most uncomfortable,
and between the shoulders it felt like a sharp-
pointed instrument tapping there every now and
then. And how fearfully dizzy I used"to get be-
fore Clements Tonic got to work, besides which
my nerves were as shaky as could be. Anyhow,
I was not much good for work in those days, and
felt as wretched as though I were dead to the
world, which I practically was. Thanks to
Clements Tonic, though, I quickly had some life
and energy infused into me, and felt that I wanted
to live and enjoy the world’s blessings, like any
other person—the reverse of what I had been be-
fore using Clements Tonic, which braced my
nerves and invigorated the system throughout, in
a manner that astonished all who had observed
my frail condition a little while previously.”
“Have you had a return of any of your old
troubles, Mr. Martin ? ”
“I can safely say that since Clements Tonic
completed my cure at the time I speak of, no
body could wish for better health than I have en-
joyed. which shows that there was no patchwork
about that wonderful remedy’s way of doing
things. If I hear a person say a headache is at
work, I recommend Clements Tonic, because it
cured mine ; should the complaint be about giddi-
ness, flatulence, kidney troubles or drowsiness, or
discomfort after eating, I tell them to use Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of those ills, and the proof
of the pudding is in the eating thereof.”
“So we can publish what you say?”
“ My permission is yours—in any way you like
to conceive.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, FREDERICK WM. MARTIN, of 51 Pitt Street,
Waterloo, in the State of New South Wales, Common wealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make,
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oat hs
Act, moo.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty-
sixth day of March, one thousand nine humheij
and eight, before me.
71
D. P. WILLIAMS. JJ


“ For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
A
41
53
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
yiifefs
"Cherry 9eetoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
■k
!k>'
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
wv£n+ one ’ 5 n i a y s * approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Goventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
d£3wfO to
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
F J*e© to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Large iproflt.
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Speelal Offer
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., 2so LIVERPOOL
ft CLASS Qj?
lORLICK'Si
Halted milk
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemist s in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples' 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
DON’T STAY THIN!
DEVELOP YOUR BUST.
Clr
33
Every day
other women
are increas-
ing their
weight and
developing
their figures.
You can do
the same.
Try a course
of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
It will work wonders for your appearance.
It increases the weight by five pounds a
week, and adds inches to your bust measure-
ment. bend a 2d. stamp for Free Trial
Sample and Free Hook, or call.
FALLIERE
Dept. 5,
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.
SYDNEY
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
cant keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stones and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Sydney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
wm
wm
l
'©4
rS?
WHEN THE WIND BLOWS
from three or four directions at the same
time it is quite natural to expect coughs
and colds—these should not be left to run
their course, but should be treated promptly
by taking
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
This splendid remedy acts like a charm
and will cure the most persistent cough
or cold.
The cost is so small that it is foolish to endanger your lungs and
perhaps your life by allowing a cold to run on.
All Chemists and Medicine Vendors stock “ BONNINGTON’S IRISH
MOSS.” but see that you do not get a worthless imitation—insist on having
“ BONNINGTON’S.”
IN USE 45 YEARS. BOTTLES 1/6 & 2/6 EACH.
~o
BOUAKDS-TO
ISE-MOME •
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King 1 of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOC K<&Co.
422 GEORGE ST SYBWIY .
AND ■
mtUUBZTtIv
MELBOURNE.
1801 Longevity 1908
Famous Centenarians.
Length of years is commoner than of old —centenarians are
on the increase. This is partly due to greater enlightenment in
matters of hygiene, but not a little to those famous centenarians,
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, which have been regularly prescribed
by the medical profession since the year 1801. Truly a glorious
record! They are simply unrivalled as a remedy for all dis-
orders of the liver, stomach and bowels.
Q
K
m
PILLS
¥
Congo is “ Never- Leak ” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and lor lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
JUST SAY
o
o
THAT’S ALL
and then you will be sure of getting a whisky made from the
'purest materials, a whisky best for health and best for pleasure ;
and with a uniformity of flavour, which can only be guar-
anteed in a whisky offered by the proprietors of a distillery
devoting their whole production to their own brand.
The proprietors of the Stromness Distillery,
which is the oldest, farthest north distillery, have
been making 0.0. (Old Orkney) for generation
after generation. 0.0. possesses that delicate
flavour and exquisite aroma so rarely to be found
in whisky ; and as they always hold in their own
bonded store a ten years supply, you can always
rely on getting it exactly the same, no matter
in what part of the world you are.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining 0.0. please write direct
to the distillery giving name of your usual store.
J. & J. Me. CONNELL, Ltd., Stromness
Distillery, Orkney, Scotland.
P.C.B.
J l/s
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Exile.
A ship went out of port last night,
I watched her sailing down.
And every peering point of light
Seemed as an eager eye to sight
The lights of Sydney town.
On board were grouped a merry crowd. . . .
(They well could merry be
When all fair hopes their hearts endowed
With joyousness that laughed aloud.)
I watched them bitterly.
For Sydney ways are gay with song
And places of delight ;
There goes no merry, careless throng,
Nor any joyous lilt along
These sodden streets at night.
There ferries sail to every bay
On opalescent seas;
All light and white they are by day,
But in the night they sail away
Bejewelled argosies.
My heart is numbed and drab and drear
With fretting night and day.
The hodden chill of ways austere
Makes life a sullen captive here
Where no one dares be gay. •
But there a living sunlight streams
Through days of gold and blue,
And there the shining harbor gleams,
And languid nights of happy dreams
Build up the world anew.
The nights when music rings and swings
The blood to ecstasy,
And swift, exultant passion sings
A valorous contempt of things
That mock felicity.
And there are good companions there—
High-hearted men that know
The ways of men and books, and share
Their plenty with the purse that’s bare,
And let to-morrow go
And there are girls for all content,
Who mean the thing they say—
Whose lips are sweet, and sweetly lent,
Who, laughter loving, live intent
On laughing time away.
Aye, Sydney ways are gay with song,
And pulsing with delight
Is all the merry motley throng. . . .
But lam here—and oh ! I long
For Sydney streets to-night.
N.S.W.
DICK HARRIS.
Starving!
“ If I were dead,” the maiden said,
“ No man alive would miss me;
The lips I press in dream-caress
Have never burned to kiss me.
Love’s tempting food I deemed not good
For girls when I was younger ;
None now have I to satisfy
My unsuspected hunger.
“I know of wives whose married lives
With cares are heavy laden ;
But can they guess what thoughts distress
A sallow, wrinkled maiden ?
The fruit so sweet I would not eat •
Is withered now and wasted ;
For me, for me, no memory
Of joys I never tasted !
“ On cheeks that bore the bloom of health
When I was young and gushing
The color comes at night by stealth,
When no one sees me blushing.
No men to me make speeches bold ;
They fear they might displease me ;
They think me old, and prim, and cold
Because—they never squeeze me.
“For them, the brutes ! the choicest fruits
Are offered still in plenty.
(At fifty-two a man may woo
A maid of five-and-twenty.)
My beauty gone, I live alone,
The slave of laws inhuman.
Love’s food is cheap, but I must weep ”
O timid, starving woman !
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.
The Stout Lady to Her Hew Corset.
Strong' lover, in your strenuous arms
You clasp and keep my many charms;
Your firm embrace the fever calms
That stoutness doth engender !
For, with your arm my waist around
(And with my legs in strappings bound),
Cold Fashion’s carping world has found
That I am tall and slender !
Sweetheart! So solidly embraced,
I find that I have got a waist
(By steel and cords securely laced,
My bounteous curves have vanished).
Your ardor fierce my breathing grips,
But half my bosom’s in eclipse ;
And you, my vast, redundant hips,
Beneath my knees have banished !
But most I love you, sweetheart, when,
With expert aid, I dare unpen
My bruised and lavish body ; then
Each charm can be a rover !
I get myself unriveted,
And hook by hook rise from the dead,
And, lying loosely on the bed,
I let myself flow over !
N.S.W.
A.H.A.


PNJPIRUCH
ss®
/
o
/
V
B-W
A
*0
C
&l ml
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of worKing out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crach
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives, numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms: Postal Address: Melbourne Showrooms)
56 PITT ST. Box 474, G.P.0.. Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST.
fgjgf
A LDXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using'
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Blades gin., Jin., or fin. deep. Round, Square or Irish Point.
Sold under absolute guarantee at
Post Free to any part of Australia.
6/6.
Torrey’s Swing- Strop. 2/6.
Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d.
SOLE AGENTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR :
McLEAN, BROS & RICC PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Luxton & Sons),
14-7-149 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods.
jfg
jfg
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London IB6Z. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. I
N
ROTHERHAIVIS
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
BJUL
!S'S
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may; be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
Delightful Aroma and Delicate Flavor
PERFECTION
£!t TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Pltxgs, or Cot Up in Tins, 2oxs. and 4ozs.
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
“3
'*dJ-
US
I*V
m
(Q
r
**
a
v
>v,
o
i
»
i
a
*
s&
r
a
SsJ
K+
CJ
&f/
<l>
fi^Wi
EXCLUSIVE WEDDING PRESENTS.
Solid Silver Pieces
of an exquisite beauty, which, with their very
practical nature, makes them the most desirable
Brides' Gifts. Among the new pieces, we pick
out the following for particular mention —our
only regret being that we cannot illustrate them.
Being exclusive pieces it would hardly pay to
have illustrations made. We will post any article
free on receipt of remittance, and give you the
right to exchange or have your full remittance
back. We supply Complimentary Cards, and
attach them to the article bought by means of
the usual Ribbon, and deliver the goods on the
appointed day to any address.
Afternoon Tea Spoons, in cases, 30s, 355, 40s, 455,
52s 6d, 555, 60s, 70s.
Afternoon Tea Sets, 230 s and 2505.
Bells (Table), 21s.
Butter Dishes, 50s.
Butter Knives, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 11s 6d ; 2 in case, 27s 6d.
Cake Baskets, 150 s, 160 s, 2205.
Candlesticks, 50s, 755, 90s pair.
Cream Jugs, 30s, 32s 6d, 455, 67s 6d, 60s.
Fruit Dishes, 84s, 955, 115 s, 1355.
Fruit Spoons, in case, 37s 6d, 755.
Gravy Boats, 255.
Knife Rests, in case, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d,
silver-mounted on Glass.
Knife Rests, with Pearl Horns, 20s.
Mustard Pots, 37s 6d.
Menu Holders, 7s 6d.
Pepper Casters, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 32s 6d.
Pepper Mills, Silver and Oak, 17s 6d; Silver and
Glass, 37s 6d.
Rose Bowls, 455, 555, 110 s, 210 s.
Sweet Dishes, 11s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
37s 6d, 47s 6d, 635, 70s, 955, 100 s.
Salt Cellars, 13s 6d, 18s 6d, 27s 6d, 30s, 35s ; 1 pair
in case, 21s, 52s 6d.
Sugar Casters, 555, 70s, 80s.
Sugar Basins, 30s, 50s.
Toast Racks, 20s, 40s, 425.
Trays, 67s 6d, 110 s, 190 s. 5505.
Vases, 14s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 355, 40s
up to 105 s.
Silver Tea Pots, full size, 10s.
Tea and Coffee Services,
Queen Anne Kettles and Stands, £VI 10s.
Tea Caddies, 40s.
Champagne Cups, 110 s.
Inkstands, 555, 80s, 150 s.
If you have not yet got a copy of our 112-page Art
Catalogue, write for one now. A postcard with
your name and address on, if posted to us,, will
ensure a copy by return.
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (Australia) Ltd., 412 George Street, SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Registered ao the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1518.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1909.
PIUCB 6d
THE GRADUAL DEVELOPMENT OF BULL.
J. Bull has annexed another 15,000 square miles filled with niggers.
(1) There was a white Bull once. (2) Then he became light brown, and bought a turban. (3) He grew still more brown, and
acquired a big sash and a curved sword. (4) His brownness increased, and he acquired petticoats and funny shoes. (5) Gradually he
became so brown that he was practically black, and he undressed himself again and wore a loin=cloth. (6) And in the end he will
annex so many niggers that he will be quite black, and the last scene will be an aboriginal Bull roasting his ’possum over a small fire.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SURSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tint Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
J loir to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tint Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
mwls, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
•the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
•the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
'acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
■Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
f those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
Awe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
•acceptable), Paragraphs , Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
.All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tint Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
•address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
■MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
•are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
«for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
•destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
•desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A unit ait M hi Much mill White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous
<ar other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
»merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
.Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central Nervs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C. ;
llrvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
•Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A. —1 sserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
uNews Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1909.
TWO RAILWAYS AND A TERRITORY.
The Fisher Ministry fled into recess early, and
6 lias already stayed there a fairly long time. Also
it isn’t due to emerge for another two months or
so. Considering the state of parties, recess is
certainly the safest place, and, as far as the
Ministry goes, the arrangement is a good one;
but, so far as concerns the country, it is lament-
ably bad. Events keep moving rapidly while the
Fisher Ministry is in recess. One notable move-
ment has been the solemn semi-official warning
which has reached us from Britain to the effect
i.that, so far as the remote dependencies of the
■empire are concerned, British naval defence is off.
J. Bull has a small army. He has a huge, rich,
/ambitious naval rival at his door. Also his
country is now almost wholly dependent on im-
portations for its daily crust, and if one-third of
the serviceable fleet were sent away to defend an
outlying dependency like Australia, the remaining
two-thirds might be borne down by a superior
force while that other third was absent; and
the wandering squadron might only come back
in time to find the British empire practically at
an end, the great Bull islands having succumbed
to famine. These are remote possibilities, but
John Bull isn’t likely to risk even remote possi-
bilities when they are possibilities of such a size.
Unless Britain can see a much better outlook on
the European Continent than exists at present,
the chances are that its fleet has ceased to be a
mobile force, and has become instead an array of
armed rafts or floating batteries moored tightly to
Bull’s own shores.
* * * *
This situation makes the railway question and
the question of the transfer of the Northern Terri-
tory to the Commonwealth even more urgent than
before, and they were urgent enough before. It
may be a long time before an. Australian fleet can
argue a point on a large scale at sea, but by a
system of compulsory military training a big
and fairly efficient army can be raised speedily
and at very moderate cost. Unluckily, in the
absence of the two transcontinental lines and
in the absence of population in the North-
ern Territory, Australia is m the amaz-
ing position that five-sixths of its country
js inaccessible to its own land forces even if it had
an army, and to nearly a fifth of its country it
hasn’t even the title that goes with “effective
occupation.” The two great railways and the
transfer of the Territory are wanted badly—to
rescue most of Australia from its isolation, to make
room for new settlers, to open up new agricultural,
pastoral and mineral lands, to spread the national
spirit by putting an end to the unnatural
state of things by which the Australian nation
consists of a lonesome patch of population
in the South-east, a lonesome handful in the
South-west, a lonesome smattering of people
in the Far North, and nothing between
but magnificent distances and grass. These facts
have been glaringly conspicuous for a long while,
yet nothing is done ; and, as already mentioned,
the Fisher Ministry is in recess. In that respect
it is very like a lot of other Ministries.
* * * *
Some years ago South Australia, at the request
of the then Australian Government, offered the
Territory to the Commonwealth. It must be re-
membered that S.A. only took over this bulky
responsibility when N.S. W., to which it pre-
viously belonged, cut it adrift, and when Queens-
land would have none of it. In those remote
days, when the North was reckoned a thing of no
account, the handful of people at Adelaide
shouldered the burden even as an ant might
shoulder a chest of drawers, and they have carried
it, and held the gate with fair success against the
Asiatic menace, ever since. But though S.A.
saved nearly one-fifth of Australia from being
administered on cheap nigger immigration prin-
ciples by British Crown officials, it was never able
to secure a real title to the Territory. All it
secured was the right to administer it, and the
promise that the property would be definitely
ceded when the transcontinental line from Port
Darwin to Port Augusta was built. At that work
S.A. has toiled intermittently—when money was
available—ever since, and a great deal has been
done. Now, at the invitation of the Federal
authorities, it offers the Territory to the Common-
wealth at the mere price of the Territory’s own
debt—that is to say, it offers a rich land, ten times
the size of England, at 2d. per acre, with all its
public works thrown in. Further, again at the
instance of the Federal authorities, it offers the
great stretch of unfinished transcontinental line
in S.A. at cost; all the deficits which naturally
accumulated on that line by reason of it being an
unfinished work which ended at nowhere in par-
ticular, S.A. undertakes to carry itself. In addi-
tion, that State offers Port Augusta to the
Commonwealth in order that the Australian
Parliament may own the whole railway and both
termini; and, on top of all, it promises to the
Commonwealth permission to build the other
transcontinental railway —the one to Kalgoorlie
and Perth —through S.A. territory, and the neces-
sary land to build it upon. But it reasonably
asks that the Commonwealth shall take over the
condition which has attached to the Territory for
the past half-century or so—the completion of a
line through the Great Lost Province to open it
up and make it available for settlement, and to
connect it with Port Augusta, its nearest sea out-
let in the settled parts of Australia.
* * *
It might be reasonably supposed that, con-
sidering the urgency of the case, this offer would
have been closed with at once, and that the Terri-
tory would have been taken over in one vigorous
act, and the construction of the two transcon-
tinental lines be already under way. But the
lamentable craving to bring everything to the big
eastern cities got in the way at an early date.
Australia is full of politicians who clamor greatly
in theory about the need for decentralisation,
about the importance of opening up the country’s
waste places, and about the dreadful circumstance
that Australia has a larger proportion of its popu-
lation huddled into a handful of cities than any
other important country on earth. Unfortunately,
the practice of these politicians and their clamorous
theory don’t hang together. They either deviate
their railway lines, or fake their railway rates, or
else refuse outlying ports any railway communica-
tion whatever, in order to prevent such places as
Albany (W.A.), Portland (Vic.), Twofold Bay,
Jervis Bay and Newcastle (N.S.W.), and Glad-
stone and Bowen (Q.) getting the trade that
naturally belongs to them, and, in most cases,
this is done for the express purpose of dragging
commerce compulsorily and at great public loss to
the bloated capitals, whose bloatedness the said
politicians so greatly deplore. They clamor to
have the Australian capital jammed up against
the County of Cumberland, so that it may be as
close as possible to the biggest city in Australia in
order to make that city bigger, and as adjacent as
may be to the most densely peopled county in
Australia in order to make that county denser.
And it is just a part of the ordinary un-
fitness of things that there should already
be a devastating howl for a deviation of
the Port Darwin line into Queensland, and an-
other howl for its further deviation into N.S.W.
and Victoria. The interests of the policy of the
Further Congestion of Population call for the
deviation, and, even if the interests of Australia
go under in consequence, the Congested Popula-
tion Party regards the great cause of Congestion
as of more account than a dozen Australias.
* * * *
The amazing effrontery of the gang which
clamors for the eastern deviation may be sized up
by a brief consideration of what that policy
means :
(1) The railway would be longer, consequently more
expensive to build and to work.
(2) The railway, instead of running through the Terri-
tory to open up the Commonwealth's new property for
settlement and make it remunerative, would scuttle out
of the Territory right at the beginning of things, and
proceed to further open up the affluent eastern
States instead. That is the sort of thing that is
calculated to make the Territory a bad debt on the
Commonwealth’s hands instead of a profit. If Premier
Kidston bought an unimproved estate, and it was
pointed out to him that he should therefore make roads
through the property of the man next door instead of
through his own property, he would probably use violent
language about deviation policies in general.
(3) The proposed diversion, according to which the line
would scoot eastward out of the Territory, take a long,
bow-legged course through Queensland, and then enter
S.A. and join the present unfinished transcontinental
track at Hergott Springs, would have four notable con-
sequences : (a) It would keep the line wandering at con-
siderable length through a very unpromising part of
Queensland. (&) It would then carry it needlessly
across the great Cooper’s Creek depression, where,
in wet seasons, the flood waters lie 70 or 100
miles wide. This is the country where some early
explorers, happening along in a time of wet, reported a
great inland sea. To carry the railway there would mean
that once every ten years or so there would be a long
stoppage of traffic followed by a costly rebuilding of
many miles of track. A transcontinental line, if it is to
keep its trade, can’t afford these periodical wrecks and
stoppages, (ej The proposed deviation would make over
220 miles of existing line, from Hergott to Oodnadatta,
practically useless, (d) It would carry the line right
away from, instead of through, the splendid oasis under
the McDonnell Ranges, a cool, elevated country which,
with the Finke and other rivers available for irrigation, is
capable of carrying a close settlement of probably
1,000,000 people in the very heart and centre of Aus-
(4) Then supposing the deviation to be carried still
further, as is proposed by some Congested Population
apostles, into N.S.W. and Victoria, the result would be
that several hundred miles of track already constructed
would be little better than a bad debt; the line would
not develop the Territory to any great extent; it would
be rather a coastal than a transcontinental line after all;
and it would be another awful case of sacrificing the
development of empty Australia to the further congestion
of the big eastern cities.
(5) Further, these proposed deviations would involve
the sacrifice of the great ideal of a railway Federally-
owned from end to end, and with a Federally-owned
port at each extremity.
(0) By carrying the line eastward it would be dragged
beyond any reasonable reach of possible connections with
the northern part of Westralia ; and again the develop-
ment of the empty parts of this continent would be sacri-
ficed to the further bloating of the overgrown cities of
the east.
* ye * *
A curious side issue of the agitation to shift the
Territory railway track eastward, and to sacrifice
the interests of Australia to the Congested Popu-
lation doctrine, is that the agitators appear to
forget that they have no real status in the matter.
The Australian Parliament may pass as many
Bills as it pleases providing for the assumption of
the Territory and the building therefrom of long
and whirly means of communication to drag the
northern trade eastward at needless cost and
mileage, but these measures will have no force
whatever unless the new proposals are accepted
by the South Australian Parliament. And it
is fairly well known that they will not be
accepted. South Australia offered the Territory
at the invitation of the Australian Government
of the day, and on terms which were arranged
with and approved by that Government. If Par-
liament refuses to confirm the deal, there will be
nothing to be said save that the business has
fallen through. S.A. then proposes to resume
railway building on its own account, and in the
snail-like procession of years the work will doubt-
less crawl to its destination as a State undertaking.
In that case there will be no connections with the
Queensland or Westralian or N.S.W. State
lines, except upon South Australia’s terms.
There will be no sudden opening up of
the North for the profit of Australia in
general, and no rapid settlement of popu-
lation there for the indirect enrichment of the adja-
cent lands of Queensland and Northern Westralia.
The line to the West will almost certainly be
postponed indefinitely, partly because S.A., if it
has to build the Port Darwin railway wholly out
of its own resources, won’t be able to afford its
share of the cost of a Federal line to the West;
and partly because the Central State, if it has to
build a whole transcontinental system of its own,
will want to force all the transcontinental traffic
on to its own rails in order to make the best of its
speculation. So the old, old stagnation will re-
sume in the old, old way, and meanwhile those
who grabbed at too much will be left with
nothing. An indefinite postponement of the
transfer of the Territory and the building of the
two transcontinentals would be a grievous setback
to Australia, and, if it comes to pass, the Con-
gested Population Party will be responsible, as
usual. A whole multitude of the disasters of Aus-
tralia —its misplaced Federal capital, its empty
lands, its numerous fine but deserted ports, the
ruinous expense of railway systems which drag
produce 400 miles to the sea because “our city”
must have the trade when there is an equally
good outlet less than 200 miles away, and many
other things—are the work of the Congested
Population Party.
THE PREMIERS’ CONFERENCE.
The State Premiers’ Conference at Hobart, which
has just closed, differed in some respects from its
predecessors. Formerly it was the custom for the
Federal Prime Minister or Treasurer to propound
a scheme for the division of the tariff revenue
after the expiration of the Braddon clause.
Turner did this, also Forrest and Lyne. The
arrangement gave the State Premiers a beautiful
chance to show their unanimity; they unani-
mously rejected the Federal Government’s pro-
posal, and then they went home swelled with
pride and using abusive language, and saying :
“ See how unanimous we are ! ” Warned by these
past happenings, Andrew Fisher refused to sub-
mit any scheme whatsoever, and bade the State
Premiers draft one themselves. That ought to
have been easy, for the State Premiers started on
the simple principle of demanding almost every-
thing, and there was no one to object to their
demands. Yet before they had agreed on a
method of dividing almost everything among
themselves to their own complete satisfaction,
nose-blood came near to being shed, and the con-
ference was more than once on the edge of dissolu-
tion. Finally, however, the State politicians came
to terms —wildly ridiculous terms, which they
must have known that no Australian Government
in its senses could consider for a moment. Roughly
speaking, this was the proposition
(1) Itailway, tramway, etc., revenues to belong wholly
to the States as heretofore.
(2) Land revenues to belong wholly to the States as
heretofore.
(3) Proceeds of land-tax, income-tax, probate, stamp
and other duties to belong to the States in the same old
"(4) The Post and Telegraph revenue to belong to the
Commonwealth! (Owing to the vast need of improve-
ment and extensions, the Post and Telegraph revenue
doesn’t nearly cover the necessary expenditure, so this
isn’t really an item of revenue, but a dead loss.)
And then as regards the Customs and Excise,
which is the only real item of revenue that the
Commonwealth possesses at present, it was
solemnly proposed :
(5) That for ever and a day three-fifths of the gross
Customs and Excise revenue should be paid to the State
Governments, with the proviso that the States must
never receive less than £6,750,000. If in any year of
drought and disaster the tariff revenue is only £8,000,000,
the State Premiers will still want their £6,750,000, and
that will leave the Australian Government with a mere
trifle of £1,250,000.
(6) Out of its two-fifths, or less, of the tariff revenue (it
may easily be less in bad years) the Commonwealth is to
paj' the cost of collecting the Customs and Excise
revenue. Also it is to pay the cost of the Federal Parlia-
ment, Governor-General, and all the Federal Depart-
ments; to pay for postal and telegraph extensions
(£2,000,000 is already wanted under this head alone) ; to
supply lighthouses, beacons, etc., round over 12,000 miles
of coast-line ; to pay old-age pensions (probably not far
short of £2,000,000 a year); to take over the Northern
Territory with its £3,000,000 or so of debt; to open
up the Northern Territory (over 500,000 square miles)
with roads, railways, etc., and bring out immigrants
to occupy it; to create a Federal capital; to
build two transcontinental railways for the safety and
development of Australia ; to provide for the land and
sea defence of a country about 14 times the size of the
German empire, and to do some sundries.
« -K *
There are no words in the British language that
are quite fitted to express an. opinion of the
blatant insolence and supreme folly of the State
Insects who devised this monstrous proposition.
As a preliminary, they propounded the statement
that they fully recognised the growing needs and
responsibilities of the Commonwealth, but the
statement, in the light of subsequent events,
looks like sheer hypocrisy. For in reality the
State Premiers demand, in the immediate present,
more than the Braddon clause ever gave them,
and they propose to cut down the Common-
wealth’s resources rather than to increase them.
Assuming that the tariff revenue for this year is
£11,000,000 —though some estimates put it as low
as £10,300,000 —this is the situation :
(1) Under the old Braddon Blot arrangement, the State
Governments would receive £8,250,000, less three-fourths
(perhaps £160,000) of the cost of collecting the tariff
revenue (which would leave £8,090,000), for under the
Braddon arrangement the State Governments get three-
fourths of the net revenue only. Out of this the States
would have to meet their own liabilities for old-age
pensions.
(2) Under the proposed new system, the State Govern-
ments would receive £6,750,000, but they would be re-
lieved of the obligation to pay any part of the cost of
collection, and the burden of old-age pensions would be
borne wholly by the Commonwealth. These two differ-
ences would make t he return to the States equivalent to
something like £8,750,000 instead of £8,250,000.
And supposing the prognostications of Minister
Hughes are realised—which seems quite probable,
for the great slump in the value of exports must
lead to a slump in imports—and the tariff revenue
drops to £10,300,000, this is how things would
work out: —
(1) Under the old Braddon Blot the State Governments
would receive £7,725,000, less about £160,000 for cost of
collection, making £7,565,000. And the States would be
responsible for their old-age pension expenditure.
(2) Under the proposed new arrangement the States
would get £6,750,000"c1ear (cost of collection being borne
by the Commonwealth), and the bill for old-age pensions,
which isn’t likely to be far short of £2,000,000, would be
borne by the Commonwealth.
* * • *
In short, the proposed new method embodies all
the evils of the old method, and some more evils
of its own as well. It still leaves Federal and
State finance inextricably tangled. It makes no
provision for the transfer of the State debts to the
Commonwealth, or for their consolidation, their
renewal at a reduced rate of interest, or their final
repayment. According to the Braddon scheme,
if the Commonwealth was in desperate need of
(say) an extra £1,000,000 in time of war or other
sudden stress, and resorted to the Customs and
Excise to raise the money, it must needs collect
£4,000,000 extra, for out of every £1 collected 15s.
had to go to the States. This was a bad system,
but it was always consoling to know that it was
fixed for only ten years. The proposed variation
is that, if the Commonwealth, in time of war or
other stress, is in desperate need of an extra
£1,600,000 it must raise £4,000,000, which isn’t
much better than the old arrangement, and it is
proposed that this device should last, not for ten
years, but for ever. Further if, in some time of
war or war scare, or in some awful commercial
slump like that of 1893, the tariff revenue dropped
to £8,000,000, the Braddon clause would only
require that £6,000,000 should be paid to the
State Governments, and the States would pay the
cost of collecting their portion of the revenue ;
also they would carry their own old-age pension
bills. The new proposal is that, if war or war
scare or commercial disaster should reduce the
tariff revenue to £8,000,000 in some unfortunate
year, the State Governments can still claim
£6,750,000 of it instead of £6,000,000, and
the cost of collecting the £6,750,000 will
fall on the Commonwealth, and the Coiii-
monweath will also carry the entire bill or
invoice for old-age pensions. The original Brad-
don clause had at least the recommendation that
the State Governments took pot-luck with the
Commonwealth; they had a claim on three-
fourths of the tariff revenue, but they took a
sporting chance whether the three-fourths repre-
sented £1,000,000 or £10,000,000. The new pro-
posal embodies about as much of the sporting in-
stinct as is contained in the person who starts
10,000 greyhounds after one lame cat ; the de-
mand for three-fifths of the tariff revenue with a
fixed minimum of £6,750,000 means that the State
Governments expect to have a full share of all
the good luck that is going, and don’t propose ,to
take any share of the really bad luck when the
country happens to strike some grievous disaster.
The results show that Prime Minister Fisher did
well to deal only in platitudes and gene-
ralities, and to leave the State Premiers to
reveal, on their sole responsibility, the
full measure of their selfishness, meanness,
and narrowness, their parish pump politics, their
utter lack of any real Australian patriotism, and
their complete inability to rise to the greatness pf
the situation. Now it remains for the Australian
Parliament to plod steadily on its way till the end
of 1910; then to repeal the Braddon clause,
annex all the tariff revenue according to its rights,
and afterwards, as the person in possession, to lay
down its own terms to the State Premiers. The
Hobart Conference should convince it that there
is no hope of doing anything for Australia by
bargaining with State Insects.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bit of Land the Shape of a Convulsion.
It has been decided, after much hard considera-
tion, that 1000 square miles is the irreducible mini-
mum for a Federal territory in the Cotter district of
N.S.W. —assuming, that is, that the capital is to
have its own water supply and to wash regularly—
and a demand for that area has been, or is to be,
served on the N.S.W. Premier. And in.order to
keep the area down to 1000 square miles and yet
take in the catchments of one or two creeks, it has
been necessary to plan out a piece of ground the
shape of a convulsion or a dog in a fit. ' This bit of
soil is narrow at all points, and wherever the
Federal city is placed the increased land values
created by the expenditure of the people’s money
must needs plop over the Federal limits and go jto
enrich the private land monopolist outside. Thfjre
was a time when the Labor party would have got
up, with the fire of battle in its eye, and
demanded 5000 square miles rather than have
lent itself in this fashion to the enrichment of
any private land-grabber, but that was before it
attained to office and began to be very careful
indeed of its portfolio. Now it only asks for 1000
square miles, and it remains to be seen what sort
of a fight it will put up for that. A great many
people, indeed, begin to wonder what sort of a
fight the Fisher Government will put up for any-
thing now that it has thrown in its lot with the
Congested Population party in the matter of the
Federal city. Presumably even its views on the
progressive land-tax have been watered down a
good deal these times. One great purpose of the
progressive land-tax is to bring settlement to the
empty parts of Australia, and to prevent the
crowding of the people into great cities; and a
Government which proposes to plant the new
Federal city as close as possible to the
biggest city and ■ the most densely peopled
county in Australia,, in order to further bloat
their already bloated condition, doesn t take
enough real interest in the settlement of the
empty parts of Australia for the sentiment to tie
worth mentioning. Meanwhile, as already men-
tioned, it has pegged out a scrap of land the shape
of a convulsion —something with a short body and
two long tails. This doesn’t include the railway


right-of-way to the coast, which will stick ont like
a unicorn’s horn from the back of the convulsive
bit of land ; and the bit of beach with which the
Commonwealth is to be endowed at Jervis Bay,
about 90 miles away from the Federal capital, is
also a matter for further affable negotiation. A
very affable Ministry in matters of negotiation is
that of Andkew Fisher.
■
Broken Hill.
The decision of Justice Higgins, of the Federal
High Court, that Bs. per day is the lowest
figure that can be called a living wage for a
married man at Broken Hill, and Bs. 3d. at Port
Pirie, and his award, fixing these wages as the
bottom limit, should satisfy everybody so far as
the wage question goes—everybody save the in-
curable Tory of the John Darling brand. It
may be that the Proprietary mine won’t resume
work on these conditions except in a very small
wjiy, but if so that can’t be helped. The Prop,
mine is apparently near its end in any
case, and whether it shuts or partially shuts
now, or whether it shuts definitely a year
or two hence, the problem of helping a large
section of the Broken Hill population to get away
to new pastures will have to be faced at one time
or another. It is no more difficult a problem now
than it will be at some future day. If Justice
Higgins had cut down wages to the figure which,
it was alleged, would have enabled the B. h!
Prop, mine to struggle along on a paying basis
for two or three years more, it is hard to see how
a similar reduction could have been avoided in the
other mines. That would have meant that a large
number of men would be employed for a few
years at starvation wages, and then a lot of them
would have to get out; the worst that can happen
now is that a smaller number will be employed at
fair wages, and those who would have to get out
m any case will get out from the scene
of lead-poisoning a little sooner. Possibly
a delay would only mean that they would get out
at a time when the rest of Australia had a drought
or some similar calamity on hand, and was much
less fitted to give them a welcome and a job. At
all events, the Federal Arbitration Court has
vindicated itself and vindicated the principle of
Arbitration. In a plain, sensible, business-like
way it has fixed up the wage question while Tom
Mann merely waved a flag and bellowed at large.
And it is regrettable to learn that there may be
further trouble at the Barrier because the tactless
Wade Government wants to have that human
calamity tried by a farming jury at Albury, even
as the tactless Dibbs Government had Sleath
and 1 erguson tried at Deniliquin many years ago.
There is really nothing to try Mann for, unless the
charge be one of depriving human beings and fowls
of their natural sleep with his voice. The Immi-
gration Act might be used, and Mann might be
tested in the Russian language, and then
deported as an uneducated immigrant. A logi-
cal act would be to dye him black and give
him a job as an aboriginal tracker; that is a
billet in which silence is necessary in working
hours, and a silent Tom Mann would be an in-
teresting novelty. But after all the simplest
thing would be for the Law to refuse to take
Thomas seriously, and just to give him the glassy
and unseeing eye, and say no more about him.
He shouldn’t be tried at Albury or anywhere else.
The game isn’t worth the candle.
O
Billson’s Millions.
Victoria’s new Murray Government, wherein
BILLSON is Minister for the department with the
railway smash in it, proposes to “ blew ” £1,000,000
or more of loan money on new lines and improve-
ments to old ones, but there is no word of it
spending even ss. on a new railway policy. And
that is a thing which Victoria wants very badly.
For instance, it only requires the building of a little
bit of connecting line on the western plains, and
there would be a fairly straight railway connecting
the splendid western harbor of Portland with all the
country right up to the Murray. Then, if railway
rates were fixed so as to bring to Portland the
trade which properly belongs to it, instead of
being so devised as to drive the trade away and
send it, at a hideous waste of mileage, to Mel-
bourne, and if the big estates were cut up to allow
of settlement, the time would be in sight when
there would be a city of 500,000 inhabitants on
Portland’s lone, deserted bay. The railway system
at Portland is a horrible example of perverted in-
genuity. It was specially planned to prevent the
West Victorian trade reaching its natural outlet,
lest bloated Melbourne should suffer. The rail-
way starts northward from the harbor town—
starts out in a respectable, honest, business-like
way as if it intended to bolt due north to the
N.S. W. border, and supply the shortest possible
route to the sea for the conveyance of the export
wheat and the jumbuck’s overcoat. But at
Branxholme, a few miles out, it turns sharp north-
easterly towards Melbourne. If you want to go
due north to the district which should have its
outlet at Portland, you get out at Branxholme and
walk. After a certain amount of walking five
railways are discovered, all of which should
connect in a direct southerly fashion with Port-
land, but they all slope south-easterly towards
Melbourne. Goroke, for instance, is about 100
miles from Portland harbor as the crow hurries,
but a gap is carefully maintained in the railway
lest its trade and that of the north-west generally
should go to their natural destination. To get
from Goroke to* Portland you go south-east till
about half-way to Melbourne, and then come back
south-west on another line till Portland is reached,
and the distance is 235 miles, and the rates are high.
Therefore the trade of Goroke goes to Melbourne,
246 miles away, and partly by reason of this handicap
Goroke has practically no trade. It cost a fearful lot
of money to build all this needless circuitousness ;
it costs a lot every year in needless interest, need-
less working expenses, needless freight charges,
and needless waste of time to keep up the need-
less circuitousness; the needless isolation to which
it condemns the Mallee districts has retarded
development and grievously impoverished Vic-
toria ; and the whole needless policy has caused a
splendid harbor—one many times better than
anything Melbourne possesses—to be almost an
empty waste of waters, and has deprived
Victoria of the rich asset it ought to
possess through owning two big seaport cities
instead of one. All these sacrifices were made in
order to drag the trade of north-western Victoria
to bloated, selfish, grasping Melbourne. But
Melbourne profits very little, if at all; for, partly
by reason of the needless distance from an avail-
able port, there is very little trade in the Vic-
torian north-west. The case looks mad, out-
rageous, and suicidal, yet it is by no means an
isolated one; Twofold Bay in N.S.W., and
Gladstone and Bowen in Queensland are similar
instances, and there are others. Meanwhile, as
already mentioned, Minister Billson, of Vic-
toria, proposes spending £1,000,000 of loan money
on railways.
Re the Vital Reed of an Australian Navy.
Sydney Telegraph put the rickety case against
sea-defence of the Commonwealth shortly (11/3/’O9)
in answer to a letter from Colonel Lystee, who is
an advocate of Alfred Deakin’s policy. Here
are the Telegraph’s reasons for objecting to an
Australian fleet: —
Our correspondent adopts what may be called either
the fundamental mistake or the over-zealous alarm of
advocates of compulsory service generally when he
implies that what we have to make ourselves ready
against is the possibility of invasion. With whatever cer-
tainty an opinion can be expressed on anything that lies
in the future, it. may be said that Australia need not
apprehend invasion for many years to come. Assuming
that the British navy keeps its present strength
relatively to the European fleets, there is only
one quarter from which attack could be considered
possible by those who'are anxiously looking for a bogey—
Japan. As the Anglo-Japanese Alliance will be operative
for at least six years longer, that is not an immediate
risk. But what is the risk in any case? .... It is more
than 5000 miles from Yokohama to the northern Austra-
lian port of Townsville, and nearly 4000 to Port Darwin.
These figures mean, in relation to invasion, transport
work on a large scale and intensely if not prohibitively
dangerous with a great navy opposing the passage. The
Sea-conveyance of troops in face of a hostile fleet is so
difficult that there are few if any nations who would be
so foolhardy as to undertake it on a voyage of thousands
of miles. And it is to be borne in mind that the British
navy is always in harness.
The Telegraph, in common with the rest of the
anti-defenceites, bases its theory that Australia
should not aspire to protect itself, but should rely
indefinitely on subsidising a fleet on the other
side of the world to do the job for it, on Mahan’s
dictum that the strategical error to be most
dreaded in warfare is “ dissipation of force.” It
contends that Australia should pour all the cash
it can afford into the British treasury for “the
benefit of the Empire at large,” and, for the
rest, rely on the British navy to stand by it if
need arises. It regards with abhorrence the
local objector who expresses fear lest, if real
trouble came, the British taxpayer might consider
that his part of the world had more right to the
ships than Australia, and might act accordingly
and refuse to dissipate his sea force. It
is worth while to consider the Telegraph’s
attitude on the business apart from the senti-
mental side of the case ; on its advantage to Aus-
tralia apart from its advantage to the Empire as a
whole. The average native-born Australian isn’t
the kind of Imperialist that the Telegraph is.
He doesn’t and can’t enthuse about his connection
with colored people in India or Africa or
the West Indies. He has no wish to administer
the affairs of these dusky folk, or to have
any sort of truck, political or social,
with them. He is prouder of being an Australian
than of being the fellow-subject of Hottentots,
Kaffirs and African negroes ; aye, even than of his
kinship with the educated Parsee, Babus, etc., of
India. The subsidy idea postulates that the
Australian burns at any cost and at any risk to
keep the Empire intact and prevent the loss of
any of its niggers. The fact of the case is that he
places the integrity and safety of Australia first,
and the integrity and safety of the Empire, 80 per
cent, of which consists of black, brown, and pie-
bald persons whom he doesn’t want to know, an
indifferent second. Now there is no question but
that trouble is coming to the Empire in the
near future. It is coming in two places—to
the United Kingdom from Germany, to Australia
from Japan. “ When Germany stands predomi-
nant both by land AND sea,” declared General
Liebert at a recent German Colonial Conference,
then will the motto be fulfilled—“ The 20th Cen-
tury belongs to the Germans.” Is there any
doubt in the minds of rational men that Germany
aspires to sea-supremacy in northern waters?
Year by year its fleet approximates more nearly
in strength to that of the United Kingdom. It is
the plain fact that a nation like Great Britain,
with 41,000,000 of inhabitants (a fourth of whom are
paupers), cannot permanently outdo in ship-build-
ing a nation such as Germany, which has a popula-
tion of 01,000,000 —itisthat factthatis drivinglead-
ing soldiers and statesmen in the smaller country to
thoughts of compulsory military service. Also,
since the safety of the outlying dependencies is a
small thing beside the safety of the heart of
the Empire, the rise of the new sea-power is
forcing the British Admiralty to mass its effect-
ive ships in British waters. When Ger-
many strikes in the North Sea, the Mahan
concentration policy is going to leave Australia,
if it is still defending itself by subsidising another
country’s fleet, in the worst sort of hole. The
Anglo-.Jap agreement ends in six years. Those
six years are not likely to render Japan any more
friendly to Australia’s anti-Jap-immigration
principles; nor will they render this country
(which Asiatics are so avid to enter that they will,
as was shown last week, come here in ships’ holds
under most hellish conditions) one whit less desir-
able to the yellow peoples. Said the Sydney
Telegraph (10/3/’O9), in an article headed “The
March of the Mongol”—the same Telegraph
which talks scoffing!y of the Japanese “bogey,”
and asks “ What is the risk in any case ? ”
With America at bay, the position in Australia will
become more and more acute as time goes on. Prom the
writer’s personal observations in Japan, that country
cannot, in its present half-starved state, assimilate the
tremendous yearly increase of population, and it is no
exaggeration to say that with Canada and the U.S.
closing their doors, all eyes are fixed on the vast possi-
bilities of the Australian continent.
The position, then, is that for six years, provided
(1) that the United Kingdom and Germany do
not fight, and (2) that the Anglo-Jap agreement
holds, Australia may loaf in the matter of defence,
and spend its time and money on cricket and
racing instead of on ships and training. On
any given day of the week after that time it is
liable to wake up and find (1) that Germany
has declared war on Britain, (2) that the
British fleet, such as it is, in these waters is
steaming hard for the scene o.f action, and
(3) that Japan has taken umbrage at Australia’s
Immigration Kestriction Act, or at its fiscal
policy, or at the way it wears its hat, or any other
old thing, and is descending in force on these
shores to rectify matters. The Telegraph notes
that “it is more than 5000 miles from Yokohama
to the N. Australian port of Townsville, and
nearly 4000 to Port Darwin.” That is so. But
only the other day 16 huge warships entered
Sydney Harbor, after steaming about four times
that distance. London Spectator remarked re-
cently that the characteristic of modern sea-
fighting is “ the extraordinary suddenness
of attack.” “ Antagonists on land,” said
the paper, “ can watch each other as a
boxer watches his antagonist. ... In naval
warfare the first blow comes, not like a blow from
the fist, but like a blow from a projectile which
strikes and lays low before the sound of the dis-
charge is heard.” There will be no “great British
navy ” in these seas when the Japanese projectile
starts Australiawards. In that black hour the
ships that Australia is now subsidising will be
helping to guard the land where they belong. Is
there anything on earth more obvious in the
circumstances than that Australia’s sole hope of
national salvation lies in the possession of a fleet
of its own, officered and manned by its own men,
and under its own absolute control—a fleet for
Australia first and the Empire afterwards ; one
which no Anglo-European troubles can take away
from us, and which shall be in a position, from
the hour it is commissioned to the hour it is
scrapped, to move, at a second’s notice, for the
protection of the country that owns it ?
♦—
The Crown Defender—Who Doesn’t Exist.
A STRUGGLING Gippsland settler who called on
Victorian Acting-Premier Graham, the other
day, and requested a free pass to his home, inci-
dentally threw considerable mud on the Law and
the lopsidedness of its administration. His tale,
which an accompanying constable corroborated,
was that he had been summoned to Korumburra
Court to explain his children’s absence from
school. Being away in the bush he didn’t get the
summons, and was fined, in his absence, £5 or
nine days. As he had no fiver he was escorted by
a constable to Melbourne gaol, locked up for the
nine days, and then bumped out into the street
without either money or friends. Minister
Graham was surprised, not to say shocked,
and handed him a free pass with much
pleasure. Also, he remarked that the proceedings
seemed to him to be harsh enough to be called
brutal. Which announcement, though creditable
to Graham, doesn’t advance matters to any ex-
tent. Graham himself had a suspicion of that;:
wherefore he made further inquiries, and subse-
quently salved his conscience by apportioning the
blame between the local School Board, the honor-
arium on the bench, the police, the Educa-
tion Department, and the penal authorities..
But in doing so he carefully overlooked:
the real culprit. The trouble originally com-
menced through the Law authorising someone:
to prosecute; but when the Law put this:
power inthat person’s hands —whether inspector or-
constable —it quite forgot to make provision for
any Defender. Had there been a State Defend er-
as well as a Prosecutor, the whole disgraceful!
episode couldn’t have occurred ; because the mam
couldn’t have been fined or imprisoned without;
being heard. But the Law seems to think that
its duty begins and ends with prosecution, and!
when it has put a man in gaol, at great loss to*
himself and much expense to the community, it
sits back and smiles fatuously and considers it has:
done a good day’s work. As a matter of fact, its
has only done half—the unprofitable half. The*
State has just as much right to defend citizens as:
it has to prosecute them, but the Law is painfully
slow in grasping that fact. Even the Navy
—the British navy—which is a preposterous:
martinet in many respects, does better than- tlnw
Law; for when Bill is hauled up before tlliei
Naval Court on board ship, he at least is supplied!
with a “friend,” or an advocate, as well as with a.
prosecutor.
Iron and Steel and a £6O Fine.
The N.S.W. Arbitration Court has had a. iHew
words to say to the Hoskins brothers, who took,
over the Lithgow ironworks when lack of national,
support had compelled William Sandford to cry.
a go. The public knew the wretched supponti itr.
was giving the indispensable iron and steel in-
dustry ; hence when Sandford applied for capital:
he couldn’t get it. The Hoskins firm, therefore,,
found the works in a bad way. One Hoskins—
the engineering Hoskins—wanted the whole:
thing closed down while repairs and remodelling:
were going on ; the other Hoskins —the financial!
Hoskins —wanted the place kept going somehow
while the alterations were being made piece-
meal. But as they were “losing money hand-
over-fist,” as the engineering Hoskins puitt
it, the financial Hoskins proposed to the
workmen that they should accept less wages
until the long-delayed Bonus Bill was passed
through the Commonwealth Parliament. The
men refused, whereupon Hoskins said, “All
right, then, here goes,” and up went a lock-out
notice. The Court didn’t know for certain what
constitutes a lock-out; but, after thinking things
over, it reckoned that this was one, and fined the
firm £SO and the financial Hoskins £lO, in default
nine days’ gaol—with Costs. Except that the.
Hoskins people have a bee in their heads with
regard to unionism, The Bulletin feels some,
sympathy for them. They took on one of the-
stiffest propositions in Australia. They found 1
works which had been put together bit.
by bit and not on one general plan—
they were the works of people who for
years had been living from hand to mouth,,
and existing in the shadow of a huge overdraft..
First N. S. Wales and then Australia had failed!
to do a nation’s duty by this industry ; and when,
two undoubtedly capable organisers came on to <
the job, and started to keep costs-books, andi
generally find out where they were going, they/
naturally caused a commotion. Then they made:
the mistake of trying to pass on to the workmen:
—already poorly paid, on the whole—a large slice*
of the burden which Australia ought to have:
borne for years past; a burden which, by the way,,
would cease to be a burden before many years;,
and would turn out instead about the finest invest-
ment the country ever made. For trying to pass
that slice of the burden on, and then shutting
down in a fit of “ Well, if you won’t, then take
that! ” the firm is very properly fined. But
that fine ought to make Australia feel pretty mean.
These works at Lithgow are the sole representatives
of the absolutely indispensable iron and steel in-
dustry in Australia—the industry without which
the nation cannot be safe —and Australia starved!!
those works, until they were reduced almost to»
the state of scrap-iron. If the works were to be-
kept going, the only alternative available was to
allow the firm that had tackled the job to “ lose
money hand-over-fist,” or to divide the loss
between the firm and the workmen. Australia,
the party most interested, took no responsibility
It crayfished out of the trouble, and looked on at
the scrap from a dark corner. It ought to be
dragged out by a claw, and fined a good deal more
than £6O for having been such a shiftless, short-
sighted idiot through all these years.
William M‘Millan, who is Australia’s greatest-
political draper, orated recently on the delicate,
subject of youthful marriages ; and the Sydney-
Clerks and Warehousemen’s Association, before-
whom the pearls of his philosophy were cast, was.
properly abject and grateful. According to the.
press report, the calico knight “deprecated the:
foolish practice of young men getting marriedl
before they were earning a competency to keep a
wife and family. In referring to this matter he
spoke as an employer, for no sooner had a youth
taken to himself a wife than he applied for—and
expected—a rise.” The. tone adopted by this
talking haberdasher suggests that he regards the
holy state of matrimony as a luxury which belongs
by rights only to the sere and toothless or to bald-
headed middle age. It is also calculated to give
the impression that a large proportion of the young
men at the desk and counter marry very early. The
N.S.W. statistics for 1906 show that, of 90 drapery
bridegrooms who went to the altar in that year, two
were under 21 years of age; 22 were between 21 and
24 ; 38 were between 25 and 29 ; 16 were between
30 and 34 ; and after that they tailed off until the
period between 50 and the silent tomb held only
two elderly but happy men. Evidently these
were two sober, level-headed drapers who had put
marriage aside till the evening of life. Turning
to clerks, we find that in the same year of 1906,,
376 quill-propellers paid the parson to tie them up,
for life. Of that number, 21 rash young men had
not readied their majority ; 109 were between. 21
and 24; 148 were between 25 and 29; 61 were-
between 30 and 34 ; and 21 were between 35 and
39. A final three existed in lodgings until after 50,.
when they wearied of that lost-dog existence and
wedded the landlady. It seems to The Bulletin
that the official figures don’t justify M'Millan in.
going out of his way to warn the young draper-
and clerk against marrying too early, for the good
and sufficient reason that two-thirds of them,
already avoid the state of double blessedness until
they are over 24 years of age, and inore than a.
Rails!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Agent-General for Victoria invites tenders for supply
and delivery at Melbourne of 6914 tons of 801 b. steel rails
and 620 tons steel fishplates ; also for 13,828 tons of 801 b.
steel rails and 1240 tons of fishplates.— Standard op
Empire, 12/12/'OB.
Tenders are invited bv the Government of S. Australia
for the supply of 4200 tons of 801 b. steel rails, 1500 tons of
601 b. steel rails, 1900 tons of 501 b. steel rails, and 506 tons
of assorted fishplates.— lbid, IH/IS/’OB.
The Dominion Iron and Steel Company, of Sydney,
Nova Scotia, has secured several large orders from the
N. S. Wales State Government for steel rails. These
orders are regarded as opening up important new branches
of inter-Empire commerce. The general agent of the
Dominion Co. reports first-class conditions in the iron and
steel trades, and the demand for pig-iron, steel billets and
rods will be very heavy this year.— lbid, 51121'08.
Australia is alleged to have an iron and steel industry
of itsown atLithgow(N.S. W.). The various State Govern-
ments, however, seem never to have heard of it.
Rails !
Iron rails !
Can’t be made in New South Wales.
So we haul them forth in shiploads from the lands
beyond the sea ;
Ask the Nova Scoti-an, he will tell you that he
can,
But there’s something very evil in Australian
industry !
We must drag things from afar, ’tis the fashion
popular,
So the agent waves his tender from the Kanuck’s
distant shore;
We’re a wretched folk indeed —every blessed
thing we need
Must be pushed across the ocean to Australia’s
foolish door !
Hence the bitter howl for Rails—hear each shrill
Department’s wails,
Hear the distant mills a-thunder, hear their jubi-
lating song;
They can roll the precious steel, we can only
humbly kneel,
We can only hug our fetich whilst they toil like
Titans strong !
Rails !
Foreign rails !
We must serve our ancient Baals ;
We must cable ’Ome for fish-plates ere we build
our railway lines ;
Whilst the Kanuck’s rolling-mills thunder cease-
less on the hills,
We must bow to josses mouldy, built from Cob-
den’s fool-designs !
If we made our iron rods it would rile the shoddy
gods;
If we manufactured billets awful things would
come to pass ;
So the standing order runs: “Send us twenty
thousand tons—
Send us fifty million fishplates for the Great Aus-
tralian Ass ! ”
He’s a blighter, he’s a weed, so he hugs his rotten
creed,
So he hugs the shoddy statesmen who detest our
industry ;
Yea, he votes for Mister Wade, who believes in
Foreign-trade—
Who believes in dragging Iron from the lands
beyond the sea !
Rails !
Lots of rails !
Yea, the deluge never fails,
Lithgow’s mills may linger idle. “Let them rot ! ”
say Wade and Co. ;
So our Agents-General for the tenders blithely
call;
So the rails come rolling southwards—see the
tramp-ships freighted lo.w !
Every State is calling shrill for the products of
the mill.
For the rails of Nova Scotia and of old decrepit
Bull;
They are stacked upon the piers—we have stacked
them there for years,
Where we stack Australia’s copper, hides and
tallow, coal and wool !
What a crowd of fools we are, always dragging
things afar—
Always worshipping the fetich of the palsied Cob-
den crew ;
Will we never cease to whine? Will we never
build a line,
Save with rails from Nova Scotia —can’t we raise
a Gospel New ?
Rails !
Iron rails!
Let us quit these ancient tales,
Quit the ghastly creed we’ve cherished all these
long, loan-blasted years ;
Shake the black Australian hills with the thunder
of our mills,
Making work for stalwart toilers—for our own
good engineers !
If the Kanuck forges steel, why .should we for
ever kneel —
Serving ancient gods of shoddy, gods of useless
Foreign-trade ?
Beat Australia’s roaring drum, make her mills
and forges hum
Can’t we find a better statesman than our dreary
insect Wade ?
For Australia’s iron rails can be made in New
South Wales-
Must we always drag the fish-plates from the
countries over-sea ?
What’s the matter with this land—is there no one
to command ?
Can’t the paltry States find champions of Aus-
tralian industry ?
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Srtielters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
Cinematograph Films.
250,000 feet of Films for HIRE.
NEW SUBJECTS arriving EVERY WEEK.
Instruments and all Accessories Stocked.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The Abo. naturalists continue to heave
paragraphic violence at each other regarding the
dietetic habits of Australia’s Bird of Laughter.
Best to settle the alarming dispute by observing
their combined testimony through that Amber
Lens of Wisdom—D.O.L. Whisky. To obtain a
wise verdict, good judges must be mentally
illuminated by L.C.L., the scholarly brand of
Incandescent Inspiration.*
fourth of them don’t marry till they are over 30. It
is only polite to assume that M’Millan, as a very
eminent draper and financial genius, employs the
best people he can find ; and when an intelligent
human being in the heyday of manhood cannot
get sufficient to keep a little home going, then
something’s being underpaid in the State of
Wade. The clerk and the drapery man may not
he underpaid according to M’Millan’s ideas; but,
then, MMillan’s ideas on such a subject pro-
bably don’t amount to anything.
♦
Guns.
From a Soldier :
The States handed over to the newly-formed Common-
wealth a variety of ancient engines of destruction that
were of value solely as equipment for a military museum.
There were rifled guns, smooth-bores, and ships’ guns,
steel, iron, and brass guns, round shot and shells with
points on them—even furnaces for heating cannon balls
as in the days of the siege of Gibraltar. Some of these
fancy articles are still in use, for lack of better, though
the ammunition and stores for them can be obtained only
at fancy prices from private manufacturers.
Schemes to re-arm the forts there have been many, and
it is not to be wondered if the Australian Parliament hesi-
tated to find the money in view of the diversity of advice.
Finally, the British War Office assured us that no more
serious attack than that of a few uriarmored cruisers
and a landing force of 1000 men was to be feared. Ac-
cordingly, it was proposed to re-arm our forts with a
uniform type of gun. It was a desirable scheme. But
the gun was only of 6-inch bore, and it is now used as a
mere secondary battery on board warships. It was whis-
pered lately that the fact that Great Britain had a good
many of these weapons on hand rather influenced the
decision. Anyhow, the scheme required the expenditure
of about £300,000, and £50,000 a year was to be expended
on the work. For two years the money was voted, but
this year the vote practically disappeared. Nor can
either the Deakin or the Fisher Government he blamed
for this. The money is not in the Federal purse to vote,
so long as the State Governments insist on receiving
three-fourths of the waning Customs receipts.
There is an alternative, if Parliament has the courage
to take it. Soldiers in greater numbers we must have,
and guns and equipment we must have, if our land
defence is not to be a farce. Soldiers can only be got by
Universal Service, and guns and equipment by Taxation—
for preference taxation of large estates. Both would be
welcomed by Australia, and taxation of large estates
would have the effect of making land that now supports
a few sheep the home of men and women, and the pro-
ducer of fifty-fold in value what it produces now.
If our forts are to be re-armed, it should be done at
once, and not piecemeal; the existing system may, per-
haps, reach completion in another five or 10 years ; but
the guns will by that time be out of date. Taxation can
find the money NOW, if we will, and the taxation pro-
posed will prove a blessing to the people.
Why should 700 optimists ballot for a few blocks of
•second-rate Government land, when thousands of square
miles of the best soil in the continent are sacred to the
use of sheep? Why should one squatter live in luxury in
England on the work of a few station hands and 100,000
sheep (which must grow wool or go to the butcher) when
the same capital and land will maintain 100 or 1000 farm-
ing families IN AUSTRALIA? Will the sheep or the
farmers’ sons defend Australia best ?
This item on the Estimates, “ Guns, lights, and em-
placements for fixed defences ” —in other words, fortifi-
cations, guns, shells and searchlights—for which, on this
year’s vote, there is only about £6OOO, is but one of many
others treated in like manner, and all from the same cause.
Probably all this is known to many Australians, but do
they realise that the scheme for our forts and their 6-inch
guns is no good against any battleship or armored cruiser ;
that such vessels could close their ports and steam be-
tween Sydney Heads as calmly as if our slow-firing old
guns were pea-shooters ; that the officers of the U.S. fleet
grinned complacently at our defences, and said, truly
enough, that one or all of their ships could have walked
in with no inore damage than would be remedied by a
new coat of paint; that England itself only limits its
armament to 6-inch guns against unarmored vessels, and
at all important ports has 9’2-inch armor-piercing guns ;
and that Sydney or Melbourne in the wool season is a
“ soft snap” for any armored ship?
Food for Reflection.
“0.K.”: Speaking as a Melbourne consumer of
food, I would say that either the niuch-talked-of
law against Combines is not sufficiently wide-
reaching, or else it is one of those laws which, in
the words of Immortal William, are more honored
in the breach than the observance. (Nobody
knows what Shakspeare meant by the word
“honored” in this connection, hut the quotation
has lived on its amazing absurdity for three or
four centuries, and one respects it as an old friend.)
Just now somebody is warning the public that a
rise in the price of butter may be expected, not
because butter is scarce, but because the big
dealers in that commodity have accumulated large
stocks, and have agreed to store their possessions
for export purposes. Which diminution in the
quantity of butter available to retailers, if it
happens, will be the result of a Combine, as com-
monsense understands the word. Seemingly, there
is no article of food—save milk from the cow —that
is not subject to the operations of leagues of manu-
facturers, or dealers. The flour millers of Mel-
bourne meet together once a week to fix the
price of that natural product which tlieir
ungodly mills have ground exceeding small.
They are leagued together by a bond of cash.
Each firm puts so much money into the
“ pool,” and he who is proved to have supplied
flour to the trade at less than the Combination
quotation is heavily penalised for the benefit of
his indignant colleagues. The manufacturing
confectioners, whose output is food of a popular
though non-essential kind, are similarly leagued.
The supply of butchers’ meat is controlled by the
middlemen who buy from the graziers; a sinful
destruction of fish appears to be the result of a
dealers’ conspiracy ; and one cannot cast a stone
into a grocer’s shop without hitting an article of
food the price whereof is influenced by a
“bull” Combine. The object of all market-
controllers is to compel the public to pay as dearly
as they will for what they live upon, and make
the poor man’s shilling go the shortest possible
distance. Man is what he eats, yet the Govern-
ment permits him to be victimised in the
very maintenance of his being. He is practically
forced to buy certain food material, therefore
lie is helpless in the hands of the few people
who control the supply of these, and
whose business is more free from risk than any
■other. Food-dealing is the one business in which
“bargain sales” for the delight of womankind,
are things unknown. Surely there is something
illogical in a legislative system which seeks to
protect the harvest-grower against a Harvester
Trust whilst denying the public any protection
against Combines which distribute the harvests —
both of land and sea.
♦
“0.K.”: In last Friday’s Argus was published
a list of 12 engagements, or “ functions,” arranged
for the Vic. State Excellency from that date until
Easter Monday. They represented his desire to
deserve his salary by journeying hither and
thither in pursuit of what are called vice-regal
duties. But not one of this dozen of public
appearances planned for the State figure-head had
even a suggestion of useful purpose in it. All of
them were obviously unnecessary proceedings on
his part. It seems that there is nothing a State
Governor can do which couldn’t be done as well
in the hands of anybody else, or would leave
an aching void in the public heart if it were not
done at all. His Excellency’s “work” is the
merest pomp and vanity in a small way. Any-
thing in a large way of pomp and vanity is
attended to by the Governor-General, and why we
continue to import these petty provincial Excel-
lencies the Lord and Fatman only know. I sup-
pose it is for the same reason that we import a lot
of other goods which could be manufactured here.
+
As might have been expected, a smell of fish-
very ancient and sunburned fish —begins to arise
out of the last proposed transaction of the Wade
Government in connection with Private Propputy
in N.S.W. When it was announced recently that
the* Anti-Sosh Government had it in its mind to
establish a butter factory on the South Coast for
the training of factory-managers, etc., it looked a
very fine scheme, even though it did knock
another hole in the policy which the Government
is professedly in power to carry out. Of course,
the Anti-Sosh farmers of the South Coast cried
aloud. They didn’t want the Curse. But at that
time they didn’t know. Evidently, however,
something was whispered in their ear, and then,
as the daily papers reported, they turned a
complete somersault and began saying that
it was a great idea. Now what was
it that was whispered in their ear? Just
this : the Berry estate —the big, fat blight on the
progress of the South Coast—has a factory which
it wants to dispose of! For some years past, it
is alleged on very excellent authority, this concern
has been run at a loss, so far as direct returns go ;
and somebody sees a chance to pass the loss on to
the State. Hence the somersault among the
farmers of that part—poor beggars, mostly, who
have left off having souls of their own, and are
prepared to either cheer or curse like a band of
supers when the limelight person on the .stage
gives the word. In the way of making deals with
the Government, the Berry Estate has been a
phenomena] success hitherto ; and before any deal
over a butter factory is concluded, the transaction
ought to be inspected from both ends. And if it
is looked at from the middle also, the extra look
probably won’t be wasted.
♦
R. B. Levien, the lately-returned Victorian
commercial agent in China and thereabouts, is
getting the same hot water poured over him by
Ah Chow in Melbourne as he suffered from in
Sydney. The trouble is that Ah Chow thought
Levien was a very special friend of his, and when
he finds Levien advocating Chow registration
(with finger-prints) in Australia, the pigtailed
person is more annoyed than if a sworn enemy
had done it. Ah Chow produces a document,
issued by Levien in Shanghai, which, roughly
translated into English, runs like this :
This is to certify that Mr. Levien is authorised by the
Australian Commonwealth to inform any Chinese mer-
chant, student or officials (except laborers), if desirous of
visiting' or touring Australia, that permission can be
obtained from Mr. Levien without them being debarred
by the Restriction Act.
Again an advt. in the Shanghai Times of October
6, 1908, read as follows :
The Commonwealth of Australia wishes to intimate to
Chinese merchants, officials and students that they may
now visit that country. Application for the issue of per-
missions to land in the country under the conditions of
the Immigration Restriction Act should be made in per-
son at the Victorian Government Agency office, 20
Foochou-road, Shanghai.
And Ah Chow points out that it was the issuer of
these cordial invitations who had the audacity to
say to a Sydney interviewer, the other week :
There are certain loopholes in our Acts which permit
of an influx of Chinese. Unquestionably a syndicate
exists for the purpose of enabling Chinese to enter Aus-
tralia. It is a very powerful syndicate, with money
behind it, and agencies not only throughout China, but
in every port in Australia and elsewhere.
If there be such a syndicate, it would seem to
have been considerably encouraged, if not indi-
directly suggested, by the foolish pamphlets and
advts. of the Levien whom the delectable Bent
sent to China. How came the purely Victorian
Levien to appear in this matter as the agent and
representative of all Australia ? And even if the
law provides that Chinese merchants, students
and other travellers may sojourn in the Common-
wealth for a time, was it ever contemplated that
Levien or anybody else should deliberately adver-
tise for Chinamen in this remarkable fashion ?
By a mining expert:—
In the Commonwealth Court Justice Higgins has just
finished his first big Arbitration case. He has given an
award wholly in favor of the Broken Hill Proprietary
miners, and against John Darling’s co. The only thing
(apart from refusing a 44-hour week) which the Judge
couldn’t do was to order the co. to resume work. It can
work if it wants to, and it needn’t if it doesn’t want
to. That makes Arbitration look rather sick for
the moment; but the John Darlings who may
be relying on that might just as well consider
whether it is likely to pay them in the end. It is true
enough that Justice Higgins can’t make the Broken Hill
Prop, work ; but if it is .going' to develop the habit of
waiting until the lead market booms, and then work —in
other words, if it is going- to make the mining job a spas-
modic business—-it would be just as well for the co. to
ponder whether Justice Higgins won’t fix the wages ac-
cordingly when lead does boom. “ No,” he’s liable to say,
“these men have got to make two years’living in one
year’s work ” ; so, in place of awarding 10s. per day, he
will probably award 20s.—and during a lead boom the
B. H. Prop, could pay it easily. If the co. is going to
make big profits when metals are high and shut up at
other times, it will quite likely be found that Arbitration
isn’t quite as helpless as it looks to protect the workers.
The co. may play that game once—but probably not
twice.
Something unusual transpired in a dry-as-dust
legal action before N.S.W. Full Court the other
day. Two citizens had had a difference, and A,
in his wrath, invaded B’s house with a police
constable and a magistrate’s warrant, and searched
the premises. A was so annoyed at this high-
handed proceeding that he issued a writ and
claimed £2OOO damages. A jury, by direction of
the Judge, gave a verdict for A on the
ground that the search warrant under
which he acted was valid. B appealed
to the Full Court. Quite a squad of law-
yers argued round and round the legal points in-
volved, and the Full Court had made up its mind
in favor of B, when Acting-Justice Rogers sud-
denly remembered an old Act of Geo. 11., which
expressly protects all persons acting under a
magistrate's warrant, whether such warrant be
good, bad or indifferent. This musty old Act was
never referred to in the original proceedings.
Nor in the Full Court action was it even mentioned
by the galaxy of legal talent which haggled over the
case. The Acting-Chief Justice and Justice Coiien
had forgotten it or had never heard of it, and but for
Acting-Justice Rogers B would have got a verdict.
The episode draws attention to the need in every
country to repeal the whole blessed Law once
every century or so, and start afresh with a new
civil and criminal code, embodying everything in
the old codes that is worth preserving. Then
nobody need search for the Law further back than
a certain date. At the present time the Law in-
cludesold, wandering, dried-up Acts like blackened
suns —things that are still alive and walking in the
dim orbits of the Middle Ages—Acts which every-
body has forgotten, but which are still valid, be-
cause no one has remembered to repeal them.
There are probably enough forgotten, yet valid, old
English Acts to authorise the confiscation of half
Sydney, if only these Acts were hunted up.
Almost everything has been illegal at some time
or another, and most things are illegal yet, if
people only knew it.
♦
In spite of the strenuous efforts of the Customs,
Australia continues to have Chow thrust upon it
by every steamer. There are, seemingly, five
grades of undesirable. The first, or prime Chow,
arrives with forged naturalisation papers. (The
forging of naturalisation papers' is one of the
flourishing industries of Hongkong these days.)
The second is the hold Chow, who comes mixed
up with the cargo. The third is the bunker Chow
who disguises himself as a junk of old Newcastle,
and bribes the trimmers not to throw him into the
furnaces. The fourth is the boiler Chow;
and he is the hottest Chow of all when he is
dragged out of his concealment by the end
of his singed pigtail. The last and most
degraded Chow is the rat variety ; he usurps the
place of the bubonic conveyer, and snuggles down
in the hidden innards of a vessel, where daylight
never enters, and the smell of bilge-water is
strong enough to keep the Devil holding his nose
and fanning himself with his tail. The first is the
only Chow with sufficient savee and cash to set
the White Man’s law in motion against the maker
of it; and he is the most troublesome Chow of all.
The Department of External Affairs is just now
holding its head over the problem of Tuck
Wah, who is a naturalisation-paper Chow,
and appears to have enough money to hire
white lawyers to argue with other white
lawyers about his (Tuck’s) yellow affairs. He.
first came into public notice on the steamer Eastern
about a fortnight ago, when he produced papers
which were sized up as bogus. With 12 others,
he was ordered back to Far Cathay ; but, although
the others submitted meekly, Tuck is still in
Australia. The External Affairs is now under-
stood to be taking off its coat preparatory to
making Wah on Tuck ; also Tuck, at latest
advices, had surrendered himself to the Customs,
and was talking about bringing an action to test
the question whether he is a prohibited immi-
grant. Tuck looks like being a hard Chow to
shift; but the Department of Infernal Affairs is
going to tackle him even if it has to burst its
collar in the struggle.
+
“K.”: Melbourne is urging its City
Council to follow Sydney’s lead in establishing a
municipal fishmarket. Incidentally the Age
touches the sorest spot of the trouble :
With an appropriate railway service from the chief
sources of Victorian fish supply to the metropolis, and
thence to rural centres, it could easily be arranged that
the bulk of the populace could be furnished daily with an
adequate supply of really fresh fish.
I live beside a railway, and am 140 miles from
Melbourne, 90 from Geelong, and 30 from Warr-
nambool, which are all ports where there are fish
and fishermen. Yet fish to me are almost as
scarce as polar bears. A few bream, in a time of
glut, drift along the line, and sometimes an odd
haddock. But flounder, or cod, or whiting, or
trevalla are unknown. An intermittent supply of
the unlovely barracouta comes from Warrnam-
bool and Port Fairy; but even this tasteless
apology for a fish is mostly unobtainable.
And it. is always dear. I paid a shil-
ling for a ’couta of less than a
few days ago. Sometimes a few salmon-trout (sea
species, and first cousin to the ’couta) are avail-
able ; and we are in luck if we can get a few
mullet. Yet surely it ought to be possible to send
fish along regularly in cool trucks to such towns as
Colac, Camperdow.n and Terang— to mention only
one line ! At present, so far as fish is concerned, we
might as well be living at Central Mount Stuart.
Yet. when there is a south wind, we are within
smelling distance of the sea. But, so far, the
smell is all we get from it.
In the past, Australia has been flooded with
quack medical literature of the worst type. Fortunes
have been made by medical humbugs who issued lurid
publications describing the symptoms of many unpleas-
ant diseases, which when read by the unsophisticated
were calculated to produce all the symptoms of all the
diseases simultaneously. These works usually finished
by explaining that the publisher, “Dr.” Somebody, had
the only reliable remedy for this fearsome affliction,
which, upon receipt of a post-office order, would be sent
securely sealed from observation. The disclosures of the
iniquitous practices of these robbers of the afflicted
caused many bonfires to be made of this pernicious litera-
ture, and made the issue of some medical library for the
home written by a reliable practioner, a continental
want. The Bulletin Newspaper Co. steps into the breach
with the Australian Household Medical Library, consist-
ing of four volumes, of which two minutely describe the
various ailments in a way that makes their recognition
comparatively easy, and supplies prescriptions in plain
language. The third volume tells how when possessed of
health to keep it, and to recognise at once the first fall-
ing away from a sound condition. The fourth book is
concerned solely with the feeding and rearing of Aus-
tralian infants, written by a doctor who has an Australian
reputation. The whole Library is sent from The
Bulletin Office, post free, upon receipt of a post-office
order for sixty shillings.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Havana.”
Theatre Royal “A Royal Divorce.”
Criterion “Fedora.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
„ (“His Natural Life” (Picture
Palacb j Drama).
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King's “ His Natural Life.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
■ ♦
“ Fedora” began a week’s run at Sydney
Criterion on last Saturday night. There was a
thin and rather apathetic house. Sydney-ites
have seen so many female stars in the play that
they know it almost by heart. The Athenians
knew the Iliad in this fashion when rhapsodists
discoursed daily in the market-place, and they did
not get bored with the familiar work. But
“Fedora” is not a deathless classic, and play-
goers seem to be tiring of it at long last.
The writer owns freely that Sardou’s
masterpiece is beginning to wear, in his eyes, a
musty appearance. A contributing cause, possibly,
is the fact that the action of it is always laid in
the “ Present Day.” Society, the world over, has
grown very tolerant in the last quarter of a cen-
tury. The fashionable ladies of this epoch may buy
revolvers to deal with those whom they consider
have wronged them, but they rarely unpack the
weapons when they are delivered at the front
door, much less load and use them. Wide
travel and education have done more for
the gospel of forgiveness than all the creeds.
Since people took to fathoming each other’s im-
pulses they have mislaid the gift of sustained and
bloodthirsty rage. The modern woman of fashion
—she who wears, as Miss Madge Mclntosh does
at Sydney Criterion, the last cry in multitudinous
back-hair curls—would not “carry on” Fedora-
like about the slayer of her long-dead fianed.
She couldn’t if she tried. Against her
will, almost, would surge up thoughts of how
dashed offensive deceased was capable of
being on occasion, and then would come
a whole trunk-full of enlightened excuses—
heredity, sudden passion, slum environment, the
possession of a father who was an importer, and
so forth—to plead for the assassin. Still less con-
ceivable is it that the cosmopolitan man-about-
town of the hour should talk seriously of slaying
a woman who, in an attempt to do what she
doubtless conceived to be the right thing, had
caused trouble. This generation is used to that
sort of woman. The advent of the Anti-Sosh
female has prepared it for anything. Picture Bill
Lyne seizing Miss Grace Watson by the throat
and threatening her with death for attempting
his political existence per medium of a baseless
assertion that he (Bill) had addressed a female
constituent as “ Smith ” ! Imagine Miss Watson
poisoning, or even kicking, herself became she had
made a mistake in the matter. The one possi-
bility is as remote as the other.
MR. GEORGE CROSS.
(Allan Hamilton Dramatic Company, opening at
the Palace Theatre, Sydney, Saturday, April 3,
in “ Queen of the Night.”)
Photo, by Talma, Sydney & Melbourne.
If Fedora ever lived, she was, surely,
a dowdy, wild-eyed, hysterically earnest female of
the type that now looses its surplus energy and
theatricalism hy becoming a militant Deformer.
Miss Madge Mclntosh plays the lady powerfully
enough, but she plays her—this most unconven-
tional of women—garbed and coiffured like a 20th
century milliner’s mannequin. Which strikes the
writer as an unconvincing method. The same
reproach applies to Harcourt Beatty, whose Loris
Ipanoff, for all his out-of-date tendency to submit
his grievances to the instant arbitrament of blood-
shed, wears clothes and adjusts his hair in a
fashion that would not shame a Government
House A.D.C. Gaston Mervale is an excellent
Comte de Siriex; Tom Cannam does well as
Gretch ; and Miss Winifred Gunn plays Countess
Olga with much grace and charm.
*
Intrinsically, “Havana,” played for the
first time at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday
night, is the badly-speckled banana in the bottom
of J. .C. Williamson’s bag. It does not reach to
the poor dignity even of very modern comic opera ;
it might be described as musical farce, or farce
with metrical interruptions. It is, of course,
different from the farce that isn’t interrupted, in-
sofar as it riots in color and choruses. The color
riot doesn’t have to apologise for itself either,
because the scene is pitched in Cuba ; and Cuba
is one of the places where, for stage purposes, any
quantity of gorgeousness is permissible. Also,
wherever there is a riot of color, riot of conduct
is easily assumed to be the natural way such
people have of behaving themselves. TFcwouldn t
do things like that; but, then, we don’t wear
clothes like that, and people who don’t wear


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney,*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
clothes like ours are obviously quite irresponsible
parties, liable to break out promiscuously into
either hugging or thugging at any moment. Half
the battle is over for the musical extravaganza-
manufacturer when he has hit upon people whom
he can put into some sort of clothes to which the
Block is a perfect stranger.
* * * *
So in Cuba it is; and in Cuba all things
are possible. Here turn up four or so English
people, just as thev turned up of old in “The
Cingalee,” and all" the rest of them. For, you
see, you must have one or two beauty men in a
show which gives matinees on Wednesdays ; also
you must have a soulful tenor or two ; and you
musn’t put your beauty man or your soulful tenor
into a disguise of brown stain and nigger finery.
The soulful tenor and the heauty man must have
their loveaffairs; and, though it is perfectly permis-
sible for the white man to pursue the very faintly
colored chocolate girl (so picturesque, you know !),
audiences won’t stand black-and-tan bucks pur-
MISS ADA GUILDFORD.
(Allan Hamilton Dramatic Company , opening at
the Palace Theatre , Sydney, Saturday, April 3,
in “ Queen of the Night.")
Photo, by Talma, Sydney & Melbourne.
suing the sweet English lady tourist. That would
be too horrid. So the soulful tenor and the
beauty man have to keep their faces white. After
all, even musical-comedy audiences have right
instincts to some extent.
* * * *
The white-faces in this case turn up after
previous visits to the island, and the plot, such as
there is, hangs mainly on the things that have
happened meantime. The white-faces are four
two for comic-relief purposes and two represent-
ing Soul and Romance. Gouriet, as an embittered
boatswain, happened, seven years before, to step
ashore and get married while he wasn’t looking.
He arrives back to find that, under the law, he
has just been certified dead on account of
his persistent other-whereness. He had only
inspected his wife through a glass darkly,
and more darkly than usual because there
happened to be rum in the glass; and he
is in mortal terror that every female monstrosity
he sees is It. The most overpowering It is a
duenna who aspires to be Queen of Cuba; and on
to her loose purse-strings another loosely-jointed
plot dangles—a plot for a rising of the Red
Liberados, and the proclaming of the duenna as
Queen. A third barrel to the story finally bowls
Reginald Roberts over just as he is getting
betrothed to Consuelo (Florence Young), and puts
that lady back into the arms of her previous lover,
young O’Connor, who is one of the representatives
of Soul that mustn’t dye the face. Higginson
helps him—and incidentally helps himself when-
ever he gets the chance, which is <eften. Between
times there is a great deal of pure farce. Every-
body who doesn’t represent Soul plays in the
spirit of burlesque. It is allowable to drag in
anything from Coogee to Argyle Cut, from opium
smuggling to Wade’s suspected grab at the
N.S.W. Chief Justiceship.
* * .* *
There is more volubility than melody in
“Havana.” Roberts has the fat of the songs.
They are all more skittish than he has been used
to lately, and he seems to like the change.
Florence Young bustles and bounces through a
part which she will probably want to forget as
soon as possible. Anyhow, her host of admirers
will. Gouriet and Percy, working in double har-
ness, supply much of the broad comedy. The Fan
Dango and Gouriet burlesque of the Merry
Widow waltz is one of the very clever
things of the show. Miss Susie Vaughan
plays the duenna Queen in a spirit of
unashamed extravaganza, and does it well ; and
there are Arthur Hunter as a fearsome brigand,
Miss Connie Milne, and others. The whole
thing leaves only a lin. impression behind it; but
there are numerous laughs in it, and even the
Wimrnen’s League might buy three hours’ forget-
fulness of Socialism at the old prices—for particu-
lars see handbills.
**# # |
The Theatre Royal (Sydney) will be a
good deal less gore-bespattered after next Friday
night, for on the Saturday the company staunches
the sword gashes it has been acquiring during the
past fortnight, and appears in “A Royal
Di vorce.” To emphasise that Julius plays Napo-
leon I. were a work of supererogation (there
would be a riot, otherwise, among matinee
haunters); and Miss Beatrice Day is to be
Josephine.
** * *
Contralto Orossley and her milky way of
stars, or star-dust, arrive in Sydney on Saturday,
and on the following Wednesday begin a short
concert season at the Town Hall. As everybody,
save the insane and the dead, is aware of Ada
Crossley’s identity and performances, further par-
ticulars are needless.
Sir
Australia got one advantage, at any rate,
out of Musgrove’s Grand Opera season ; for, when
the tempestuous co. shattered itself, Greder, one
of the most acceptable principals, chose to remain
in Sydney and teach the young idea how not to
shout. His “school,” run on lines of high Art, has
had a life now of 14 months ; and on the 24th, at
the Y.M.C. A. Hall, it will produce its best notes
for public inspection, in order to show how far
Greder’s methods justify themselves.
The Sydney Muffs removed the weighty
remarks of W. Shakspeare from Sydney Palace on
Tuesday night (16th), and on Wednesday evening
MacMahon and Carroll reeled off the film of “ His
Natural Life.” The brief season consists of five
nights and one matinee, and it dodges in between
two Bulletins, like a small boy wriggling through
a fence. After the picture season, the theatre
appears to have a rest of one night; then, on
Wednesday (24th), Edward Branscombe will com-
mence to pilot the three Cherniavskis through a
brief season, the exact duration of which is not
stated.
** * #
A sort of promissory note (of better work
to follow) has been struck by the Royal Art
Society in its innovation of an Autumn Exhibi-
tion. The event was inaugurated by Minister
Hogue at the Society’s quarters in Pitt-street,
Sydney. Some 250 pictures faced the opener,
who would probably have started the Exhibition
with an apology were it not for the dozen or so
worthy little pictures that work out its re-
demption from the ground-floor of the com-
monplace. Most of the Society’s well-
known names appear among the canvases.
Datillo-Rubbo’s “Head of an Old Man ”
shows no falling off in the artist’s skill, a,nd
no diminution in his sympathy in delineating
age that obviously doesn’t belong to the
Smart Set. Salvana has a poetic little com-
bination of sea, sky, frail fence, and foliage
that he labels “A Stormy Evening.” It is
the kind of thing in which the connoisseurs
see “nice feeling.” Alice Foy is worthy of
mention for her “In the Luxembourg
Gardens.” Lister Lister’s “The Pool” is
one of the most attractive things in the show
—glowing-limned rocks, a far suggestion of
turbulent turquoise sea, and in the foreground
the deep stilf water with a good effect of
transparency. It is the sort of spot where a
mermaid might sit on the bright rock and
dangle her tail in the pool. A. J. Fischer’s
pastel portrait of Mrs. Ross is a creditable
piece of water-color picturing of an artistic-
looking, brown-haired, swan-necked young
woman. S. W. Cathel’s “ High Tide on
the Tamar” will justify the prolonged gaze.
His sea-craft float buoyantly. They don’t
squat. G. W. Bleach shows some of the best sea
and sea-craft on the walls. His “Lines of
White on a Sullen Sea ” is a vigorous treat-
ment of the subject. Same artist’s “U.S.A.
Connecticut ” takes the eye satisfactorily.
In the black-and-white section, Norman Carter
has a vigorously-drawn head of Mr. Jack London ;
and Portia Geach’s etching, “On The Thames,”
is a beautifully-done little study. The Hambidge
sisters keep up their reputation in miniature
work, and there’s a clever newcomer in this
department, who signs Justine Kong Sing.
Several red tickets proclaim the welcome tidings
that the works are sold, and as the Ex. will be
open for a few weeks to come, the red blotch will,
doubtless, spread and multiply.
* * * *
The group of stars now scintillating at
Sydney Tivoli will be a little dimmer at the end
of the week when Jay W. Winton, ventriloquial
humorist, departs for other footlights. Winton
has been amusing Australian audiences at inter-
vals now for something over a decade ; but his fun
has lost none of its freshness, and his exit will
cast a shadow. Mackinnon’s Scottish Meisters,
likewise, are nearing the end of their season.
Cinquevalli is still trifling with the cannon-ball
and other more or less fragile goods ; Geoffrey
and Benson have a new comedy sketch with the
startling title of “ Lucy Whitelegs ” ; and Woott-
well, the two Bells, G. W. Hunter, and Miss
Desiree represent the rest of the oversea talent.
For Australia, the Three Donnelleys dance, and
Nellie Maunsell uplifts her sympathetic contralto
in song.
* * * *
Miss Amy Murphy’s brilliant and well-
trained soprano soared to a beautifully-gowned
and tailored and carefully-selected audience at St.
James’s Hall, Sydney, on Monday night. Sydney-
siders are familiar with the young Maorilander’s
work in Mr. J. C. Williamson’s operatic companies,
but in her song recital of Monday night Miss
Murphy did herself fuller justice than her musical
comedy roles allowed, in a programme that
ranged" from Ambrose Thomas’s difficult Mad
Scene from “Hamlet,” through a thicket of vocal
gems. The gems included “Songs My Mother
Taught Me,” Gounod’s “Serenade” and the “Nor-
wegian Echo Song.” Her “WaiataPoi” song (from
Alfred Hill’s opera), given as an encore, was worth
going through the rain—and there was a lot of very
wet rain—to hear. Miss Murphy intends to fix
her domicile in Sydney, and as she is very good-
looking, as well as being gifted with skylark in
the throat, this inky wayfarer remarks, “You’re
welcome.”
#
Melba, re-appearing in her native city for
the third time since she left it, 22 years ago, to
make her fortune abroad, naturally suggests a few
questions: “Has her voice ‘gone off’?” “Is
she as good as she was 15 months ago ? ” “ Is her
singing still as great as her reputation, or does
the singer she was loom larger in critical estima-
tion than the Melba she is ? ” Taking all the
questions together, the reply is unhesitating.
“There is but one Melba, and Australia
has got her again for the present.” In
the first of the familiar numbers—Handel’s
“ Sweet; Bird ’’—which she repeated on her
first re-appearance at Melbourne Town Hall a
week ago there was a suspicion of deterioration in
the beauty of her warble. The effort was a trifle
more palpable, and the result a trifle less wonder-
ful, than when she did the same thing on the same
platform six and a half years back. Two or three
notes seemed to have been somewhat squeezed
and hardened in the utterance. Again, in the
Mad Scei e from “Hamlet” her low notes sounded
deeper and less Melba-like than of old. But in
the French song which she gave as a final encore
at her first concert the freshness of Melba’s
voice was beyond question, and, meanwhile, she
h id made a new impression with her treatment of
the Willow Song and Ave Maria from Verdi’s
“ Otello.” Here the pathos of the voice and the
dramatic effect of the singing were equally im-
pressive. In the Ave Maria, coming after the
passionate finale to the Willow Song, the calm
dignified artist breathed an atmosphere of devo-
tion. Figuratively speaking, she got as near as
anyone could get towards bringing a fashionable
concert audience to its knees. It was a great
achievement of eloquent vocalism and personal
magnetism, quietly enforced. There are no
theatrical airs about this prima-donna. The double
number from “Otello” was repeated at Melba’s
second concert last Saturday, when she revived
her popular successes of last year, “Ah fors e
Lui ” (“ Traviata ”), and the Mad Scene from
“ Lucia ” She was the true Melba, with the true
old gold in her voice, and new touches of emo-
tional feeling in her art. Her encore numbers,
grave and gay, were charming in every case.
Melba is more versatile in her singing and her
tricks of graciousness than of old. This was re-
marked a year ago. It is still more apparent to-
day. The admiration that she formerly compelled
from her listeners is now given with hot enthu-
siasm.
■***•*
The support she gets from a Marshall Hall
orchestra is not very valuable. There are a few
good male instrumentalists and a lot of girl
amateurs among the crowd. Their timorous
accompaniment to Melba in the operatic selections
might sometimes be disconcerting, if she were one
to be easily put out. Marshall Hall, dealing with
music quite uncongenial to his Teutonised soul—
music at which he has roared derisively a thousand
times—moves as gingerly as a trained elephant
in a china shop. But if he misses his
cue Melba tips him the nod to come
along, and he wags his baton feebly. The
orchestral numbers, especially at the second
concert, were heavy and almost incoherent in the
rendering. For no conceivable reason, except
that M. Hall had pleaded for an extra allowance
of Wagner, the baritone of the co. (the prirna
donna and he are the only vocalists) was doomed
to deliver a monologue from “Die Meistersinger,”
amidst a dark choppy sea of orchestral music.
Once or twice the poor baritone was nearly
drowned, and all the while the turbulent waves
were worrying him. Frederick Ranalow, the
aforesaid victim of this Wagnerian circumstance, is
an exceedingly secondary member of the co.—a
spry young Irishman, whose heavy baritone has
many lumps in it. His line, seemingly, is the
rollicking ballad, and when the star lady takes
him up-country he will be commissioned, doubt-
less, to give them “Father O’Flynn” and “The
Low-backed Car.” The rest of the co. are Harold
Whittle, a good piano accompanist, and Lem-
mone, whose flute obligato is a delightful feature
of the entertainment. If Lemmone didn’t flute
so exactly as Melba trills she couldn’t trill so
marvellously like his fluting.
* * * *
A third and actually last concert of the
series will be given on Saturday, the maximum
price being fixed at half a guinea.
* * *
“Jack and Jill,” it seems, is going from
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) to Sydney, and will
be due in that older city on April 3. In
order that none of the belongings—human or
otherwise—of the vast enterprise may get broken
in a hasty moving, the Melbourne season ends on
March 26, a week before the Sydney season opens.
The 100th performance of “Jack and Jill” was
to happen last night (Wednesday) ; the final
matinee will be put through on Wednesday next,
and Friday will see the last of it in its present
abode. The end of the panto, brings Miss Tittell
Brune back to notice for “ farewelling” purposes.
She is to start to farewell as “The Girl of the
Golden West” on the 27th.
** # *
Meanwhile “Cinderella” is nearing her
100th Melbourne performance (she will be 99 on
Saturday), and the advt. declares that “ the end
is not in sight,” marking the proud announcement
with a note of exclamation—thus! Which may
be accepted as a public assurance that the Baron
at the Royal will not discontinue his practice of
falling down the chimney on the same night as
the other Baron makes his final sooty descent at
Her Majesty’s. Melbourne had begun to fear
that its double supply of panto, would be cut off
at one fell swoop, a calamity which might have
proved fatal in many cases. In the thought that
it is going to be weaned by instalments, so to
speak, the community is finding courage to face
the inevitable. The total disappearance of panto,
is (alas !) inevitable. Though the end of “Cin-
derella ” be not in sight, it is suspected of hiding
round an adjacent corner.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s good Mr. Dawes is
still being transported for the Term of His Un-
natural Life on account of the murder he didn’t
commit in the Cold Country. This is the second
week of Rufus, Sylvia, Maurice Frere, Gabbett,
“ TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE ”
(Melbourne King's).
HILL YARD VOX
as John Rex.
BERT BAILEY as
Rev. Mr. Meekin.
and the other people who flit through the gloom
of Marcus Clarke’s loosely dramatised story.
They look likely to be identified with the horrors
of the old convict system for another week at
least. The drama, though less consistently
Andersonian than those that the patrons of the
King’s are inured to, contains a couple of mur-
ders, a sudden death, and a temporary loss of
memory, the whole being flavored with cannibal-
ism and the “triangles.” So its popularity is
well-deserved, and the limelit countenance of
Walter Baker as Rev. Mr. North betrays his holy
pride in the thought that he was responsible for
the production. When the innocence of Dawes
has been sufficiently proved Baker will supervise
another drama wherein his own innocence will
doubtless be demonstrated with the assistance of
Bert Bailey. Just at present Bailey is raising
larfs in the entirely superfluous character of Mr.
Meekin, and his attitude to the hero is rather an-
tagonistic than otherwise.
** * *
In Melbourne, just now, picture shows
seem as numerous as tracts, and are quite as
orthodox. In addition to West’s and Taits’ enter-
tainments at the Olympia and Glaciarium respect-
ively, the World’s Picture Show at the Bijou
Theatre is pecking at the loose funds of the demo-
cracy. The shows are technically good, and
morally beyond reproach. West is exhibiting
scenes in Italy and Maoriland and pictures of
Wilbur Wright, the aero pianist, besides a really
superior mimodrama, “The Hand.” This picture
looks flippant as well as sensational, and embraces
three characters—a burglar with a sinister mouth
and irresponsible eyeballs, a tame gentleman and a
danseuse , probably dressed in somebody else’s
hair though her face seems mostly her own. At
the Glaciarium, Taits have something to say
about “The Sport of Hawking,” an “Electric
Policeman ” and a “ Persistent Suitor,” and have
also introduced in “Pagan and Christian ” a pic-
ture that is presumably intended to be a sermon,
but rather looks like a farce. Regarding the pro-
gramme at the Bijou, “The Elf King” and
“ Moorish Cavalry ” cause least weariness.
* * *
The cleverest illusion of Ching Ling Soo,
the conjuror imported by Rickards, is that which
imposes him upon the audience as a Chinaman.
Even the Chinkies of Melbourne believe him to
be “half” one of themselves, and rejoice in his
success accordingly. To the interviewer in search
of misinformation —as newspaper interviewers
mostly are—Chung Ling Soo states that his father
was a Scotch engineer, and his mother a Canton
woman ; whereas, among showmen, he is under-
stood to be pure Yankee on both sides of his
parentage. He owes his stage identity to the
fact that a bona-fide Chow conjuror named
Chung Ling Foo appealed forcibly to his spirit
of emulation. The Mongolian calm of Foo’s
demeanor and the manner of his entertain-
ment suggested to the white man possibilities
of successful rivalry, so the white man created
himself Chung Ling Soo, and put poor Foo to
confusion. His very small wife passes for the
Yum-Yum or Pitti-Sing of the “joint,” and the
male assistants belong to the Nanki-Poo persua-
sion. In fact, Chung Ling Soo and his entourage
are a whole bag of tricks, apart from the enter-
tainment. The Yankee artist has nothing in
common with Chinamen, except the character of
his get-up and a smattering of their tongue and a
good stock of pidgin English. The knowledge
that he isn’t what he seems to be strengthens
one’s regard for Chung’s entertainment. He is so
thoroughly artistic. A lovely touch of deception
is added at the finish, when a male attendant
thanks the audience, in somewhat broken English,
on behalf of his silent “father.” It seems so
natural for the conservative Chow “father” to
have remained ignorant of the language which his
partly Europeanised offspring has picked up in
the course of his world-wide travels! And
“father” meanwhile wears a sort of pity-the-
poor-heathen expression.
** * *
Anderson’s very capaole co. has been ex-
pending some good acting on some poor plays at
Adelaide Royal, and has been, at “popular”
prices, fairly rushed by the public. Now Miss
Brune has come in with “ The Girl of the Golden
West.” This “ Girl” is mostly Boys, of a rough
and hearty—not to say Bret Hartey—type.
Kingston fairly revels in the picturesque part of
the moderately-bad hero. The Tivoli has been
mostly relying on clever pairs of artists. Lawton
can still get a thrill out of cycling tricks,
and his placid lady-partner punches a ball
with much effect. There are at least
two men at the Tivoli who occasionally
juggle, with great effect, with a heavy silver
drum-major’s staff, and on these occasions the
audience lives in keen expectation of seeing a
stalls-patron, or at any rate a fiddler, killed ; but
no fatalities have occurred so far. Baby Watson
is ending her long season. She combines the
charm of°a woman with the quaintness of an un-
spoiled child, and it is a shame to let her sing the
Marie Lloyd-like song, “Experience.” At the
Town Hall are the Scarlet Troubadours, clean and
clever and very English ; and Pictures are every-
where, including one set of films personally con-
ducted by Tom Mann (with speech).
“F.”: An old “Poverty Point” item. Digging
amongst some very musty theatrical playbills and scraps,
some dating back to the ’thirties, I find this “ A benefit
was given to Lalor, on Monday, 30th ult., in the Adelphi
Theatre, Ballarat, the professionals and the proprietors of
the Adelphi, Messrs. Moody, Nicholas and Co., giving
their services and the house free. The pieces chosen for
the occasion were ‘ Pizarro ’ and ‘My Neighbor’s Wife.’
Mr. Lalor came before the curtain and briefly thanked
the audience. When he came out there was a perfect
hurricane of applause. He lifted his band, and all was
as still as death until he had finished his address. The
house was crowded to suffocation ; all parties, those who
agreed with him and those who did not, for once uniting
to pay him all honor for his sincerity.” There is no date
to the par, but it is pasted in amidst 1855 theatrical
advertisements of (J. V. Brooke and others. Mr. Lalor is,
of course, the same who led the insurgents at the Eureka
Stockade, and lost an arm in the fight. When the trouble
had blown over, a committee of Ballarat men got up the
benefit. One of the committee (he was also an amateur
performer at the benefit) will be found in an old gentle-
man named Brooks, of North Sydney.
Of late, the ocean seems to have been run-
ning down hill along the Australian east coast,
and ships bound south have been rushed along
like straws in a steep gutter after a heavy rain-
storm. The other day, the N.D.L. Co.’s Prinz
Waldemar, when supposed to be loafing at 12
knots, raced ahead for hours at 17; also the
A.TJ.S.N. Co.’s Wodonga—which isn’t the fastest
of the fleet—streaked down the coast of Noo
South Wade at something over 18 knots, making
86 miles of sea in hours. The records have pro-
bably been chalked up in the engine-rooms of the
two boats, to be a consolation to the engineers
when the ships are threshing and slamming
against head winds and seas. It would be a noble
sensation to be in a 40-knot destroyer when a
similar set was making the sea a sort of moving
staircase. Imagine, if you can, 60 miles an hour
over water !
The great London house of T. B. Browne, Ltd.,
has issued the 1909 edition of its well-known “Adver-
tiser’s A.8.C.” In it the man who desires to advertise
can find the names, addresses and rates of practically all
the papers in the White Man’s world, and in a lot of the
world that really doesn’t belong to the Pale Face. Up.
wards of 4000 publications are dealt with. The world is
a very small place to the man who uses the “ A.B.C.” 1 '


m
From Australia’s Flocks
To Australia’s Homes.
This Rug is made in Australia from
pure Australian Wool. It measures
80 x 60 inches and weighs 41b.
It is closely woven, is delightfully soft
and cosy, and may be used for Driving,
Travelling, or for warmth in the winter.
The Patterns are reversible, so that
the Rug is never “ wrong side out.”
In a great variety of Stripes and
Checks on Blue, Green, or Grey grounds.
Price - 18/0.
We send this Rug, Carraige Paid,
throughout the Commonwealth, and
should it not be entirely satisfactory on
receipt, send it back and your purchase
money will be refunded.
David Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
FIELD CAMERA for 75/-
m
€4
*O/3
HARRINGTONS LTD.
38G George Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
THE
“EMPRESS”
Triple Extension, half-plate
size “Ensign’’ Rapid S3'm-
metrical Lens, f/8 Thornton-
Pickard Shutter, Turn-table
Tripod Stand.
THIS HAS NO EQUAL.
The “VICTOR” No. 1 Hand
Camera is still the most popular
30/- Camera in Australasia.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
THE HEIRESS AND HER SUI[?]ORS.
The Royal assent to the Victorian Women’s 'ranchise
Bill being expected in a week or two, endeavor are now
being made by those specially interested to organise the
women’s vote.— Daily Paper.
At Ararat (Vic.), the other day, a pro-
mising funeral was spoiled through the truculent
demand of the corpse for two boiled eggs. He
had been certified as dead, and his coffin and
his little bit of earth were ready, but in
the face of the two boiled eggs the sepulchre
had to reluctantly give up its prey. You can’t
deliberately bury a man who is eating eggs.
“Billy T.” : There was a military night
parade in Melbourne lately, and a large muster of
decorated swaddies marched up the Collins-street
hill and down again to the clang and blare of
martial music. The feature of the display of
force that struck me in the eye was the extra-
ordinary preponderance of Fat among the officers.
After a few minutes, the parade of portly officers
on lean horses became a monotony. I feel that
every Australian ought to respect and admire his
own army, however scandalous he may be in his
criticism of the other fellow’s fighting man; but this
overwhelming adiposity of boss warriors induces
qualms. Why should Australian majors, captains
and other conspicuous soldiery be men of prepos-
terous girth ? The fat man usually has a magnificent
idea of himself as an active agent, a sort of physi-
cal whirlwind ; and he retains it to the end—sit-
ting perfectly still while he does it. The mass of
military corpulence which remains passive on top
of a disconsolate horse probably entertains the
same misconception that fat is the truly irresist-
ible force; but I never saw a very fat man yet
who could run 100yds. without becoming a palpi-
tating and utterly useless blob. Some day our
officers may be called upon to exert themselves
for hours at a stretch, and then the fallacy of fat
may cost Australia its independence. Better
thin out our army now than leave the task to an
exuberant foe.
* » ■* *
The mining trouble at Broken Hill is
pretty certain to be followed up by another at Wal-
laroo and Moonta (S.A.). In the old days, the
Moonta concern brought out shiploads of carefully-
selected Cornish miners, who paid too much
attention to “ the chapel ” to be able to afford any
time for such things as labor unions. For years
the management carefully encouraged this religious
spirit, which paid handsome dividends. But in
odd times, when copper was low and work slack,
men dived off into other fields ; and then, coming
back when things looked up, they put revo-
lutionary ideas into the heads of the stay-
at-homes —some of them even left off say-
ing every night, “ And please, God,
bless Cap’n Hancock.” The second Cap’n
Hancock gave evidence before the Arbitration
Court in the Broken Hill case the other day, and
said that the average wage of the Yorke Penin-
sula miner was Bs. per day; and the statement
has been too strong even for the long-suffering
Moonta copper-gouger. Hancock also made the
mistake of telling the Court that his men were
not a fighting lot; and that has set a whole heap
of them thinking hard, and the thoughts are not
calculated to make Cap’n Hancock and the
management feel comfortable. It’s a horrible
mistake for a boss to tell his crowd of workmen
that they are not a fighting lot. He might per-
haps tell them that safely one by one; but the
man who has a suspicion that he is a bit of a worm
is mostly prepared to show that he is a tremendous
fire-eater when he is accused of being a worm in
company.
* * * *
“K.” : Sydney badly wants a law that
will jump heavily on the untidy fisherman who
throws the useless part of his catch on the
beach to rot in the sun. The other morn-
ing, self and two friends rowed round
to a secluded beach to have a cau-
tious dip in the open sea. We
found the sand strewn with
stingarees and catfish ; they
had been emptied out
of a haul in the small
hours, and the hot
morning sun was just
beginning to make
them shout. Both
species are fitted
with poisonous
spines, and, as that
strip of sand is a
favorite rendezvous
of boating parties,
I guess a few bare-
footed picnickers will
extract misery from
the marine pests now
festering thereon.
Beaches in Sydney
Harbor are too scarce
to be made rubbish-tips
of, and the gentlemen who
follow the original trade of most of the Apostles
should be compelled to be tidy.
“ Adelaide ” : You can say what you please
about our Holy City, but there is one good quality
in our brand of holiness—it doesn’t snarl at the
other brands. The Wesleyan Book Depdt has a
big standing ad. in the official journal of the
Anglican Church. As for the Yellow Pup, we
only read about it in the Sydney papers. Perhaps
the best proof of this is that Diil Macky was here
lately, and delivered a rousing address. Nobody
turned a hair. In fact, though I read the papers
regularly, I have only just learned by accident
that he was here at all.
“ The Swimmer ” : The snuffling cranks
of Maoriland have only substituted one form of
drinking for another in their efforts to drive the
accursed liquor out altogether. I have just been
through one of the no-license areas (Gore district)
in the South Island, and found it teeming, with
sly-grog shops. Lurid orgies take place nightly,
but apparently the police cannot interfere.
“ Kegging parties” are great institutions in the
southern no-license areas. Men club together
and have a keg of beer brought down from a
licensed area, and then they drink it from the
keg. Each man is allowed so
many seconds, during which he
sucks at the bunghole with fer-
vent energy, and then makes
room for the next man. This
process is continued till the keg
is finished. “ Kegging ”is a
bit of a knack, for if you are
not very careful you either
get too much beer in your
throat, and have to waste
valuable seconds coughing it
up, or else you lose a flood of
brown stuff down your shirt.
The Southlanders get pretty
expert at the business, though,
and some of their champions suck
in huge quantities in a few
seconds. The less said about the
sly-grog shops the better. There
is not much difference in sly-
grog shops anywhere. One
“ right-thinking citizen ” lost
£l2O in a shop in the south re-
cently ; but he dared not make
any complaint about the matter.
He simply had to wipe it off as a
bad debt, and try to look as
though he had had £l2O worth of
fun, which he hadn’t —by several
penn’orth.
* * *
“G.S.K.”: Wade’s Police
Offences (Amendment) Act may
be doing wonders in Sydney in
the way of lessening the numbers
of women who parade the city
streets; but the effect of it on
other parts of the State is disas-
trous. Numbers of frail damsels
are now travelling round the
country from town to town.
Their stay is regulated by luck
and the vigilance of the police.
Two arrived at our little village
last week, but, their looks be-
traying them, they were refused
quarters at every hotel and
accommodation house in the
place. In desperation they spent
the night in the Chinese camp.
Next morning they received
notice to quit, and they left. In
the larger country towns the police
are spending a lot of their time
hunting wanderers with dyed hair in
the direction of the next township.
A subject that annnally glooms the pro-
ceedings of Melbourne’s Methodist Conference is
man’s growing indifference to church-going. Each
year the parsonical statisticians produce a stack of
figures, all of horrible significance to the church-
men—for they speak too plainly of the seductive-
ness of everything that is not a church, and they
speak with especial terror of the fascination of
everything that is not Methodism. The
Methodists—and it is true also of Baptists, Pres-
byterians and Congregationalists—seem loth to
grip the fact that their creeds are distinctly not
fascinating. They are not hearty religions like
Salvationist, which, if delirious, is transporting
and alive. They lack the picturesque charm of
Roman Catholicism and “high” Anglicanism,
which are impressive in ceremonial and rich in
splendors. They are, in fact, naked super-
naturalism, without even a candle to give them a
hint of cheer. And then consider the Methodist
churches which have the acute jollity of crypts.
There is nothing to get mentally drunk on —no
vestments, no litanies, and not even four gaudy
walls. There isn’t a hint of glorious red about
them. That is the trouble with Methodism.
It is too barren, and colorless, and cold. What it
needs is gleam, and brightness, and life. It should
not be grey, but scarlet. There is solid food for
the soul, but no intoxicating drink for the soul, in
Methodism and Presbyterianism, and the food is
always the same cold, cold meat, without even a
little salad.
* * *
The first practical result of local option in
Adelaide has been to make that principle look
clean ridiculous. Adelaide City (that square mile
or so inside the park-lands, which cannot increase
in size and hardly increases in population, since
shops and warehouses eat up the old dwellings)
is admittedly over-supplied with hotels ; in fact,
the Licensing Bench is refusing renewal of an old
license here and there, as being “ unnecessary.”
Yet Reduction was not carried in the City, while
in various suburbs it was. Those suburbs cover
the plain from the hills to the sea, and a puzzled
Bench has had to guillotine one-third of 60 hotels,
supplying more than as many square miles. In
some cases it could wipe out one of a pair, to the
great gain of the rival house. But that did not
go far. To all ordinary ideas, the suburbs are
wnder-pubbed. The population has increased
fourfold, while the number of licenses has stood
still. Yet under the Local Option poll—
small as it was—one-third had to go; and
the final verdict leaves wide districts like
Paradise, Burnside, Glen Osmond, and Mor-
phettville without a hotel at all. (Mean-
while, the little drinking-shops in the city con-
tinue.) There is no compensation in S.A., so the
owners of the guillotined houses get a heavy
knock ; but that is another side of the question.
Recent legislation makes future Local Option
polls fall on a general-election day, so it is hoped
that the issue will be decided by the vote of the
people, and not by that of a handful of enthusiasts.
SHRINKING.
BIG B ROTHER: “ There's no need to shrink like
that.”
LITLE SISTER: “ Oh, there may be—I haven't
had this costume in the water before .”
PICNICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Premiers expressed their disappointment and in-
dignation in private, and went off with the Federal
ministers for a picnic down the river. They have all gone
up the river for another picnic to-day. There are other
picnics in prospect.— Report of State Premiers’ Con-
ference at Hobart.
The Yass-Canherra camp of inspection does not appear
to have “caught on.” Twelve legislators promised to
venture forth and survey the various Federal Capital sites
from the selected central position. Now, however, it
seems that the dozen has dwindled to a pair of New
South Wales representatives. The others have changed
their minds at the last moment. This fiasco will, doubt-
less, be a disappointment to the promoters of the scheme.
—News Item.
Where the tiny Cotter trickles
Through a heap of dusty stones,
Two pale patriots dine on pickles
And some meagre mutton bones ;
Drinking tea with many a shiver,
Mournfully they moan and say—
Picnics up and down the river,
Lovely picnics every day ! ”
When the battered billy passes
Silently from hand to hand,
Visions of tall clinking glasses
Stalk like ghosts across the land.
Truffled turkey, fruit and flowers,
Table decorations gay,
Mock the miserable hours—
“ Scrumptious picnics every day ! ”
When the angry sun declining
Gilds each gaunt and ringbarked tree,
It is but as capsules shining
On their Dry Monopoly.
Crows, rotund with baa lamb’s liver,
Shout upon their homeward way—
“ Picnics up and down the river,
Bosker picnics every day ! ”
So they liv£ ’midst sordid sorrows,
Camped upon an arid rise,
Thinking of the dread to-morrow—
Thinking of the heat and flies ;
And the night wind as it passes,
Hot and restless, on its way,
Whispers through the withered grasses,
“ Nice, cool picnics every day ! ”
N.S.W.
H.H.
THE REWARD OF HOLINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah Louie, charged with frequenting a gaming-house,
said that during the 26 years he had been in Australia he
had never gambled, nor had he been in a Court of Justice
before. When the police came to the house he was
standing near the joss table. He was not praying at the
time, but had just happened to walk into the room. He
was of a religious temperament, and generally prayed
when he saw a joss. He took no part in any game. He
did not smoke or drink. He was fined £l6, or three
months’ imprisonment with hard labor. —S. M. Herald,
11/S/W.
For quarter of a century and more
Ah had lived innocent of wrong ;
He did not go surf bathing on the shore,
He never heard the raucous gong
That hurls two pugs together wild for gore-;
Good, very good he was, and strong.
Girls he detested. Neighbors say of Ah
That he was wont to turn aside
From females, whether clad like the ga li
Or sombrely. He used to hide
What time they chased. He would not be a Shah—
A trait that made his friends deride.
A gambler? No. Wade’s Anti-Gaming Act
Enjoyed whole-souled support from him ;
Moorefield and “ Bobbery ”he shunned. In fact,
His honest eyes grew sad and dim
When fellow-Mongols told him they had backed
A horse to gratify a whim.
Strong liquors he abhorred like Canon Boyce
Or G. D. Clark ; he tippled tea,
And that alone. Nothing made him rejoice
More than a soft-drinks rally, he
Always, at such, upraised his saintly voice
In a well-couched “ No License ” plea.
The origin of all Ah’s righteous strife
Was his religious mind ; yet did
A cold harsh Bench, with cynicism rife
(Finding him worshipping amid
Fan-tannics) saj”: “ Discharged ! Not on your life ! ”
And then it fined him fifteen quid.
N.S.W.
D.


Perpetual Motion.
When George Stephenson was asked,
'•'Do you believe in perpetual motion?”
he replied, “ Yes, if you lift yourself by
the waist-band of the trousers, and carry
yourself three times round the room.”
Just so, and a woman would just as
soon believe that she has not to pay dearly
for common soaps, in the low quality
of soap, in ruined hands and clothes.
She would be kept in perpetual motion
trying to do with common soap what she
could so easily do with Sunlight Soap.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A WELCOME CHANGE IN SWEATERS.
72
We show a distinct novelty—a New Style in Sweaters that
will at once appeal to men. It buttons in front like a vest
instead of slipping on over the head, and makes an ideal
garment for golf, tennis, bowls, yachting, holidays, etc., or
can be worn over the shirt like an ordinary vest. Knitted,
of pure wool, with close fitting neck and snug cuff wristlets,
it gives a splendid appearance, and is uo higher in price
than the ordinary good quality.
Colors: WHITE, NAVY, HEATHER, SILVER GREY.
Price 10/6.
Posted
Od. extra.
Peapes <SL Co., Ltd.,
“ MEN'S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Sydney got its first experience of an elec-
tric explosion last week, when seven of the cables
which carry back to the Power House the elec-
tricity that has been utilised in the driving of the
trams suddenly fused. The seven streams of elec-
tricity that had for years been running in peaceful
proximity were combined in one great effort.
Then there was a tremendous explosion, and an
iron trap on the top of the manhole was lifted up
and deposited violently some Bft. away with a
roar, a sheet of flame, and a cloud of smoke.
Men who were drinking in an adjoining pub left
their beer and fled. One who had called for a
drink and placed half-a-crown on the counter left
without either drink or money—which is a horrible
thing. The crowd surged round, and tried to look
down the crater, and inquired if there was any chance
of being electrocuted. Being told there was not, the
crowd seemed disappointed. Along George-
street, tram after tram came to a standstill, till it
looked as though another strike was on. Asa
matter of fact there was, but Manager Kneeshaw
could not fight seven currents of electricity, so the
Department came to terms as speedily as possible.
Other currents were switched on, the service re-
sumed, and in half an hour everything was again
in order. But the careless citizen who usually
walks with a light heart over trapdoors in the
pavement is understood to have vowed that he
will never do so again. In future he will take
careful circuits, and step lightly like a cat danc-
ing on eggs.
* * * *
Melbourne’s burlesque Board of Works
does its business much in the same way as the
City Council, by secret committees, and ap-
parently the committees do as they dashed well
please. Accidentally the larger bodies stumble
on facts, as the other day, when a commissioner
wanted to know how many sheep had been lost,
stolen or mislaid at the Werribee farm. He had
some trouble in getting any information, but at
length he was casually notified that the Board had
in the last three years lost 989 sheep in addition to
1828 that had died. Some 700 had been lost last
year, and 72 more last month, and apparently no-
body knew how or when or by whom they had been
acquired. The police considered these sheep had
never been on the farm at all, but the manager
swore they had; and the rest of the “informa-
tion ” mostly resembled a thick pall flung over a
dead silence. Chairman Riddell soothed the
commissioners with the information that as they
had 146,000 sheep altogether, the total loss was
only 2 per cent.—a mere nothing. Yet if a man
were charged with stealing 2 per cent, of the coin
in a city bank, quite a fuss would be made of it;
and Riddell himself might even make a fuss if
somebody proposed that, to partly square the
recent losses, 2 per cent, of his own screw should
be docked for the next few years.
* * * *
Adelaide got its electric cars on March 9.
That is, a swift and frequent service (every three
minutes in the busy part of the day) runs out
through Norwood to Kensington. The fashion-
able suburbs north of the Torrens have to wait,
owing to an incomprehensible delay over the
strengthening of the direct-route bridge. At the
opening festivities, much stress was laid on the
fact that Adelaide, was the first Australian town
to have tramcars at all. It got its dog-boxes on
wheels—but they were young and fresh then —in
1878. E. T. Smith and A. M. Simpson are the
only survivors of the men prominent in forming
the original tram company. The present system
is worked by a Trust, to form which the city and
all the suburban councils have managed to agree ;
so that it may prove the first step to a common-
sense Greater Adelaide. The Government has
been very helpful, too, and there was general
regret that Premier Price was too ill to attend the
opening. However, the plucky Thomas sent
along a characteris-
tic letter, and his
wife nomi-
nally drove
the first
car.
ANXIOUS MOMENTS.
ALL T OGETHER: “ Wonder if she's going to sit in front of me?”
The abolition of Adelaide barmaids has
u fin i • , ,
begun. I hose in the business are now registered.
ihere are to be no recruits, and the W.C.T.U. ex-
pects that the last barmaid will disappear in about
lOyearstime. Probably thisestimatedoesnotmake
a proper allowance for the barmairlon’s tenacity.
The exclusion of apprentice barmaids will give the
survivors a valuable monopoly, and the holders of
these privileges will hang on, with steadily-rising
salaries, to the bitter end. The Bulletin is pre-
pared to wager that there will be a registered
barmaid in Adelaide 30 years hence, and her age
will be 25. Also, the chances are that she won’t
lnnk more than 97
more man/,.
A story with several morals was narrated
to the Melbourne City Court lately, concerning
John Bakblox, from the Ma State. Bakblox
wasn’t his name, but as it fits him much better
than his own, he’ll have to travel through this
paragraph under it. A week back he had come
down from North Yanco station, in N.S.W., with
a fair sum of money and expectations of a good
time. The good time speedily pulled up in South
Melbourne lockup, where John was landed on a
charge of plain drunk. While in distress he fore-
gathered with a sirnilarly-circumstanced damsel,
whose fine he cheerfully paid ; and in her gratitude
the lady consented to be straightaway escorted
to a matrimonial bureau and married. During
the first happy flush of his new state John trust-
ingly handed his bride his cash to take care of,
while he went to seek a mansion, or a furnished
room, or some other abiding place—and since then
he hasn’t been able to find either his bride or his
cash. Being finally reduced to “requesting a
little temporary assistance ” from strangers, the
police interfered. John from Yanco said he didn’t
think there was any harm in it, but the Court
th(j firje wouM £i , and added that he had
better forget all a b o ut his lost bride, and hurry
back to the Ma State as soon as possible.
* * *
ihe recent appearance of laige quantities
™ ln t^e w^® r that Melbourne draws from
house-taps elicited considerable information,
First it was put down to a new reservoir that is
J ust finished at Preston ; then the Board s chair-
mafi explained that, owing to a short supply, the
mains hadn t been flushed out lately, and a heavy
downpour had done the work instead. Inis ex-
planation was accepted for a day or two ; then it
discovered that the said downpour had
washed away the side of a hill and the top-dress-
ing Of a farm, and had poured the mixture into
the aqueduct near Greensborough owing to the
blessed drain being unprotected, and consequently
the sediment was partly decayed manure and
partly mixed soil. Melbourne asked for no more
explanations. It was afraid that the next one
might be to the effect that a whole cemetery had
washed into its tank.
“I can sincerely recommend Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy to all
who are attacked with bowel complaints,” writes
Mr. George Adams, of Albury, N.S.W., “for it is
a W onderful medicine, and does all that is claimed
for'it. Luckily, when out in the country a few
days ago, I had a bottle with me, for I met a friend
doubled nearly in two with colic. I only gave him
one dose, yet it effected an immediate cure. I
always keep a bottle of Chamberlains Colic,
Cholera- and Diarrhoea Remedy by me.”*
The Sydney Gas Co.—the poor, emaciated
concern which pays a wretched 15 per cent, divi-
dend, and, in spite of the frequent waterings of
its stock, scarcely knows what to do to disguise its
excessive profits—has been playing some new
tricks on large sections of its customers. Not
content with the above-noted paltry results, it has
for several weeks past been mixing some new gas-
fodder with the coal which it feeds into its works
at Mortlake, and the result is remarkable. The
substance glues up the taps so that they can’t
be turned except with a screw-wrench, and in a
great many cases it isn’t possible to turn them at
all—the metal snaps off first. In other cases the
whole fixing has been wrenched off in the effort to
release the tap from the co.’s new brand of glue ;
and considering the deadliness of the co.’s gas, as
sworn to at a recent inquest, a leaking gas fixture
is no joke in Sydney. In countries where Private
Enterprise hasn’t got the public so firmly by the
throat a standard of purity for gas is insisted
upon. No wonder, therefore, when the engineer
of this co. returned a while ago from Europe, he
remarked upon the manner in which his co. was
“free from interference ”in this respect. That
“freedom from interference” has cost a few
hundred house-fathers in Sydney a plumber’s bill
during the past six weeks or so, and is likely to
cost a few hundred more bills yet.
THE
EARTH
y- lr y ? HE patient Earth spins on among
M the stars
M Like an old lady in the Halts of Space,
Whose candles—set on Heaven’s win-
dow bars—
Wonder and wink at her excessive pace.
She mends Time's garments with her age-long
thread.
And patches Knowledge with forgotten lore
Dropped on the threshold by the ones who've fled
Out of this life through the grave’s narrow door.
On, on she spins with dignity and grace.
Crushing relentlessly our fairest hopes.
Whilst grave astronomers examine Space
For explanations, with long telescopes.
N.s.w.
[For The Bulletin.]
The Wind at intervals an air
will croon
For her to spin to, but she
goes on still,
When all is silent and the
clown-faced Moon
Gazes and gapes above a sleeping hill.
Fve often wondered why she never tires,
And why her candles —high on Heaven’s
bars—
Don’t go right out like ordinary fires.
Or cheap gas-stoves—or threepenny cigars.
KODAK.
A SOBER WORKING MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TUTORKING Man, 37, sober, would like to meet
' ’ respectable widow or spinster, 35, view to take
a situation as married couple ; open a w'eek.
—Daily paper.
Love !
What is Love?
Marry for Love !
What is the use of it ? Heavens above !
What is the end of your hilling and cooing ?
Stop and he sensible ! Think what you’re doing !
That for your sentiment, and for your sighs !
Love is a passion not fit for the wise.
Jobs !
Stead.y jobs!
Marry for jobs !
Work for the sovereigns, pennies and bobs !
“ Widow or spinster— must be respectable
Willing to wed for a most delectable
Job in the provinces.” Hurry and lob
Up at the altar rails ! Haste to the job ! !
N.S.W.
THE VERGER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufiiiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will bs
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
M.C.: Gathered from almost the oldest grove of
chestnut trees in the U.S R.A.K.: Pianola yarn too
obvious Paul de K.: An unpleasant little morsel....
Fractions: “ In the Furnace” is spread out much too
thin, like the ham in the Dorcas Society sandwich. In
fact, if it had been spread much thinner the sandwich
could have been sent to a Hebrew picnic without giving
any offence... John RobertC.: Octopus yarn too prosy.
We like our octopus to have at least one frivolous ten-
tacle....W. Nelson: Too much like the report of a
debating club... Lorenz: “Pastorale” is a sombre pic-
ture, painted so often that it has become as familiar as
Marie Studholme’s teeth in the postcard windows
Mugwump : “Portrait” reminds us of a backblocks whirl-
wind which moves slowly round and round, and comes
back to the same spot, and, after making things a
bit more obscure, finally fades away to nothing....
A. C. Mac : Quite right. It is a waste of time sending
MS. which isn’t accompanied by name and address,
especially when it looks very like stuff that might have
been stolen from some American magazine... Quan:
There was an early-day constable of Parramatta who,
being cross-examined, said: “Well, I’ll chance it, and
swear that he did ” do something or other. Hence, when
a man is prepared to risk swearing something, “ I’ll take
my Parramatta.”... .Trixie : Those flowers that recalled
sweet innocent days are much too faded to be worked up
into another column... .F. N. McK. : “ An early accept-
ance will oblige.” Well, it won't be accepted, early or
late ; though it is not without good points.... Walter R.:
It’s a good bit of material. Pity you haven’t more skill.
. ...S.G.A.: Has no backbone in it Helen Van E. : A
powerful story, though you are somewhat out in your
pathology, and the subject is too unpleasant anyhow..
L.O.: Tale of how Gus and Rupert played tennis at the
South-street Tennis Club for the heart of Olive, the
minister’s daughter, is out of our line E.P.C. : You
say nothing new in “ Our Native Land.” Even patriotism
needs to be brightly expressed if it is to burn in print—
Barney: “ With Bluie Up’’contains one painful truth, viz.:
Poor me, I’ve always had bad luck
And endless grief and woe.
My girl long since has chucked me up,
What else could I expect,
For once we put the bluie up
We lose a girl’s respect.
G.B.H. : Lines re Circe and her friend Ulysses have to be
dashed—in fact, blanky—good to penetrate this paper.
Yours are fair, merely Tom Jones: There are no pri-
vate river-fishing rights in N.S.W. As to trespassing,
the process is by summons, and complainant has to prove
damage. Unless you smash fences, slay sleep, and so
forth, on your troutings, you are safe enough On-
ward: “ The Derelict ’’ sank, all standing, in the w.p.b.
(ll/3/’09) L.J.V. : “To Winter” is too magnificent.
Thus :
Thou know’st the name, but never hast been kin
To hoary season of the wilted North —
Hearts mould with sorrow at that coming in,
And thaw to jubilate the going forth —
Season by Faun and lissome Flora shunned,
Of lilting, laughing waters petrified.
Of muted birds and meadows moribund,
And woods bedizened out in ghoulish pride.
Exlex : Brightly done, but the idea is too far-fetched.
....Gill Gunnia: You have no verse-ear. However, you
possess a gift for bathos. E.g.:
Whilst I waited for my whispered name,
And my heart was heavy beyond express
The night that you never came.
Mugwump: A pity that with such sound financial
views you should combine a tendency to rhyme “dance ”
with “Arnst,” “problem” with “gobble ’em,” etc
O.D.D. : Strange, mysterious joke ; ditto illustration
A. Patton : Will Ogilvie’s address is “ Bowden, St. Bos-
well’s, Scotland.” The Wasp : Your poem, “If John-
son and Jeffries Meet,” is inserted with the object of re-
ducing the blackamoor’s swelled head,somewhat:
George R. : Very funny, but too roughly thrown
together Country Girl: Nothing new in it; and you
haven’t experience enough in writing Garnet B : Both
rather good, but for inordinate verbosity C.H. : Some
interest, but too long-winded for us Sam Spry : Hardly
spry enough, this time E.R. : A neatly-written
trifle, but only a trifle P. Sullivan: An interesting
experience, but doesn’t suit us L.H.T. : “ A Burglar’s
Wooing” merits ten years’ hard labor.. ..W.F.H. : “Re-
fused ” lived up to its title Toolooa : Your literary
tread isn’t firm enough F. A. : Beaten on the post....
Rei Panes: In a manner of speaking it failed to plant the
ladder of acceptance against the tree of r numeration,
consequently it didn’t climb into the higher branches of
affluence —in a manner of speaking.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
S.C. : A chestnut with old-age-pensioner weevils in it.
F.F. (Melbourne): Only the father of all illustrated
beer jokes in a slightly different dress W. Shaw: Joke
not too pleasant, and picture below low-water mark
A.H.T. : Your drawing is poor, and you may take it as an
axiom that the joke which needs explanation is unfit for
publication... Leona: Where is the humor in one in-
ebriatetelling another he looks like a dog? Smoker:
A pun of the dreariest sort; and the drawing that abets
it needs chastisement B.J. : Two feeble; the other
rude Blot: Rude remark of Mr. Smith to his wife
is not redeemed by your illustration of the incident.
If Johnson and Jeffries meet,
They’ll cause an exciting stir.
The huge white man was never beat,
He’s as tough in the hide as a bear.
Coon Johnson is clever and game;
As active as a cat in the ring,
For science he achieved great fame,
And he’s now the world’s bruiser king.
But James Jeffries is rough in a bout,
He’s a strong and determined foe,
The best celebrities at the game he knocked out,
And Johnson will stand a poor show.


" If i} intended to Keep
in museums of aU ouV great"
Singer, ***'.
cH«tt o[ hearing, %*> PrCon,f>^ r 'ng
If only +&€
W
ajittie
Sooner J
w ifn Tbg SoAb .
'C*lm A
) body
\
' SwcfT l"
«4>owyy Biftp! a
] fo rr J d /V\M
"*P\UV / °^f ' l V
Tw <-™l‘*"' r V r ' r °*’ e " td h " W
*>A, /Reverend
a+ -$«,
- / A\ fc fl)° d (onference
«>\'d ‘s e
—"(>*ferc*iie genera,lUr went
off II a Kind of .
foß
•' Rifle Club tnember S ar*
£om|jl ou d*y ,
UcK oj-
*Lcr«S ir»«l ouks^ V€ S v
of "rtie incubus of \A
foSS'«lis« d / f ornr ’ < **^ < >> jh
\s cribs, p*js*/orrfs,si§n, \
Wooden A - * 2 5,/>»fusty sword}.
fl^OddfeUo^)
V/>folc of bea/AtTful /evaluable.
ve "bftino Actually "but-n't - do
/6leao- ground .while AHsfalia <s ..
inferior timber abnoa d .
'Vo
t A\«cV
K
p 4
The Star C h amber System
Tl*S |ono marKed -rtje conduct"
Of* Wian«ts|»fcl Affairs &•" 'the.
Town Hail. •’ (As«t)
Vl/ereV> Oar- °) "
S'edpe- •
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


FOR EVERY EMERGENCY-
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
The “FxSR” Watches
are f-Plate LEVERS.
They have Brequet Hair Springs.
They have Compensated and Adjusted Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are dust-proof and water-tight, as the cases
screw together.
They are specially made to stand hard riding and
knocking about, and go with profound
accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for two years.
They are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures!
Cash. J
23 Hunter Street
Gent.’s Silver Open Face Case, 451-
Gent.’s Oxidised Open Face Case, 33 /-
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Gilrooney” : The luck of the lucky !
Near Maldon'(Vic.), the other day, a woodcutter
accidentally broke off the top of an outcrop and
revealed a golden reef. It was ever thus. I have
known old diggers to prospect a place for months,
and even years, without success ; then at the
finish some new-chum has come along, shooting
kangaroos, or cutting poles, or carting wood, and
accidentally stumbled on to the old digger’s elusive
bonanza. Some diggers near Gundagai used the
floaters from a neighboring “blow” for a fireplace
wherein to boil their billies and do their occasional
cooking. A few months after they had gone a
couple of fishermen en route to the Murrumbidgee
sat down on the improvised hearth for a spell
and saw the gold shining in almost every
stone ! They took a little fortune out of that
“blow.” Two mates and I spent six months
prospecting a valley, “ a likely-looking spot,” and
a specimen in the wash now and again convinced
usthatthe “motherreef” wassome where near. We
broke probably every surface stone on the flank-
ing hills, and “loamed” every slope—excepting
one precipitous spur, which looked too barren to
bother about. But it was on that very spur that
a woodcutter, a few months later, found the reef
we had been pursuing. And he was looking for
frees, not for gold, at the time. The first crush-
ing went 7oz. to the top, and
the shareholders were offered
£2OOO for the “show” on
its surface prospects.
LOGIC .
THE P OLICEMAN: “ This'll cost yer seven-and-six! ”
DRIVER (whose horse has bolted): “ What fort
Ain’t it bad enough to lose the bloomin' ’ orse?”
POLICEMAN: “ Why , yer horse bolted down the
wrong side of the road, ye fool!”
“ Petifi ” : I've read somewhere that the
natives of India allege that a snake never recovers
from a skin wound, because the flies and ants tor-
ment it to death. I wonder !
“ Itan ” : Cow, raised tardily as a demi-
god on the N.S.W. North Coast 12 or 15 years
ago, has done more for the groups of worshippers
than most things to which men bend the knee and
take off the hat. At that time the Sugar Co.
monopoly was squeezing the farmers. Mrs. Cow
arrived casually on the scene, and the bewildered
farmer made eyes at her. She remained. The
man who goes back to those districts after an
absence of a decade can scarcely credit the change.
But the land owner profits most, Fifteen
years ago nearly any part of the Big Scrub
could have been bought for little more than
£1 per acre. To-day, there is little which
will change hands under £2O, and the best
of it finds buyers up to £4O. Mrs. Cow
is responsible. The gamble has naturally
extended to the towns. One wants nearly as
much money to buy land in Lismore as in Sydney
or Brisbane. The land jobber and the grabber
have piled up many shekels thereabouts. The
towns of Murwillumbah, Mullumbimby, and
Kyogle are telling examples of rapid growth. The
two last are the youngest, but both have seen main
street lots sold at £l2to £lsper foot—and they were
not worth £5 per acre 20 years ago. And the land
gambler hasn’t finished the game yet. Between
Kyogle and Acacia Creek, on the border,
there are great areas where Cow will thrive as
well as in any part of the North Coast. All that
is required is the railway extension, which the
landowner will get as cheaply as in any other part
of the State—for nix. Along that route three
towns at least will rise with all the strength and
vigor of Kyogle. Watch Tooloom sprout! There
is not a house on the town site now. In seven
years or so there will be 2000 people there, chang-
ing the cheques of the Cowmen. A great boomster
is Mrs. Cow. But the fool Parliaments which
allow the land-grabber to walk into this unearned
increment, deserve to be made attendants of
poddy calves for the term of their natural lives.
* * ■* *
“The Swimmer’s” impression of a Maori
tangi:—
On Tuesday, February 16,1 rode 26 miles across country
from Horeke, in the Far North of the North Island (M.L.j,
to Kaikohe to attend the big tangi of the northern Maoris
in honor of their deceased M.H.R., lloneHeke. The tangi
—literally a “crying”—las ted from Wednesday till Sunday,
when the deceased was deemed sufficiently dead to be
buried. About 1500 Maoris took part, howling and feed-
ing and swapping Maori jokes ; but principally feeding.
Never had 1 thought it possible for the human body to
hold so much food.
It was one of the biggest gatherings of the clans the
North has seen of late years, for the late Heke was not
only a member of Parliament, but a chief, and the son of
a mighty chief. Therefore the warlike Ngapuhis were
down from the Bay of Islands, the Terarawas from the
Hokianga, the Te Apouris from the North Oape, the
Ngatiwhatuas from the Kaipara district, and the lesser
tribes from around the northern Wairoa. And to greet
these warriors came the southern tribes of the North
Island from as far south as Ngatiawa. My eyes were
dazed with watching the prodigious nose-rubbings that
took place, and my hearing was deadened with listening
to the “ Ka mates ” and “ lvia oras ” of greeting, and the
howls and moans of the wahines and the old women.
Ileke’s coffin was escorted to the tangi place by several
hundred braves, and was met by another band, where-
upon followed a war dance. The arrival of the body at
the Place of Shriek was marked by a hideous caterwauling
from the old women. These official “ criers ”in former
times used to hack themselves with flints to show that
their grief was genuine, but this part of the performance
has been stopped by a prosaic Government. The “ criers”
still wear the official mourning dress of black, with ever-
greens twined round their bodies and in their hair.
Their funeral dirge they accompany with grotesque sway-
ings of the body, and they work themselves up into a state
of excitement that is not pleasant to look at.
Dqring the tangi the body lay in state in the specially-
built “ mourning house,” surrounded by all kinds of
native gifts from the big chiefs. Here another old cus-
tom has been departed from. In former times these gifts
used to be buried with the body, but acquaintance with
the pakeha has made the Maori more prudent, and they
are now distributed among the relatives after the funeral.
There was a constant swarm of Maoris in the mourning
house to inspect the dead Heke’sfeatures, visible through
the pane of glass let in the oak and lead coffin. They
would gaze stolidly for a few moments, and then make
way for others ; but the old women round the coffin never
left. Close to the mourning house was a big marquee,
capable of accommodating more than a thousand people,
and sent up by a sympathetic Government for the tangi.
This was always full of Maoris. Herein a brown
brother would take the floor and air his knowledge of
legendary lore, and other brown brothers would try to catch
him nanping. Whoever did so took the floor in his place,
and held it till he in turn was deposed. Mean-
time the Maoris, squatting or lying round, fairly
screamed with laughter particularly the women.
There were some pretty good stories told. I
regretted that I had not taken the trouble to
become more intimate with the Maori tongue. The Hon.
“Jimmy” Carroll, Minister for Native Affairs, was at the
tangi, and easily held his own against any put up to take
him down. But then “ Jimmy ”is a born orator in Eng-
lish or Maori, and nobody knows more about Maori
legends than he. Carroll, who is half Maori and half
Irish, has a magnetic personality, and can do anything he
likes with his own race, for he is a Maori before he is any-
thing else. At the tangi he was all Maori, and he was
great to watch. ’
The tangi livened up a lot at night. After “ prayers ’
the crying started in the mourning house and continued
all night. In the marquee there was dancing, and
dancing and dancing—the .haka, the poi, the war dance,
and the canoe dance ; the real thing, and not the feeble
imitation trotted forth by the parasitical Rotorua natives
for the benefit of “distinguished visitors.” And the
Maori, man or woman, can dance with a grace and savage
voluptuousness that lays over all the Salomes posturing
in the music halls ! I saw three hundred braves and
wahines, dancing as one, with every rhythmic move and
every undulation of the three hundred bodies in perfect
unison; the “tempo” gradually accelerating till the
hurricane finish was reached, by which time half the per-
formers had been temporarily passed out from exhaustion
—oh, there is no doubt that the real haka is a spectacle
that one does not forget in a lifetime !
But I want to say something about the feeding of the
tangi. On the first day the multitude accounted for nine
bullocks, and Heaven knows how many sheep and poultry.
In all, 50 bullocks lost the numbers of their mess
during that tangi, and fully as many sheep were sacri-
ficed, while the poultry that were eaten were beyond
count. There w'ere huge hillocks of vegetables—kumaras
and potatoes—pouring in from all parts of the country-
side in waggons the whole time the business was on. Then
there were pipis (a kind of cockle), which the Maori eats
as an appetiser as the white person does the oyster. The
beef and mutton were killed close by, and the cooking, or
most of it, was done in the old Maori “cooking pot”—
which is a hole dug in the ground and filled with stones.
The stones are made red hot, and then slightly cooled
with water. The meat is placed on them and covered up,
and the rising steam does the cooking. There is no
drink but tea and water, for strong liquor is prohibited ;
but if firewater is ever introduced into a tangi—well,
that is the tangi I mean to see. The provisions held out
till Sunday, and then Heke was buried. It was time.
BLIGHTED AGAIN.
IMPORTED FORTUNE-HUNTER: “So your father speaks very highly of me, does he?”
THE SQUATTER’S ONLY DAUGHTER: “ Yes, just to rile mother!"
“ Jim Pan ” : Curious the diversity of
opinion amongst the men of Inback regarding the
common briar bush. In the Yassberra-Gundagai
(N.S.W.) district hundreds of acres of fine land are
covered with it. Half the inhabitants assert that
the briar is a curse that ought to be eradicated com-
pulsorily ; the rest maintain that it is a useful fall-
back in time of drought, and merits encourage-
ment. Some landowners actually keep a few
paddocks expressly for the growth of briars. To
me, a layman, it seems a crime to let the briar
infest splendid flats that are fit to grow lucerne
and other fodder. But as the most hardened
agriculturists do it, there must be something to be
said for the practice. #
“ Dandalup ” : “S.S.S.’s” interesting
yarn (B. 11/2/'9O) about the Papuan “boy” who
died from pouri-pouri reminds me that the same
curse is still practised by the blacks of north
and nor’-west Australia, but under a different
name. Almost every tribe has its sorcerer
or “boylya gadak,” who is credited with
superhuman powers. These men- possess ex-
traordinary influence, but don’t always use
it for the benefit of their brothers. Woe to
any nig. who offends the great “boylya
gadak,” his friends, or relations! The
sorcerer will make a nocturnal visit to the
offender, and, after passing a few earnest
remarks, will leave his curse on the door-
mat. At other times he visits the culprit
only in spirit. After the visit the nigger
settles down to die, and die he will at all
costs. Perhaps “boylya” has decreed that
he shall expire at sunset to-morrow ; and to-
morrow, just as the sun is sinking below
the rim of the world, he gives up the ghost
without a murmur. I have known even
healthy “civilised” blacks to become pos-
sessed of the idea, that one of the sorcerers
had loaded them with a curse, whereupon
they have pined away and finally snuffed out.
According to blackfellow ethics, death from
natural causes is absolutely impossible, and
that makes things easy for “boylya gadak.”
Perhaps the curse has come frotn the sorcerer
of another tribe. If it has, then the local
sorcerer is told off to avenge the deceased.
This he does with great joy, mostly on some
innocent and inoffensive nig. who, upon re-
ceiving sentence, lies down quietly and
‘hands over his shells.” “Boylya gadak”
has a lot of dead nigs to answer for. His troubles !
« * * *
“Iyles Innison ” : Reference to Sydney’s
ex-Mayor, Thomas Broughton (B. 11/2/’O9), brings
back memories of that many-acred old citizen. I
knew him when he owned Muttama station
(N.S.W.). The property stretched in those days
from Cootamundra, on the north, to Gundagai,
on the south—3s miles or more. But annoying
selectors and surveyors cut off great hunks of the
estate, till in later days it totalled a mere 50,000
acres. Every shearing-time, with clock-like regu-
larity, Broughton—old, white-bearded and patri-
archal-looking—would arrive from Sydney to super
vise operations and to “ boss the board ” himself.
He was a cute shearer who could deceive “Tommy”
for all the latter’s burden of over four-score
years. Broughton was a tailor in his younger
days, and innumerable exasperated shearers and
station hands, with the idea of insulting him, used
to call him “a blanky old tailor.” But
“Tommy” always accepted the lurid reference
as a compliment. “Yes,” he would say, “I am
an old tailor, and if you want a suit made I’ll
make it for you as well as any man living.” He
was wonderfully cool-headed, and seldom des-
patched the frequent homestead snake per
medium of the customary long-handled shovel or
the convenient clothes-prop. He simply grabbed
the crawlsome creature by the tail and dashed its
life out on the hard, bare landscape.
THE BUSH PREPARES FOR VISITORS.
MAYOR OF DINGO DELL: “And ’ era's the Hing-
lish trees what we put in on Harbor Day."
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR: “ Yes, but I have seen
better specimens of them at home. I suppose
you have some of your fine native trees some-
where.”
MAYOR: “ Oh, THEM! We killed all of them to
make room for these—we wanted to ’ are the place
lookin' nice for visitors .”
THE NORTHERN FOSSICKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a weary way to Wandup by the ten-chain road,
To Wandup, by a southern river’s mouth,
And I’ve sought by reach and river for the outcrop of the
lode
That will take me back to Wandup in the South.
I’ve trenched by hill and hollow, and the long low rise ;
I’ve loamed by ridges where the saltbush grows,
For the reef that hides thereunder from my hungry human
eyes,
With the hope that dieth not despite its foes.
I have left my tracks behind me on the old earth s face,
I have scored the valley’s head and gully s mouth,
Yet have found no new Mount Morgan in its cunning
hiding-place
That would take me back to Wandup in the South.
It is down across the mountains whence the fresh winds
hie
With a faint and haunting whisper to the sea,
Through the gorges, past the wheatflelds where the white
roads lie,
And the creeks where grows the shady blackwood tree.
Just a township by a river where the tall reeds grow,
With a boat or two about the river’s mouth ;
A straggling lane of houses in a scattered, broken row,
Is the little place called Wandup, in the South.
It is here and there a color, and a wild-goose chase ;
It is now and then a pocket in a drain ;
As I scratch earth’s epidermis in each likely kind of place,
From the hilltops to the saltpans on the plain.
Yet it may be I shall find it; touch the five-ounce lode,
And Fortune’s cup shall quench the ancient drouth ;
’Twill be hey ! for boot and saddle, and the hooves upon
the road
That shall take me back to Wandup in the South,
VICTORIA.
O. G. A. COLLKS.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
From 12/6 per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
POSTAL EDUCATION
BEARS GOOD FRUITI
High Salaries and splwiulid prospect* are
opened up to those young men and women
who use rightly their spare evening hours
l in mastering our courses o! Postal
Besides all general educational
subjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough method
" Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
Correspondence, Arithmetic. Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
"HOME STUDY.”
ss
£5O
£0
STOTT HOARB’S
BUSINESS COITRGB
MOORE STBECT. _SYON£Y
BABY’S LITTLE TROUBLES.
Baby’s cough, if not attended to, often results in croup
and other serious troubles. Always keep a bottle of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery handy, and be prepared.
Every bottle guaranteed. Obtainable everywhere,
price Is. 6d. and 3s. *
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences
Tel. 321.
F + 0 + Robinsoilt Proprieior
“D.M.W.” : “Talkin’ of eyes,” said the
little cobbler, who had found his way into the
harvest paddock, and had broken the boss’s heart
and very nearly cracked the muscles of his own
trying to fork for 15 hours a day in a five-ton crop
of oats—“ talkin’of eyes, a rum thing happened
to me in Christchurch. Somethin’ went wrong
with me right eye, an’ I ’ad to go into the ’orspi-
tal. Doctor an’ nurses treated me orl right, but
blowed if I could sleep the first night. Rum thing
was that when it got dark, I could see with me
bloomin’ damaged optic as plain as day. Dunno
the name the doctor give the disease, but it had
to be cut out.” “Phwat?” said big Murphy.
“Wan eye for the daytime, an’ wan workin’
overtime at night? Be gosh!” “Just that,”
said the little man, “an’ I was willin’ to let it
stay like that, but the bloomin’ doctor said I
would lose the power of me right arm.” “By
gum. I’d have chanced it,” said Harry Phillips,
holding up and contemptuously examining the
lean and scraggy member in question. “ Well, I
dunno, said the cobbler gravely. “ When me
uncle dies I’ll want me right arm to sign me
cheques with.” Then we all removed our hats in
token of respect for a great and unabashed liar.
* * * *
“Gil”: Private Enterprise is an un-
pleasant spectacle when it controls a food, milk,
or water supply. The Broken Hill-Stephens
Creek reservoir, owned by a wealthy company
with the dreary Victorian Swinburne as the
chairman of directors, is just now a receptacle of
filth. Dead rabbits, the rotten and poisonous
wild tobacco plant, and a number of stinking pig-
geries lend enchantment to the immediate vicinity.
Strolling over what is supposed to be the catch-
ment area the other day, I came across a dead
horse ; a little further on I encountered a dead
camel. Then I turned back, knowing full well
that if I extended my walk I would discover a dead
Afghan. I have smelt a live Afghan, and it caused
me to register a solemn vow that I would never
wittingly do the .same by another, alive or dead—
more especially dead. If the municipality con-
trolled this water supply, public opinion would
clamor through the aldermen for the appointment
of a catchment area ranger to clear away and burn
the dead stock that pollute it. But the fat Swin-
burnian company cares not for rangers, who
cost money in wages, and so the rabbit decom-
poses in the sun, unchecked ; and the camel cries
aloud for burial, and is not gratified.
A RECIPROCITY TREATY.
OLD GENT: “ Why on earth don't you oil that
machine? It makes a terrible noise!”
BOY: “ Mother told me not to till you got your
planner tuned! ”
A NATURAL
QUERY.
PARSON (solemnly): “ Don’t go
into that low place , my friend.”
S WAGMAN: “ All right , mate! Fm a stranger here! What pub d’ you recommend?"
“ Janor ” : In reply to “ Crow,” who asks
(B. 18/2/’O9) about the black cockatoo’s ability as a
weather prophet, let me state that this wide-
spread notion regarding the talent of the funereal
bush-bird has no basis in fact. There is no rela-
tion between its raucous yell and the weather,
past, present, or to come. If it rained every time
black cockatoos screamed, there are districts I
wot of—some Gippsland ones, for example—that
would be permanently under water. The cold,
unromantic truth is that the black cockatoo divides
its time between feeding and flying ; and it can-
not fly even from one tree to the next without re-
marking “ Clayo ! clayo 1 ” often and vehemently.
I know the sable fowl intimately, and, as a re-
sult, I would as lief, for my part, eat it as accept
it in the r&le of rain-forecaster.
* * * *
Kell and McGrogan rode towards Tumbe-
rumba from Tooma. The air was dead, the sun
roasting, and the locusts cried aloud like a brass
band. The men thirsted sore. Their tongues
came out to moisten their parched lips, which
they rolled together, and then they gulped aim-
lessly, and they spoke in a low, tired way of
the horrors of death from thirst, and of the
mirage, that tantalus of the plains. At
length they reached Boggy Creek, a cool,
clear stream about six miles out of
Tumba. Kell was off instantly and,
sprawling, drank above his horse’s
muzzle till he had consumed about
a quart. But McGrogan sat killing
flies on his sunbaked face, and re-
marked, “Shure, Oi’ve got abuchi-
ful thirst on me, and George Blom-
ley’s lovely cowld beer’s only six
moiles before me, an’ it’s not spilin’
it wid wather Oi’ll be.” And, so
saying, he spurred off at a liand-
gallop. Arrived, he didn’t wait to
hang his horse up, but strode into
the bar with the air of a Rothschild
about to draw a milliard. “ A lovely,
glorious schleever Oi’ll take, George
Blomley, and quick ! ” he yelled. Alas,
there was not a spoonful of beer left in
the town, there, having just been a municipal
election. And that’s why the yarn ends for
lack of words —McGrogan’s being unfit for
print.
“ Malacoota ” : There is a natural history-
enthusiast up north who is always sending speci-
mens to the Sydney Museum. Recently he
captured alive a tiger snake, and because the
reptile was much larger than ordinary, he con-
cluded the Museum would receive it with grati-
tude. So he yarded his eight or nine feet of scaly
hiss into a case, and directed the package to the
lord chamberlain of the Snake Department. It
went down the river in a wheezy river steamer.
At one of the landings the engineer met
a pal who was doing a trifle of illicit
distillation. The steamer got as far as the
next landing and tied up, while the engineer slept
it off. When he woke up the furnace was cold,
and he grabbed the nearest case which seemed
empty, and started to break it up with the ship’s
axe. The tiger snake, resenting all the indignities
that had been put upon him, rose up on his tail
and put his tongue out, and the man fled up the
bank and made for the nearest farmhouse,
full of repentance and pious resolve. The enthu-
siast is still waiting to hear from the Museum.
“Invicta”: Stepper Davis, the draughts-
player, was sitting at the tea-table in a Queens-
land pub one evening. On a plate in front of
him were thrpe little cakes, which he intended to
top up with later. Another eater suddenly sprang
up and seized two of the cakes. Stepper glared at
him, then exclaimed —“I s-s-s-say, t-t-t-take the
other one, or I’ll h-h-li-huff you ! ”
* * * ■*
To this day the ghost of the Chicago meat-
packing scandals haunts every tin of flesh-food
that comes out of America. The faith
of the public received an almost fatal
blow by the awfulness of “The
Jungle”; and when faith has once
been smitten heavily, it is rarely
ever the same. Hope and charity
are hardy virtues. Anyone can
hope, and charity is quite easy with
practice. But faith is as frail as a
Dresden vase and twice as brittle.
To tinned meat, faith is as neces-
sary as a label; without a label
nobody knows what it is; and
without faith nobody wants it.
Just when everyone had suffici-
ently forgotten Chicago and Up-
ton Sinclair’s dreadful revelations
to once more take on Sam’s mys-
teries, the news came through that
the London medical officer had
discovered COO disseaed sheep’s
livers packed in boxes which bore
the official guarantee of purity.
Of course, it may just have been
durned bad luck ; but, with the
memory of Chicago thick about them, people
will find it hard to give Samuel the benefit of the
doubt.
“Yarrum” : Out on the Minnamurra
(N.S.W.) had an hour’s nature study on Saturday
afternoon, when I witnessed the fight of my life,
and I’ve been often to the Gaiety. It was a go
between one of those long, greenish beetles, with
antennse and a little horn, and a brown, hairy
caterpillar, twice the horned one’s length. They
were in “holts”—the beetle on top with claws
well in—but the hairy thing twisted and writhed,
and pulled the other fellow through the folds of
himself so often, apparently crushing him a little
each time, that it looked anybody’s fight. The
beetle, notwithstanding his armor-like jacket,
squirmed some after every fall, but mounted again
for another. At last the grub made a tremendous
effort, and the green rider lost his grip and was
flung fully a yard, falling fair on his back, where
he lay helpless. The caterpillar then made tracks.
I put the beetle on his pins again, and the game
little fellow staggered in pursuit. Catching up
with the enemy, he dug a claw in below the belt,
and climbed well up behind his ear. Then tho
fun started again. The grub jerked and twisted
itself, rolling over and over, and taking the other
fighter with him, hurting him in the grip of his
muscular self at every roll; but the beetle only
bored with his little horn, and clung closer with
his claws, and couldn’t be dislodged. All this
time the horn was doing its work, and at last
a dark liquid, which must have been life’s
blood, streamed from the hairy thing’s side, and
the beetle got down and drank much of it. When
he had satisfied himself, he left in a leisurely way,
and many small ants, that had been spectators of
the mill, came along and banqueted on defunct
caterpillar. My sympathies were with the beetle
all the time, as a girl once let a hairy grub down
my back at a Sunday-school picnic.
“Grasstree”: Struck the township on
the night of a race meeting, and got the only room
available—one with two beds in it. As I was
tired, I turned in, but not to sleep ; for about 40
fights took place just outside my window, and I
had to listen to all that stoush with the incidental
language—mostly blanky. The liquor petered
out at last, and I was about to fall asleep, when
the landlord knocked, and I had to get up to let
in a bloke who wanted the other bed. He was a
sight for the grandfather of all the teetotallers to
see, and a perfume for a mob of camels to envy.
Moreover, he looked as if he had been through
the whole of the campaign outside my window,
and had finished up by being run over by a
waggon-load of wheat. He steadied himself for a
moment, and made a rush for the empty bed ; but
the beer was in his feet as well as in his head, so
he veered round and came towards me. I might
as well have tried to stop an elephant, so I slid
out just as he tumbled in a heap into my bed. I
made a few suitable remarks, and climbed into
bed No. 2. I had slept about seconds when I
was awakened by what I judged was a cow drink-
ing in the room. When I heard the animal gurgle
“By cripes, I was thirsty ! ” I reckoned it must
be my room-mate. Then he steadied himself
again and made for bed —the wrong bed, of course.
I saw the whirlwind coming, and had just time to
slip overboard, when he flopped down on the spot
I had vacated, and was asleep before I could
breathe. Soothing myself with a few more appro-
priate remarks, I climbed back to my first perch
and tried to forget it all in sleep. Another dry
spell, however, struck my room-mate, and the
remainder of the water went to break it up. Once
again my friend (I had a real friendly feeling for
him by this) balanced himself carefully and
scooted for bed—my bed. After brooding over
my luck I made up a doss on the floor in the
corner, and had the sleep of my life. No moro
two-bedded rooms for me.
t
HIS FIRST TRIP
TO TOWN.
MR. OUTBACK: “ Well,
by gum! There goes
one o’ them movin’
pictures I’ve heard so much about.”
“ Spring ” is irritated :
Those Abo. scribes who have been giving the jackass
the dirty left command my sympathy. Too long has this
plug-headed hypocrite been upheld as all that a bird
should be. Sentimental people who haven’t studied the
fraud properly think he ought to be petted and protected.
Rot! If he was blown out utterly in one blow the bush
would be none the worse. The miscreant has grown into
an object of worship. The immature cow-cocky hears
the old man saying that it’s unlucky to kill Jack, so
the lad controls his natural inclinations and allows the
noisy fowl to live on. People revere the bird because of
his alleged snake-killing habits. I never knew a jackass
who had killed more than three snakes in his life.
But I once owned an old brindle bitch that had
slain over SO of the deadliest reptiles extant. She was
shot ultimately by a fat squatter, who found her toying
with one of his sheep. “ Jimmie Pannikin ” (B. 11/2/’O9)
condemns a number of veracious waiters for saying that
Jack consumes carrion. Herein James orates through
his hat. I have witnessed Jack guzzling ultra-dead cow
repeatedly ; also I once saw him licking his beak over the
corpse of a long dead mate. I grieve to say that there’s
no use in The Bulletin trying to get the correct facts re
Jack. Those who reverence him will lie shamelessly
about his good points ; the others will simply smile sadly
and go their ways, or else write to put the world straight
in regard to him, and be called liars for their trouble. It’s
a rotten, jackass-ridden world.
TALERAWANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Talerawang, majestic mountain wall,
There's even in thy soft, sweet name the tang
Of Austral wilds, of joys primordial,
Talerawang.
Home of the wonga and the grey gang-gang,
The wild dog’s lair, the haunt of bell-birds small.
Of denizens that ruled by club and fang.
Deep shadowland of scrub and forest tall,
Where in the far-off years the myalls sang,
And cast a weird, wild glamor over all,
Talerawang.
Talerawang, through aeons of calm and squall,
Viewed thou the clam’rous hunt, the camps that sprang
Up mushroom-like by creek and waterfall,
Talerawang.
The nulla, spear, and circling boomerang,
Now rot ’mid fern, in glen and cavern-hall,
That echoed once in savage battle clang.
Their camp-fires burn no longer ; like a pall
O’er grave and camp the native creepers hang,
And from thy deep night shades the boobooks call,
Talerawang.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
THE DISSATISFIED FARMER MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas near the township Tallyho,
Perhaps a half a year ago,
And from the ranges tumbling down
The yellow flood had come to town.
A hayseed man, with whiskers grey,
Who for a night and half a day
Had caused the stranded folks to guess
The cause of his dire dolefulness,
Arose and waded from the pub
Across the road, and through the scrub.
And in the dam attempted he
To end bis abject misery.
The interfering people ran
And dragged him out, and drained the man.
With many schemes they did contrive
At length to bring him through, alive.
I!ut human aid could not restore
His animation ; weeping sore,
He said he wished to peter out
Bemuse of this infernal drought 1
VICTORIA.
S.S.


THAT “KALLY.”
According to the cable a great Foreign=trade raily in preparing in England and addresses are to be delivered on the happiness and prosperity
of the country under the Cobden importing policy.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
a
ALL who try CHERRY
BLOSSOM Boot Polish
approve of it. The ex-
cellent shine it gives, the lon<>-
while it lasts, and the economy
in its luse commend CHERRY
BLOSSOM.
The tins are larger than any
otherlat the price—3d. and 6d
—and itgivesagrand pliability
to the leather. Get a tin from
your storekeeper and prove its
good qualities. If he does not
stock it, send us his name and we’ll see you are supplied
Managing Agents for Australia: BWIFT & COMPANY'
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney. ’
Builds up
Strength
As a recuperative in cases of lung,
stomach or bowel weakness or after
severe illness, Angier’s Emulsion is un-
equalled. Soothing to lungs, stomach
and intestines, a great
aid to digestion and a'
splendid tonic, it is
invaluable in lung
affections, digestive
disorders, * * run-down’ ’
conditions and all
wasting diseases. It is
the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
mm
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
JThe Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St., Sydney^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
It was Hughes, now of the Labor Minis-
try, who cured Peacock of his infamous kooka-
hurra larf. Peacock at the time he suffered the
cure was Premier of Victoria, and although Mel-
bourne’s Parliament House proper had been
allotted to the new Commonwealth Legislature,
the presence of Peacock in the dining-room con-
tinued to be loudly asserted by his larf. So
Hughes got into the way of dropping a plate in
wild alarm (and paying for the breakage) every
time the Vic. Premier uttered his one remarkable
characteristic. At last Peacock took the hint,
and laughed no more. Then he was left without
any personality whatever.
FATHER CAREY, whose practice as a family
lawyer is the largest on the Australian stage.
William Charles Kernot, M.1.C.E., etc.,
who died on Sunday at Melbourne, was a native of
Essex (England). He was born in 1845, and came
to Geelong (Vic.) with his parents in 1851. The
father was an early Mayor of Geelong, and repre-
sented the slumberous town in the Legislative
Assembly for some years. The recently deceased
was Professor of Engineering in Melbourne Uni-
versity, and in 1887 he presented the institution
with a Jubilee gift of £2OOO to endow scholarships
p il ys^cs and chemistry. He was a brother of
the Kernot who is a member of the North Shore
(Sydney) Bridge Commission.
“ Melb ” : Joe Thompson was called
King- of the Ring, but Billy Slack
was called the Leviathan. A
more remarkable man even
than Joe. He could not write
save in some arrow-headed
characters of his own inven-
tion (or else he was a pic-
ture-writer like the
Aztecs), and whether he
could read was doubtful.
Yet this ignorant but
astonishingly brainy
fellow challenged
Thompson as chief of
the bookies. He would
wager to any extent,
and put down Egyptian
hieroglyphs in his note-
book. These he deci-
phered at night to
Humpy Ward, the bar-
ber, who kept his led-
ger. Slack, without
ever making a mistake,
reeled off the big wagers
as fast as Ward could
write—“ A thou to a nun-
dred Mr. Power,” and so
forth. He dealt boldly in
thousands. The wonder
was the greater because he
was a snub-nosed Yorky, or Eng-
lish provincial of some kind, palpably without a
drop of Hebraic blood in his veins. His wife was
the financial mainstay of a Primitive Methodist
Chape! in Prahran; When she died it was sold
o the .Bible Christians, after being used for a
lme by the Salvation Army. Nothing worried
black so much as to be mistaken for Joe Slack,
the celebrated litigant, who was murdered for his
money at South Melbourne. Billy Slack’s favorite
.°?5 e wa r s 01 * the brass rail outside Cleeland’s
7T' Thompson would come along with,
.tluilo, .billy, I see you was up again before
Judge Barry to-day.” Dickens’s Man from
Shropshire lias been paralleled by two absurd
litigants in this city—Merry, the ex-railway con-
tractor, and Joseph Slack. The latter would
turn up in the Banco Court with, “ There’s a case
o Slack agin Winder, yer Hannah,” and untie a
number of venerable law-books from a banner of red
handkerchief. Then would begin a most comical
theßar between him and Fellows, the leader of
The Oldest Inhabitant writes :
in E addnfr>n a riT a ho- haS anot I he l connection with Australia
1/3/TO li rl a relat '°" of the Stricklands (B.
His mother was a daughter of the first Lord
Lamington and sister of an ex-Governor of Queensland
ivhile the lady who divorced him was Muriel Brassev’
Victoria Faller-Off who was once Governor^
Victoria. He belongs to the exclusive Marlborough Club
where every name has to be submitted to Ed. VII. before
the ballot for admission. ueiore
i : It; will be news to some that the
late Joe Thompson, the behemoth of the turf, was
at one time a fish hawker in Melbourne. Certain
adventures with Bill Blanch, the pug, had come
to grief, and Joseph being “down to it,” took to
e J^fk and P lls bed barrow loads of flathead
about Melbourne. In this business he cultivated
the rich baritone organ that was afterwards of so
much value in a more profitable line of business.
A good many years ago Governor-designate
Blake was objected to by Premier Mcllwraith, of
Queensland, because of what was considered his
party participation in Irish political affairs.
Queensland stood by Mcllwraith, and Blake fell
through. Chelmsford, who comes to be figure-
head of N.8.W., was described as a violent par-
tisan by one Government of Queensland, and the
votes of the electors ratified the description, yet
the British Government promotes him to
a more affluent job, and N.S.W. doesn’t
kick. It may be that Chelmsford’s out-
rageous action in Queensland was a mere error of
judgment, but a capacity for making blunders of
£2OOO ayear n ° r6aS ° n increasin & his. PGY by
MT n ' J Wffliam Gilson Pigott, ex-
M.L.C„ who died at his home, Liverpool-
road, Burwood, Sydney, on Saturday, aged
' was a native of London who
came to N.S.W. in 1841. The father, John
Allpress Pigott, was a cabinet-maker, and
in the mid-forties he hved in Kent-street, north
of the gasworks. He died in 1857, and Pigott
junior had to shift for himself. He was articled
to Henry Newbon, a solicitor, of Bridge-street
and was admitted to practice in 1863. For some
years he was in partnership with W. J. Trickett,
SVn'ifiS 6 T aS Canterbury from
-f v Inl ® B7 Henry Parkes gave him a
seat in the Upper House on the usual theory that
the man who is a failure as a mere temporary
legislator should thereupon get a life job at legis-
lation. Pigott, however, took the unusual course
of resigning when incurable illness overtook him.
Robert Stout, of Maoriland, the one-time
iconoclast and Radical and scorner of titles, goes
placfflly to Engiand with his rank of Chief Justice
and with his Imperial gaud hanging from hisbow-
?Pr t- -P ,\ s sa,d le ch enshes hope of an additional
TVku mt |> w hen he meets his monarch face to face.
Dibbs, Berry Barton Quick, Griffith, and how
many more fell like Eve when the small green
a .PP le , of n Promotion” came within their reach.
Alfred Deakin and a few others have, so far
escaped by artistic side-stepping. ’
. W- H * Gjggptt, the old Sydney six-and-
eightpence who for 40 years made a specialty of
municipal law, died three or four days ago. He
used to be a mayor (he was the first one the Syd-
ney suburb of Petersham had), an ML A and
then »„ M.L.C.; but for some ye™ “„t
havoßgoM health h.mself, he lali his junior part-
ner, John Stinson, do the public talking. Stinson
is a shocking example of a genial young man try-
om t i° Ilve rP p fco the hidebound Conservatism
of an old law-office. So, instead of being a raw
Radical 6J days of the week and a giddy player of
bowls on the other half day, he divides the 6b
between the great Deform cause and a Bank-
la7 Practice. Somehow, after deciding
that I reetrade and Toryism were and ought to be
fV ed P P hc T l f the . coun try, John Stinson
in res °H ed that- with a policy of that sort
in full blast, there would be more money to be
picked up m the Bankruptcy Court than' in any
other. Besides being a genial young man, John
was a wise one in some respects.
IN TOPHET.
S ELECTUS: “ This is where you are to camp."
S UNDOWNUS: "Say, mate, couldn’t you give us a
change? I’ve just come from the proposed
Federal Capital site of Yassberra.”
One of the oldest of Victorians joined the
Big Camp on March 8, when Mrs. Mary Dewar,
widow of William Dewar, of Glendewar and
Essendon, went over in her 94th year. She was a
Victorian of 70 years’ standing, having arrived in
1839; so she saw practically all the history that
the State has to its credit.
About a wet Hebrew :
A Scotch gentleman named Isaacs narrowly escaped a
hero’s death in one of the seashore baths at St. JKilda
(Melb.), last week. He made a wager of £1 with a brither
Scot named Davis that he would swim a distance of
25yds., and, as a matter of fact, he accomplished the feat.
But immediately after Mr. Isaacs had passed the winning-
post, his strength failed, or his joyful emotion overcame
him, and he sank. Somebody went to the rescue, but
was convulsively clutched and dragged under water by
the drowning man. Finally, another Samaritan, fully
clothed and in his right mind, set the first rescuer free
and pulled Isaacs out of the wet. The Scotchman’s first
words, on recovering consciousness, were : “ I won my
bet.” The incident reminds one of the little story which
Talma (the lady member of the Leroy, Talma and Bosco
firm) used to relate what time she was picking bright
half-crowns from the air at Rickards’. “I once taught
a man to do this,” said Talma, whilst picking her half-
dollars from the atmosphere ; “ but, alas 1 he died of ex-
haustion. Poor Isaacs ! ” Probably the deceased money-
gatherer was first cousin to the Isaacs who won his bet
at the baths.
The just-deacl Clarence Hannell, of New-
castle, was responsible for the only joke of which
the N. S. Wales Public Service Board
was ever known to be guilty. Hannell
was president, vice-president, patron,
treasurer, or hon. secretary of about
four score clubs, leagues, societies
and things at Newcastle. Also he
was Shipping Master at that port.
Some years ago the Board asked all
public servants to furnish particulars
of any honorary positions they held.
When the Board saw Hannell’s list it
grunted three times, and then sent
him a note hoping that his duties as
a public servant did not to any extent
interfere with his other work.
Two Adelaide reporters tell this
story : They were on a case in the
Supreme Court. Across the corridor,
on the Criminal side, was proceeding a
trial for putting a Chinaman to death
per boot and road metal. There en-
tered to the Civil Court a citizen
who had lost his way. He looked round.
The only thing resembling a dock
was the reporters’ box. “So those are the blokes
that murdered the Chow,” he whispered to the
doorkeeper. “Blime! They look it !’’ And he
settled down to wait for the revolting details.
Rev. W. R. Mounsey, who was curate at
St. James’s Church, King-street, Sydney, has
been appointed by the Archbishop of Canterbury
to be Bishop of Borneo. In Borneo the Bishop
discards his murky suit, apron and gaiters, and
gads, about in white linen or mosquito curtain
clothes.
“ D.”: Sydney Star (B. 13/3/’O9) is libel-
lously awry concerning the character of Chief
Justice Alfred Stephen, deceased. Consider the
following :
Absolutely without humor, he never perpetrated a joke
nor did he ever appear to enjoy a joke. Cold in manner,
he cultivated no friendships and entertained no society!
He was aloof and lonely, and rarely recognised even bar!
risters who pleaded before him daily. Creatures con-
cerned him no more than candlesticks, except when he
was sentencing them with characteristic severity. Con-
vinced of the guilt of an accused, he assisted the Crown
Prosecutor adroitly, dexterously, determinedly.
My bather, who knew Stephen well, held that he
was the most entertaining talker of his day in
N.S.W.. Unlike the average Supreme Court
Judge of modern times, Stephen was a man of
wide reading. With this, he combined an acid
wit of his own that was intensely diverting, and
an immense capacity to s»e humor in others.
Far from “cultivating no friendships and enter-
taining no society,” his house in Lyons Terrace
was at one period the chief social centre for such
“intellectuals” as Sydney possessed. The chain-
gang traditions in which he was reared made him
a harsh Judge, but off the Bench he was the most
genial of men—a characteristic, by the way, that
distinguished Hawkins and many another “hang-
ing Judge.” As to “dexterously and deter-
minedly assisting the Crown Prosecutor” in his
work, tha.t is not the reputation that Stephen
left behind among contemporary barristers.
Windeyer did, and his name is execrated on that
score still. One of the essential differences
between the two men was that Stephen had the
capacity for waiting till he had heard all the
evidence before he made up his mind about an
accused person. Windeyer knew whether the
party in the dock was guilty or otherwise as soon
as he saw the color of his hair, or the way he ad-
justed his tie. Stephen summed up in deadly
fashion when convinced of a prisoner’s guilt, and
passed an appalling sentence afterwards; Win-
deyer not only summed up and sentenced with
astounding vonom, but, in addition, played right
energetically, during the taking of evidence, the
prosecuting part of which the Star unjustly
accuses Stephen.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
Mr. A. W. Cormack, the founder of the extensive
coopering: works at Darling- Harbor, Sydney, who died at
his home, beside Snail’s Bay, on March 10, was a Sydney
native, born on the bank of the Tank Stream (near Cir-
cular Quay) in 1837. The exact locality was in Aber
crombie-place or lane, which ran down from George-street
to the Tank watercourse. Hamilton-street, now ter-
minates the lane. Mr. Cormack served his apprenticeship
to his father, John Hunter Cormack, after he had re-
ceived the “rudiments” at Dr. Lang’s school. The
father flourished as a cooper in the days when whalino-
was a big Sydney industry, and oil casks were needed. In
the mid-’forties there were 34 master coopers in Sydnev
and when the value of the boiling-down system, hit upon
by O Brien, of Yass, and Clarke Irving 1 , became known, the
number doubled. To-day the Sydney directory show's just
13. When Darling Harbor was partly filled in during the
very early ’seventies Cormack Brothers were amongst the
first buyers of Government allotments, and there thej r
concentrated their business. Mr. Cormack has left a
widow, nine children, and 13 grandchildren.
Little Lees, M.L. A. and Sydney alderman,
is off for a 12 months’ trip abroad. He has
grot seven months’ leave of absence as City
Father probably because, if he resigned, he would
just spoil a beautiful record of 30 years’ unbroken
aldermanship. He has served continuously since
1879. His legislative career has not been so suc-
cessful. There were breakages in it when a
thankless country had rejected Lees at the polls.
Lees has been, in a general way, a very silent but
faithful hair on the tail of the Foreign-trade dog.
He came from Penrith, and his struggles at the
poll with local publican Smith are still remem-
bered thereabouts.
The reminiscences of “K.” :
The publication, by the Mort’s Dock and Engineering
Co. (Sydney), of a short sketch of its half-century’s his-
tory recalls the fact that Thomas Sutcliffe Mort, the
founder, who has been dead just 30 years, pioneered
several big projects. He was only 27 when he started,
without capital, as an auctioneer. His firm of Mort and
Co. afterwards became Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. He
start,ed public wool sales in Australia, and to-day they
are probably the chief wool sales of the world. He took
part in promoting the Hunter River Steam Navigation
Co. (1841), and was engaged in the futile scheme
for a private railway to Parramatta five years
before the State line was opened. He floated the Great
Nugget Vein Mining Co., the first concern launched to
work auriferous land in N.S.W. In 1855 Mort’s Dock at
Balmain w'as finished, and in this the founder invested
£lOO,OOO. A similar sum went into the dairy settlement
of Bodalla, on the South Coast. Mort realised the possi-
bilities of the frozen meat trade, and spent £BO,OOO on
depdts and plantatLithgowand Darling Harbor. He never
saw any return on his capital. The present Fresh Food
and Ice Co. occupies the Darling Harbor premises. A re-
markable feature of this enterprise was the frozen luncheon
given to a large company at Lithgow in September, 1875,
the food being all Australian and all frozen. The birds
for the wild pigeon pie had been shot IS months before.
Mort made a memorable speech on the possibilities of
preserving food for long-distance travelling. Other ven-
tures in which he was interested were the Peak Downs
Copper Co. and the Waratnh Colliery. After all this
activity he was only 63 when he died. Curiously enough,
pretty well all the concerns he promoted turned out
failures or partial failures. Mort’s Dock alone has
of late’ years met with success, and it is
hampered by the fact that it is employed
mostly in patching ships instead of in building them
Whenever any of the companies that make much loot along
the Australian coast want an 800-ton steamer built
they show their patriotism by rushing to England for it.
The result is a country with millions invested in maritime
concerns, and no experience in turning out the ships that
some day will be wanted on the spot and in an infernal
hurry. A stiff dut}' on imported craft might prove about
the cheapest defence provision Australia could have.
SOLD FOR A HA'PENNY.
A British Government contract for canvas has been
given to French and Belgian firms, their tenders being
about ½d. per yard lower than the British.— Cable.
James Hanlon, who failed to dodge the
sabre cut of the Angel Inevitable the other day.
had held a beer-pump license longer than any
other Bung in Westralia. Besides having had
his name up over numerous doors in Geraldton,
he found time between whiles to manage a
brewery, dabble in public affairs, run a fine string
of racehorses, and make himself so generally use-
ful that he will be badly missed now that he is
gone.
HE’S GOT HO TROUSERS ON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ti OST , Indian. wearing- blue sweater, straw hat, broken
crown ; seen Lonesomehurst last Wednesday. Send
14 Blank-street, Blankhurst. Reward.— Strange advt.
from . Melbourne payer.
An Indian lost in sweater of blue
And a hat with a broken crown
(An old straw hat of mildewed hue)
Is wandering round the town.
You can’t mistake the clothes he wears—
Unless the clothes are gone—
The sweater is marked by a couple of tears,
And he’s got no trousers on.
His legs are long and lean and brown,
He’s shrunk about the shank ;
Mayhap he’s wearing a wrinkled frown
On his brow, which is dark and dank.
But oh ! if the sweater has blown away,
And the old straw hat is gone,
What things will people think and say?
For he’s got no trousers on.
He wanders round in this scanty dress,
Forlorn and disconsolate ;
A prey is the heathen to sore distress,
Like the Peri at Paradise Gate.
You won’t forget there’s an old straw hat,
And a sweater his back upon—
Though we can’t be certain there’s even that—
And he’s got no trousers on.
We know that he’s somewhere round the town
Arrayed in that sweater blue—
It’s just the color of Maudie’s gown,
Now Maudie is wearing rue.
We’ll pay you well if you send him back,
Don’t mind if his clothes are gone,
Or the lean brown legs have turned jet black,
And he’s got no trousers on.
QUEENSLAND.
AUSTIN DODD.


YEN
/;
r
it
X
r
[ir
o
&
a
m»mgh
?)-?l
■A-:
7*V«
r?ss
m
sa
A
*>*
A*
i
H.n
il
v>>
L>
®2r
c
5
&
C\
'cr
"i
r
-4:
AL
/AS^
e
fltCAwrnv
VENUS—Charming' aroma and delicate ricb flavor.
An ideal pipe Tobacco. Sold in Cut Double Flaße
in 2oz. Tins and 2oz. and 4oz. Plug's.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL 77 GAS ENGINE and PLANT made in En S<and.)
Royal ASTioultu.al trials in England, and was awarded the **“
NATIONAL ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. f Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Represented
by
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers,
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDiCO : Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK —Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Bumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
(Sydney)
Added
Ex- Written to
Dee., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
1898 £46,112 £20,531 £10,396 £2082 £13,103
1899 .. 50,291 22,890 11,023 1581 14,797
1900 ... 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901 .. 61,979 19,435 15,997 2209 24,338
1902 63,552 31,850 14,717 1555 15,430
1903.. 63,732 34,877 14,142 .. \ lr „ Ifi
Assets written up 3,071 1468 / 10 ’ rflo
1904 65,619 29,610 14,227 1586 20,196
1905 .. 70,242 27,515 15,615 1971 25,141
1906 .. 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24,247
1907 .. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28,457
1908 .. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38,824
This co., though it has just had its 30th birthday, has
put on most of its weight during the past 10 years. At
the end of 1898, after 20 years’ work, it had £179,114 in
funds ; in the next 10 years it has added £212,463, bringing
the total up to £391,577. And w'hile the new premiums
in 1898 were £5318, in the past year they amounted to
£19,290, including, however, £2290 consideration for
annuities granted. Starting with an Industrial business,
the society later on transferred that branch to the Citi-
zens’, and thus probably made the mistake of its life ; for
though hard and unprofitable bullocking had to be done
to get a footing for Industrial business in Australia, now
that it has got a footing it turns out to be a fine feeder
for Ordinary business. But while not running an Indus-
trial branch, this office issues numerous tables of a quasi-
Industrial character, and hangs numerous attractive frills
about some of its policies ; and no doubt that accounts
for the very fair progress it makes against its much
bigger rivals. Necessarily, however, having to battle for
all the business it gets, its expense rate is rather high :
Expenses Compared with Total Income
1899 .. £2llB 4 p.c. 1904 .. £2113 7 p.c.
1900 .. 29 311 „ 1905 .. 22 4 7 „
1901 .. 25 16 2 ~ 1906 .. 24 5 6 „
1902 .. 23 3 2 ~ 1907 .. 22 18 2 „
1903 .. 22 3 9 „ 1908 .. 25 17 1 ~
But, since the expensivepart of the business is thegetting
of new policies, tne proportion of new-premium income
to total income ought to be taken into account. Follow-
ing the usual plan of charging up 7 per cent, as the cost
of old business and 3 per cent, for annuity business,
it will be found that the balance of expenses is £20,223 ;
and reckoning that as the cost of the new business, it
will be found that it works out at 118-9 per cent. A
comparison :
Old Business New New Business
Cost. Business. Cost.
1897 .. 7 per cent. £3,828 190‘0 per cent.
1907 •• 7 „ 13,352 114-4 „
1908 •• 7 ~ 19,290 118-9
In previous years annuity business (if any) has not been
shown separately. It is explained that two new branches
have been opened during the past year, and that, no
doubt, would make the expenses a trifle more than normal.
On the other hand, while expenses are heavy,
the mortality experience is very satisfactory ; and the
interest earnings are higher than those of any other
assurance office in Australia. On the mean funds for the
past year they average £5 2s. Bd. per cent. ; for the pre-
vious year the average was no less than £5 6s. 4d. per
cent. The reduction is no doubt due to the gradual
increase of Government stock and gilt-edged securities.
Hitherto the office has dealt largely in small loans ; as
the funds increase, this policy will have to be modified.
It is proposed, the directors say, to add to the public
securities by 50 per cent, during the current year ; and
even then no more than 15 per cent, of the assets will be
invested in that way'. The disposition of the funds now
and 10 years ago is shown hereunder :
„ ... _ . . 1898. 1908.
Public Securities .. 1-5 per cent. 10'3 per cent.
Freeholds .. .. 22-6 ~ 16'6
Mortgages .. .. 33-8 „ 39-0 ”
Loans on Policies .. 27-5 ~ 12-8
Other loans .. .. 9-8,, 13-0 ”
Cash, etc. .. .. 4-3 ~ B'3 ”
Freeholds stand at £65,569 ; but that is after deducting
£17,500 of a mortgage on the Melbourne premises# The
large amount of capital sunk in premises may be well
invested in this particular case ; there is no way of tell-
ing. But it can be laid dow-n as a general rule that
the prosperity of Australian life-assurance offices is in
inverse ratio to the capital sunk in freeholds. In the
case of the M.L.A., recently amalgamated with the
Citizens’, there was a striking illustration of how- badly
an investment of this sort may turn out. In the M.L.A.
books the head office in George-street, Sydney, stood at
£115,000. When the premises were no longer required to
house the society, and had to be valued at what they
would be likely to fetch in the market, they were written
down to £45,000. Apart from the property item the City
Mutual’s figures, so far as assets are concerned, are all
moving the right way'. And as they move that way a re-
duction in the interest earnings is inevitable. As a partial
set-off to that, the amounts to be written off will no
doubt decrease too. On the mean funds for the past five
years the writings-off have averaged 10s. Id. per cent
per annum—a pretty severe cut into the high interest
earnings.
The actuarial investigation for 1907 is referred
to in the report; it disclosed a profit of £11,204 for the
year, “ of which the directors decided to distribute £8159
as a bonus, in addition to sundry bonuses guaranteed
under policies. This .. . represents a dividend of over 11
per cent, on the premiums paid for 1907.” It would be
11,1 advantage if the report of the year’s actuarial investi-
gation could accompany the year’s accounts.
* * * *
The Emu Bay Railway Co. :
_ , Deb ® n -. Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Loss on Divi- Beckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Business, dends. Assets)
1899.. £298,410 £106,150 £5,078 Nil £lO9 482
1900.. 337,172 200,000 9,181 Nil 118^663
Total preliminary expenses to date, £39,116 157’779
1901.. 360,000 205,234 8,078 Nil 165"857
1902.. 360,000 205,039 4,255 Nil 170’112
1903.. 360,000 210,052 4,881 Nil 174’993
1904.. 360,000 214,866 4,703 Nil 179 696
Profit.
1905.. 360,000 214,668 3,828 Nil 175 868
1906.. 360,000 210,546 9,191 Nil 166’677
Capital written off, £65,000 .. 101 677
1907.. 295,000 205,257 10,671 £8750 99 756
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 98,459
This co. started with a boom and a ridiculous goodwill
item of £lOO,OOO representing “ rights acquired under the
V.D.L. Co.’s Waratah-Zeehan Railway Act and other con-
cessions.” In other words, the fool Parliament of Tas-
mania passed an Act giving a co. power to build a line
and the co. traded the right off to another co., and pro-
posed to make the people pay interest for all time on
£lOO,OOO that was not represented by any sort of railway
work whatever. One section of the public was so charmed
with the prospect of squeezing the users of the line that
the shares were wolfed; they were rushed to a pre-
mium—and they stayed there for 48 hours or so. Then
the market began to get cold, and Polar bears could
live in it ever since, provided the\' were given a rug or
two. To' add to the misfortunes of the shareholders who
already had to share thing's with this swag of paper capi-
tal, a debenture issue had presently to be arranged on
very costly terms ; and, further, the co. leased part of its
track from the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Railway Co.
As the table suggests, the debenture interest wasn’t
always paid, simply because there wasn’t enough to do
it with after paying the owners of the leased line. In
1907 some sort of a cleaning-up was done ; hut it was a
poor thing with some humorous features. Thus, though
£05,000 was written off ttie ordinary shares, reducing
them from 20s. to ]ss., they “ rank as if they were still
shares of 20s. each fully paid.” In profit distributions
the shares are still to be 20s. paid ; and so also in the
event of winding up. The juggling certainlv reduced the
size of the deficit (on paper); but it left the 00. to all
intents and purposes precisely where it was. Still, this
make-believe straightening-up of the finances served asan
excuse for paying a small div. for 1907. This div. was on
the 8 per cent. pref. shares, of which 4 per cent, is cumu-
lative. The co. is 12 years old, and until then not a cent
had been paid. The accrued dividends are now £26,457;
and £4OOO goes on to the sum every year.
Other particulars of the Emu Bay disaster
follow:
Available
Working for Rent, Proportion
Ex- Interest, Re- Expenses to
Earnings, penses. newals, etc. Earnings.
1599 .. £24,548 £14,786 £9,762 69"2 percent.
1900 .. 26,625 17,475 9,150 65'7 „
1901 .. 39,005 25,957 13,030 66'6 „
1902 .. 42,131 25,289 16,842 60 ~
1903.. 40,818 23,264 17,554 57 ~
1904 .. 42,365 24,382 17,983 57'5 „
1905 .. 50,829 24,731 26,098 4S'7 „
1906 .. 60,170 26,654 33,516 44'3 „
1907 .. 65,658 30,746 34,912 46'8 „
1908 .. 57,057 31,519 25,538 55'2 ~
In 1906-7 there was considerable nibbling at these shares
on the strength of much-improved traffic returns ; and no
doubt the baby was passed on in large parcels for some-
body else to nurse. It was pointed out at the time that
the metal boom made the figures wholly untrustworthy,
while unquestionably heavier expenses for repairs, etc.,
were looming in the distance. The figures for the past
year support that view, though probably the slump in
earnings is heavier than it ought to be, owing to the labor
trouble which happened at the Magnet mine during the
year. Settlement along the line is said to be increasing ;
but it will take a lot of that to fill up the awful chasm
which yawns between the shareholders on one side and
regular dividends on the other. So far, no sinking fund
payments in connection with the debentures have been
called for ; but they must start in 1911 under present
arrangements, and will neutralise any advantage that the
present generation of shareholders' might possibly get
from the very gradual extension of settlement in the dis-
trict.
Howard Smith and Co., Ltd.:—
Dividends Depreciation,
(sp.c. pref., etc.,
Dec., Profit. lOp.c. ord.). Written off. Deficit
1901 .. £57,734 £18,782 £20,668 £2l 716
1902 .. 50,435 28,864 19,626 19771
1903 .. 51,443 29,133 19,536 10’997
1904 .. 52,418 29,721 20,466 14 766
( 57,348 30,334 22,4361 Reserves.
1905 .. -j Profit on wharf re- l 16,993
l sumption .. 27,151 /
1906 .. 57,488 30,792 25,728 17 961
1907 .. 65,827 31,814 33,785 xs’lS9
(5 p.c. pref.,
15 p.c. ord.)
1908 ... 82,608 47,602 22,538 30,657
That is one way of putting it ; but there is another way.
In fact, the other way is probably the better way of put-
ting recent results ; but unfortunately the form of the
published accounts has been changed no less than three
times, so that thesame plan can’t be adopted throughout.
Here, however are the more recent results
Total Reserve
Transferred Unexplained for
To Reserves Additions to Depreciation,
from P. &L. Reserves. Insurance, etc.
1905 .. £22,436 _ £219,731
1906 .. 24,365 £31,323 275,419
£5824 (Leasehold and Share Depreciation Fund)
transferred.
1907 .. 33,785 27,688 342 716
1908 .. 22,538 365,254
In the early years of the co. depreciation was written off
the assets. Steamers and plant cost the co. (formed in
1901 to take over the business of the private concern of
William Howard Smith and Sons, Ltd.) £262,519 net. In
the next four years this happened :
Original cost £262,519
Additions 110,625
Total cost .. £373,144
Written off 85,607
Book value (1904) .. .. £287,537
After that this property was and still is shown in the
balance-sheet at cost. On the other side there was a
“fund for depreciation of steamers and plant, replace-
ments, renewals, insurance and contingencies.” In 1907
the items in this bundle were increased by the addition
of the “equalisation of dividends’” reserve, and the
whole heterogeneous mass now stands at £365,254. Up
to this year a Profit and Loss account was published. In
1907, for instance, £33,785, transferred to reserves from
Profit and Loss, was charged up to depreciation of
steamers, plant, leasehold, and shares; and another
£27,688 was added to reserves, presumably to cover con-
tingencies and provide for equalisation of divs., etc.
This year no Profit and Loss account is issued. Incl
all additions to reserves it will be seen that the totals for
the past three years have been :
To Reserve P. and L. Total Added
Funds. Balance. to Reserves.
ti)o6 .. £55,688 £968 £56,656
J. 907 .. 61,473 228 61 701
1908 .. 22,538 12,468 35’006
Those additions to reserves are, of course, after paying
dividend. Yet, though last year’s dividend was greater
than any previously paid, it still leaves the total gross
profit less last year than in either 1906 or 1907, notwith-
standing the larger amount of capital in the business
And the net profit would naturally be still smaller, because
of the larger amount now required to cover depreciation
In 1906 steamers and plant stood at £534,211 (cost)' in
1908 the item has moved up to £654,698. 1n1906 a4per
cent, writing-off would call for £21,369; in 1908 it would
call for £26,188. So by combining previous figures we
can arrive at this:—
Gross Less 4 per cent. Net
Profit. Depreciation. Profit
1906 .. £87,448 £21,369 £66,079
1907 .. 93,515 24,546 68,969
1908 .. 82,608 26,188 56,420
Whether 4 per cent, is a fair thing to write off is a matter
of opinion. Any figure will, however, serve the purpose
of showing how the years stand in relation to one another
In spite, then, of the increased dividend the result is not
as brilliant as it might be. The profits are still very fine
and the dividend was easily earned ; but there appears to
have been a considerable shrinkage in the actual profits.
A few further details of the Howard Smith Co
follow :
1901. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Goodwill .. £40,000 Nil Nil Nil
Real estate .. 26,890 £7,600 £6,906 £4 654
Leasehold .. 22,779 15,140 13,170 10’129
Steamers, etc.. 271,901 534,211 613,656 654’69S
Shares.. .. 23,744 143,465 194,421 196681
Stores.. .... 31,200 21,848 17,723 29,238
Liquid assets.. 101,134 127,909 96,981 159,897
The liabilities on December 31 were £134,560. The paid
capital 12 months ago was £431,472 ; it is now the even
£500,000, half cumulative preference and half ordinary.
The preference shares are entitled to 5 per cent, only!
The fact that as much as half the capital is cumulative
preference must be taken into account: it means that, no
matter how good times are and no matter how profitable
the capital may be, half of the capital is limited to 5 per
cent., and that makes things very sweet for the other
half. There is another side, certainly; but it won’t be
visible unless things get very' bad, since it takes only
£12,500 a year to pay the preference dividend in full.
» * * *
Toohey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
In reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
July, 1902.. £11,416 £11,416 £79,189
Jan., 1908.. 25,006 6 p.c. = £16,500 9,106 70,083
July, 1903.. 18,603 6 „ ~ 16,500 2,103 67,980
Jan., 1904.. 17,233 5 „ „ 13,750 3,483 64,497
July, 1904.. 10,440 4 „ „ 11,000 65,057
Jan., 1905.. 15,554 4 ~ „ 11,000 4,554 60,503
July, 1905.. 11,842 4 ~ ~ 11,000 842 59,661
Jan., 1906.. 9,930 4 ~ ~ 11,000 60,731
Reserve funds (£18,000) written off ;
capital written down from £550,000
to £400,000 (goodwill reduced to
• £22,500), leaving .. .. .. 16,231
July, 1906.. 12,128 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,128 14,103
Jan., 1907.. 11,528 5 ~ ~ 10,000 1,528 12,575
July, 1907.. 13,471 5 „ „ 10,000 3,471 9,104
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Jan., 1908.. 19,964 5 „ „ 10,000 9,964 860
July, 1908.. 13,977 5 „ „ 10,000 3,977 4,837
Jan., 1909.. 18,796 5 ~ „ 10,000 8,796 13,633
This co. was established in 1902 to take over the brewing
business of the Toohey brothers. It began very well ;
but soon the heavy load of goodwill began to tell, and
the dividend had to be dropped to 4 per cent. The
original goodwill burden was £85,000; but when the
trustees of the two Toohey estates saw how things were
going, they gave up 50,000 shares and agreed to the
writing-down of their other 325,000 shares from 20s. to 16s.
The 175,000 shares which bad been taken by the public
were similarly written down at the same time. Capital
was thus reduced from £550,000 to £400,000. Tbe good-
will was not, however, wholly written off: it stands
now as an asset for £22,500. A reserve fund to wipe
it out is being accumulated, and has reached £5OOO.
In the foregoing statement goodwill is, of course,
not reckoned as an asset at all. The profits are shown
net, after the appropriation usually of £2500 or £3OOO per
half-year to meet depreciation of plant and machinery.
It is impossible to say whether anything is charged
direct to Profit and Loss to cover other wear and tear, or
whether the appropriation is all the provision that is
made. The published accounts are a mere skeleton—
they don’t show either that or a great many other things.
Obviously there must be heavy depreciation in such an
item as “ Brewery, plant and machinery, goodwill, rolling
stock, freehold and leasehold properties, £339,512 ” ; and
almost everything hangs upon whether too much or too
little is written off. If too little is written off
(that is to say, if not enough revenue is put
aside to counterbalance the decay of premises, the
running out of leases, etc.), then the profits are less than
they are represented. On the contrary, over-liberal
allowances may possibly be made ; and in that case the
profits are under-stated. The point is this : in a concern
of this sort and size, profits are mainly a matter of
estimate, since nobody can tell absolutely what is the
right amount to strike off to provide for depreciation and
bad debts. (The sundry debtors item alone stands at
£109,989.) Therefore it is very little use taking one
balance-sheet; assuming that the management is doing
what it believes to be the fair thing, and
giving what it believes to be a correct view of the
state of affairs, the only sensible course is to
take note of the tendency of profits and other
items. Also, of course, one has to consider outside
influences. In general, Bung and Bung’s supplier (and
owner in many cases) are not in much favor. Legislation
is hitting them both. The brewery co. finds its pubs
shut up and three-fourths of their value thereby taken
from them. It is true that there is very little reduction
in the quantity of liquor consumed per head of the popu-
lation ; in Maorilarid, as a matter of fact, the quantity is
larger than it was. But, while that is in the brewer’s
favor, the capital value of his pub properties has been and
is being badly cut into, and he has to fight all the time,
and at great expense, to prevent things from becoming
worse than they are.
* * * *
The Australasian Mutual Live Stock Insur-
ance Co. (Melbourne): —
Deficit
(Goodwill
Carried- not
to reckoned
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. an asset!
1599 .. £471 Nil £471 £1750
1900 .. 492 Nil 492 1258
1901 .. 519 Nil 5 9 739
Reserves.
1902 .. 758 Nil 19
1903 .. 771 Nil 790
1904 .. 839 Nil 1629
1905 .. 908 20 p.c. = £686 . 1 1851
1906 .. 1145 18 „ „ 686 459 2310
1907 .. 1810 26§ „ „ 1283 527 2837
1908 .. 2009 23£ „ „ 1283 726 3563
1909 .. 1516 16 „ „ 962 554 4117
One-third of the year’s dividend goes towards payment of
a call, in pursuance of the co.’s policy to steadily increase
the capital. Six or eight other cos. are now feeding their
flocks in this little by-w'ay of insurance, on which the
picking has been very good for some years ; and that
extra competition no doubt accounts for the slightly
diminished premium income shown hereunder :
1903. 1906. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Premiums .. £3719 £7568 £7303 £7672 £6891
Interest, etc. ~ 151 250 299 489 473
Claims, etc. .. 2332 5635 4696 5108 4874
Claims, p.c, of
premiums .. 62'7 74'4 64'3 66'6 70'7
Expenses ~, 768 1037 1062 995 974
Expenses, p.c. of
premiums .. 20'7 13’7 14'5 12'9 14’1
The paid capital was £6094 at the end of the co.’s year ;
and that, as well as the reserves, was all in cash or de-
posits. Interest, with transfer fees and sundries of that
sort, is, in fact, sufficient to pay a 7 per cent, dividend on
its own account—a cheerful position for any co. to be in.
The Perth Benefit, Building, Investment
axp Loan Society (Westralia)
Dividends (exclusive Added
of 5 per cent. to Re- Re-
Profits. interest). serves, serves.
1900.. £1025 7J per cent. =£lo4l £75
1901.. 1273 7J ~ ~ 1181 £92 167
1902.. 1378 7£ „ „ 1487 58
1903.. 1632 „ „ 1569 63 121
1904.. 1887 7£ ~ „ „ 1636 251 372
1905.. 2017 74 „ ~ 1799 218 590
1906.. 2177 lu „ „ 2375 392
1907.. 1430 74 „ „ 1809 13
1908.. 2067 8* „ „ 2026 41 54
The shares first of all carry 5 per cent, interest. That is
to say, in five years you pay £B3 Bs. by wmekly instal-
ments of 45., and at the end of the period you get £lOO.
But, in addition to this interest or dividend—deferred,
of course—the “investor” or shareholder gets a bonus,
also deferred. Approximately the £lOO share, with
bonuses, has been worth the following amounts on
maturity :
1899 .. £l4B 13 4 1904 .. £l4O 2 0
1900 .. 144 12 4 1905 .. 144 13 0
1901 .. 143 1 0 1906 .. 138 3 9
1902 .. 140 0 0 1907 .. 135 12 4
1903 .. 13514 5 | 1908 .. 135 8 8
The amount due to “ investors ” or shareholders at the
last balance was £32,464, including deferred interest and
bonus. The amount due to fixed depositors was £9973 ;
so that the proportion of borrowed money is small. On
the other hand, it has to be remembered that the capital
i tself is practically only on deposit for five years ; so that
if there were any sort of disaster, and it became neces-
sary to realise securities, the position wouldn’t be as
good as it looks. The reserves are wretchedly small ; the
idea seems to be that, as the shareholders are constantly
drawing 1 out and winding up their connection with the
society, it wouldn’t be a fair thing to reserve anv profits
As there is no permanent capital, the need for reserves is"
however, really greater than usual; and even temporary
shareholders might reasonably make some sacrifice to
secure the permanence of the concern. Besides, the profits
that are shown from year to year are not absolutely
ascertained profits; they are only estimates, because
losses which may not show up for three or four years
may date from the present year. Hence it is a perfectly
fair thing to hang on to some of the profit, or what
looks like profit, in case the business shouldn’t pan out up
to expectations. The society’s expenses are moderate
no complaint at all can be laid against it on that score.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank
(Sydney) :
„ „ To Ke- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1902 ..£456 6 per cent. = £206 £250 £0239
June, 1903 .. 2552 42 ~ ~ 1442 1110 7349
Dec., 1903 .. 385 6 ~ ~ 205 ISO 7509
June, 1904 .. 445 6 ~ ~205 240 7769
Dec., 1904 ..522 6 „ ~205 317 80S6
Loss.
June, 1905 .. 240 6 ',, ~ 205 7041
Dec., 1905 ..115 6 ~ ~ 205 7394
Profit.
June, 1906 90 6 „ „ 205 7206
Loss.
Dec., 1906 .. 2289 62 „ ~ 2001 *>Bs6
June, 1907 .. 82 Nil _ 2774
Dec., 1907 .. 290 Nil 2484
Profit.
June, 1908 .. 362 Nil 362 2846
Dec., 1908 .. 411 Nil 411 3257
This little'concern, with which the name of managing
director E. C. V. Broughton is mostly associated, buy's
land by the acre and sells it by the foot and on time pay-
ment. In case the purchasers shouldn’t come up to the
scratch and the profits shouldn’t be as large as antici-
pated, a contingency fund was established, in 1905 it
was £1592. It is now only £3 : wherefore a draw of £5OO
has been made upon the formal reserve fund. The ad-
vances (balances due, etc.) total £23,752 ; so, if land values
should shrivel in the Sydney suburbs within the next two
or three years, serious things may happen to not only that
£5OO, but the rest of the reserves also. With £49 cash in
hand the co. owes £14,586 to depositors, and it has an over-
draft and other debts amounting to £4976. Against
that it has the advances previously mentioned, the
£49 of cash, and £5756 of freeholds. One can understand
a man going into the risky business of land-buying and
subdivision for the sake of the big profits "that can
sometimes be got out of it; but what about the deposi-
tor, who never gets a “ punch’’—except in the eye?
His position is that the co. has £29,661 of assets,
mainly time-payment balances and unsold land, part of
which is no doubt mortgaged ; while the capital and
reserves total £10,099. In other words, he is protected
against a slump to the extent of £10,099, which is fairly
substantial. But the co. has only £49 in hand, and it
owes the bank £3545 ; so, though the money may be
perfectly safe, there must always be the risk that it
won’t be available just whenever the depositor may
call for it. No doubt the depositor says, “ But I get
(say) 7 per cent., whereas the banks will only give me
3J per cent, at most.” But supposing thing's went
wrong with Australia for a while, and with Sydney—as
things very likely may—what are the prospects of this
or any other co. of the sort being able to go on earning
the 7 per cent. ?
■*-***
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1902.. £1524 sp.c. = £lll7 £324 £B3 £2669
June, 1903.. 1525 5,, ~ 1117 407 1 2670
D c., 1903.. 1769 5,, ~ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904.. 1831 6,, „ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904.. 2097 6 „ ~ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905.. 2172 6,, ~ 1340 275 557 4190
Dec., 1905.. 2428 6,, „ 1340 26.) 819 5009
June, 1906.. 2285 6,, „ 1340 386 559 5568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6,, ~ 1340 439 549 6117
June, 1907.. 2183 6,, ~ 1340 408 435 6552
Dec., 1907.. 2072 6,, „ 1377 455 240 6792
June, 1908.. 1924 6 „ „ 1490 810 6416
Dec., 1908.. 1962 6 ~ „ 1490 807 6081
This won’t do. In the first half of last year the reserves
were drawn upon to the extent of £376 to pay the divi-
dend, and in the past half-year to the extent of' £335. It
may be that the demands upon the Renewals and Repairs
Fund have been particularly heavy ; but if that is not so,
the dividend ought to be cut down. Of the reserves
£4545 belongs to this Repairs Fund. Evidently
this fund is a set-off against actual depreciation,
wherefore it isn’t a real reserve at all. Nor are
the additions made to that fund true profits, so far as
as they merely cover current wear and tear. Under the
circumstances the reserves are wretchedly small. The
diminished profits of the last couple of years are
largely due to dearer coal ; but, to the great
regret of the Newcastle men, that is a trouble
that is likely to ease off a little. On the other hand the
coal-owners and the shipping cos. are nowadays so well
unionised that gas cos. are not likely to get any soft
snaps in the way of coal contracts. ' This co. has few
liabilities to speak of: its own book debts (£1644) more
than cover them.
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Writ- To
Dividends and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-Tax. off. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £1328 4 p.c.= £lO5O £278 £6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4 „ „ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 ~ ~ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904., 1655 4 ~ ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 1315 4 „ „ 1050 £5OO 7364
Dec., 1905.. 1147 4 „ ~ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4 ~ „ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ „ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 „ ~ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 „ „ 1050 800 7722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 „ ~ 1050 200 8062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4 ~ ~ 1050 250 261 8323
This co., which has just passed its 50th year, has the
bad luck to be bumped by a municipal electric light and
power supply, which has the advantage of very cheap
energy in the shape of a local streamlet. The capital
is £50,000; in addition, there are £35,253 of deben-
tures and £2750 of an overdraft. The amounts written
off plant are extremely moderate; it is doubtful
whether they cover depreciation. The capital in plant,
buildings, etc., is £82,087 ; so that last year only a shade
more than £ per cent, was written off. Expansion is
very slow, and the outlook is hodden. It is one of the
veryfew Commonwealth gas cos. whose shares are atadis-
count; the £lO paid shares can be got at about £7.
Bega Co-Operative Creamery Co. (N.S. W.)
Sup- Writ-
Divs. pliers’ ten Re-
Profits. (5 p.c.). Bonus. Off. serves
June, 1903 .. £934 £177 £319 £302 £BB6
June, 1904 .. 1381 179 290 1798
June, 1905 .. 383 179 694 267 1041
June, 1906 .. 803 179 277 242 1146
June, 1907 .. 1537 179 329 2175
Loss.
Dec., 1907 .. 160 635 108 1272
Profit.
June, 1908 .. 486 179 1195 384
Dec., 1908 .. 150 170 364
Things have not gone too well lately with this little
co. In the first half of the year there was a loss
of £1025 to be made good on account of the
wreck 6f the Bega, with this co.’s butter aboard.
(This is shown in the amount written off.) For the
past half-year actually a net profit of £25 is shown ;
but £175 has to he put aside to provide for anticipated
losses on butter shipments—a speculative business at
the best of times. A co. which goes in for it ought to
create a special reserve ; but this co. has none what-
ever apart from the amount appropriated out of the
current half-year’s revenue. The co. owed £4523 on
December 31 ; on the other side, stocks, book debts,
and cash (£2060) totalled £4889.


Fraser | Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BOCHUM UNION
Sole Agents for
Rails, Trucks, Points anti Crossings, Turntable
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. U
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S. A.):
Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends.
1902.. £29,957 Nil q?’469 44’182
Zl" 62 ’5 9 ?8 2j per 8000 IrffiO
ml:: 51, 5! II :: » 20,«.« g,«
1906.. 160,122 25 „ „ 80,000 -7,97.
IQH7 ,40 435. 140,000 bdl
1907., 49,000 4d 4 j> >» lAnnri on ciy 8 467
1908., 46,351 5 „ „ 16,000 M&U
Standard copper averaged £6O Os 6d. per ton in 1908 as
against £B7 Is. Bd. in 1907 ; yet, in spite of this great
drop, the profit is alleged to have been almost as much in
1908 as it was in 1907. The copper output from the co. s
own ore was apparently about 5850 tons, ana a
difference of £27 on that little lot would mean
£144,450. Further, the actual amount realised for metal
during the year was £6l 7s. 2d., as against £91155. Id.
in 1907 ;so that the difference m value was ev eil Sreater
The production from the co.’s own ore in 1907 was about
6700 tons ; so that in 1907 the co. had 1350 tons more to
make a profit out of at the higher rate. Under all these
circumstances it will be seen that either the alleged profit
of £49,835 in 1907 was absurd, or the alleged profit of
£46,351 for the past year is absurd. The ol, “ c , e “'' e
that the £49,835 was absurd. At the end of 1906 the cm
had in hand “ refined copper, ores, and furnace products
which it valued at £203,551.; and the profit for 1906 was
of course, based on that valuation. It is highly probable
that that was a ridiculous over-valuation, and that
nothing like £203,551 was realised ; therefore there was a
great deal of “backwardation” to make up in other
words, the 1906 profits were inflated, and the 1907 profits
had to be cut down to make things square. The incident
shows that mining cos.* accounts are not always to be
swallowed whole. Especially one ought to see how much
metal, etc., the co. has on hand, and it ought to say the
figure at which that metal is valued. There is not, fortu-
nately, the same scope now for elt her under-
or over-stating profits as there was in 1906-7 ; for,
instead of having £203,551 of products on hand
the total quantity was only £54,087 on December 31. The
management does not, however, say the price at which it
values the metal ; and it is very necessary that that in-
formation should be given. The management might have
been regarded as an infallible judge once ; but it lo st it
halo in 1907.
Assuming that £46,351 was the fair gross profit
for the year, what does that mean per ton ? The quantity
of copper produced was 6448 tons. But that included
purchased ore. The copper in the co.’s own ore was
apparently 5353 tons. Taking the even figures—s3so
tons—this would mean a profit of £8 13s. 3d. per ton of
metal. Standard copper averaged £6O os. 6d. (Wallaroo
copper is worth anything from £1 to £3 per ton more
than standard.) Therefore the costs were £6O os. 6d.
less £8 13s. 3d. per ton of standard, or £5l 7s. 3d.. at
that price the co. could pay its way, without wnting oil
anything for depreciation. In this calculation the whole
of the profit is taken as being made on the co.’s own ore.
Calculating the actual cost of production, the directors
themselves put the average at £54 16s. Bd. But that is
reduced, as shown above, by profits on side-lines sul-
phuric acid production, etc.
. . . • 1
Wallaroo and Moonta costs are very high,
whichever way you take them. True, this co. hasn t got
Mt. Lyell’s gold to help it out; but, on the Qther band, it
derived 605'tons of copper from the very cheap cementa-
tion “works” —the simple process of pouring water on
to old dumps, and recovering the metal from the solution
at the bottom. The gross profit on this output was
£16,615, equal to £27 9s. per ton ; so the cost of pro-
ducing copper by this process was only £3- 11s. 6d.
Without this cementation process, then, 4/48 tons oi
co.’s copper gave £29,736 of gross profit, or only £65 per
ton ; which would bring up the costs for all the metal
derived from ore to £53 15s. fid. per ton, even when
helped out by whatever profit there is in purchased ore,
sulphuric acid, etc. And this cementation process has
its limits—dumps can’t go on yielding precipitate for
many years. Part of the explanation of the high costs
lies in the fact that the ore has first to be concen-
trated —at any rate, it js first concentrated ; and there
are heavy losses in the process. Of 6260 tons copper in
the 166,872 tons of ore handled last year, only 5-00
tons were left in the .concentrates ; later on, some of
this loss will be recovered from the tailings dumps, lhe
average value of the ore is 3J per cent. What quantity
of this or any other value remains in the mines is a dark
mystery ; for neither the directors nor the managers ever
commit themselves to estimates of ore reserves. General-
Manager Hancock went on a tour of the world last
year, mainly to pick up points. In a special report, he
says in effect that he saw none worth picking. As to
underground work, “ at no mines did I find a more econo-
mical system” of hauling; and “I observed no methods
of working which, in my opinion, could be substituted
with advantage.” As to concentrating— I did not see
any plan't so economical for copper-ore sorting as that at
Wallaroo.” The only change which might possibly be
made is in producing electrolytic copper ; but the
smallness of the quantities available for treatment com-
pletely prevents suitable comparisons with results
achieved in the large American works. Evidently all
this is intended to be highly satisfactory. But it can be
viewed from the other end. If, under the best known
methods, it costs £5l per ton to produce copper from
these mines, there must be grave danger should a slump
occur. It would be far more cheerful to be told that
costs could be cut down £lO or £l5.
* * * *
Some months ago a mining expert landed in
Broken Hill, with the tail of a wildcat sticking out of his
coat-tail pocket. He talked in a large way about bis-
muth, and some of the people who listened to him got
ready to go out and sit on the kerbstone and watch
waggon-loads of the rare metal go by. He hired the
usual party of men to go out and clean up
the show in a long-ago deserted section of the
Barrier country, where nobody has gone tor years
except to shoot rabbits; and when the cleaning-up was
done the expert went out and looked for the lode.
Whether he found it or not,will never be known , hut the
men say that, with the exception of a few dead rabbits
and perhaps a deceased nanny, there was nothing in any
of the abrasions on the surface (they couldn t be called
shafts) to arrest the visitor’s attention. But so wonderful
is the power of some magicians that before the show was
abandoned an evidently inspired paragraph appeared in a
Sydney daily, announcing that, in searching for bis-
muth, the explorer had discovered a vein of ore
assaying something like 21250 z. of silver, and 60 per cent
lead per ton; also, a tin mine with 2000 tons of
20 per cent, ore in sight. The bismuth show
that was an incredibly rich silver mine, has now been, to
all appearances, abandoned, and people are beginning t
wonder when the 2000 tons of 20 per cent, tin ore will
start to come in. „ „
* * * *
Although, judging by the weak-kneed condi-
tion of the metal market, this ought to be the close
season for wild-cats of the silver-lead persuasion,
there are still a few enterprising individuals hunting the
long-tailed game on the Barrier. In one instance a
prospectus has been issued in the hope of snaring enough
money to sink a shaft on a rubble-heap on the unfre-
quented side of the White Leads flat. The P ro ®l
contains some naive statements. ‘ These blocks (the
Silver City blocks) are almost end on with the South
Blocks mine.” As a matter of fact, the South Blocks
mine is visible from the Silver City blocks, though a con-
siderable stretch of level country intervenes. In the
early days of the field anything within view of
the smoke of the Broken Hill chimney stacks was
claimed to be “ in a direct line with the main line o
lode.” As for the few shovelsful of galena which, after
much labor, the indefatigable prospector has scraped out
of the pot-holes on the Silver City blocks—well, there
were hundreds of tons of better galena and carbonates
taken out of the old Rising Sun on the opposite side of
the same flat; but it was all in small patches and veins
not big enough to pay working costs at normal metal
prices. * # *
“Carlton”: “Fairplay” (B. 11/3/’O9) infers
that the iron industry has no.t had a fair chance because
the works have been established at Lithgow, which is far
from the coast and the markets. It is cheaper to bung
ore to the coal than coal to the ore. The ore, however,
has not to be brought far. Vast quantities of over 50 per
cent, ore are available within easy rail distance, lhe
Lake ores of America are conveyed vast distances,, and
many of the English blast furnaces use ores imported
from Spain and other places. Cleveland would give much
to have the Carcoar and other N.S.W. ore deposits at its
door. It is speaking without knowledge to sa\ the ore^
used at Lithgow are poor and require mixing with foreign
stuff. “Fairplay” is referred to the report bv 3. B.
Jaquet on the “ Iron Ore Deposits of Isew South \\ ales.
As to the quality of the ores, they are vastly superior to
those used by many of the leading furnaces m England,
and do not require calcining before smelting. No foreign
ores are used at Lithgow. They are not wanted. Lithgow
is on the line, and convenient as a distributing centre in
N.S.W., especially for the many services of the Govern-
ment and railways. It is quite recognised that there are
many ore fields in Queensland near the coast, ine
writer knows of a spot where ore and limestone in im-
mense quantities can be obtained close to d ee P' vat, er-
Suitable coal and coke are, however, a present difficulty
there ; but there seems no doubt that Queensland will
have an iron industry, and be able to send pig-iron round
the coast. Lithgow certainly pays about as much to convey
pig-iron to the coast as it costs to send pig-iron from king-
land. But we do not encourage our industries here greatly.
At present, N.S.W. has its first blast furnace over the
coal, and distributes merchant steel and iron by rail. YVe
are not exporters yet, but that will follow without doubt
in time. The small-arms factory is being erected in
Lithgow, with a supply of rifle steel at its door. The site
is a good one as regards defence supplies ; and big guns
may one day be very hurriedly made in the valley in
the hills.” “ Fairplay ” has evidently confused the recent
question of using “steel scrap” in the manufacture of
steel. This really is a part of the Siemens-Martin process.
Old rails, old railway tyres, etc., being previously-refined
metal, shorten the time of producing a charge, and im-
prove the quality of the material. The Railway Depart-
ment sends under contract its old rails and scrap, which
are used over again with the waste ends from the bars.
Such material brings a big price in England and America
for the same purpose. Lithgow does not import from
outside the country. The scrap is obtained from our own
railways ; the ores themselves are nothing but Australian.
* • * *
This is the record of the Melbourne Cope’s
Creek, one of the cos. at work on the old Tingha tmfield
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Dec., 1906.. £3Oll 52 p.c. = £3OOO £ll
June, 1907.. 6124 65 „ „ 3750 £464 J-921
Dec., 1907.. 1004 52 ~ „ 3000 420 495
* Reserves. A
June, 1908.. 894 Nil 198 201
, Dec., 1908.. 1211 Nil 386 10-6
It was very beautiful while the tin boom lasted ; but the
worst of tin booms is that they won’t last. In 190 b the
average price of tin was £lBO 17s. 6d.; for a while the
market soared beyond £2OO. To-day the price stands at
about £131: and there is a fine profit lost between
£lBl and £l3l. Even £l3l is good, though : right
from 1875 (and before that) down to 1905 only
one year’s average was as high as that. Oei-
tainly for the last 10 years no year s average
has been lower than £llB 12s. sd. ; so it looks
as though the necessity to provide an overcoat for
the potted cow and Uncle Samuel’s diseased sheep livers is
having a permanent effect on the tin market. The Mel-
bourne Cope’s Creek Co. has now put up altogether
£12,500 of capital, while £9750 has been paid in dividends.
Dry weather has interfered with work, and one of the
two dredges hasn’t done much. The financial position is
all right; on December 31 liquid assets totalled £1425,
and liabilities were £272.
* * * *
The working life of the Elsinore Tin Sluicing
Co., owned mostly in Melbourne—its troubles lie in the
New England district (N.S.W.):—
° Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1906 ..£1163 Nil - £B3l
June 1907 . 2738 Nil £604
Dec.,’ 1907 :: 570 m p.c. = £6OO 282 2653
June, 1808 .. 305 Nil 2348
Dec., 1908 .. 184 Nil 2164
The co. has two plants; all it wants now is (1) a better
mine ; (2) a better rainfall; and (3) a better tin market.
Until it gets one or two of these things, it doesn t seem to
have any hope worth mentioning. On December 31 it
owed £4OB, and its liquid assets amounted to £2OB.
Kyloe, at Adaminaby (N.S.W.), is sinking its
shaft into the hard granite ; and as there are 120,000
shares to provide for, very much must depend on the
opening of No. 4 level. No. 3 (300 ft.) has turned out
unexpectedly well. The north drive has been carried
159 ft. ; and 48 tons of 9 per cent, ore were raised during a
week’s work. The south drive at 144 ft. has Ift. of rich
ore and 2ft. of 9 per cent, stuff. All this is good reading,
but the dwindling return from the furnaces shows that
20 per cent, ore is not so plentiful as it was. In
all 66 tons were smelted for 9 tons 12ewt. of copper
contained in nearly twice as much matte. This gives an
extraction of about 15 per cent, from the ore. It is im-
possible to say without a statement of account sales what
price the matte realises, so there is a good deal of un-
necessary mvstery. It came out in evidence in the O.R.
case (Queensland) that more than £8 was deducted from
the London prices to cover freight, refining and insurance.
* * * *
T O Armstrong takes charge of that tough
proposition, the Lloyd’s (N.S.W) vice his friend
Oorbould, who goes to the Mount Elliott (Q.).
* * * *
Kaugiara (N.S.W.) is to have a neighbor, the
North which, according to expert report, must have the
l od e—.jf R goes far enough. That it will get some ore is
certain; but the district is one in which the ore bodies
are irregular, and the ore itself an uncomfortable mixture.
Behind the venture are some of the most inveterate opti-
mists in the Sydney market; and though inveterate
optimists are cheerful people to travel with, they are
liable to make large holes in your pocket when you meet
them near the Stock Exchange.
» * * *
New Madame Berry, Creswiek (Vie.), which
took over the Madame Berrv West mine whe.i Lrooks and
English decided to shut it down, is doing fanly well. The
co. B has not only got the abandoned No. 2 shaft ground to
work but the possibility exists that a run of wash from
the old Madame Berry may be picked up.
♦
West Berry Consols, Creswiek (Vic.), sails along
with a flowing sheet, even though Squires be not at the
helm The co. has shared in the assets of the Madame Benrj
West having bought the West Loughlm paddock, which
if memory serves right, it once attempted to get
possession of in another way. It thus obtains addi-
tional lead to work, and with a new shaft it
can operate in the gutter at a fraction of the
cost incurred when the old shaft had to be relied on.
The dirt pans out at about 13Jdwt. per fathom say £2
14s All costs last half-year were £2 11s. 6d. per fathom,
leaving a profit of 2s. 6d. per fathom. There is not much
to come P and go upon; but Creswiek people have
always had a knack of making a lot out of a litrie On
record, the mine is a duffer. Receipts ha !® keen £204, 00
of which £135,401 is from gold won, and £6/,000 was
• . i . r i; v i3pnds £750 ' ! The wide extent of wash to
its low grade, the bursts of water, and an odd
disturbance or tivo, made the claim a property that
needed a big shaft and a big output cheaply bandied to
show profit NOW it has these essentia s .t ha
drawn heavily on its reserve of dirt, lnere is a cnance
that the wash may average better. If so, some divs. may
come. * * *
Star of the East, Sebastopol Plateau (Vic.),
owing the Bank of Victoria £13,000 comes under the
hammer—Bo stamps, big pump, and all. The Btar ami
the South Star have been a heavy weight on Ballarat
the " thp last five years. Work has never been
m T'ffi f ( ?Uow 1800 ft. Above that £284,000 was won in
dividends, and that encouraged shareholders to pay calls
in the vain hope that fresh shoots would make below.
Tributors mijrht work the upper portion of the mine and
make bread and butter; but, as The Bulletin has pointed
out again and again on the numerous occasions when
“ good gold” has been reported, only one end was
possible. Now it has come. With the Star of the East
idle, the last of six mines which directly and indirectly
gave work to 20,000 people is shut down. While some of
these were once profitable, for years they yielded so
miserably as to freeze out call-payers. Central Plateau
and New Kohinoor are the only two with a semblance of
vitality. That is because Ballarat people are behind
them. In no other way can there be a revival in the
Plateau. By the way, when the old mill at the South
Star and the Star of the East has been cleaned up, a final
dividend ought to be available from the residues there.
* * » *
Joined in the bonds of matrimony, Lord Nel-
son and Lord Nelson North, at St. Arnaud (Vic.). By this
union it is expected that the depleted resources of the
aristocratic house of Lord Nelson will be replenished by
the gold of the nouveau riche North family. This gold is ex-
pected to come from the formation on the North estate,
which a few years ago was rejected as worthless by Lord
Nelson’s stewards and trustees. The settlements Provide
that Lord Nelson and the Nelson North will each hold
half of 72 000 shares, this agreement to be subject to
ratification by the different interests promoting the union.
Having waited so long, it seems as if it would have been
wiser for Lord Nelson to have seen whether the crushing
from the whole length of 330 ft. of the formation in the
Lord Nelson North estate is payable. One or two small
crushines don’t furnish full evidence on the point. As
the formation at the depth of 1900 ft. in the Lord Nelson
has been barely payable, onlookers will wait anxiously to
see whether sufficient profits can be earned out of the
•joint estate to maintain the dignity of the alliance. Ad-
miration is, however, forthcoming that the patience
of the promoters of the alliance from the North side
should have been at last rewarded. The 72,000 shares in
the new concern will be issued as paid up to 10s. Jd.
* * *
To the end of January Hans Irvine and his
Victorian friends had got £103,250 in divs. out of the
Black Ran»e (W.A.), of which about £24,500 has come in
the past eight months. In fact, ever since divs. started
(in Sept., 1906) the co. has averaged rather more than
one a month—at first 6d., and then 9d., with an occasional
bonus for luck. Last year the co. handled 22,5(7 tons of
ore, and it believes it can see 80,000 tons still waiting.
This isn’t going to keep up to the old value; but
hitherto the mine has been 100 miles from rail, and as the
Government is pushing a line out in that direction, costs
(now £ll3s. Bd. per ton, including development) will be
reduced. The capital is £72,500 ; so the co. has got back
all its money, and still has a fine and very well managed
mine running for it. The concern has never had a boom,
and evidently doesn’t want one. It is worked as a com-
mercial concern, and its published accounts are
things for most others to copy. A while ago it
threatened to have a second string to its bow in a
claim known as the Youanme; but there wasn t
enough length in the rich ore lenses to suit
the co. so the option was turned down. Probably the
inaccessibility of the place had something to do with the
decision. Sandstone, or Black Range, is remote enough ;
but Youanme (or Ooorang, as the official maps will have it,
though nobody calls it by that name) is nearly 50 miles
further into the Never Never. That not only makes
cartage very expensive, but it is a trouble also to get good
miners, etc., to stick to a job in such remoteness.
* * * *
The Havilah, whose scrip got into Victorian
pockets through the same agency as the Black Range,
is suffering from the most striking characteristic of the
Black Range district—the flatness of the lodes. The
result is that it has had to put down another
main shaft, and that has been running away
with the money lately, so the last half-year passed without
a dividend. It will be about July or August before this
work is finished. The lode is a good deal cut about, as
flat lodes are liable to be, by bars, so there is a large
speculative element about this concern.
**■*■*■
The end of the third week of the Hirsch-O.K.
casein Brisbane still leaves a few days’work ahead. So far,
two of the directors and the G.M. have been disposed of,
and the secretary has got half-way through his cross-
examination. The Northerner is putting up a very
interesting verbal battle with Barrister Lukin,
who on this occasion, appears to have struck
something of a snag. In fact, the co.’s represent-
atives, with the exception of the manager, have
iust about held their own with the cross-examiners.
The exception, however, was badly overhauled by Feez,
and had to acknowledge himself beaten more than once.
The Judge has already given one or two readings of the
terms of the contract, but these, he adds, are merely for
the consideration of the jury. His own view is that
there was a definite contract to supply a minimum of
150 tons a month ; and to that extent the Hirsches have
scored. But the ultimate say, so far as this Court is con-
cerned, rests, of course, with the jury.
■jfr ♦ * *
The most enlivening news from Charters
Towers is the Brilliant Extended return of £11,409 from
4770 tons. This gives a gross profit of £4120. A previous
month’s return was 4540 tons for £8761, so the last lot is
a bier improvement. The Extended has the largest out-
put of stone ; but Mills’ United gets over £14,000 worth
of gold a month, about half of which is profit, so it can
easily pay £15,000 of divs. a quarter. Ore reserves at
the Mills are not, however, nearly so strong as they
used to be, for development has not been too
successful. The driving of No. 14 will be an in-
teresting bit of prospecting, for it is the deepest
level in that part of the field. Brilliant Block
is disappointed at having found nothing better than a
quartz leader at 1600 ft. from the surface. Attention has
been diverted to Brilliant Deeps ; after a time, when the
ventilation has been improved, Deeps may have some lively
speculation. Bonnie Dundee pays 6d. dividend this
month : but the market is none too enthusiastic over a
' show with limited ore reserves. There is a chance, how-
ever, that the light mineral stone in the winze below No.
4 (the deepest level) may improve.
‘»* * *
From Charters Towers : Re a recent incidental
reference in “ Wild Cat” to a crushing of 320 tons from
Bonnie Dundee for £BOO. From the time crushing com-
menced in 190 S until the end of that year the crushings
were 2849 tons for a total of £14,321. For 1909—January,
525 tons for £2194 ; February, 640 tons for £3583. For
the last fortnight in February (the last clean up) 322 tons
W ere crushed for £1958. From these figures you will see
there has been no crushing of 320 tons for £BOO.
There are doubts about Mt. Morgan’s dividend ;
and knowing that if even Is. is missed the market will
tumble 35., speculators are preparing to make a few more
or less honest pence. Their trouble is that the Mt.
Morgan people are not in the habit of giving many con-
fidences awav. So far as the Queensland gold output is
concerned, Gympie has fortunately come to the rescue,
and levelled up the slump in the output following upon
the collapse at Mt. Morgan and the consequent change in
the methods of W’orking. From 3831 oz. in February,
1908 Gympie has spurted along to 72560 z. in February,
1909’; but, unfortunately, shareholders are not much the
fatter for it.
Croydon (Q.) has an enthusiast who does not
believe that the present depression is the end of things.
Also he is prepared to back his opinion strongly. With
the object of exploiting the field more thoroughly, the
Government has been partly persuaded to help to a con-
siderable extent, under the Grant for Deep Sinking vote,
on a£lto £1 basis. To sink to 4000 ft. is no small under-
taking ; but J. W. Cuthbert, who has been interested in
Croydon mining for over 20 years, has announced his
intention to start with this work, trusting to the half-
promise received from the department to share the
expense. #
Ironbarks: Don’t know what became of the
Golden Gully Co., but can’t find such a co. on the register
now.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating- mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with .the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of 97. lnsur-
anceis a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense * m
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet scree'n, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. I'or ■
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia. 1.2
. * * *
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand cm every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Cc , West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* !“
* » » *
The Post Magazine and Insurai ce Monitor,
London, of 31/10/’OS, in commenting upo The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limit id, writes:
“Wherever the Society has gone it has s mod for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look b.ick upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”*
* * * 1
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent-Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depdt for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.*
* * * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them ah
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherlands
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses .
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ,
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarkeb, Sydney.
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Fer-nison spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.
,** * f
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh : hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospectors
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
The Canoblas Shire Council is about to instal
one of the most up-to-date roadmaking equipments yet
introduced into Australia. The plant, which is estimated
to cost something like £l6OO, will consist of an 8-h.p.
McLaren Traction Engine, with scarifier and grader, and
an Acme Stone-breaker. The Council expects to cover
the cost of-the installation in two seasons. The fact that
this sum can be recovered in so short a time says a great
deal for the economy of the machinery, which is well
known for its efficiency and reliability. The Canobias
plant is being supplied by Gibson, Battle and Co.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne.


r / CONNOISSEURS
say “Hum !” “Ah!” “Oh:
HEERING
S
Cherry
Brandy
OF COURSE.
fgj
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “ SILVASHEEN ” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.-*i
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to draw attention
to the fact that Robur is very
economical tea to use—we
reckon 5 spoonfuls of Robur
will about equal 6 spoonfuls of
most ordinary teas.
You can calculate on
a pound of tea measuring
from 100 to 110 teaspoonfuls,
therefore, by using Robur, and
putting less into your teapot,
you can have your tea the usual
strength and save at least 15
spoonfuls out of each pound.
Another way to look at it is:—
on account of the extra
number of cups Robur will
make it is worth about 2d.
per pound more than most
teas sold at same price. The
niceness and extra goodness
of Robur are additional points
in its favour.
Our No. 1 Grade Robur
is beautiful tea.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARB BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 16, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
On a day last week I and some others were
taken over a certain charitable institution. We
saw the inmates, and listened to the simple
recital of the conduct of the place, and the his-
tories of cases past and present, including par-
ticulars of the deaths some past residents had died,
and the deaths that some present ones would die.
For the institution receives only the dying—the
quite hopeless, and generally homeless, penniless
cases that the hospitals decline. We, the visiting
bunch, fanciedourselvesafterthe manner of mighty
atoms in good health. We were intellectualists,
you know, and prepared to bear with fortitude the
sufferings of strangers. As for their deaths—
well, death is a perfectly natural event, and now
no more dreaded than that shorter unconscious-
ness called sleep. There was nothing the matter
with any one of us, and we hadn’t more than a
hundred grievances apiece against Providence,
and didn’t hesitate to tell Him so. We went in
laughing, or grumbling—principally grumbling.
One complained that her hansom hadn’t rubber-
tyred wheels. Another was inconsolable because
she had bought a Napier motor car and had found
that a Vulcan would have suited her better. A
third had cuss words for the climate, and the
month of March in particular. She couldn’t do
anything but lie in a hammock in this climate.
An hour later we came away—nay, we scurried
away, we fled like malefactors and drenched in
tears. We hoped Providence wouldn’t see us,
and in contrast with the women who work that
institution we felt about as large and valuable as
the snails on a cabbage in a Chinaman’s garden.
Personally, I’ve been waiting for inspiration to
write something about the Hospice in Darlinghurst
(it was called the Hospice for the Dying, but that
gruesome statement of its intention does not
appear over the portals of its new quarters)—
something that would reach your granite heart
and your purse-bags, for, of course, you haven’t
got pockets. But, even if one were equal to it, the
greatest literature, in contrast with the Boss Nun’s
simple heartfelt statement, would sound like word-
catching, So just some Plain Australian : The
Hospice looks from the roadway as if it had been
originally the mansion of some wealthy person.
Perhaps it was. Of late years it has been
a Government Industrial Home —an un-
kempt, dingy edifice. Then it was bought
by Mr. Francis Foy, and from that
commercial magnate the Sisters of Charity re-
cently acquired it for something over £ll,OOO. It
is to-day as fresh as if newly built, and the garden
and lawns look as if three gardeners instead of
one enthusiast tended them. The debt to Mr.
Foy is £lO,OOO and the interest on this is £4OO a
year ; yet the Hospice gets no Government sub-
sidy, but relies sc’.ely on private subscriptions. A
visitor turns from conversing with a little child—
the only one in the institution—who has a huge
tubercular sweLing on the middle of his spine,
and remarks :
“How that interest, let alone the debt, must
harass you, Madame ! ”
“Not at all,” replies the lady, with decision.
“I leave that to God. We moved in here prac-
tically penniless, but with plenty of faith. What
does harass me are the cases we cannot take for
want of r .eans to get more beds, and the suffer-
ings of our dying ones.”
The astounding faith and trust that can take on
a debt ci £lO,OOO with just faith and trust as
assets! As the Boss Nun remarks, “This is not
a fashionable charity, and our patients are rarely
able to make any payment. We cannot be self-
supporting as are other charities, for our patients
are always the vanquished in the battle of life,
and only come here to die. They cannot quit us
cu ed, and advertise the Hospice and its visiting
d actors. ”
“ I hope you go out, Madame, as often as you
can, away from—from ” The speaker stops
distressfully and the Main Nun takes her up
briskly: “I do not go out at all, fori am with
every patient when his hour comes. O, they die
such beautiful deaths, always the end is peace ...
I always feel the privileged one The creed of
the patient is no question of ours, and the Hospice
is quite unsectarian. We had a Japanese awhile
ago—tuberculosis. A quite hopeless case, of
course, but he was so hopeful, so bright and grate-
ful. And between his requests to have ‘his
hand felt,’ meaning his pulse, he would assure
us that his countrymen would soon take Sydney.
He used to glow over the prophecy. Yes, inside
20 years Sydney would be full of his people—they
were getting ready now—but they would not hurt
the Hospice for its kindness to him.’’
Consumption, cancer, heart troubles and dropsy
are the most frequent cases that seek admission.
The poor old man, his face destroyed with cancer,
who lived in a hut by himself up the North Shore
line, had come to town for out-door relief to one
of the hospitals, and, finding himself too weak to
walk back to his camp, had staggered into the
Hospice. “It took us three days,” says the
fragile-looking lady, “to get his wound clean, so
neglected was he. A solicitor called here lately
and told us of a young man, an accountant, who
was evidently in great need and in the last stage
of phthisis. I sent the ambulance for him, and he
is so happy that he is dying in clean, peaceful
surroundings. No, of course, none of the hospitals
or sanatoria would take such a case.
“That little child? Ah, the sadness ®f that
case ! His father came here to die of tuberculosis,
and, a few months later, his mother. She had
been a nurse and was a fine strong girl, but had
contracted the disease from her husband. She
died hanpily, knowing that we would keep the
child. r>!o, nothing can be done for the little one,
it will soon follow ” ; but meantime it is playing
on the lawn. With this tragedy goes a romance.
A man patient learnt the child’s name, and asked
one of the nurses the maiden name of its mother.
On hearing it he broke down and wept. He had
been an old sweetheart of hers.
The dream of the Sisters is to have the beds
endowed as they are in the similar Charity in
Britain and Ireland. Possibly when the
Dudleys come here the Mueh-Hoped-For pair
of Excellencies may be induced to inaugurate
some money-spinning scheme. The Hospice at
Harold’s Cross in Dublin was said to be Lady
Dudley’s favorite charity—when she vice-queened
it in Ireland. As the Nun Matron reiterated,
“it is not a fashionable charity, and its main
subscribers are the poor themselves.” And
although it bespeaks sublime faith to leave that
big debt and interest to Providence, it is only fair
to give Him a hand in its liquidation.
The granting of a divorce to Mr. J. A. Stirling
from his wife, who was a musical comedy chori-
ster, recalls the wondrous number of marriages
between stage-maidens and Debrett-inhabitants
that have turned out well. In the nature of
things, the girl who leaves the footlights for an
inherited mansion takes on a tougher job than the
ayerage bride. Rarely is the song, dance and
limb-connoisseur a Stylites. He is all for the joy
of life. The taming of him is a task calling for
much tact and a square jaw. Again, humdrum
wedded life in the country, with periodical jaunts
to London or abroad (which is the life of the typi-
cal affluent Briton), must get boring to the excite-
ment-loving London girl who succeeds on, and
marries from, the stage. Yet of all the scores of
coryphees who have wedded the possessors of
gilded halls in the Cold Land within living
memory, Mrs. Stirling is the first to score a really
notable domestic burst-up. In many cases the
marriages have been pronouncedly happy. The
Clancartys, for example (she was Belle Bilton),
were a devoted pair, and the ladies who were
Connie Gilchrist and Rosie Boote are models of
domesticity and correct behavior.
The new and growing fashion among co-res. of
not marrying the lady when an adverse decision
has been registered against her promises to do
serious damage to practitioners in the Cold Land’s
Divorce and Admiralty Division. The evidence
in the just-ended Stirling-Atherton-Northland
case suggested that Lord Northland doesn’t in-
tend to do what is known as “the right thing”
by Mrs. Stirling. In answer to questions on the
subject by Mr. Stirling’s counsel he declined
to commit himself. That was only natural,
perhaps, in the circumstances. But, in addi-
tion, Mrs. Stirling habitually referred to
him as “ that man,” and accompanied
the unkindly term with a glower of hate. Which
was taken to mean that she considered herself to
be in the position of the woman scorned. Nine
divorces out of ten amongst fashionable folk arise
from the fact that one of the parties wants to
marry someone else. If the co-re. is very rich or
has prospects, and the wronged husband is
“ broke,” the wife is by no means unwilling to go
through the court to secure the financial desirable.
Still less does the husband mind when he is the
offender, and the female home-burster is very
beautiful. Where neither party is particularly
anxious to separate, provided it is understood that
each shall go his and her own way, the trouble is
invariably patched up. The persistent “chuck-
ing” of divorced dames by co-res. that has been
going on of late, is likely to make dissatisfied
wives a good deal more inclined to stick to their
lawful encumbrances, and much more amenable
to reason when the painful family discussion as to
“what is to be done about the dreadful affair”
comes on the tapis. An example which has been
urged upon suspected wives with great effect ever
since it occurred was the abandonment of Mrs.
Atherton by Captain Yarde-Buller. He was a
catch of the first water, being the heir of the im-
mensely rich Lord Ohurston. But he passed by
his Divorce Court associate even as she was joy-
fully getting her wedding duds together, and
espoused another.
There is no surcease in the harvesting of the
orange-blossom crop. Miss Betty Ohls, the
comic-opera sparklet, has accepted a devoted
admirer, Mr. Cecil McQuade, of Potts Point.
Pretty Betty has been in hospital for some weeks,
with appendicitis playing the evil star rdle, and the
bridegroom-elect waiting on the mat in an atmo-
sphere of anxiety and chloride of lime.
Miss May Deery, whose pa is a well-known
sportsman, and whose ma is better known for the
vigor with which she hustles for hard-pressed
charities, goes into the as-long-as-ye-both-shall-
live partnership with Mr. “Bob” Wilson, of
Woodstock, a mine manager, and nephew of the
late W. R. Wilson.
On Thursday, Miss Mabel Diana Leete, eldest
daughter of Mr. J. C. Leete, manager at the
Tivoli, picked up her all-white-flower posy, had
“O Perfect Love ” sung at her, and became the
wife of Mr. James Allister Alexander (of Welling-
ton, M.L.); which sounds as sturdily Scotch as
the Scots wha hae wi’ Wallace bled, and things of
that sort.
Miss Nancy Gidley King (an ancestor was
Governor of N.S.W. a century ago) and Mr.
Percy Wills-Allen were married last week. As
became a couple who are pastoral on all sides of
their families, they were joined in wedlock in a
station garden. The Wills-Allens own several
big and rich properties—one of which the Wade
Government is essaying, perfunctorily, to “burst”
—and so do the Gidley Kings. The latter family
has been associated with the Australian wool
industry longer, in all probability, than any other.
Philip Gidley King, M.L.C., and retired naval
officer, married a daughter of Hannibal Mac-
arthur, and ultimately managed the Peel River
Company. The Macarthur family—or at any
rate the male side of it—has been out of the sheep-
raising business for a long while, having taken to
a city life.
Only rose-white youth would dare the garden
ceremony under uncompromising daylight. An
aisle of be-posied saplings had been made for the
bride to blush through on her way to a floral altar
backgrounded by old elms and distanced by the
everlasting hills. Everlasting, of course, until
there’s some unpleasantness in the earth’s crust
thereabouts, or until they wash quietly away.
Three bridal pairs pace into the subdued light
that filters through stained-glass church-windows
before these days of fasting and abstinence are
over—the Tooth bride and her bridegroom, Mr.
Charles Rundle; Miss Muffle Barton and her
Equity-mate, Maughan; and the Dangar cousinly
brace. The Wedding March is going to work the
organ overtime.
Late Chief of Police Fosbery lost his youngest
daughter lately by matrimony. She wedded a
Mr. Davis, of the land where the banana grows
under Mr. Kidston’s supervision.
Excellencette Rawson must be suffering from
appresentitis. That is a combination of present-
ing prizes and having souvenirs presented to her.
Last week Miss Rose Scott toted her along to
present the prizes to the Amateur Swimming
Association winners. The smallest prize-taker
had reached the senile age of four. She got a
silver medal for finning 40yds. breast-stroke. A
silver tea-service presented by the “business
girls’” section of the Women’s Patriotic Club
will bulk in that section of the Rawson luggage
that is “ not wanted on the voyage.’’
Next month the corkscrew and the “few well-
chosen words” will have a busy time opening
things during: the Dudley visit. Possibly some-
thing may have to be opened with prayer, or
dynamite, ora lever. The Dudleys are equal to
any emergency. One of the jobs will be the in-
auguration of the Eisteddfod. Lady Dudley,
who, according to the London correspondent of a
Melbourne paper, used to sing like Nordica,
ought to open that with a song. One facet
of the competition will be the playing
(separately) of a Liszt Polonaise by some
150-odd girls. The two judges will need
to be in the top of condition to endure the ordeal.
The.committee of the Eisteddfod syndicate will
pay the highest rent on record for the Town Hall
on Good Friday night—a trifle of £7l. No wonder
tenants sometimes go in for the sport of landlord
shooting. And alas ! owing to the awful drink,
it sometimes happens that the tenant’s hand is
unsteady, and he misses the landlord. Drink is
a deadly evil. Let us all be Prohibitionists.
A nice, plump little girl with the front name of
Mab—it fits her as does the green sheath its bud —
sits behind the desk at the What-to-Do-With-Our-
Girl’s Work Dep6t in Vickery’s Chambers. When
you buy the drawn linen table cover, or the small
boy’s sweater, or the darned net (there’s a lovely
piece of darned net), or the belaced camisole, or
the stencilled photo-frame the transaction occurs
through her, and any information you want about
the Exhibition that Lady Dudley will open next
month she will give you. And if she hasn’t the
exact information concealed among her clothes
she’ll ask the secretary. Miss Grace Burrowes, for
you. The jam, conserve and chutney shelf is one
of the least negligible of the attractions, and when
Excellencette Rawson visited the depbt a week
or so ago she acquired some of the home-made
—which means that our hired maid made them at
home—bottled sweets.
The Union Club is to give a ball of unparalleled
splendor on April 16. It is the moment for the
dame who entertains to perk up and drop hints.
The club ball is one of the few means at the dis-
posal of thebachelorclubmanof recompensing those
who have fed him often and well during the year.
Yet it is extraordinary how few of him recollect
the fact. There is a type of well-to-do he-para-
site who delights in dining and lunching at the
expense of helpless families with daughters who
must have food-partners. Mostly he doesn’t even
trouble to call after battening on his acquaint-
ances. If he does, he considers he has done an
almost heroic act. Six guineas, or eight or ten,
would not be here or there to him. But he will
see his hostesses and their offspring drowned
before he will spend it on them. And that is
why the dames and damsels who attend such
functions are practically always the guests
of their husbands and fathers. The celi-
bate diner-out ought to be ready to
fight the male heads of the houses he most
frequents rather than let those ill-used oldsters
buy club tickets for their families. The universal
way in which he isn’t ready to fight for this good
object is one of the most depressing features of
our modern civilisation.
The Napiers, R.N., left for England on the
Moldavia ; also the Oswald Watts, and the J. O.
Fairfaxes, the male section of whom is going to
beam and look benign and quite innocuous at the
Press Conference. Mr. Oswald Watt indulged
just before he left in a little land speculation. He
bought “Buckhurst,” the house and property on
the western foot of Point Piper, with the object of
cutting it up into building allotments. The pro-
perty should go off all right, as there is a wild
hankering just now on the part of moderately-
moneyed people to live in the'Rose Bay neighbor-
hood. “Buckhurst” was one of Sydney’s old
houses. The Cheekes, half-forgotten Sydneyites
of a bygone age, lived there for years. Latterly
it was tenanted by the Jack Tooheys. It was, till
Mr. Watt handed over his cheque the other day,
the property of a branch of the Want family.'.’ ris.’b.-.
The fair and buxom Dr. Grace Boelke has taken
a billet under Dr. Roth as assistant medical in-
spector of the metropolitan public schools. The
health of little Billy and his sister and the
sanitary state of the school in which they are
“learnt things” will engage her attention.
The ashen and vegetarian time of Lent is gener-
ally chosen for appendix excision. Mrs. “Went-
worth ” Maclurcan, of cookery-literature fame, is
in hospital, merrily recovering from the loss of her
bit of internal property. Skating and appendi-
citis are not kindred sports, but the news that
Mrs. Maclurcan’s son has taken second place as a
champion skater on the ice of Switzerland might
be of interest to our ex-Giaciarium haunters. He
had had but one season on the local Frozen Floor,
where he first put on the skates, and as the con-
test in which he whirled was an international one
for waltzing, the win is worth mentioning in this
warm land, where ice is not as attainable as
in Switzerland, and avalanches don’t fall regularly
in George-street.
Mrs. Charles Huenerbein, widow of the late
Charles of that surname, who was so well known
as a concert artist, teacher, and accompanist, has
commenced classes for students who wish to make
accompaniments a specialty. Numbers of
students who can play well almost get a paralytic
fit if they are asked to play an accompaniment at
sight or to transpose. Mrs. Huenerbein’s idea is
to give special lessons to classes, and every now
and then a well-known singer will lend her or his
aid, and w'ork with the accompanist group. Syd-
ney musicians of note have written to the lady of
the innovation, extolling the idea as a capital one,
and worthy of being written with a big I.
Miss Minnie Daniel’s concert in aid of the Raw-
son Memorial Fund was so crowded with good
music that it deserved to draw a full audi-
ence. Mr. Cyril Monk’s violin solos are
always fine, and this time they were, for some
reason or other, remarkably fine, and, in the
intervals, the audience asked its neighbor, “ Is he
in love, or has he got an enchanted fiddle ? ” Miss
Daniel, in Galatea-like robes, put trained hands
on the ivories with satisfaction to her hearers,
and Mr. Orme Darvall’s resonant baritone
was so admired that the audience wanted it to
keep going indefinitely. Mrs. Slapotfski, in deep
blue and much glitter and shimmer like a polar
midnight, starred the programme with operatic
excerpts.
Miss Ola Humphrey, with Mr. Kolker and the
rest of the co. (except Titheradge), arrives here
to-day (Tuesday). The Julius K. co. tears itself
away from us about the end of the present month.
Orange held its picnic race meeting and ball
last week. Both events were huge successes.
This is where Orange scores over its hated rival,
Bathurst. Bathurst has no Picnic Race Club, and
consequently no ball. Orange exults at the de-
graded state of Bathurst, and avers that the City
of the Plains is a dead corpse. Bathurst retorts
with the allegation that the only things Orange is
alive with are rats. The prevalence of rats in its
midst is an old reproach against Orange. It is
said (by Bathurstians) that in the silent watches
of the night the rodents swarm into the Orange
streets in myriads and gnaw unwary or helpless
inebriates who have fallen beneath the blighting
spell of the Orange alcohol. This reproach stirs
the patriotic Orangeite to a frenzy of annoyance
and, as like as not, he retaliates with a slighting
remark about the Bathurst Show, which is a gibe
that can only be expunged by gore. There were
few Bathurstians at the Orange Picnic Races,
just as there will be few Orangeites at the
Bathurst Show next month. Each town finds the
other’s triumph too bitter a spectacle, and it
declines to pay its hard-embezzled money to look
at the other fellow’s episode.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENKHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
SOLID
GOLD
LOVING
CUP
a
Designed
and
Manufactured
on the
Premises.
PRESENTED TO SIR HARRY RAWSON, G.C.8.,
BY THE FREEMASONS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
CRONDLLA.
The
Tramway
Estate
Hi
The
Tramway
Estate
Cromi I la Residents returning from a Morning Dip.
FRONTING NEW TRAM LINE
There is little land left at Cronulla, within any sort of reasonable
distance from the beach. The Tramway Estate is the exception.
Fronting the new tram line, connecting Cronulla Beach and Suther-
land Station, the lots are but a shade over five minutes’ tram
journey from the surf. Each one is a full quarter-acre in area, and
the Estate is selling rapidly. On the completion of the line, the
allotments will certainly be worth much more money than our price.
FROM £25 BLOCK
Terms: £1 down, 10s. Month.
Free Plans and Illustrated Booklets from
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD.
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sellers of Good Land on Easy Terms.
STECK PIANOLA PIANO.
THE CHOICEST
OF ALL 6IFTS.
lift
LAS*
its
D
WSEifiKW
THE CHOICEST
OF ALL GIFTS.
FOR THE WIFE—
The Pianola Piano gives the wife the pleasure of renewing her acquaintance with the
- - pieces she “ used to play,” and also of performing many compositions that were beyond
her ability even when her technique was at its best.
FOR THE DAUGHTERS—
If there are daughters in the family who are taking music lessons, the Pianola Piano
supplies the requirements of hand-playing just as successfully as though the Pianola were
not built into it.
FOR THE SONS—
The Pianola Piano provides a new and powerful interest in the home. Evenings which
might otherwise be less profitably spent will be occupied in playing over the latest and
brightest of the current music—the light opera hits and the newest dance music.
FOR THE CHILDREN—
A real educational force can easily be made of the Pianola Piano. Children can be given
a "taste for the best composers, and a broad familiarity with the great art of music that will
be of value to them all their lives.
FOR THE MAN—
A man who may not know one note from another suddenly finds himself endowed with the
ability to play anything and everything in the whole wonder-world of music. Ihereisrest
for tired nerves in playing for YOURSELF whatever class of music your tastes dictate.
DO NOT CONFUSE THE PIANOLA PIANO WITH
ITS IMITATORS.
It is most important to the purchaser to realise that the Pianola and Pianola Piano are not
terms applying to piano-playing instruments in general.
ONLY THE PIANOLA CO. MAKES THE GENUINE PIANOLA.
Write for Catalogue C of the Pianola Piano, sent free for the asking.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
357 Georg'e Street,
(Next D. Jones 6° Co.) •»«* py


lass
TdEOOGNISED the world over for their ex-
1\ quisite quality, Carlson Currier Silks
may be bought from the leading .Drapery Houses
in the Commonwealth. Every color gradation
may be obtained from the palest to the deepest
tints. Send to us for a beautifully illustrated
book—FßEE—mentioning the name of your
Draper when writing.
THE CARLSON CURRIER CO. (of San Francisco),
The Blook, Collins Street, Melbourne. [l.
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, comer Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest, pare, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
I
Smart
Figure!’
It is the result of wearing; the Royal
“P.D.” Corset —the Corset that is
made by famous French Corsetierres —the
Corset that initiates the world’s Corset
Fashions—consequently i't invites a whole
world of imitation. Most American and
English Corsets are inferior copies of the
Royal “P.D.” Corset models, yet
the genuine leader of all Corsets —the
Royal “ P.D.” Corset— costs you no
more than these imitations. Beautifully-
tailored “ P.D.” Corsets ensure the
most graceful Directoire •" figure with
perfect comfort and freedom. Distinctive
styles for all kinds of figures—short, stout,
tall or thin. None are genuine without
Trade Mark on every pair—it is our
guarantee of thorough satisfaction..
All Drapers
and
Storekeepers
Stock
Royal
■ M&Je ■
Corsets
H/
Of?
P.D
e
I
I
w
TS7I
If _
(Pwodh
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture of the most desirable Motor Tyres and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,’ and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 15, 1909.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Melba can be always sure of her house, but the
excitement she roused at Tuesday night’s concert
was wild and fierce and unconsidered. The audi-
ence began with cool criticism, but by the time
the last number—the Mad Scene from “ Hamlet ”
—w r as reached, it seemed to rush her. The
applause dragged out hoarse, animal cries—some-
thing inarticulate, and beyond the usual “Brava.”
Singing from grand opera with an orchestral
background certainly makes a more satisfying
concert than when the accompaniment is mainly
or entirely piano. But the orchestra was inclined
to blare—possibly the newness of the brasses was
responsible for some of the roughness. Brasses,
like strings Or giddy reputations, need mellowing
by age.
Melba, of course, trailed a Parisian gown. Its
satin looked like silver or moonlight, and flimsy
shadow draperies softened the lines from shoulder
to feet. Diamonds dazzled from neck to waist
and ascended in an upward shout in her tiara.
There were diamond buckles on her slippers.
Feet are not much in evidence on the platform
(with a carefully-gowned woman), but Melba
possesses a particularly pretty foot to hide. She
carried a cute little posy, bound by frilly paper,
such as our grandmothers carried in Victoria’s
early days.
It was a brilliant house, notwithstanding that
the attraction had lost much of its novelty.
Women feel they must frock up to Melba. Mrs.
Everett hit out a clanging note in vivid green
and silver; she was on the balcony with,
alongside her, a pretty, fair woman, who
had half a ton of spangles on her white
dress. Mrs. Harper sat in stateliness and im-
posing brocade. Mrs. Carse wore Aladdin’s
jewels and some drapery. Mrs. Shipman, with
her Freddie, dimpled in an adorable kimona.
Little Mrs. Geoffrey Syme gazed through her
lorgnette from a fluffy background of white, and
brought her sedate English sister along. Mrs.
Prof. Peterson beamed from the balcony on her
Women’s Choir, pasted like a white wail in the
organ gallery behind Melba and the orchestra.
Two of the pretty Aoung daughters brought their
Pa from Maced.on for the occasion. Mrs. Marsh
shimmered in the inevitable sequins (feminine
gear riots in tinsel now like a camp full
of gypsies), and her sister, Mrs. newly-
wed Moore, from Moree, wore silver leaves
in her black hair. The house was so packed
and so prone to discussion as it squeezed a
squashed way into the street that the lights were
practically turned out on the last scuttling rabbits.
And the vegetables so clogged up the orchestra that
the First Violin had to be dug out during an awk-
ward interval, whilst the New Baritone stood,
with a pained smile on his face, waiting his cue.
The Baritone scarcely startled the house when he
did get going; but that is beside the digging.
The enthusiasm has brought to life the inevitable
“ extra concert,” and this thirdly and lastly one,
with its special inducement of 1000 seats at 55.,
promises to be rushed by the multitude.
Melba fills Melbourne. She takes up all the
picture. Her second concert on Saturday was as
furious and excited and packed and swagger as
any management could desire, and the songstress,
with even more breadth and feeling in her voice,
gave the people her best.
Melba’s manner on the platform is the veriest
art of simplicity. On Saturday night the de-
mure lady glowed in a dress of silver and melted
amethysts, with ropes of pearls round her throat,
and a diamond cobra wound in her hair. The
beast lifted a ruby venomous head as a tiara.
Squattocracy turned out in one great sea of
frilly woman and attendant black-and-white,
well-groomed man. They motored from their far-
away grass plains, and piled into town for the
event. Dad Mitchell (with a select Scotch clan)
sat at his daughter’s feet, and received the effeeti ve,
restrained, loving smile during the symphony. The
clan also got “Ye Banks an’ Braes” as a special last
encore after some warm-colored Italian warbles.
Mrs. “Alawa” Robertson-Buchanan occupied a
prominent front-row position in green, with small
hubby alongside. Frankie Oliver-Stuart Murray
drooped in cloud-blue ninon and diamonds.
A row of enthusiastic Germans had the ghost of
(Eser (a substantial ghost of the defunct opera
company) in full applause in their midst.
Edward Miller brought his imposing missus
in a flame-colored cloak. The aesthetic Daniels
and his lady gave ecstatic hand patter.
R. S. Smythe waved his Dundreary whiskers
at the fine house. The Von Pinschofs kept a
rather modified state in full line. Mrs. Burgess
was in a stately gown of white satin ebarmeuse
and black, with her pretty daughter in blue and
white. Mrs. Continental-Tyre Edwards had
pearls in her very fair hair. A visitor, Mrs.
Van Something, a wool-buyer’s wife, turned all
the heads in her row. She was slender, fair, and
in black, and beautiful from aigrette to shoe tip.
The crush getting out of the hall was like bargain
day at a chiffon store. One woman’s aigrette
would jab into the other cat’s eye, and trails
and frills of sheathy gowns tore amid glares and
groans. One girl had the temerity to wear
her Merry Widow hat with her Merry Widow
cloak. The damage her revolving cart-wheel
did has not yet been fully added up, but a
preliminary estimate puts it at £376 2s. 9d.
Another maiden who donned headgear carried
one hatpin in her mouth for quite a dozen down-
steps as she prodded the other dagger in her extra
cufls. Just a little shove, and the stiletto would
have slain somebody.
The much-discussed Mrs. Atherton, to quote a
well-known Melbourne flutterer, is not the great
beauty she is cymballed and clashed to be. The
flutterer aforesaid (who partied in sight-seeing
very considerably with Mrs. Atherton and Miss
Chando3-Pole in Japan) describes the charmer as
rather passd in her fairness, with too many
traces of suppers and late hours—a good frocker
and a keen sport, but over-voluptuous in her
charms. In daintier youth the lady was probably
the type—though not so ethereal—of our show
beauty, Nurse Linden,
There was surprisingly little sounding of guns
over our first Australian R.A. man. Bertram
MeKennal was made R.A. last year, and is the
first Australian to capture the honor. Austral-
asians are meek over their dignities. As a visitor
remarked some time ago, no one winked an eye-
lash when a Christchurch (M.L.) University man
grabbed the Nobel prize, the most eagerly fought
for distinction in the whole scientific world.
There is such a thing as being too meek, despite
the glory of “inheriting the earth.” Yet one
doesn’t remember Sculptor MeKennal as being
an Australian who suffered from an embarrass-
ment of humility. And if Solomon in all his
glory was not R. A.-ed like him, one would expect
Mac. to mention the circumstance.
The genial manager-lady who was transferred
from one well-known cafe to another has marked
the transference with an unhappy accident. A
too-sudden lift sat on her and partly crushed her.
Fortunately her injuries are not dangerous, and
the patient is on the road to complete recovery.
Mothers with maidens who “hang fire” cast
longing eyes at the vacant suites in Melbourne
Mansions, and try and persuade reluctant Popper
to quit housekeeping and flee to that haven of
scandal-talking rest. It has become the haunt of
the “eligibles”—that elusive quantity in male
society. Several not-too-young men with money
and motors, and (alas!) with experience, have
settled down in the white stucco house in
Coljins-street. They dive occasionally from
their exclusive perches and take a carefully-
chaperoned plunge into the picnic business, giving
a Nice Girl a touch of Arcadia, and, incidentally,
a gleam of matrimonial hope. The country jaunts
usually finish with a devilled bone and something
sparkling at a restaurant in town. The matri-
monial results, so far, are practically nil ; but
Hope dies hard, like the suicide who has swal-
lowed a fishbone. There is always a chance that
a motor accident may occur to throw him and her
more together in a mutual convalescence, as it were.
Miss May Yale, the well-known artist, who
has been abroad for a year or two, has met an
old love in America and become duly engaged.
Among other portraits. May painted David Syme
reading his beloved Age, with the Leader lying
close by. The work was exhibited at the Victorian
Artists’ Show some time ago.
It opened the eyes of many Australians to dis-
cover that Brangwyn, the most powerful colorist
of the day, is an equally forceful master of etching.
Moffats are showing an extensive collection of
Brangwyn’s etchings at the Guild Hall, and gave
a private view to the Cream on Friday, with an
opening speech by the Carmichael. Car-
michael spoke with much feeling, but dropped
nervously into the sotto voce language when
he aired his artistic views. Also he prodded
viciously at bisi~programme and gave appeal-
ing glances to aide Victor Hood before he
got it all off his chest. He knows a lot, does
the Carmichael, but he flounders with amaze-
ment at himself when he is driven to expound his
knowledge. Carmichael eventually got off the
track of etchings, and spread himself about Aus-
tralian sculpture. “Australians have the ideal
atmosphere—all the conditions conducive to good
sculpture; that branch of art must go ahead
here,” he murmured to the Persian rug on which
he stood. Then his devoted aide dragged his
Excellent self off to watch an epileptic fit, or to
open a home for epilepts, or some such thing.
The etchings are as vigorous as Brangwyn’s
color. A counter-exhibition of etchings by
Hedley Fitton, shown alongside, acts as a foil.
Fitton follows the old style of work —delicate line,
and careful and precise drawing. Brangwyn getshis
etchings as he gets his color, by strong individu-
ality of treatment, and massive outliningand daring
effects in blurred, blotted shadow. He wrestles
with broad and fine needles and furious
acids, regardless of all method. Altogether
his etchings are as amazing as his
color. One oil painting stands out from
the wall of black-and-white work —“A Turkish
Garden.” It is a voluptuous heap of color,
thrown pell-mell on the canvas, and resolving
itself into vistas of sensuous hue, with a head of
virile blue-black hair standing out from the figures
in the foreground. Some lucky beggar has had
the pleasure of dabbing a “Sold” seal on this
effort.
Mrs. Barnet just passed through Melbourne
on her way to the English boat. She journeys to
chaperone daughter Brenda, a young lark who
has been studying for three years abrawd with
Valenti, the husband of Nora Dane, of the magni-
ficent presence. Daughter Brenda is said to have
a ringing soprano. She has made one or two
minor public appearances —mere flutterings of her
wings, so to speak—and there is apparently hopes
of a Future in opera.
A man sends this from a remote hot island
Wedded at Holy Trinity, Suva, on February 26, by the
vicar of the parish (Rev. Mathews), G. H. Woodhouse
Moore, of Nausori, to Flora Damaris, youngest daughter
of the late Henry and Mrs. Dendy, of Walhalla, Gipps-
land(Vic.), and grand-daughter of Henry Dendy, “original
owner and founder of Brighton, Victoria.” The original
Henry Dendy arrived in Melbourne in 1841 and settled at
Brighton. After leaving there he settled at Eltham, on
Diamond Creek, and built a flour mill. In the ’6o’s,
though an old man, he pioneered some more, arid after
selling his property at Eltham he settled in Gippsland,
where he died.
“ Engine Smoke ” sends me a sooty letter from
the Melbourne Loco. Sheds :
Will you please give your friend “ Yarrie ” (also your
mutual pals, “ Akenehi ” and “ Arini,” and “ Thar<romin-
dah” and “Mario”) a hint about green veils? Thev are
a pest to us railway-engine men. As you know) the
guard gives us the signal to start the train by holding up
a little green flag. Well, several times lately, I have
started the train, only to be violently pulled up by the
guard with the Westinghouse brake from his van. Then
he comes up and wants to know what the —you know—l
mean by starting a train without a signal. I had mis-
taken a fluttering- green hat-veil for his flag ! So you see
how easily you women-folk may get a man into trouble
(as if Eve hadn’t done enough in that way already). A
year or two ago those flaring red hats used to stop the
trains. Now the green trimmings start them. Quantum
suf., verb. sat. sap., etc., etc.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Adelaide nearly went off its cranium with the hilarities
of last week. First of all, we really and truly achieved
our electric trams at last; and, after this, we feel that a
mere earthquake or the sound of Gabriel’s horn would
fall flat. Norwood, one of the last suburbs to have the
lines down, had the first use of them, and the hamlet
plumed itself considerably. The Trust invited a gallant
three hundred, packed them into cars, and flew
fiercely out to the Kensington tram terminus
and back. Then it dumped all the guests down
in a marquee at Hackney, and gave them afternoon
tea. Mrs. Price drove the first car, for the Premier is
still on the sick list at Port Victor. The same night Nor-
wood gave itself a banquet by way of celebration, and
made speeches all over the place. The banquet finished
talking at 11.12 p.m., and the guests were shot back to
town in 6J minutes. Ever since the opening Grenfell-
street has been packed with humanity, waiting for three-
penn’orth of tram ride. And what becomes of the old
car-steeds? Adelaide doesn’t know for certain ; but it
heaves a sigh of relief when it reflects that, on account of
their angularity, they can’t possibly be passed on the
public for breakfast. They may serve as hat-racks.
The Commonwealth Exes, have been flying over the
landscape as usual during the past week, and have
whisked into sundry orphan homes and things, and given
a brand-new library to the little public school that drones
alongside the vice-regal kennel at Marble Hill. Lady
Dudley dropped into the Buxton Girls’ Club one day, and
yarned a while to the girls, and even sang them a ditty
or two. On Friday eve his Ex. hied to Port Victor to see
how our Premier’s health was mending ; and another day
Lady Dudley smiled upon Will Ashton’s pictures in the
Sassiet.v of Arts Gallery.
To add to all the other exciting festivities, Tittell Brune
and Mrs. Brough and the rest descended upon us at the
end of last week, and all sassiety finished up with a first
night. Nowit is busy knocking at the front door of the
South Australian pulibery and begging the two favorites
to come out and have a tram ride.
At the Lyric Club’s annual meeting the members took
the opportunity of throwing half a ton of bon voyages at
the President Bassds, who leave to put a new waist-belt
round the globe at the end of the month. Major Bass 6 is
a barrister by education, a jeweller by adoption, and a
musical enthusiast by choice. He has held out the glad
hand to pretty well every musical star who has illumi-
nated this sphere during the last few years, and has had
some shekels in various musical ventures—among them
the Kleinschmidt syndicate.
Clara Kleinschmicrt sang to the Morea on its way to
Britain’s Isle, and the whole ship arose and waved its hat
at her. The ship’s music-room company had its most
splendid flowers in its hair, and all the available frill was in
the audience, including the N.S. W. Chief Justice Darleys.
The Morea said it had never had such a concert since it
was a young green forest, and the nice damsel was handed
many compliments. By the way, a South Australian is
housekeeper at Mrs. Thayer’s, where the song-maiden
will dwell. She is Miss Ruth Lamb, once well known in
this village. She was smitten with the wanderlust, went
to Britain, and, not long ago, was acting as a guide to
London. Now she makes one of the melodious household
to which’our Clara will add her voice.
There’s been an outcrop of .art exhibitions on this side.
On Thursday Mrs. Ledochowski, whose hubby teaches the
Roman speech at the Conservatoire, invited the earth to
come to the Colton Hall and see how she could paint;
and all the week the Misses Hambidge, Boothby, and
Bosworth have had some of their work waiting at the
May Club for public absorption. Will Ashton’s show has
been open for a fortnight, and sundry goodly sales are
the result. Mrs. Ashton and the small infant will not
assist him in the descent on Florence, after all, but will
remain in Adelaide.
Sickness is pursuing the Doubledays in Vienna. First
Mrs. Doubleday was laid up with diphtheria, and now
comes news that the scarlet fever fiend has little Leila
down. Owing to the danger of infection, the only news
to hand is from the fiddler kiddy’s small brother, who has
been sent out of harm’s way ; but the attack is believed
to be only a mild one.
Melba the Melodious has been saying nice things about
Gladys Edwardes, who is raising her voice in the Bull
capital. The maiden was one of Adelaide’s Conserva-
torium canaries a year or so ago, and has a fine soprano
warble.
Adelaide is to have a Woman’s Club. It is to hang out
its sign somewhere near the He Club on North Terrace,
and is to be residential and otherwise a bona-fide club,
from which mere man will be resolutely barred. The
subscription will be two guineas, and entrance fee the
same ; and even if your grandmother’s second cousin by
a former marriage hawked shoelaces for a living, or your
brother’s wife’s sister-in-law doesn’t keep a lady’s, maid,
you will not be debarred from membership.
The G.-G.’s garden party scored wondrous weather, and
there was a big muster of autumn frills and furbelows.
Her Ex. was in white muslin with cream lace inserted all
over it, and a large, flat, white hat wreathed with
camellias. The small son was sailor garbed, and the girls
all wore white muslin and embroider} 1 , and hats simply
trimmed with ruched ribbon. A few fiercely directoired
frocks were worn, the most notable being Mrs. Henning’s.
It was blue satin, with golden and tasselled passementerie ;
atop of all was a black picture hat. Mrs. Clem Hill
sported an emerald-green silk directoire raiment, and she
too was picture-hatted ; and one of the Crozier girls had a
palest blue creation of merveilleux with Merry Widder mil-
linery. A pretty Dutton Green maiden was in a white frock
with a bordering of lavender flowers and a big ruff ; Mrs.
Albion Tolley’s decorative garb was blue glace with
panels of blue lace let into it. Adelaide’s Mayoress was
in black lace over green, and a smart: toque ; and' the
Way dame was in a black-and-white confection. A
refreshing novelty in the arrangements were the tea-
tables dotted over the landscape; tea and coffee pur-
sued you, and you didn’t have to go out and hunt
them for yourself, so there was a noticeable absence of
grapple in the marquee.
Saturday was entirely owned by Glenelg, which waved
every flag it could find, and sailed itself about the gulf
while his Excellency-General was busy sowing the break-
water’s first pile. The Marine Board decked up the
Governor Musgrave to carry the Dudley to the sowing,
and .on the same craft went the Ministry and its wife, the
Mayoral Varleys, the Jenkin Coles, the James Boucauts,
Mr. Bake well (who directs the company tha t is making the
piles), and sundry other official people. ; But first of all
his Ex. was captured by the Mayor and corporation, who
took him to the Town Hall and handed him an address,
duly and decoratively setting forth his own numerous
virtues, and Glenelg’s. There was music and afternoon
tea on the Musgrave, and the pile-driving was accom-
panied by a speech or six. Also Mr. Bakewell presented
his Ex., on behalf of the Concrete Co., with a silver pile as
the requisite souvenir. Aiterwards the Musgrave wan-
dered over the high seas watching a yacht race; and
still more subsequently their Exes, were photographed
under Glenelg’s pet gum tree, where the Province was pro-
claimed in ’36. At the Kiosk, meantime, several hundred
frilly folk, invited by the H. W. Varleys, drank tea and
breezes, and viewed proceedings from afar.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“Jacq.”: Professor Osborne, of Melbourne University,
declares that the popularity of the amazing piffle that
theatre-goers rave over is due to purely physiological
causes. Our custom of having a heavy dinner in the
evening, he says, is partly responsible. A great deal
more blood is then needed along the digestive tract.
The brain, as a consequence, suffers, and the diminished
circulation in this organ leads to the heaping up of waste
products, so that the various centres are partly poisoned
and more easily excited. Thus we sob with Tittell
Brune, laugh at panto, jokes, and cheer Walter Baker
when he shoots the villain with the poker. Perhaps this
explains the maudlin slobber over the nigger and his
wrongs so often indulged in by heavy-feeding legislators
at mayoral dinners and such-like functions. Imperfect
ventilation, says the Professor, is also a cause ; the car-
bonic acid gas acts as a poison, and weakens the judg-
ment. When it is remembered that the actors may also
be suffering from heavy dinners, diminished circulation
and weakening of the judgment, a lot of things become
apparent.
THE FAITH IN JUDEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What Australasian Methodism thinks of its black
brother came out at the recent conference. A motion to
yive the native Fijian Christians representation on the
Fiji synod was indefinitely postponed by 56 votes to eight.
—News Item.
They talk of a faith that shall level all men,
And give to sweet Eden a footing again ;
The clergy proclaim it with clamorous voice—
“ Tabeejo’s our Brother, so let us Rejoice !”
But, when ’tis proposed he shall vote like a man,
And the Synod be graced by a Blsjck Fiji-an
(For of such was the teaching by old Galilee) —
“ O ! we don’t swallow all that they taught in Judee I
“ \y e gave him the blessing, we gave him the Word,
But to give him a Vote is a matter absurd !
The Synod would gladly be true to its trust,
But a Brother in Black is a worm of the dust.
In case he should stand in the Synod to-day,
To-morrow he’d ask for a white brother’s pay !.
And the Word he might quote —and O where should
we be
If we went by the tenets they taught in Judee
Now, the Word is all right; but a true Methodist
Can at times give the Gospel a bit of a twist;
He knows what it means if his brethren of tar
Should forget for a moment the race and the bar;
Why, next they’d be wanting our daughters to wife,
And picking the perks that give savor to life:
And they’d hurl at our heads, should we dare
disagree—
“l:’Twas a part of the tenets they held in Judee !'”
QUEENSLAND.
PH[?] F.


OMERANG
.AWARDED
i n mm pmx
AT THE
FMNCO -BHITISH EXHIBITION:
BILLIARDS LTD.
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
25 Full-Size AlcocK Tables.
The Largest and Best=Furnished Billiard Halls in Australia.
r/.
Vi
MMY
OR MELBOURNE
MOTORING
INDUST&Y.
m SOLE AGENTS
FOR.
MAX
BEBION.
ARGYLL,
F.Wm,
ROVER,
c FORD
CARa
OUR CARS
ARE the Chieftains of the Six
Greatest Motor Engineering
Nations.
OUR ACCESSORIES
Include only the Best of Everything.
We mail all Country Orders by quick
return.
OUR REPAIRS
Are honest, good and reliable. Expert
Management, Men and
. We make Gear Wheels on premises. .O';
fgjfg
LET us
KANO YOU
CATALOG.
106 RUSSELL 5T MELBOURNE.! - — ISSS: 1
QUEENSLAND,
THE QUEEN STATE OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
“MOUNT LARCOMBE” Estate
14,400 ACRES FREEHOLD,
IS NOW BEING SUBDIVIDED INTO AREAS TO SUIT PURCHASERS.
The public of Gladstone and surrounding districts have for many years been anxious for the Government to
acquire this most famous estate for the purpose of closer settlement, and, although it has been in the occupancy of
practically one family for the last 46 years, we have now arranged to subdivide it into
RICH DAIRY AND AGRICULTURAL FARMS.
The secret of successful farming, with a view to making a fortune, is to be
IN THE HEAVY RAINFALL AREA.
“ MOUNT LARCOMBE ” is situated between Mount Alma, which is 2300 feet above sea level, and Mount
Larcombe, which is 2100 feet above sea level, and the property is only 6 miles from the coast.
The average rainfall is 43 inches per annum, and the property is watered most magnificently with
absolutely permanent running streams, to which every farm will have a frontage.
PRICES ARE ABSURDLY LOW. TERMS VERY EASY.
A Railway Station is on the property, and the township of Gladstone is only 21 miles distant.
“ MOUNT LARCOMBE ” does not want booming, as it will sell itself. We are so satisfied with this fact that
we will pay the fare of purchasers from any part of the States.
No survey or residential conditions.
If you want a farm with Magnificent Soil, Rich Dairying Land, with flats suitable for Lucerne, Potato
growing and Maize, etc., great money producing land, and up amongst the rainfall, get a move on sharp, and
inspect “ MOUNT LARCOMBE.”
For further particulars apply to —
WEAVER & GLASSON, LIMITED,
COLONIAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS, 289 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Branches at TOOWOOMBA, PITTSWORTH, DALBY and CHARLEVILLE.
'
I
' auN
Hi#
1
x a
COPNEB STREOSJTDN]
726~2 8 OTQ.ST., HAYMARKET.
jfg
jfg
Please send Catalogue “ A ** and Box of Patterns,
etc., to
Name
Address
This places me under no obligation to buy.
SATISFACTORY SHOPPING BY MAIL.
Illustration shows the Cover of our 44 New 48-page Mail Order
Catalogue.”
Without discrediting any other 44 Men's Wear House/' we claim
it is the Largest and Choicest Catalogue yet issued in Australia.
The Cover design is in three colors, while throughout its 48
pages are over 150 Distinct Photographic Reproductions, embellished
with a Neat Color Border; and what is more, for the “ Benefit of
Country Clients,” long, truthful descriptions of the articles, making it
a truly 44 Mail Order Help.”
Twenty-nine Years of Honest Effort from the start in a small Hat
Shop to the Two Finest Exclusive Men's Wear Houses we now occupy,
is due to the Lasting Satisfaction, Fair Dealing, and Low Prices
which thousands have experienced at our hands.
Why not get acquainted with us ? You will find it profitable
to deal with us, and discover many advantages in buying from our
Catalogue. Just send for a Copy—it's well worth having as a
Reference of all that is Newest and .Best.
If you find our Statements are exaggerated, or our Prices and
Qualities are not Lower than elsewhere —why, we are the Losers!
A Coupon is attached for your benefit. Fill it out, and then
“Put us to the Test.”
. PALMER 8 SON,
Cor. Pitt S Park Streets,
and 726-28 George Street,
Sydney
“ Sr.” writes with a pen dipped in gall :
“ Yarrum’s ” remarks in a recent Bulletin re the hard-
ships of the member of Parliament and the disburse-
ment of half his remuneration to cricket, football,
benevolent and charity clubs, do not exaggerate. “ Yar-
rum ” does this point but daintily. The real hard job of
a member of Parliament is the incessant interviewing of
his complaining constituents. Most of the visits are
from “ those who voted for you at last election.” They
are mostly seeking graft. They don’t want casual
lumpering labor, and they all have a craving for a care-
takership in a public building. Next in numerousness is
the civil servant whose increment has not arrived, and
whose note is the favoritism and partiality of the
boss in his department. He expects, as a result of
his interview, to be made Under-Secretary or
something. The cadger is an institution as re-
gards banging the knocker of the politician’s front door.
Then the John Hop always suffers some injury from his
Department. You have to run about all over the State
offices to work points for the John Hop. His vote and
influence demand it. The number of old ladies who call
on behalf of their married sons in the railways is legion.
The feet of the married sons who call about positions for
the unmarried son who has just left school, destroy the
front door mat. And the casual callers about a pension
or letter of introduction or a charitable donation just
about destroy the door itself. The house of the member
of Parliament is the calling place, inquiry station and
cadging institution of the district. And if you don’t open
the door your name’s Mud.


Wherever you pro you will find
Laxo-Tonic Pills curing- mankind.
Their fame is no less
Than that they possess
Every virtue, with cheapness combined.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10*d. and Is. 6d.*
Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Salk :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing's.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden. Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
| Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door, work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrulia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
If your complaint is incurable you must
bear your sufferings with patience, but if they can
be quickly and permanently cured why let them
go on ? Rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, tooth-
ache—all these are among the many ailments that
can be cured by Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, and
since they are most wearying—and Chamberlain’s
Fain Balm only .costs Is. 6d. per bottle—why go
on suffering ?*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonweal th
Crisis,” by C. H.'Kirmdss, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces theTpolitical
and war consequences with a masterly hand.-'
See that you do not miss “ The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
tv
m
•J3A
' r #//'*
Prostrating
Headaches.
There is always another trouble
behind a Headache. Headaches
don’t occur of themselves. Perfect-
ly well people never have head-
aches. They are common amongst
bloodless, run down people or those
with nerves out of order, hence the
term, Nervous Headaches. Some-
times they occur in stomach dis-
orders. It is only natural that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills by their blood-
making and nerve-toning qualities
cure these disorders. Then the
headaches go. That’s a real cure:
the cause cured. Drugging for head-
aches is the worst thing possible:
the victims become drug slaves. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills get back of the
headache and cure the cause.
N.S.W. WOMAN CURED.
“I got generally run down and was ailing for
about a year,” said Mrs. Alex. McFarlane, 25
Burns Street, Darling Harbor, Sydney. “I had
the cruellest headaches, lasting perhaps a couple
of days at a time. I’d wake up with them so that
I couldn’t raise my head from the pillow. I’d feel
as if something were thumping inside my head.
I tried headache wafers, cold bandages, and vin-
egar, but nothing brought me relief. My color
went and I turned quite yellow in the face. I
couldn’t fancy my meals; food lay for hours,on
my chest and gave me a pain between the
shoulders. I suffered terribly from breathlessness
and would gasp as if I were dying. I’d some-
times wake up with these attacks and have to get
out of bed. I was nervous and trembled all over
at the least sound. I was very wretched in spirits
and had no strength at all. Then my husband
heard about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills aud got me
some from Mr. Fred Williams, the chemist. I
started to mend with the second box. I gained in
flesh and my color got better. My appetite came
back and I lost that dreadful breathless feeling;.
I didn’t get any more headaches and I never
looked stronger than I do now; thanks to Dr,.
Williams’ Pink Pills.”
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, G boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.
This ESastic Truss^
Elastic'
Truss —
Single, 17/0
Doublej 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort offsprings.
We make oil kinds of Trusses
and have'; experienced fitters.
pEINYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE SX. (opp. Hunter St.); SYDNEY.
ALSO AT AIKLIiOUItXIS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The daily papers had this among their
cable news last week :
FREETRADE RALLY.
London, March 10.
Freetraders are arranging to hold rally meetings in
several large provincial towns.
It isn’t the victorious army that tries to rally, as
a rule, but the one that is defeated and bolting
from the scene of action. “ Rally ”is an ominous
word in such a connection.
NOT THE PROPER THING TO DO.
Mr. Reid was quite rightly specially severe ori our naval
construction programme. He reminded us that the
British navy exists. While it exists it is defending Aus-
tralia.— Daily Paper.
Little Boy : ‘‘ Look, George; look at my new
ship!”
Georgie : “O you unmanly, hindependant cree-
chure! The idea of you ackshally trying to
defend yourself, with your old ma always
ready to do it for you for a—ah—er —that is
— well, a consideration.”
Vic. Agent-General Taverner, a superficial
person, addicted to advertising his zeal in the
service of his billet, has been “ ridiculing ” the
anti-Australian misstatements of the Investors’
Review, which, by the way, are not so much mis-
statements as exaggerations. If Taverner were a
loyal Australian rather than a London billet-
holder he would leave the Investors’ Review to
do its best in the way of cooling Cohen’s ardor for
pizness with our State Governments. When the
impolite Cockney paper remarks that Victoria is
“ stagnant,” it is merely stating a fact.
The present S.A. Government has never
been loquacious about land settlement. It has
never babbled as Bent did, or as Murray is doing,
yet it has accomplished quite a lot in a quiet sort
of way. It only assumed office in 1905, and
already it has settled over 4,000,000 acres of State
and repurchased lands, mostly in the Pinnaroo,
Eyre Peninsula, and Kangaroo Island districts.
The land is not of magnificent quality, still it is
feeding quite a considerable population, and
formerly, in many cases, it didn’t even feed an
occasional sheep.
Sydney Telegraph is running a series of
articles on the Federal Capital, and the fifth of
the series opens : “ If the opinion of the average
man were asked as to the width of the streets of
the Federal capital he would undoubtedly reply,
‘Make them as wide as possible.’ But it is not
quite so simple as all that, even though the land
may be purchased at agricultural values, or if it
be Crown land that may be had for the taking.”
This is absolutely correct. If the Commonwealth
allow's the State Government to bluff it into being
satisfied with even 600 square miles, the result
will be that, after water supply and other essen-
tials are provided for, there will be no space for
anything better than lanes.
While Sydney City Council was discussing
the proposed Oxford-street resumptions the other
night, Alderman Owe’Sullivan let loose some
sound advice :
They ought to look a few years ahead before deciding
what should be done. In 30 or 40 years there would be
nearly a million people in Sydney. They should not
build for what would afterwards have to be pulled down.
It is a thousand pities that N.S.W. Works
Minister Owe’Sullivan didn’t have some sensible
person like Alderman Owe’Sullivan to advise him
to “look a few years ahead” before he built
Sydney’s alleged Central Railway Station. If
that had happened, Works Minister Owe’Sullivan
would perhaps have been able to see then what is
seemingly quite clear to Alderman Owe’Sullivan
now —that he was only “building for what would
afterwards have to be pulled down.”
While the State Screamers were consider-
ing their alleged rights in Hobart, Minister for
Home Affairs Mahon started to publish some of
their garish wrongs in the same
town. He also showed how much
more obvious are their wrongs
than their rights. With the ad-
vent of Federation, they had been
relieved of a substantial incubus
in the upkeep of the three big
services of the Post Office, De-
fence, and Customs ; but yet
they are spending£7,soo,ooo more
per annum than they did when
they were shouldering the cost
of those three aforementioned
departments. The increase is out
of all proportion to growth of
population, and can only be set
down to chronic financial drunkenness.
Joe Cook seems to have got off a memor-
able platitude at Rockhampton (Q.). According
to a telegram published on Monday : —•
Referring to the Customs, Mr. Cook said the Common-
wealth wanted to appropriate all the revenues from this
source, although it was the State taxpayers who had to
pay directly for it.
Joseph seems still to be ghost-ridden by an idea
that the Commonwealth is a foreign power which
should raise its revenue by taxing the Italians or
Egyptians or some such folk. Apparently it
never occurs to this mentally one-eyed person that
the States annex all the land-tax and income-tax
money, though it is the Federal taxpayers who have
to provide the cash. That fact is quite as horrible
as the one he mentions, and any save a hope-
lessly timber intelligence would drop to the fact.
Altogether 1100 applications were re-
ceived for the 90 farm blocks recently thrown open
at Ouyen (Victoria). This land is only fair
average Mallee country. It is away from
civilisation. The wheat has to be dragged
and railed a tremendous distance to a
seaport. The seasons are in the hands of
the gods. Yet the writer recently saw
one block on a Western plains station,
20,000 acres in area, which was in the
charge of one solitary man at 225. Gd. and
two rations per week. This one man
managed to look after the fences, oil the
windmills, and keep down the rabbits.
This single block was well able to com-
fortably keep between 40 and 50 farmers,
with their families and employees. Arid
this is typical of the whole of these plains.
But the stiff, progressive land-tax that
is to smash up this scandalous monopoly
is not even visible on the horizon; and in
the meantime farmers are being trampled on in
the rush for any sort of land in the dry, dusty and
distant Mallee ; while others are risking death by
drowningin the Murray in their haste to get into
another State.
Though Prime Minister Fisher wasn’t so
beastly affable as his predecessor Alfred in dealing
with the bumptious State Insects, and though he
declined to produce another “scheme,” to be
flung at him as every former “scheme” has been
flung at his predecessors, he wasn’t half as brutally
frank as he ought to have been. He should have
told the Insects straight out that the Common-
wealth, having hitherto starved itself, now wants
every penny it can raise, and will want it for
many years, and that if the States find themselves
short they can retrench (the Upper Houses and
the expensive frill of the State Governors could
be swept away in one act), and then they can
levy a stiff, progressive land-tax and a thumping
absentee-tax, besides other imposts. The Insects
would probably have taken his remarks lying
down, seeing that so far they have made no reply
to Mahon’s charge of shameful extravagance in
scattering an additional £7,500,000 of annual
revenue since Federation, notwithstanding that
the Commonwealth has relieved them of £3,000,000
of annual expenditure.
Victoria’s muni-
cipal cadgers took a
dip into the public
Treasury, the other
day, and extracted
therefrom some loose
change to the value
of £44,325. The
money is to be used
for the usual pur-
poses of lepairing
new roads and
bridges and repair-
ing old repairs, and
with a little economy
it should be able to
last the shires .an
hour or two. How-
ever, there is no
necessity for any
economy on their
part. When they are stone-broke, they can take
another dip. Which is an unnecessary remark.
It is only when they don’t take another dip that
remark is at all necessary.
According to N.S.W. Full Court, the Wade
Government has made a wretched blunder over
those famous improvement leases —a herd of ghosts
which absolutely refuses to be laid. When the
Government secured the cancellation of the leases,
it promptly dispossessed the. lessees and disposed
of the areas in various forms of settlement. The
original lessees have now secured a verdict that
they were entitled to 60 days’notice to quit, which
notice they didn’t get, and in consequence another
bill for compensation looms on the impecunious
horizon.
Friday, March 12, was a field day for
organised unionism. On that day Justice Higgins
gave his Arbitration award in favor of the Broken
Hill miners; Judge Heydon fined the Lithgow
Iron Works proprietary for locking thpir workers
out; and the N.S.W. Full Court dismissed the case
against the Boot Clickers’ Association in which the
award of the Industrial Court in favor of thecliclcers
was sought to be set aside. And on the other side
of the world the U.'S. Federal Court of Appeals
upheld the verdict of a lower Court which had
declined to prohibit the Federation of Labor from
publishing in its newspaper a Black List of em-
ployers, and urging unionists not to trade with
them.
STEP IN.
Regarding the attitude of the Deakin party, he (Joe
Cook) expressed the hope that Mr. Deakin would yet
speak more plainly on the position, so that it would be
better understood.
Mr. Deakin said that there was only one way to fusion,
and that was by complete abnegation on the part of the
Opposition and the absorption of the Opposition in the
other party.
Alfred : “ Well, if you're going to be my ‘ joey ,’
you'll have to get into MY pouch. See ! ”
The mental barrenness of the State Pre-
miers’ Conference stood out conspicuously in one
matter. The great complaint against the old
Braddon clause was that, according to its pro-
visions, if the Commonwealth required an extra
£1,000,000 of Customs and -Excise-revenue it must
raise £4,000,000 and return £3,000,000 to the State
Governments. The new proposal is that, when-
ever the Commonwealth requires £2,000,000 of
extra tariff revenue, it must raise £5,000,000 and
return £3,000,000 to the State Governments.
After eight years of deep thought, that is as far
as the State Premiers have got.
Britain has just added to its bloated
empire another 15,000 square miles full of niggers.
This time it is Siam that has been plundered ; in
his craving for! land and niggers J. Bull plunders
friend and foe (dike. And with the annexation of
each new horde of niggers Britain becomes more
and more an Asiatic and less and less a European
power. Its ideas and sympathies take on an
extra-Asiatic tinge. And the gulf between
it and the great white dependencies, which must
some day be the backbone of the Empire if the
Empire is to last, grows wider through the
inability of a browner and browner Bull to realise
his white children’s point of view.
Melbourne Argus, in an article on the
world’s harvests, says glibly
Great Britain finds her capacity and energy more pro-
fitably employed in other branches of production, and is
prepared to take practically all the wheat which countries
of larger area and greater suitability for agriculture can
send her.
That should be a convincing preachment for the
submerged. It would be a great idea to march the
workless and the famished out of the English
towns, and show them the hundreds of thousands
of British acres lying waste, serving as breeding
places for deer and pheasants, mere happy hunt-
ing grounds for the unproductive rich. And then
it would be a great idea to tell that hungry and
ragged army that its energies are more profitably
employed than in growing wheat. Under a strict
Freetrade regimen English soil promises to pro-
duce principally crops of tombstones.
THE AWAKENING.
In response to a largely-signed petition South Mel-
bourne’s Mayor has called a Town Hall meeting to discuss
the abolition of State Parliaments.
“ Ullo! He's moving! ”
Evidently the Government of John Murray
of Victoria is convinced that the Sunshine railway
smash is not frantically and thoroughly dead, for
it is said to be still considering the appointment
of a commission to muse upon the same.
Meantime, it ought to consider the appointment
of a commission to muse upon itself. A Govern-
ment that can go on considering an urgent
matter indefinitely without beginning anywhere
and without arriving in much the same place re-
quires a heap more inquiry than a railway
disaster.
AS IT MAY BE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And God said, “Let there be pigments 1”
And there were pigments.
And 10, He gave to man
A brain—some figments—
And a whole great skinful
Of Instincts which said,
“Court, wed and multiply
After your own kind,
So not to stultify,
Confuse, or disarrange His Purposes.
And God said, “ The Asiatic,
His color will I fit with traits
Idiosyncratic.
Ilis only ; likewise Brown and Black,
By My will mystic,
Each shall have its own deep
Characteristic !
See that my primal dyes be kept
Unadulterate ;
Kind mix with kind ; hate none,
But Color with twin color mate ! ”
But 10, the White Caucasian Race
(By reason of its great propensities,
The Boss, the Pioneer, the Innovator),
In the figments of its densities
(Its brain), in the cobwebbed cells
Of its erst-time Intuitions,
The calloused chambers where at ward
Its Instincts lay, hatched Missions ;
Thought, like Saul, it heard a voice commanding
“ Convert him.” While another section
Conceived that it were well to sit at ease,
And bellow to the Colored ones direction
How to husk corn,
Cut sugar cane, and harvest coffee,
And do the general chores
Cheap .... while he sucked toffee.
Likewise the Philosopher and Faddist, these
With vain imaginings and hypotheses,
Preached thus: “Absorb the Colored in the White.”
And the Fool Race practised their philosophies.
Moreover he, the stout one of the £ s d
The Capitalist—
Was, though of stomach proud,
A polygamist.
And so Likewise he forgot,
In his great haste for lucre,
That there were things besides—contributory forces
That helped to euchre
Instinct and Providence ; that on the many rungs
Of the white stair of ascending' classes—
Himself of it the apex—
There were his Nation’s lower masses ;
Forgot—or didn’t care—that these
(Also made toilers for his youngster’s patrimony)!
Were less squeamish—or more honorable—
Than he ; and so got Matrimony
To cluck her blessing on their piebald matches ;
By that sacrament endeavoring
To consecrate the union of those of whom The God
Ordained the severing.
And thus the Law was broke by high and low,
Until the ladder slipped from under,
And there was nothing any more but Chaos—
Chaos and thunder.
VICTORIA.
ALPRNSTOOR.


Ronisch Pianos
will
nllfl
i ran
We are showing an excep-
tionally line lot of
Ronisch Pianos, both, in
Grands and Uprights.
Their tone quality and
touch are delightful.
Their case work designs
exceedingly artistic.
Catalogue and full particu-
lars are free for the
ashing.
W. H. PALING (& CO., LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
\' ullv Al °V/
BUCKLEY’S
Autumn
FASHION BOOK*
£ General Catalogue
JiusF Published. W. 4
f Posted Free on Application
The Publication
in Ausrpedia.
£resy ///u 3 fra fto/? /?c)5 /bees? spec/a/Zy prepared
<§rgr/t/ej a Zrue repreoenZat/on of our srocZfj.
NO HOME COMPLETE, WITHOUT ONE
„ BUCKLEY (s NUNN B?
[I VICTORIA HOUSE MELBOURNE
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried.
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
5.5. LE FIAIRE, /larch 29th, 1909.
5.5. VAN SPILBERGEN, May 2nd, 1909.
Thence every four weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO,
MACASSAR, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 48 days, including
eight days’ stay in Java, For Booklets, Time Tables, ancTalTlurther
information apply:—
AGENTSMessrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide; John
Sanderson & Co. Ltd,, Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S. S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island; Earp Biros., Newcastle.
The Head Office for Australasia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.


ROWUHO’S
KALYDOR
FOR » SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals ail
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
& LA6€R
E, RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messr*. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The jolly dogs of Sydney’s Prince Alfred Yacht
Club closed their season on Saturday last, and the way
Thelma won the final was a grand ending' of a very line
season. Seven yachts started, and the handicaps
being served out at the beginning, Magic screaked off
down the Harbor alone, followed a minute later by
Fleetwing and Sunbeam. Two minutes later, that ex-
cellently-named rough weather craft Petrel dashed away ;
and then the towering ltavvhiti was followed by
Thelma. Awanui, of course, was the last to go ; and for
about the first time in its brilliant career failed to show
its true form. Dashing through the spray, Petrel over-
hauled the long timers and went to the front. But Sun-
beam came dancing up, and commenced a duel which
lasted right through the race. Mr. Lloyd-Jones handled
Thelma beautifully, and slowly, but unmistakably, over-
hauled Rawhiti. Working from Manly, Rawhiti got the
weather gauge and defied all attempts on the part of
Thelma to shake it off. And in the front, Petrel
and Sunbeam fought a grim battle, luffing each
other on every possible opportunity, and delaying
both. The way Thelma crowded on the canvas from
Manly was a sight to see ; its monster spinnaker was like
a vast cloud, and on top of it was crowded a jib topsail.
But, having the wind, Rawhiti closed up, and all the way
to Shark Island there was not much more than a length
between them. So fast they flew that at the island the
leaders, who had been luffing each other so desperately',
suddenlv found the big yachts within live minutes of
them. Leading away to Fort Denison Sunbeam fairly'
flew ; so did Petrel, and gained a minute on the two big
crart that streamed along in pursuit. Round the kort the
positions were practically unchanged ; but close-hauled
for Shark Island, Thelma began once more to close up on
the leaders. Rounding the island the second time,
Thelma had got away from Rawhiti, and was threatening
both Petrel and Sunbeam, which were only a minute and
a fraction ahead. The last 200yds. furnished a splendid
sight. Thelma, coming with a rush, passed Sunbeam,
drew up on the dancing Petrel, glided past, and won by
five seconds. Petrel, Sunbeam and Rawhiti were behind
in that order.
* * * *
Sydney Sailing Club also closed its season on
Saturday with a general handicap in which 16 started.
From first to last the race looked fairly safe for Scot, and
when Duncan in Vision went down in the angry 7 deep,
Scot was certain of success. The margin was 59sec.,
which is a fairly decisive thing.
Squalls of rain, a lumpy sea, and plenty of
wind marked the regatta of the Royal Yacht Club of
Victoria on Port Phillip on Saturday ; but, despite a hint
of dirtier weather to follow, the show came off with satis-
faction to the yachtsmen—if not to the spectators, who
tried to look enthusiastic under their ’brellas when the
rain drove along'. The gaudy event of the day 7 —and one
of the gaudiest of the season—was the race for the Lipton
Cup, for which no less than 19 boats of different sizes and
antiquity faced the starting - gun. With a stiff south-
westerly bowling over the seas, the fleet faced the starting
line closely 7 reefed down, and sailed a good part of the race
with their wings in, asit were ; though, as soon iys the wind
eased off in the second round, the reefs were shaken out
and topsails and other kites were set. The first to cross
the finishing line was Helen, closely followed by Fidena,
S.J.S., Kurrewa 11. and tlira, in that order. After cor-
recting for handicaps, it was found that Helen had
snatched the drinking utensil, Ellida being second and
Kurrewa 11. third. There were two or three other minor
events during the afternoon, including dinghy and motor-
boat races ; but the sea was rather too sloppy for any-
thing but jumping about and getting wet. Each boats
nose seemed determined to immure itself for ever in the
quivering liquid, so that there was a lot of spray 7 as well
as progress.
* * » *
N.S.W. Motor Boat Club is bucking up con-
siderably these times. The club membership is in-
creasing-, more boats are being built, and the advantage
of belonging to a good club is apparently 7 becoming
patent to men who go down to the sea in puffers.
Kaster-tide will see an ocean race to Newcastle for the
Rudder Cup, and after spending a couple of days in
the precincts of the undermined city, during which the
handicapper will prepare a fresh list of starts, the
boaters will race back to Sydney. The club is going to
give Donald Mackay, the explorer, who is a member of
the club, a night out to celebrate his safe return from
the wilds of Papua. Mackay, it may be mentioned, is
the owner of a very fine motor boat, which, when he
lets it really go, with the bit between its teeth, so to
speak, can make the best of them get down to serious
business.
* * * *
The Governor-General’s last cricket match in
S.A. showed Captain Rome, A.D.C., as a distinctly 7 use-
ful pla.ver. His Ex. sent in on a moist wicket a team
the Cricket Association had got up to oppose him. It
included Dolling, Chamberlain, Claxton, and Roy Hill,
with other good batsmen ; but Rome and A. Wright
(the inter-State bowler) skittled it out for 59 runs,
each taking five wickets at about the same cost. (Rome
made a century himself in a previous match.) Old
George Giffen—who has not had so much cricket for
years—as usual did most of the scoring for the Gover-
nor’s side (66 and 35), and Lord Dudley unexpectedly-
helped with 19—one chance dropped.
* * * *
Whether the inclusion of P. McAlister as a
player in the Australian team is justified or not, the
Board of Control intends to keep his hands full during
the trip. M. A. Noble, of course, goes as captain ;
but the Board has elected McAlister to the posi-
tions of vice-captain and treasurer; he is on the
finance committee with Laver and Noble, and
on the selection committee with Noble and Gregory ;
while with L. O. S. Poidevin, McAlister will
voice Australian opinions at the triangular confer-
ence between England and S’Africa. It is rather a full
hand for Mac; and it further shows that the Board of
Control has a more lofty opinion of McAlister than the
army who wasted much ink in the daily 7 press to abuse
Owing to the Maoriland Cricket Association
demanding “ the best vou have or none,” there will be no
\ustralian raid on the Tottering Isles this season. How-
ever if Maoriland likes to send an XI. across to Australia,
no doubt the Commonwealth will be able, in spite of the
absence of a team in England, to give it all that is
required.
Noble’s final kick at the Cricket Board of Con-
trol was a humorous bit. of bad taste. Speaking 1 at a
shivoo tendered him by his club at Paddington, recently,
Mary Ann remarked that it was a piece of tyranny on the
part of the Board to appoint the captain of the XI., and
that the team should have been allowed to elect its own
skipper. Considering that the Board appointed Noble
himself to the job, and that he accepted it and thus aided
and abetted the “tyranny” as long as it worked for his
own glorification, instead of refusing it as a matter of
principle, Noble would appear to have slung more clods at
himself than at the Board.
*■■***
The commencement of the new round in Sydney
first-grade cricket on Saturday produced only two cen-
turies—ls 6 by B. J. Folkard, of Balmain, against Bur-
wood ; and 116 by G. Sayle, of Paddington, against Red-
fern. Next best on the list was Norman Deane, with 96
for North Sydney ag'ainst Gordon, followed by his club-
mate, Alphabetical White, with 75. Whitting, of Bal-
main, carried his bat against Burwood for /4. Among
the bowlers, Pye, of Central Cumberland, did best,
with four of Petersham’s sticks for 14. Unsworth, of
Petersham, was also effective, with four for 21, and the
third man on the bowling list was also a Petersham man,
one Law, with four for 27. After these the only figures
worth quoting were the three for 29 secured by Harris,
of Sydney, against Waverley.
The 1909 Australian XI. dropped its portsammy
on board the English-going steamer .yesterday (Wednes-
day), and departed to hide behind the shield of amateurism
while it divides the profits equally. All the same, it is to
be hoped that the team will soundly trounce J. Bull.
Failure would mean the fresh upheaval of the whole-hog
cash crowd, which would arise as one man to declare
that the failure arose through the Board of Control
having ruined the game. Anyhow, the team, of which
eight men are new to England, is not likely to disgrace
Australian cricket.
* * * *
Owing to too little cricket on the previous
Saturday, which was due to a generous splash of rain, the
Melbourne struggles last Saturday mostly eventuated in
draws. Indeed, P’ran was the only dub to snatch a vic-
tory on the first innings. Declaring its innings closed at
167 for eight wickets'against Collingwood, it dismissed
’Wood for a mosquito total of 61. Melbourne, apparently
preferring to have some enjoyment rather than strain for
a victory over Carlton, stayed in all the afternoon, and
whacked up 376 for five wickets. Armstrong batted
with unusual vivacity for a fine contribution of
164. East Melbourne, yearning to defeat Essendon,
put up the shutters at three for 216; but as the ’Dons
surprised this paper, and no doubt themselves, by mak-
ing 157 for six wickets, the match fizzled out in a draw.
Fitzroy v. Richmond broke up similarly. ’Roy shut down
at 200 for two wickets, and Richmond responded
haughtily with 138 for four. North Melbourne, like Mel-
bourne, desired to exhibit its immense batting capa-
bilities against University, so it languidly influenced the
leather about the green all da.y, the board finally show-
ing nine dead for 298 runs. As for South Melbourne, it
also indulged in some gentle exertion against St. Kilda,
for, when the spectators wpke up at 6 p.m. or thereabouts,
South showed nine for 219.
Wesley College (Melbourne) put
up a new record for Australian school
cricket by making 710 against Geelong
College last week, Wesley’s captain, J.
A. Prout, contributing 459 runs off his
own bat. Prout’s colossal total is not
only a record for ordinary school or
club cricket, but is the second best
compilation for Australia, C. J. Eady,
of Tasmania, holding the laurels at
present with a total of 566. Nearest to
Prout’s score in Melbourne club cricket
are Armstrong’s 438, Worrall’s 417 (not
out), and Warne’s 402 ; and nearest to
Wesley’s total of 710 is the 700 of Prince
Alfred College, Adelaide, against St.
Peter’s College, same village, when
Dolling, the now well-known inter-
state player, compiled 365.
“ O.” writes :— All the talk
about Johnson and Jeffries is mere non-
sense. Yet the matter is very simple,
and can be summed up in a few sen-
tences. They will never fight. Jeffries
won’t fight, because he has always
known when to leap in out of the wet.
A cautious man is Jeffries. Of course,
he won several disturbances. He
beat a little nigger, and got great kudos from the Ameri-
can papers for the manner in which he chased the diminu-
tive coon round the ring, overtook him, and knocked him
out. There was no talk of a color line when the man of
ebony was a dwarf. Then Johnson, a stoush machine of
great magnitude and liberal horse-power, came along
and challenged Jeffries. Jeffries, at the psychological
moment, discovered that it would be a good thing to
draw a color line and keep Johnson on the other side of
it. He drew the line accordingly. Then he beat a few
wastrels, and a bald-headed veteran named Fitzsimmons.
At the height of his cheaply-earned fame, Jeffries refereed
a fight between Marvin Hart and somebody else. He
looked hard at Marvin dealing it out, and when the
matter was finished he apparently concluded that it was
better to hand over his property in the championship
.belt without further trouble. That’s Jeffries all over.
He knows when to get in out of the perpendicular
moisture. Now he is getting a good deal of advertise-
ment in connection with Johnson. But as usual there
are difficulties in the way. One is the fat inside. The
other is “ If.” “If” he can get back his old form he will
kill Johnson. There is great virtue in “ If.”
)r 9 * •
Probably the truth of the matter is that Jeffries
will fight if he feels reasonably certain of winning.
Writer does not agree with the hinted suggestion that
the big ex-boilermaker is a coward. He may be a cute
business man, and have drawn the color line because he
had doubts about his ability to whip Johnson. When
Jeffries fought niggers he wasn’t champion of the world.
When he became champion he declined to allow any
nigger to have a chance of winning the • fighting
supremacy from the white race. And in the light of the
strong racial feeling in the States this is quite understand-
able without any suggestion of fear to account for it.
That the pressure which is being brought to hear to
induce Jeffries to come out and fight Johnson is tremend-
ous is evident enough even in this corner of the globe.
From all over the world handsome purses—record swags
of cash—are being offered for the fight. The only person
who is not consulted in the matter is Johnson. It seems
to be taken for granted that the big negro must fight on
any terms that may be offered. But he won’t. When it
comes to getting down to business, it will be found that
the black champion will hold out for the big end of the
p urse —win, lose, or draw. And that is where the trouble
is going to commence. The possibility of Johnson
getting the money and keeping the championship after all
is gall and wormwood. At present there is a movement
on foot to raise funds for the purpose of finding a white
conqueror for Johnson in the event of Jeffries declining
to take on the contract.
As said in the last number, Jeffries “is feeling
himself out.” He is certainly not going to come back
into the ring to he finally walloped by a black man,
and unless he feels that he is almost a moral cer-
tainty, he will not fight. And that is the question
it all hinges on. Badgered and squeezed by press-
men, Jeffries makes about two different state-
ments each day. The Mclntosh is now in New York,
and has been cabling that he has more than Buckley’s
chance of securing the great scrap, and that if objections
are raised in England or France he will bring the pair to
Australia. On the other hand, big financial dogs in
Melbourne are cabling offers that are gigantic, and all
the recognised promoters of the States are also bidding
fancy prices. Further, all the papers are howling to
Jeffries to get into the ring and polish off the black up-
start thoroughly and quickly. And in the meantime
Jeffries is “ feeling himself out,” and attending two ban-
quets daily in New York. The chances are there will be
no Jeffries-Johnson fight.
“ 0.K.” : Tommy Burns has been telling Mel-
bourne pressmen that if Jim Jeffries can be dragged back
into the ring to meet the other double J—Jack Johnson—
it will be “good-bye” to the “cullud pusson." But
Tommy’s yearning to see his conqueror conquered is
parent to this quaint conviction. Jeffries is a 20-stoner,
he has been long out of the game, and he is appar-
ently far from being as dead-sure as T. Burns about
his chances. He now declares that be will train his
darnedest, and if he finds he can get into his old con-
dition he will accommodate the little Alabama coon.
If, on the other hand, his condition fails him, he’ll
see everybody in Tophet first. There are a dozen ex-
cellent reasons for believing that the second edition of
Jeffries must be very inferior to the first, and it’s quite
likely that J. Johnson could easily account for a mere
inferior reprint of the original Jim.
* * * *
The lightweight contest between TJnholz, the
Boer, and Hughie Meighan, of Melbourne, at Melbourne
Athletic Pavilion, ended suddenly and disastrously for
Meighan, who fairly outboxed the Boer at a previous
meeting. Driving in an uppercut in round two, the local
lad met his foe’s granite elbow with his forearm, and
fractured that weapon in two places. This may prac-
tically settle Meighan’s pretensions as a boxer, which
would be a pity, as he looked like coming out on top in
his class. A similar accident put that industrious little
pug, Jack M’Gowan, out of the game for good.
* * * *
This country will prove itself gullible indeed if
it repeats its Burns-Johnson madness in the case of
Hackenschmidt and Gotch. Australia richly deserves to
be called a hass if it covets the distinction of being known
as a Tom Tiddler’s ground for visiting combatants who
assault one another on a platform—for gate money.
Sydney already has a wonderful record boxing match to
its discredit—a match into which the true element of
sport was introduced by accident rather than original
design. Sydney paid more than £20,000 for the joy of
witnessing a “ fight ” between two American citizens of
questionable ferocity in this connection. And now Mel-
bourne, seemingly, is to b<e urged to lose its head over
the spectacle of Gotch lying on his stummick whilst
Hacky labors, with real or apparent earnestness, to turn
him upon his back, and vice versa. These two foreigners
are coming from the other side of the world to make a gate-
money show on Cup Day, when gate money is most plenti-
ful in Melbourne. They wrestled in America a year ago,
Hackenschmidt. unexpectedly didn’t win, and feince then
they have talked so much in England and America of
their alleged desire to administer “ falls ” to one another
that the other side of the world no longer listens to them,
therefore they have contracted to come and talk some
more—with a wrastle to follow—in the fresh young region
renowned as the paradise of the pug. The projected
scheme is not a compliment to the Commonwealth’s
sporting spirit, but an imputation on its common-sense.
If Hackenschmidt and the other fellow mean square busi-
ness, why don’t they chuck one another about as soon as
possible at the most convenient meeting place where a
big “ gate” for a bona-fide contest is readily obtainable?
Why journey all the way to Australia for the purpose of
turning their alleged animosity to cash account? Echo
answers : “ Because Australia, of all places on earth, con-
tains the largest number of sports who are open to be
spoofed.”
MOTORIST JAMES in the Coorong desert;
using matting to cross a loose sand patch.
Interesting to note that the responsibility for
the engagement of Hackenschmidt and Gotoh to wrestle
for the championship of the world in Melbourne does not
lie at the door of any of the usually recognised sporting
promotors. The idea of inviting the pair was devised by
Mr. F. Talbot, who is connected with the management of
Tait’s Pictures at the Glaciarium, and anybody who knows
Mr. Talbot would suspect him of having more ideas
about archaeology, botany, or summer drinks than about
wrestling engagements. However, he is an enterprising
person, and will have Hacky wrestle Gotch probably at
the Melbourne Exhibition Oval on Cup morning next.
Apparently the Oval will be built up temporarily in the
form of a stadium, to seat, perhaps, 30,000 people. The
promoters hope to lure a multitude to the combat, includ-
ing- not only the public that adores “ stoush,” but also the
public that doesn’t. The Exhibition Oval has the advan-
tage of being a place to which women are disposed to go
in their best hats ; and wrestling, seemingly, is not
commonly known as “ brutal ” in the feminine sense of
the word.
* * * *
The amenable, or reasonable, or purchasable
footballer continues to be diseussed by the Vic. football
clubs. He was referred to once again at the Melbourne
Club’s annual meeting, when it was proposed that he
should be dropped, and a return made to straight-out
amateurism ; but the members decided otherwise. The
club seems able to capture quantities of lusty players in
the country, hut it costs a lot to bring them down every
Saturday, and as they haven’t practised with their mates
during the week they aren’t as much use as they might be ;
so an appeal was made to the loyal supporters of the “ old
club” to help “by securing employment for any desirable
men who might be obtainable.” It is horribly annoying,
when you have skirmished the up-country townships for
talent, and have spent good coin in bringing it to Mel-
bourne on many Saturdays, to find that, as soon as it
knows its way about, it gets a permanent job in another
suburb, and cheerfully plays for that suburb’s club. Ex-
cepting University, and, in a measure, Geelong, all the
League and Association clubs are tarred with this brush,
and the only remedy is the institution of- genuine district
football, with a lengthy residential qualification, and a
disability of transfer during the football season.
* * * *
The coming of football is usually like that of
Bill Sikes at midnight—a quiet business that happens
before anyone is aware of the fact. But this season it
was introduced with a most infernal row in the den of
the Rugby League. Amidst the roar and the wrangle,
about the"only things that stand out clearly are that the
League has been run on curious lines, and is now
dead, stone, motherless broke. The originators of the
League appear to have been Messrs. Giltinan, Victor
Trumpet- and Hoyle. Mr. Trumper’s action in regard to
certain cricket matters created, rightly or wrongly, in
the minds of many people a suspicion that he
was in sport merely for what he could make out
of it. His private business was the running of a sports
material depfit, and the men who admired his play on
the cricket-field regarded him as a demi-god, and
bought their sporting tools from him. Then he became
associated with Mr. Giltinan, and they later on are under-
stood to have taken Mr. Hoyle into their proceedings.
The League resulted, and Messrs. Trumpet- and Giltinan
opened a shop in George-street, where, in addition to
ordinary requisites of sport, admirers could obtain any-
thing in the shape of men’s mercery and general wear.
Right through the piece Mr. Trutnper appears as a man
with an eye to the main chance.
Of course, the League was only possible through
the misguided conduct of the Rugby Union in clinging to
the strict rules of the English Rugby Union, which, with
its ridiculous restrictions and otherfollies, has completely
ruined the game in England. Dissatisfaction was rife ;
and the combination decided to start the League under
Northern Union rules, and affiliate with the English pro-
fessional body. Messenger, the star three-quarter, the most
graceful ’bailer writer has ever seen, was among the dis-
satisfied. The combination approached him and secured
him. His popularity was great. Half the Eastern
Suburbs District Club went with him, and for a time the
club was wrecked. But the League was made, and with
careful management it would have boomed and be-
come a dangerous rival to the Rugby Union. Un-
fortunately there were troubles from the start. The
accident fund and many other promised benefits failed
to materialise. A team to tour England and visit other
places was organised, and went to the Cold Country,
under the control of Mr. Giltinan. People were under
the impression that it was under the control of the
N.S.W. Rugby League. But, recently, the League
seems to have struck a shoal. The auditors reported
that the books had not been posted up for months,
that they could not trace many things that they
wanted to trace, and that the touring team was a private
venture, pure and simple. Officials were charged with
obtaining a majority in the committee by means that
were, to say the least, unconstitutional and irregular.
On Monday night a meeting was held, and the office-
bearers were mostly cleaned out. A “ Reform Committee
has been elected, and threatens to clear things up and
resurrect the League as a going concern. It has a fearful
task before it.
# -K * *
There is an extra-large heap of trouble brewing
in the amateur athletic world of Sydney. H. R. Miller,
who is an amateur sprinter of some rank, is also hon.
secretary of the N.S.W. Rugby League, and the trouble
arises over the question whether the Rugby League is a
professional body or not. The Australasian Amateur
Athletic Union has decided that Miller has not forfeited
his amateur status, because, whilst playing League foot-
ball as an athletic exercise, he had not either directly or
indirectly in any shape or form accepted remuneration ;
but the Amateur Sporting Federation, which controls all
amateurism in N.S.W., is kicking heavily at the A. A. A.
Union’s decision. Under the Federation’s agreement, the
N.S.W. Rugby Union is recognised in amateurism, while
the Rugby League is a professional body; and the
Federation is of the opinion that a professional in one
branch is a professional so far as all sport is concerned.
Unless the Union swallows its decision, it is quite
probable that the Federation will inflict the application
of the boot.
B. I. Swannell, the new Sydney Metropolitan
Rugby Union secretary, knows the game clean through.
Originally he came with a band of English footballers on
an Australian tour ; obviously he liked the place, because
he stayed here, and has been a controlling factor in
N.S.W. Rugby football ever since. Rugby Union football
appears to be safer in Swannell’s hands that it has been
in recent times —especially with the troubles which
are likely to assail it from every point during the coming
season.
* » * *
There is much pushing and shoving after play-
ing grounds among the controlling bodies of the four
different sects of football in Sydney. In the first rush,
the Rugby Union has gathered in Redfern and Birch-
grove, besides which it has first call on 90 per cent, of
the enclosed parks, as well as the Sydney Sports Ground.
In fact, the Union’s grab pushes nearly all the others out
into the,cold. . ,
* * * *
The frailty or unskilfulness of Melbourne’s foot-
ball umpires has drawn a;curious suggestion from a cor-
respondent, who thinks that the badness of the gentry
might be ascertained by examining them as to their
capabilities before the season commences. They should
be able to pass an oral examination in the rules, and then
give a demonstration of their ability to handle 36 gentle-
men “amateurs” before three appointed stewards, who
would thereupon report on their merits. According to
the reports would depend their subsequent appointment
and grading, and on the strength of their performances
would depend their promotion from class to class. It
seems a good idea, and would probably produce better
umpires. Still, the best umpire on earth will always be
a “ blanky cow ” to the barrackers of a losing side, and,
despite his superb art from the point of view’ of the bar-
rackers of a winning ditto, will always be liable to sudden
dismemberment and assault. Under those circumstances
it would be a better idea to grade the crowds ; wherefore
The Bulletin is now waiting for a scheme for the
examination of the barracker. The most bloodthirsty
would be turned into a paddock by themselves with a
few howitzers and a company of mounted infantry; and
so on down to the very mildest, who could be attended
to by a deputation from the Young Women’s Christian
Association.
As Barry will not allow more than £l5O for
exes., Arnst has for the present dropped him, and is en-
deavoring to fix things up with Durnan, in Canada.
Richard requires a straightaway course for the whole
race, and it is said that this cannot be found on Lake
Toronto. But as Durnan seems reasonable, and prepared
to meet the Maorilander fairly in all things, the matter
will, no doubt, be fixed up satisfactorily.
RHEUMATISM,
Lumbago and Sciatica.
Rheumatism, lumbago and sciatica are three of
the most common and mogt painful complaints in
this country, especially in the cold districts.
They practically arise from the same cause, and
the names only distinguish the location of the dis-
ease. If the arms and legs are affected, it is
called rheumatism ; if in the loins, lumbago; and
if in the hips, sciatica.
The attacks are generally brought on by chills
when the body is overheated, or by exposure to
damp or cold draughts, which act, not upon the
bones or muscles, but upon the uric acid in the
blood, which is the cause of the disease. Uric
acid is found in small quantities in many articles
of diet, which when consumed pass into the blood.
The failure of the liver and kidneys to filter and
absorb this acid leads to an accumulation in the
system, tends to clog the circulation, and harden
the tissues forming the blood vessels. Thus every
movement of the affected parts causes you in-
tense agony. The pains are affected more or less
by cold or heat. A damp day will double you up,
or the warmth of the bed will intensify the pain.
Mr. Henry B. Stretton, 26 Albert Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, writes:—“For six months
I had been laid up with muscular rheumatism,
and was treated for three months in the hospital
with it. The doctor and his medicine did not do
me the least bit of good. The attack was first in
the left leg, and it gradually worked up into the
back, and I would be doubled up with the most
cruel pains. I suffered like this, as I say, for fully
six months, and at last I decided to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Bills, as I had heard so much
about them. I was very pleased to notice that
after using a few bottles I began to improve, and
afterwards I completely recovered, and I now
swear by them.”
In order to effect a cure, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills and Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Lini-
ment should be used as directed. Obtainable at
all chemists and stores, or will be posted by the
W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt Street', Sydney,
on receipt of price. Pills, Is. (6 bottles
6s. Gd.), Liniment, 2s. 6d. (6 bottles 13s. 6d.).


Write for our 1909 CATALOGUE,
mentioning- this paper.
“ Slowed If I Didn’t Wake Up
to the fact that my E. and B. was a better
machine than even the salesman claimed for it,”
says many a B. and B. Model 3 Cycle rider
after a few months’ use. For .£ll we fit it with
Dunlop Welch Multiflex Tyres, and guarantee
it a year.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-buiidin
House in the Srate,
234 Pitt Street artd t3O-'32
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Wl
Before
After
FAT PEOPLE!
NORMAL HERBAL OBESITY CURE will
reduce your weight three to five pounds a
week, and relieve that feeling of fulness and
oppression by producing healthy digestion and
assimilation. It strengthens the heart and
enables you to breathe easily, removes double
chin, large stomach, fat hips, &c. No person is
so fat but what it will have the desired effect.
We absolutely guarantee satisfaction in every
case. It will cost you nothing to try it. Write
for a Free Trial Sample and Free Booklet on
the dangers and cure of Obesitv.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A. M. L. S F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing: Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land § Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'H Street, SYDNEY.
FRIDAY, MARCH 26,
AT 2.30 P.M.
AUCTION SALE of the Magnificent
Collection of
WATER COLOR
DRAWINGS
Now on View at the Art Gallery of ROBERT A.
FORBES, 359-361 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues will be posted to any address
on application.
TUCKETT & STYLES, Auctioneers.
LAUGHTER IS BETTER THAN MEDICINE.
FUNNY STORIES.—NOS. 1 & 3 COMBINED.
A good hearty laugh will do you more good than any
doctor’s prescription. Here we offer you 100 and more
good laughs in the shape of Funny Stories, Joltelets,
PRICE ON* SHILLING
ALLAN A CO. oolum
Conundrums, by all the popu-
lar favorites including- Harry
Phydora, Will Whitburn.
Fred Graham, Bert Bailey,
Little Tich, James Beil,
Charles Sweet, etc.; laugh-
able Irish stories, funny Jew
yarns, sweetheart jokes, toasts
for all sorts of occasions,
comic recitations, negro
stories, comic doctor’s pre-
scriptions, funeral stories,
school yarns, lawyer yarns,
after-dinner speeches, end-
man’s jokes—SO pages just
crammed with good things.
For a small price you can ob-
tain enough material to amuse
yourself and friends for many
an evening ; if you want, to put on a minstrel or vaude-
ville show you will find here an abundance of good
material. All the stories and jokes are sure fire hits. They
have all been tried and proved by leading performers at
the various theatres. You cannot afford to be without
tms book. Don't forget the title-FUNNY STORIES,
Nos. 1& 3 COMBINED. Every bookseller and newsagent
ln Australia has it in stock. If yours has sold out send us
is. 2d. in stamps, when We will post the book direct to you.
ALLAN & CO., 273-278 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
TAKE THOU WHAT COURSE THOU WILT
(JuliUs CcCS ar)
SATISFACTION
To users, is the truest
index to the worth and
wear of Motor Tyres.
That is why DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES are
to-day so popular with
Australian Motorists,
who recognise their
wonderful wearing
qualities and appre-
ciate their worth.
UNEQUALLED FOR
QUALITY AND PRICE
V*
sand-Drift
On the Coorong-
-s.Austra!ia.
ARE ALWAYS RELIABLE.
The “Marathon” craze has touched Queens-
land, and when the State holds its Jubilee Exhibition in
August there is to be a 2(i-mile road race from Oaboolture
to the showgrounds—lst prize, something worth £5O.
Part of the Caboolture-Brisbane road is a tough proposi-
tion, mostly “corduroy” and sand, so there is great joy
ahead of the competitors.
* * * ~
“Marathon Races ” are springing up all over
the world; and the latest “Marathon” advertised
is one being organised by the Y.M.C.A., of Sydney, to be
run off at Easter-tide. The venue will be 26 miles, cut
up into a number of laps round Sydney Cricket Ground,
and over stretches of filthy, dusty roads out South Sydney
way. The prize money for this hard labor is £2l, divided
into £lO, £5, £3, £2 and £l, and a few copies of the
“Pilgrim’s Progress,” “Letters from Hell,” and other
humorous works. At that rate of remuneration the
Y.M.C.A. is not likely to be rushed by greedy profes-
sionals.
* * * *
England and the United States have decided to
come again for the Davis Cup, the outward and visible
emblem of the rvorld’s lawn-tennis championship. The
challengers will play off the preliminary ties, and the
victors in the Bull-Jonathan struggle will journey to
Sydney and play the finals on the new courts at Double
Bay.
♦ * * *
Hungarian swimmer de Halmay, who made
such a splash at the Olympic Games at St. Louis and
other places, has been suspended by his own association
till he puts in an appearance to answer certain questions
in re his amateur status.
* * * *
The Cold Country ! In a Rugby football
match at Huddersfield (Yorkshire, England), on January
16, one of the full-backs had to go off the field with an
arm incapable through freezing. They had thunder,
lightning, and snow during the game.
* * * *
Despite the cold air and colder water, Fairfield
Paik(Vic.) Swimming Club continued its carnival last
Saturday before a moderate assemblage of enthusiasts.
There were several events of no classical nature, but yet
fiercely contested just for the honor of the sport. The
principal item on the programme was the club’s 100yds.
championship, secured by J. Porta, while the 200yds.
breast-stroke championship fell to F. Lukey. Several
swimmers collapsed from cold during the afternoon,
without damping’ the excitement of the rest. Alec Lamb,
champion pro. diver, made holes in the water with
variations. The Middle Park Club also held its annual
paddling carnival on Saturday. The club’s star attrac-
tion was the 100yds. championship, which was rvon by
Rennolds, Brettschneider being second, and Buxton
third.
‘** * *
Dick Arnst discovered on Saturday last that a
man cannot be a success at two things at once. He went
down to Dunedin recently, and on Saturday last got
across the jigger at some bike sports only to be donkey-
licked for even a place. “ Well, I’m darned ! ” said Dick,
when he discovered himself driving the majority of the
field home before him.
* * ♦ *
The Florida (U.S.) race meeting for speed cars,
which takes place annually on that splendid stretch of
sand between Ormond and Daytona, on the Florida beach,
will be held from March 23 to 26, inclusive. Said that
the present assembly of cars will be one of the finest
gatherings in the history of the sport.
Harry James has been motoring over the course
of the Dunlop Despatch Relay Ride, and at times things
were far from gay. Crossing the Coorong Desert he had
a desperate struggle. In the shifting sand, which swept
along in waves, the wheels of his car could make no pro-
gress. But the resourceful James was equal to the
Coorong or any other old thing, and, laying down long
strips of cocoanut matting on the sand, he drove along
cheerfully, in spite of everything. It was slow work,
however, and James and his party were not sorry when
they got clear of the infamous Coorong.
* * * ' *
N.S.W. champion cyclist George Horder, who
threatened to go in for sculling, has shied off the pro-
posal. He will go to the United States instead, and pro-
spect for gold on the saucer tracks of that land.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is threatening to
hold a carnival in Sydney at Easter time, during which,
for two glorious, gaily-illuminated nights, motor-cars,
motor-bikes, paced cyclists, and cyclists plain will rage
round the track at Sydney Cricket Ground. So far, a
detailed programme is not in existence, but it is being
prepared, and the League has sworn, by its sacred
sprocket, crank, and ball-bearings, that the meeting shall
be held.
“ Henry Horsecollar ” : A bitter and very
justifiable cry comes from the once-beautiful
Ovens Valley in Victoria. Gold dredging is
making it a howling wilderness. At one time
the gold dredge worked only in rivers, but that
time is passed. Now it wanders over the alluvial
flats everywhere, carrying its own waterhole or
river with it. It gathers up the alluvial soil, ex-
tracts the gold, creates an evil sludge to be washed
down the rivers, and leaves a bare surface of
desolation. In a sense it may yield a profit, for
the gold extracted fetches more than the cash
price of the land, but that is hardly the question at
issue. The dredge eats up the beauty of the
country, eats up its fertility, and eats up its popu-
lation by making it unfit to live upon. If all the
world were dredged, then man, with a great bag
of gold in his hand, would die of hunger amid an
illimitable waste of bare rock and grey sludge.
Land may be only worth £5 an acre in the market,
yet before the world is finished that acre of land
may supply £1,000,000 worth of food, and support
thousands of human beings. The bit of gold that is
got from it supplies no food, and as likely as not
it will wear away in a few years to impalpable
powder, and be no more seen. The dredge curse
is a pathetic example of short-sighted greed. Its
beginning is often wild-cat; its end is always
naked rock, ugliness, barrenness, poverty and
sludge—especially sludge. In many cases it
doesn’t even get the price of its iniquity ; a bank-
rupt dredge can make as much desolation as a
prosperous one. And the dredger has no soul ; he
would dredge Paradise if he had half a chance.
The Ma State’s Wimmen’s Deform League
has held its annual meeting, and has resolved
upon—(l) Ihe excellence and magnificence of the
Wimmen’s League; (2) the necessity of slaying
Sosh fatally dead; (3) the need of “preventing
by better legislation ” the “humiliating spectacle ”
of our loans being frosts in London. Well, seeing
that the political party which the League sup-
ports has for years past had charge of ail the
legislation tnere is, it is about up to the Feminine
Deformers to elect some other crowd, and so secure
different spectacular effects. .
D'uring February 40 Chows arrived afc
Melbourne, arid presented naturalisation and
other papers purporting to show that they had
been in the country before, but had been away for a
cliange of air; and of that 40 no less than 32 had sets
of papers that were thrown out as fraudulent and
too smellful to pass muster. The fact ought to
set Australia thinking. In five years 610 Chows
have been admitted to Australia on similar
papers; and if, when the Australian Govern-
ment began to seriously inspect the documents,
just four-fifths of them were found to have fraud
stamped on them, how many of the 610 admis-
sions were secured under false pretences ?
A i , • j- .
About a quaint individual .
Periodically there appears in the South Melbourne
Court a mirthful character with a passion for accuracy.
The Law asserts that he has up to date 106 convictions,
mostly for minor offences, but every time he reappears on
a charge of using language, or something like that, he
violently addresses the Bench on the subject. His gt-iev-
ance is that the Court’s arithmetic is hazy ; his convic-
tions, so he says, being one less than the Court says
they are. He doesn’t seem to nnnd being run in, but he
does object that his convictions are one too many. It
never occurs to him to reflect that his convictions ma} r
be IGS too many.
“ Philoyid ” : Of intense interest to
Hebrews and Christians (if any) is an article on
* , • , • ~ T -»
Antique Egypt m the Quarterly Review
(January) just to hand. About a century, more
or less, before Moses there flourished Amenhotep
HI., the most remarkable of the Pharaohs. He
d rew f rom yyria much purer ideas of worship
than those of the Egyptians, who were devoted to
Amen . Ril the Sun God. Amenhotep imbibed
the 1110 re ratic)r ,al notions of God which ani-
mated King Hammurabi, in Babylon, cen-
turies before him, and which, indeed, are
substantially those embodied in the Biblical
Jehovah. James Smith’s novel about Moses
develops liis sources, but the most important theo-
logical discoveries about Egypt and Babylonia
have been made since that was penned. The name
of Amenhotep took in that of Amen, the Sun God.
Therefore he changed his name to Akbnaton, mean-
ing the Glory of Aton, the title under which
Jehovah was known. The priesthood was all
against him, hut he went on with the energy of
Julian the Apostate in a reverse way. He removed
the capital from Thebes because of priestly obsti-
nacy, And built a magnificent new city called
Akhetaton, or Horizon of Aton, where the new
worship was grandly solemnised. He died young,
ant j when he had gone, Aton vanished like
TVmrlo’o yi™
P OW '. e S Zion. Ihe priests scraped away every
inscription to Aton, and there is evidence nowa-
days of the virulence of their chisels. Yet the
seeds remained for Moses and such thinkers,
AkhnatonbelievedinlJniversal Peace. Appealsby
his generals forreinforcements were simply pigeon-
p Q led and remained in the niveon holes until
noana remalnen . ln tne pigeon-lioies until
only two years ago viz from perhaps 1407 B.C.
to A.D. 1907.


TERMS ARRANGED,
SMALL DEPOSIT. BALANCE WEEKLY.
"OVERY Description of Bnsinessfor Sale. Partner-
ships Arranged. Genuine Businesses and
Partnerships Wanted. Loans Negotiated. Farms,
etc., for Sale.
WRIG'fT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
A HUGE SUCCESS !
Custard
"WOTS
Bird’s
Custard ttufh Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New
South Wales,when stewed, form an
exquisite Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD,
served either hot or cold. Most popular
with Adults and the Youthful alike.
jfg
“ PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
jfgj
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
ra?>
«/
e*
ph
THE- TYRE
THAT
SCOOPED
THE POOL.
Sole Australian
Agents :
BARNET(LASS
RUBBER CO. LTD..
Founders of the All-Rubber
Goods Industry in Australia,
234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ;
226 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE ;
10 McHenry Street, ADELAIDE;
Also Perth, Hobart and Brisbane.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
mm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
&
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. * in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only foe obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Price 10/0,
Post Free
Anywhere in
Australasia.
Don’t Shave with ANY Razor
and scrape your poor chin sore—it’s lots of trouble, and the result
is bad. Invest in a PLUM. A perfect keen-edged blade. We
guarantee and keep it in order for two years free of charge.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/3
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
THE “NUGGET” POLISHES
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR BOOTS,
AND ARE NOW
MADE: IN AUSTRALIA
By Australian Labor.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
fgj
BY
APPOINTMENT
fgjfg
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
jfg
Under Vice-Regal
jfg
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereajrh Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES
jfgj
A Puzzle Pocket Knife
is one of the most useful
novelties obtainable.
Best quality steel blade,
buff horn handles, spring-
back. Puzzle to shut as
well as to open. Makes
a splendid knife for
general use, also a
superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full direc-
tions, 2/2, post free
anywhere.
Send .for our neio Illus'
trated Catalogue—just
published.
Wholesale and Retail.
The MULTIPLYING and VANISHING BILLIARD BALL TRICK.
UNIQUE BILLIARD BALL.
K
wi
$
By far the best and most effective billiard
ball trick ever invented. This is a superior
method to any other billiard ball trick ever
yet performed. The pecularity of it is that
the balls can be given for examination as
they are produced, to show they are solid.
The performer having turned up his sleeves
and shown his hands empty, gives a minia-
ture billiard ball, about one inch in diame-
ter, for examination. The audience being
-utisfied, be takes it in his left hand and
passing his right hand over it shows two.
Again a mystic pass, and there are three,
which he shows are quite solid. The audi-
ence now see, to their astonishmet, four
balls. These gradually vanish one after the
other, till there is only one left, which is
again passed round for examination. An
adequate description cannot be given of this
most delightful effect. If is one of the
prettiest little sleights seen for a long time.
The billiard ball set is made in *• ivoriue,”
and can be made in any size. The illustra-
tion will give our customers some idea of
the effect tint .-'i • • „ . .nth this complete set. The sleeves are turned
back whilst performing this trick the. whole time, the hands shown empty and
at any minute, whilst the trick is being performed, the halls can he passed for
inspection.
This trick requires no sleight of hand, and can be performed by any person.
The balls can he made to multiply or vanish at the will of the operator.
Price (with full Instructions), 1/6; or post free anywhere for 2/-
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Eaymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and^itt_StreetB,_Sydney^
Business. Robbery, etc.
“0.”: The struggle to buy in the cheapest
market has its troubles. Cocky squatter sent his regular
orders to a Sydney wholesaler, and at emergencies pat-
ronised the local storekeeper. The local storekeeper
weighed matters, and at the next pinch declined to serve
cockv. “What!” cried cocky. “D'you mean I’m not
free to buy where I get the best value?” “I mean
that if you won’t patronise your local man in a general
way, he’s not going to take your emergency orders.”
“ Then,” said cocky, “I’ll give you nothing.” On that,
the storekeeper wrote to the city wholesaler, remarking
on the extent of his yearly orders hitherto, but regretting
that, as the firm supplied cocky, his own account must
be closed. The firm called on the storekeeper, and, after
explanations, agreed that it wouldn’t supply that or any
other cocky within a five-mile radius. Then the roar of
other cookies was heard afar, and another wholesaler
notified that he would not only serve cocky and his
neighbors, but would bar any storekeeper within the pre-
scribed area. That looked like a beautiful shindy between
two wholesalers. It lasted a while ; then cocky’s son took
it into his head to marry the storekeeper’s daughter.
The two dads, sitting together the other night, fixing up
matters, got on to the shindy—and then the}' discovered
that the two contending wholesalers, who were supposed
to be busy cutting one another’s throats, were really one
and the same person !
The pig is a horribly intrusive animal at Warr-
nambool (Vic.). Thus, from the local Standard :
CHURCH SERVICES.
The following church services are advertised for to-
morrow (Sunday):—
Weekly pig sale, Corporation Yards.
Christ Church. —Harvest Festival. . .
St. John’s Presbyterian Church. —Harvest thanksgiving
services.
Methodist Church. —The Rev. D. Daley will preach.
Baptist Church.—Rev. H. A. Hoisfall.
Congregational Church.—Rev. F. P. Barrett, both
services.
Christian Chapel.—Mr. J. G. Shain.
The Christian Chapel evidently comes in a bad last at
Warrnambool, with the worship of the pig an easy first.
•***•*
One swindling Melbourne milk-dealer has put
the business of adulteration on to a mathematical basis.
He sends out “milk” of four different grades. The
poorest—“rubbo” —is rubbish for casual and financially
uncertain customers ; the next —“ seppo ” —is milk after
the separator has removed the cream, and goes to a
slightly better class of buyers ; then there is “ straight,”
which is passed on to the ordinary citizen ; and, finally,
“ toppo,” in case the inspector wants a sample. The
Board of Health is now asking authority to provide a fifth
sample—“ quoddo,” the same to be consumed by the
dealer himself.
* * * *
“ Pisan ” : Bulletin (11/2/’O9) “ Personal
Column ” states : “ Bishop Stone-Wigg, late of Papua, was
a strong opponent of the tobacco currency, and ordered
that coins should be used as far as possible. _ Pennies
were too big for some transactions, so the Bishop im-
ported a few hundred new farthings.” Which is quite
true. Apropos. The Papuan missionary would seem
to have a queer idea about wage-values. I heard
from a dozen different niggers, during a visit I
paid to Papua lately, that the bright sovereign-like
farthings in their possession were the sole reward for a
month’s hard yakker for the missionary. Wade’s belief in
afour-bob-a-week minimum for shop girls has a formidable
rival in Papua, unless the nigger speaks lies and nothing
but lies.
* « * *
“ Rypo” : The “authorised news-agent” is a
curious brand of monopoly. If I want the Aok or Argus,
I must get it from Thompson, because I live on the south
side of the street. If Johnson, who serves my neighbor
opposite, dared to throw a paper into my front garden,
he would lose either his “ authorised ” agency or his life.
The great Liberal daily and its Conservative friend would
start another agent and starve Johnson to death. -Nor
can I get my paper from Wilson. For he is not an
“authorised” agent, and can’t get his papers until
the “authorised agents” are all supplied. And by that
time I have to be at work. If I get my stationery, etc.,
at Johnson’s, Thompson will get to know' of it, and will
send a boy around, with instructions to bang the front
door till the plaster begins to fall from the ceiling, and
peer in the side-lights to see if any of Johnson s goods
are about, as damning evidence against me. If he finds
the evidence, he proceeds to collect my “paper money
with an iron hand. The boy is an autocrat. If he
demanded meals and a bed, he would get them at once ;
for we must have a paper. The “ authorised ” one’s poli-
tics lean always to the side of Fat. I never yet knew an
“ authorised ” news-agent who was a Laborite. Possibly
Laborites won’t accept the conditions.
THE POSTER GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She hangs o’er the railway station, ’neath the haze of city
skies,
A poster girl, with spreading skirts, and haunted human
eyes,
(Red and yellow, the colors crude, that clash in her
tasteless dress)
Watching the slow “ all stations” Down, and the whirl of
the North express
All day long. ’Tis her penance set for some bygone, easy
sin,
To watch the Down trains rattling out, and the Up trains
hissing in.
The city clerks and shop girls trim, the merchant, or
demi-monde,
Tramp and saunter and flutter by, and mount to the
steps beyond.
But through the night when stars blink forth, and the
swaying lanterns swirl,
She shivers on the wooden wall, the wraith of a poster
girl!
About the stations on the line, there are posters green
and blue,
Simp’ring faces of poster girls—but never a girl like you.
The man who painted, limned you not from a quick in-
ventive brain,
Yours was a face burned on his heart by the red-hot brand
of pain.
You were one whom he used to know full well in the
seasons gone,
Where lilies brush, on blue lagoons, the plumes of a sable
swan ;
Where in the ranks of dull belar the pearl-winged moths
flit by.
And, knit to grooves in warm brown earth, the mats of the
mosses lie.
Ah, was it hate that drew those eyes? Was it love,
that loved too much ?
Learning that chin by gaze intent —those lips by too
close a touch?
Or, remembering, when gum boughs swayed, to drone of
a lazy breeze,
How suns threw on the sanded path a pattern of splash-
work frees,
Did he, taking a hated task for a meagre livelihood,
Recalling breaths of wattle bloom, or of scattered sandal-
wood,
Knowing that Spring greened all the Bush, and hearing
the lost.Spring’smoan,
Paint the look he had taught to grow in eyes that he
once had known?
She hangs o’er the railway platform, ’neath haze of city
skies,
A poster girl with spreading skirts, and haunted human
eyes.
Yellow' and red the drap’ries clash, that fashion her
gaudy dress,
Watching the slow “ all stations ” Down, and the rush of
the North express
All day long. ’Tis the penance set for her (or another’s)
sin,
To watch the Down trains sliding out, and the Up trains
puffing in.
About the stations on the line, there are posters old and
new,
Simp’ring hussies or vapid dames, but never a girl like
you !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


a \idds s«i{ ai[| avoi(s jsapwjQ a\|x
'BO6l ‘uopuoq
‘uopiqtqxg qsi*iag-03UTjaj
ALL RECORDS BROKEN.
GRAND PRIX for Tonal Qualities and General Excellence.
DIPLOME d’HONNEUR, Iron and Steel Work.
GOLD MEDAL, Excellence of Cabinet Work,
GOLD MEDAL, Factory Organisation.
SILVER. MEDAL, Brass and Bronze Work.
FOUR SEPARATE JURIES AND THE GRAND JURY.
The leading violin expert of Europe and two French Piano-Manufacturers
judged Tonal Qualities and Construction. The other Juries judged according to
excellence of work in their separate trades.
These are the HIGHEST AWARDS EVER GAINED by any PIANO
at any INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
A large number of competitors exhibited. Commendations were showered
upon us in London by eminent players and composers, including the accompanist
to Madame Adelina Patti, Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and other experts. Specimens
were purchased for leading French and English hotels, including the newest and
largest hotel of London—the Strand Palace Hotel. Consult us about your old
piano and instal the Beale Piano to the joy of your household.
Eleven Thousand Beale Pianos are now in use.
Direct from factory to family.
Cash or Easy Terms. Guaranteed for 25 years.
Catalogues by Post.
[From the London Musical Courier,
November 21, 1908.']
Messrs. Beale and Co.
fTIHE winning' of the Grand Prix awarded by the Franco-
British Exhibitibn for Pianos reflects the highest
credit upon Messrs. Beale arid Co., of Sydney, Australia.
Every Britisher should feel proud that an Australian firm
should have built up such an extensive and self-con tained
piano manufactory so far away from the old-world
centres. Their aim has obviously been to make high-class
musical instruments, both grands and uprights, and that
they have succeeded is proved by the honors thus con-
ferred upon them.
The committee of expert judges recorded their convic-
tion that Messrs. Beale and Co.’s pianos in tonalqualities
and construction, together with those of the old historic
houses of London and Paris, deserved the highest award
—the Grand Prix.
But Messrs. Beale & Co,, desirous of further upholding
the banner of Australian industries, entered in competi-
tion for invention and factory organisation, for which
they received the gold medal. Another gold medal was
given them in the competition for cabinet work. This is
certainly significant, for in both of these classes they
were brought directly into competition with the French
and the English high-class furniture producers. Their
bronze and brass castings were considered worthy the
silver medal in competition with many of the leading
firms of the world. They were awarded the Diplome
d’Honneiir (next to the Grand Prix) for their castings
(made from Australian iron) and for steel work. This we
believe to be a unique record for a piano manufacturer as
embracing the several trades included in the business.
There is a tendency in these days, when the aggregate
output of pianos is annually increasing, to cheapen the
cost of production wherever possible without sufficiently
adjusting this to the inevitably adverse consequences of
the future. Messrs. Beale and Co. had the perspicacity to
see that by using the best materials only, and those well
conditioned, combined with the most approved method
of construction, they could build up a great and endur-
ing business. Their success has been exceptional, result-
ing in the. erection of one of the largest and best equipped
factories in the British domains, producing 1700 pianos
annually.
. The very heart of the Beale piano, the iron and steel
tuning system, is the firm’s own original invention. In
this the iron wrest-plank forms an integral part of the
frame, thus securing absolute rigidity, a greater length
of string, and higher tension than is possible with the
wooden wrest-plank. It is claimed that the string will
remain permanently at the desired pitch.
The sounding boards are made of timber devoid of
resin, with no tendency to expand or contract from heat
or cold. They are, further, made impervious to moisture
by a specially prepared coating (invented by the firm),
which acts as the varnish used by the old violin makers
in giving added resonance. The firm claims that these
sounding boards may be immersed in water for 24 hours
and allowed to dry in the sun without affecting them in
the least. The glue used is a new odorless preparation
made in Australia for the firm, from cuttings of hides
only. It is found to be far superior to the glue in general
use.
The other portions of the pianos are prepared with the
same care, and it must be obvious that Messrs. Beale and
Co.'s pianos are specially adapted to withstand the most
trying atmospheric conditions. For example, the climate
of Western Australia and the Soudan are noted for their
extreme dryness, and Fiji and Madras for their extreme
moisture. These adverse conditions have been success-
fully met and provided for by the comnanv in their
extensive business throughout Australasia. " We have
inspected these pianos and the indispensable requisites
enumerated above. Many thousands have examined
their original construction, and expressed delight with the
tone qualities and general appearance of durability of
these instruments during the Franco-British Exhibition.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos In the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.


OPEN
FACE,
12/6.
HIGHER
GRADE
15/-
m
/
&
M
N
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face Keyless
WATCH KS, Splendid Timekeepers,
Extra Strong Short-wind movement,
12/0.
Higher Grade, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
Bet Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, 25/-. •
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Goid Slipper
Lace Pin, 4/6-
Larger, 5/6, 7/6.
In Silver, S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather,
nicely finished, sKi-
ln Seal Leather, 6/6.
Other Stvles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6
12/6, 15/,'17/6, 20/, 22/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
yet. Gold Horse-
shoe CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap-
phire, S/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Jet. Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12/6-
15et. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
SHOP BY MAIL
“CITY PRICES” straight to you in your own home without the expense of a
trip to the city. Our Up to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT can supply
you as easily and advantageously as if you were a resident of Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to-day for a copy or our 304-page
Illustrated Catalogue. It will help you in
making your Xmas selection. Sent Post Free
to any address.
SHOPPING BY POST.
No matter where you live, you can rely on
our up-to-date Mail Order Dept, to serve you
promptly and satisfactorily. All goods sent
carriage free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Iset. Gold Shamrock Leaf
BROOCH,' set with tine
Wirite Pearls and Sap-
nhire or Turquoise,
£4/10/*
Pearls and Dia-
monds, £B/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Dog and
Kennel CHARM,
7/C.
9ct. Gold, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, TL2/(>•
15ct. Gold, 20/.
tab
gtei
m
a
zm
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX Richly Hand
Engraved, b/o
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
S Smaller, 1/6, 5/6.
In 9et. Gold, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby, and Sapphire, 22/t>-
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, 7/(>.
Smaller, 6/6. Larger, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Real Amber Stem, Solid
Silver Mounts and Screw, Straight or Bent
Stem, 12/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Goid Thistle
CHARM, Ame-
thyst Thistles.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl-set Bird
and Sprays, 20/-.
a. spaders.
9et. Gold Signet
RING, 20/-.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
i:t. Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Rubies and Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/-.
For pierced or un-
pierced ears.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Extra
• Strong Safety Chain, £2/15/--
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/, £3/10/.
Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/, according to size.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Southern Cross’’ BROOCH,
Set Red, Blue, and Green Stones,
13/G
Without Map of Australia, 12/6.
15ct Gold, set with Tourmalines, £2.
,ALL goods sent post
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT and NECK-
LET, set fihe Pearls and Ame-
thysts, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SauNDEUS.
9ct. Gold “Good Wishes” Bar and
Heart BROOCH, 10/6-
Iflct. Gold, 25/.
SOLID
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
Engine-turned Cases, f-Plate Lever movement, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance, £2-.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6. In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l3,
£2O, to £5O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon Circle
BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold -Mouse
and Candlestick
CHARM, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, Silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns, 5/6-
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold-filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/7/6; 15ct. Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Rustic Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set fine Pearls and Ruby c
Sapphire, with Extra Strong Safety Chain attached,
£2.
PORGeI
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/-.
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather,
nicely fitted Pure Silver Mounts and Lock,
10/6
Other styles, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double Cut Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand-Clasp
RING, 25/--
15c t. Gold, £2.
Met. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EAR-
RING-, set with
Tourmalines, £2-
For pierced or
unpierced ears.
Other Styles, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewellid, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, lio/--
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
60/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5/10/. Guaran-
teed 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
PENDANT,
set Bloodstone
and Sardonyx,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£ lO-
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
A .SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe and Whip
SCARF PIN, 7/6-
Larger, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Chain PURSE, Morocco Leather ;
Pure Silver Mounts, White Metal
Chain, S/G-
Other styles, with Silver Chains,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 21/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval and
LINKS, 17/6-
15ct. Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
Bar
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Enve-
lope CHARM,
12/6-
Any name en-
graved free.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


s
l
w
EEr
C
E
ET
7tA
yc
era
S
Wet c£a c
Ns
FI
37D
VC
0
■
F
fgj
| lIIIIIIUT.^
<a
'5?
V4^
m.
Uhl/.
1
m
/
i
l
llKWllluiu/imniii Min
;Fj/i»iM.M»niiMi)iimi'»mnT
limn i""ti
TOR WLjlj
APPDf AfiETf
OP* *
Alij PORTvS
do


AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
In many parts of Australia
there is always the difficulty, often the impossibility, of procuring medical aid when
required, at reasonable charges and of a reliable character.
Thousands of our Settlers
live miles away from any doctor, and the cost of getting one from the nearest town
is usually prohibitive.
The Australian Household Medical Library
at a cost of sixty shillings is the next best thing to having a doctor on the telephone.
The Bulletin issue are new and revised editions of these valuable works, and contain
the latest discoveries in medical science up to the ist of January, 1909.
Up to the present
the only medical works obtainable in Australia have been written in England or in
America, and for the requirements of the English or American climates.
STT TR-rr
- j sssrr
■ n
p!HOd
<■'
1 Sf:
lasr
So far as Australia
is concerned, however, they are not only valueless,
but positively misleading ; nor are the maladies
peculiar to this part of the world referred to in their
pages. In those diseases, also, which are met with
in both countries the conditions present in Australia
are evidently unknown. Many of the articles of diet
recommended in English or American books are not
procurable here, and the measures they advise are
wholly unsuited to our semi-tropical Australian climate.
It is clearly opposed
to common sense to expect that medical works pre-
pared for English or American use, and in accordance
with English or American climatic surroundings, can
possibly possess any practical utility in Australia.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
r: 60 SHILLINGS
IN THE BIISH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MICH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
7909.
To the Manager,
THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Flease forward me the following Medical
Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
“The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide,” 2 Vo Is.
(2nd Edition)
“ The Attainment of Health ; and Treatment by Diet ”
(2nd Edition)
“ The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants
(7th Edition)
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings , for which you undertake to forward the
above works complete , carefully packed , and post free. I am, yours etc.,
Postage
£3
O
O
O
3 O
10 6
2 6
5 O
£4 10
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name
A ddress


THE
Mutual Life 8 Citizens’ Assurance Company
“THE M.L.C.” Limited.
HEAD OFFICES:
CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLEREAGH 8 MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
• " V '
LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE CO-OPERATIVE PLAN.
Eighty per cent, of the profits of the Ordinary Branch belong to the participating Policyholders of that Branch, and the remaining 20 per cent,
to the Shareholders who contract to manage the business of the said Branch at the rate of expense not exceeding 15 per cent, of the income thereof.
GUARANTEES.
The M.L.C. guarantees in its Ordinary Branch that
The expense rate shall not exceed 15 per cent, of the income. (For 1908 Policies transferred from the M.L.A. were debited with an expense rate of 15 per cent, of the
premium income. The other policyholders have been charged with the balance of expenses. These were heavy, owing to the unexpected delay of the Courts in
sanctioning the Amalgamation Agreement, and to the consequent expense of conducting the M.L.A. as a separate institution until Ist September. Excluding this
expense, the charge to the M.L.C. policyholders was 10 per cent, of the premium income.)
The reserves held shall not be less than those required under a pure premium valuation, with interest at 4 per cent, per annum, using the Institute of Actuaries’ Hm
Table of Mortality for the Assurances, and the Government Annuitants’ Experience (1883) Table of Mortality for the Annuities.
The values allowed on surrender of policy shall at no time be less than those brought out by a definite basis of calculation stated in the policy.
The Free Policy which the assured may obtain as an alternative to surrender value shall be for a definite sum assured, named, or calculated on a definite basis set forth
in the policy.
GENERAL BALANCE SHEET.
Or. As at 31st December, 1908. Gr.
Liabilities.
2 3
included in corresponding items in the Revenue Account.
tThe Company has no Foreclosures, nor has any of its Mortgages fallen into possession.
Assets.
Freehold Property-
Leasehold do.
Office Furniture and Fittings ...
Outstanding Premiums on Policies in Force
Deferred instalments of Annual Premiums
Interest Outstanding
Interest Accrued
Agents’ Balances
Sundry Debtors...
Cash in Bank ...
£ s. d.
2,361,084 9 9
1,843,317 11 8
226,214 1 0
1,218 2 0
1,000 0 0
45,353 1 4
Nil
459 16 5
49,958 8 0
3,588 1 2
11,563 3 9
10,221 7 2
,£4,553,978 2 3
H. N. MACLAURIN
FRANK COFFEE
W. P. MANNING
HY. GULLETT
B. R. GELLING
W. J. LYNE
Directors.
JOHN J. GAR VAN,
Managing Director.
ARTHUR M. EEDY,
General Secretary.
We certify that we have attended from time to time at the Offices of the Company and have audited the Accounts for the year ended 31st December 1908 We have
obtained all the information and explanations we required.
We have examined the Books, Accounts, and Vouchers, and certify that the Revenue Accounts and Balance-Sheet are made up in accordance therewith and are
correctly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and proper statement of the Company’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations <nven us
We have verified the balances at the Company’s Bankers. &
We have examined the securities for the whole of the Company’s Loans and Investments, and have found them in order. Certificates were produced to us for the
securities deposited with the Governments of Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand and the United Kinoxlom in terms of the
provisions of the Life Assurance Acts in force, and further Securities not held at the Head Office
KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY, Auditors,


Shipping.
LUMP’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hoc, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
limited. .
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. mmi
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
\p
$
$5-
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
dlontdepieteO.«|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
rHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
To Users of Acetylene
Gas,
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
■''' and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd.,
304- PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
8*
SOUT<
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known British Towns , and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £3 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, stamped fully jewelled, as a FREE
Gift. (Silver Watches are presented toGents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, tog-ether
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., 10 Grosvenor Buildings, Steel-
house Lane, Birmingham, England. The winner
Is required to purchase a Chain from us to wear
with Watch. The name of this paper must be
mentioned. Prize-winners of last competition
were : Miss S. Stubing, Yabmana, Franklin
Harbour, Cornell, S. Australia ; Mr. VY. J. C.
Witmitz, View Farm, Robe, S. Aust alia.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE*
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Deui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell- Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ftji
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
A ERIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 8.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamvhlets, I'imetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dcilgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
NOLIPAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
UK
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet .
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., tO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
A the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the SRC.iRTAaT, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Banking.
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
gank of (jew South (Dales.
Establish]':!) 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,600.000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt'., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
. ... j William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors. -j g HEPHBARD Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
London Office— 64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through,
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Hotels, &c.
JL
j.
*
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
0. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 860 Central, 300 City.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.) .
S.s. Grantala, March 27,
connecting at Fremantle
with S.S. Koombana for
all North-western Ports.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairn
-S.S. Marloo, March 20.
S.S. Wollowra, March 27.
Best and Cheapest Route to <iolddelds
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other interstate Companies on all
services subject to conditions, whieh can be ascertained
on application at the Coinpany’siQfl’iee.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOKG
BUNINYONG,
DAY, Marc
COOMA. 2 p.
March 27.
2 p.m., SATUR.
h 20.
m., SATURDAY,
Melbourne
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers -
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
KANOWNA, noon, SATURDAY,
April 17.
BRISBANE A
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, March 20.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 27.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Foil particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 170 S.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
ONION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF M.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-screec, Sydney.
F. — H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal:
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
11.900 Tons. B. Cocll, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 3rd April
„ „ „ SYDNEY - 9th April
„ „ „ HOBART -15th April
„ „ MELBOURNE - 19th April
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE -21 th April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL d {" £i9 10s ‘ £l3 13s - £is 15s - £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., S.ydnev ;
BRITISH INDIA & Q.A. CO., Ltd., Brisbane:
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.


ANDREW McGEE
The latest— best—simplest and most perfect Safety Razor Is the
AUTO-STROP SAFETY RAZOR.
It has all the merits of others, without any of their demerits.
Triple Silver-plated Frame, 1 doz. Blades and Horsehide
Strop. Complete in Velvet-lined, Leather-covered
Case, 2Es. ; postage, 6d. extra. Extra Blades, 3s.
per dozen.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAYS.
5 & 7 Castleroagh Street (corner Hunter Street), Sydney.
yj
ytki
WHICH IS YOUR HORSE ?
Every man who owns a Horse should know how
to keep it in good condition and how to treat
it when ailing. You do not require a Vet. if
you have Gleason’s Handbook of the
Horse. It describes the symptoms of all the
diseases and gives the proper treatment.
Prompt attention saves valuable horses. A
Handy Chart, to hang in the stable, show-
ing what to do in an emergency, is given with the Book. Price 10/6, posted
anywhere. Money back if dissatisfied. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
ytkò
V:-' -
SMOKE
~ '
REFEREE tobacco
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AMD KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated ‘Waters and Cordials.
PROTECT YOUR FEET. A "Wonderful Discovery.
Dr. Hogyes’ Patent Asbestos Soles.
Prevent and Absolutely Cure Hot, Perspiring 1 , and Inflamed
Feet, Corns, Bunions, Wet and Bad Feet, and other Ailments.
DR. HOGYES, an Army Surgeon, discovered that at the end of a
comparatively short march, soldiers suffered considerable pain
and inconvenience due to SORENESS OF THE FEET, and not tc
ordinary physical fatigue. After long in vestigati on he found that the
evil was attributable to the irritation set up by the leather insoles in
their boots. Many attempts have been made to overcome this
j trouble in the bringing out of Cork and other Soles, but all these have
more or less failed to give the wearer any appreciable or lasting
benefit. There is a unique virtue in the wearing of DR. HOGYES’
ASBESTOS SOLES, or Socks as they are called, not to be found in any
substitute. The material is very ELASTIC AND SOFT, and as the
double movement is avoided, the powers of endurance are greatly
increased. ASBESTOS—a non-conductor—keeps in the heat and
keeps out the cold and wet. COLD, WET, PERSPIRING and INFLAMED
FEET, CORNS, BUNIONS. &c„ are thus prevented, and where any of
these complaints already exist, they will quickly disappear after a
short use of AS BEST OS SOCKS, which ease the feet at once, and give the
complaints a chance to cure themselves in a most natural manner.
If, therefore, you are suffering, or liable to suffer, from SORE-
NESS, or IRRITATION of the feet, or from any of the complaints of
the feet which come to us so often, GIVE DR. HOGYES’ ASBESTOS
SOCKS A TRIAL, and the result will surprise you.
Dr. Hogyes' Asbestos Socks are used by the Hungarian Army,
Read the following testimonial:—
A “GODSEND”- Mr. Percy Chamberlain, Factory Manager, Life. New IDEA, &c.. Fitchett
Bros., Melbourne, writing on March 22nd, 1906, says:—“The pair of DR. HOGYES’ ASBESTOS SOCKS,
purchased from you in September last, have been quite a “ GODSEND ”to my father. He is now-
able to walkabout without any inconvenience, although previous to wearing the Socks it was
pitiable to see him limping along. Please send another pair 2s. quality, and wishing you success
with these “PAIN KILLERS.’”
Made in 2 Qualities, viz., Is. and 2s. per pair.
Postage 2d. per pair extra.
ALL SIZES LADIES and GENTS ALWAYS ADVISE SIZE REQUIRED
A. J. SMITH S CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
iytk
Before Using
Asbestos Socks
ijk
After Using
Asbestos Socks
HOME
NEVY
medical apparatus
WITH nf»tf BATTERi
fiiit
« 1
siitt
mm
? •
.-’i
£
W
Rf‘l
BETTER THAN ELECTRIC BELTS
Jerdan’s
“HOME” Battery.
It is not only more convenient in treat-
ment, but more permanent in relief.
The human machinery requires constant
attention, and electricity will revitalise
where drugs will impoverish.
The “HOME” BATTERY is suitable for
persons of all ages, temperament, and
strength—in hundreds of ways it will prove
of real practical sterling worth.
The mechanism and working are simple,
and we test and guarantee each battery we
send out.
PRICE 35/-, rill.
OUR BATTERY BOOK IS FREE ON
REQUEST.
JERDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &, Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS
AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
“Worth More”
The Plough below illustrated is the greatest bargain
ever offered to Australian Farmers.
Made by “ Cockshutt” Plough Co.—New, perfect
condition, fully guaranteed
Will do work of the very highest class in any land
where any Plough of its character and weight will work.
A few will be sold at £7 15 o—One0 —One half FOUR,
and one half SIXTEEN months—or less 7\% for spot
cash.
FREIGHT PREPAID to your nearest railway station
{Northern Territory, North Queensland, and Western
Australia excepted).
If equipped with Circular Coulters, 10 1- extra.
WORTH MORE.—Secure one while they are going.
International Harvester Company of America
( Incorporated')
200 Roma St., Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke St.,
Melbourne; Bank St., Adelaide; 75 York St., Launceston.
(.261)
“I Can’t Grow a Moustache”
—so YOU say—but we say YOU CAN. Hundreds of men have
made the same statement before using CAPILLAILINE.
A little rubbed in every night would give you a fine, full
moustache in no time. Why not try it straight away ?
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
Established 25 Years.
fane
10/0 a Jar,
Post Free Anywhere
in the World.
Hear Harry Lauder Laugh
The world’s greatest comedian at the present day is Harry
Lauder —the Scotchman who receives a week for singing
in the New York theatres. His mirth-provoking songs are a
tonic to the depressed, and one of the finest means of driving
away the “blues.”
You can hear this talented singer in the privacy of your
own home by means of an Edison Phonograph. Many of
Lauder’s most popular songs have been recorded on the Edison,
and you can get his best productions for the expenditure of a
few shillings.
Send for our special lists of the Lauder Records, and ask
for the name of your nearest dealer. He will gladly let you
hear them.
on an Edison Phonograph
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


IN
BANANA LAND.
Queensland sugar men have been skinning
their eyes to watch some experiments that have
been made in Java factories to extract cane-wax
from the filter-press mud. Most sugar-canes are
covered with a layer of wax, thin in some varieties
and thick in others. A Dutch inventor, said to
be out after the wax for gramaphone record pur-
poses, has constructed an apparatus in which he
uses benzine to bring the wax to a solution. After-
wards he distils the mess, and produces a dry
wax, which has a green color, but can be bleached.
Already eight Java mills have had the invention
installed ; so it looks as though the device had
now got past the experimental stage. The sugar-
man no doubt feels good about it; but it will pro-
bably make gramaphones cheaper and more
numerous, so there’s already a fly in the ointment
which the spectacled Dutchman only began to
make yesterday, so to speak.
One Lund, a Rockhampton engineer, has
invented & rudder which acts also as a brake.
The contrivance resembles two ordinary rudders
placed together. When their leaves are opened
the speed of the vessel is reduced, until finally,
when they are spread at right angles to each
other, the craft becomes stationary, let the engine
toil as it may. A demonstration was recently
given by the inventor on the Fitzroy River. An
oil launch had been fitted with the contrivance. It
was first shown, with engines running full-speed
ahead, comfortably moored beside the wharf
without the aid of ropes. The engines
tugged and labored and vociferated all
in vain. The leaves of the rudder were
brought together, whereupon the boat leaped
ahead with long leaps, like a kangaroo in beer.
Another movement of the rudder sent the launch
astern, while from a stationary position it was
turned about with the greatest ease. The
inventor intends going to Sydney and Melbourne
“MIND THAT TAR, MISS!"
to give a demonstration with a much larger
launch, which is afterwards to be taken across to
the land of the thick fogs, through which Bull
cuts his way with an axe. The Australian
prick ly-pear is merely a British fog with spikes
on it, which happen to take root in our congenial
soil.
A fig tree is slicing Cairns into fractions.
The A.M.P. Society wants to build “an orna-
ment to the town ” in the main street, and it can’t
build the ornament where it wants to on .account
of the danger with which a fig tree threatens the
foundations. The question is, Shall the A.M.P. be
told to build somewhere else, or shall the fig tree
be cut down ? Mostly the tree would be cut down
without any fuss ; but this isn’t merely a fig-tree
—it is the fig tree : the big fellow whose trunk is
25ft. in circumference, and whose shade, even at
noonday, spreads out over a quarter of an acre.
Around this centre Cairns has built itself. For
all that, the vegetable has long been secretly,
viewed as a bit of a nuisance, for its surface roots
have been picked up 150 yards away So sentiment
will probably get the worst of the fight, and the
axeman will have a job.
Brisbane Telegraph, engaged in its
favorite pastime of sticking pins into the “ Social-
ist Prime Minister,” jabs at him for favoring
compulsory defence training :
Mr. Fisher may have his own idea, and he may be
heartily welcome to it. But the ordinarily sensible citi-
zen will declare for that particular form of patriotism,
which, instead of rushing- to seize sword and g-atling,
endeavors to keep down the national expenditure on war-
like armaments, and to develop the trade and industry of
the country, so that there will not be any need to go to
war with any nation, nor for any nation to go to war
with us.
The stupid Telegraph’s idea, in brief, is that
the more you’ve got in the house the less need
there is to lock the door, and only the shiftless
and the improvident have any reason to buy bars
and bolts. It’s a mad idea ; the only consolation
is that it will put the Telegraph to considerable
expense to make itself at all safe.
Still another mono-rail. Matthew Bloomer,
who runs a foundry at Beenleigh, has just
patented his invention, which differs from the
Brennan mono-rail inasmuch as it dispenses with
the gyroscope. The balancing trick is performed
by means of main wheels on top of the single rail,
while on each side of the rail wheels run in a
groove in an oblique position. The new invention
may be run by electricity, or by a locomotive
worked by steam, generated by coal, oil, wood, or
other fuel. A large model is being built for
demonstration purposes.
“Moorabinda”: Considerable controversy
raged in 1887 as to whether the Brisbane flood of
that year exceeded the efforts of 1864 and ’7O.
The weight of evidence showed the 1887 one to
have been worse than any since 1841. These dis-
putes were caused by the fact that no one flood
rises proportionately high at all parts of the river.
In ’4l the Brisbane River, from its heads above
Colinton and Taromeo, was in full flood, as was
also its great affluent, the Stanley Creek, while at
the same time the Bremer, with its tributaries,
Purga and Warrill Creeks, was in high flood also.
The rivers dammed each other back, and thus the
whole basin from the Main Range on the west to
the Mary Range on the south, was under water.
It rose 70ft. at Ipswich, and as there was only
4ft. at low tide on the Brisbane River bar at that
time, the water escaped very slowly. No such
flood was again seen until the 1893 trouble.
In the floods of 1857, ’63, ’64, and ’7(5 the
water rose 45ft. to 50ft. at Ipswich. As
the Brisbane River above the junction was not
in flood to any extent, the highest point
reached in Brisbane in any of these cases was
6ft. Bin. above spring tide. It was marked on the
post at the South Brisbane ferry—the post that
carried the punt rope. Since ’7O, of course, the
river bar has changed, and there is a better “ get
away ’’ for the water. The 1887 flood is said to
have risen 50ft. in Ipswich, which is sft. above
’64 and ’7O. The flood of May, 1857, was the out-
come of six weeks’ long-continued rather than
heavy rain. That of ’63 was a February one ;
15in. of rain fell in 16 days. August, ’6O, gave
12in. of rain, but no flood. February, ’63, gave
9'7oin. between the 13th and the 17th of the
month. In March, 1864, an equinoctial gale
brought the flood. The night of the 18th was
terrific: it “blew hurricanes.” The river rose
50ft. in 12 hours at Ipswich. A heavy lifeboat
was blown over like a lady’s cardboard hat-box for
200yds. on the beach at Moreton Island.
Steamer collisions were “heap big plenty”
in the river. Boats rowed in Mary-street
opposite Perkins’ Brewery in 1863 and ’64, but
the rain did not exceed 7in. in 24 hours. South-
east gales helped all these overflows. The
deluge of March, 1870, consisted of 24in. of rain
in a little over four days, Sin. being the maximum
fall in 12 hours. Maryborough got 14in. in 24
hours at the same time. On the 9th March the
flood was over Bowen Bridge, and breast high at
that place and at the Waterloo Hotel. A perfect
typhoon blew from the east all the night of
Bth March, 1870, in Brisbane. The swamps had
not been much built upon then, and there was no
“ manure depot,” and it was not so bad as in 1887,
taken on the whole. The minor floods of 1873,
’75 and ’79 can be passed over as of little conse-
quence, except that they raised the ire of the
residents by killing the fish in the river, and
thereby causing a most unpleasant smell. Eighteen
inches of rain fell on 21st January, 1887. It
may be fairly inferred that, in spite of the 24ft.
of water on the bar, such a concentrated fall of
rain must have caused a worse flood than any of
those quoted, except 1841; and when such a'one
as that year’s flood comes again, as it assuredly will
do some day, people who live on the hills will be
better off than the swamp dwellers of the suburbs.
The Brisbane River, after all, except for the
fine depth of water on its so-called “ bar,” looks
small by comparison with the Fitzroy and Burde-
kin. The Brisbane drains a country but little
larger than the County of Yorkshire (Fogland).
It is a “soon up, soon down” river in flood time.
The Fitzroy and Burdekin together drain a
country the size of France or Germany, and a
flood in them rises slowly and keeps up for weeks.
We have no record of the rainfall that led to the
’4l flood on the Brisbane, but, as we have seen, a
big rise may come on in 24 hours, or be six weeks
in brewing, and WAh© former case little warning
is given.
The Queensland Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
!Now, like a curtain through the trees,
By Nubian fingers drawn,
Busk closes in. And by degrees,
On hilhvard slope and lawn,
The shadows lengthen, spread, and fade
In silent, phantom play,
Until a darkened cloth is laid
Upon the face of Day.
Their vesper songs, with folded wings,
The magpies cease to pour ;
Above the cow’ring feathered things
The brown hawks poise no more ;
And, as the last reflections die,
Night-conquered in the West-
All daylight Nature finds its high
Leaf-hidden place of Rest.
But prim-gowned Eve hath brought a bright,
A far, resplendent boon, —
The Bush is Elfland fair and white
A-glimmer in the moon !
In marble columns straight upstand
Its smooth trunks one by one,
To roof, o’er silver archways grand,
A forest Parthenon.
And first a furred phalanger screams ;
Then shrill the ’possums squeal,
Deluded, in their avian dreams,
As cheating moonbeams steal;
In night groups, lifting tail and bill,
The kookaburras wake,
To laugh at intervals until
The morn begins to break.
Nocturnal birds, with eerie sounds,
Pursue their hidden prey ;
And far and wide the air abounds
With courtship, chase and play.
Marsupials bounding, thud the dark
Close undergrowth in flight;
On sloughing trunks the hanging bark
Is rustled by the. Night.
Loud snorts a stock-horse scenting harm ;
Pursued by formless fear
He gallops forward to alarm
A grazing equine peer ;
Then wild hoofs clatter in his wake,
The swishing saplings fly,
And trodden sticks and branches break
As on the scared brutes hie.
Where o’er the clearing far away
A ground fog slowly floats,
Chained watchdogs, dreaming, wake to bay
All things with strident throats.
Disturbed by varied mongrel howls
And yelps and struggles vain,
The wakened settler rudely growls
Disgust, and sleeps again.
Daft morepokes swop across the ridge
Some everlasting joke ;
Beneath the cranky homestead bridge
Fat frogs, persistent, croak, '
Until the wild ducks, where the reeds
Their slim, dark shadows throw,
Forsake the night haunts by the weeds,
Protesting as they go. -
As dusk to midnight softly trails
With slowlv-certain pace,
Afar the prowling dingo wails
Of failure in the chase ;
And sudden sounds, that alternate
With silence, still prevail,—
The coarse koala scolds his mate;
On green flats pipe the quail.
A lone, belated, horseman trolls
A catch for company ;
And down the track an echo rolls,
In clear-toned mockery;
Then fur and feather, hushed, await
Until the clamor dies,
To slow resume an inchoate
Refrain of calls and cries.
My camp-fire, damped by falling dews,
Still lower burns, and low ;
A puzzled paddymelon views
Its red, unwonted glow ;
A bandicoot in quest of yams
Goes grunting sourly thence—
From habitat repelled, he damns
Such h uman impudence.
Now, greyly through the shadowed trees
A new light, wan and strange,
Falls faintly, with a herald breeze
That whispers from the range;
And o’er the cool and quiet Bush.
Grown wondrous still and free
From sounds of Life, there lies a hush
Of calm expectancy.
So pale the lower stars in turn
Have grown along the East;
The morning star alone doth burn
With radiance increased.
As tea-rose petals swiftly blown
Along a spacious lawn,
The fields of sky are freely sown
With blossoms of the Dawn.
And now the queenly Bush aside
Has throw her garb of gloom ;
The East is burning like a bride
With roses all in bloom.
Gay morning clouds, hibiscus red,
Adoring hearts unfold
Before a caliph sun whose head
Is diademed with gold.
The Land awakes in scent and song;
And far and near is heard
In concert, from the creeks along,
The call of bird to bird.
With color, gladness, and delight
In all her bright array,
Refreshed by dews of cloudless Night,
The Bush salutes her Day !
n.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, March 13, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Our shadowy Lord (who will soon be Sydney’s
almost imperceptible Peer) means to see'a little
more of Bananaland before he leaves it. Guarded
by the faithful Yerney, the Chelmsford will
mount him on Ins steed at Gabbinbar, and (pro-
vided the said Bucephalus doesn’t break his neck
coming- down the Range) will ride to town via
Cressbrook and Ipswich. If he arrives safely, I
expect the animal will be shod with gold, like the
horses which served the great Rameses in another
emergency.
Our Government House folk don’t intend the
stain of inhospitality to be thrown at their heads
in a manner of speaking when they have shaken
the banana trees out of their hair. Invita-
tions will be shortly issued for an evening recep-
tion and ball on May 5, and for a garden party on
May 9.
The third and last garden party at Gabbinbar
beat the weather clerk for a fine day, and much
youth and beauty, together with some whose dress
was designed to hide the inroads of time, junketed
under a clear sky in the grounds laid out by the
late Hugh Nelson. Their Exes, grasped the
advanced paws at the top of the verandah steps,
and a stout footman gently waved the visitors
along the verandah, and back again among the
flowerbeds, where the wet goods were awaiting
them. Her Ladyship smiled a little wanly'in a
cream confection, and wound a blue scarf about
her chilly shoulders. Frederic John Napier
Thesiger contented himself with his eloquent smile
and a grey suit. Most of the local dames went in
for a cult of Dresden china blues and pinks.
Och ! The skating rink. It’ll be the ruin of
many happy homes if the wives will persist of
going awhirling on wood, or fibre, or what-
ever the slithery wheels are made of, and sitting
down upon concrete floors with complete strangers
and dull sickening thuds once every five minutes.
The thuds are not the worst of it, though they
convey a dreadful idea of bruised flesh. It’s the
thoroughly impartial way in which otherwise
reserved and eminently respectable matrons
warmly embrace the utter stranger at sight that
brings about the trouble. It’s all very well for
the mere flapper to clasp the unknown round the
neck, or butt him in the waistcoat with her hat,
or knock him down and fall on him. You can
excuse her on the ground of youth. But, as
George Augustus said to me, the other day. you
don’t fancy the light of your domestic fireside fling-
ing herself thus recklessly into the arms of the male
population. But a mere man’s objections have
little weight in such matters. Our leading lights
of fashion are getting the craze upon them. They
glide if they can, and they work their passage on
the rails if they can’t. Mrs. E. K. Tully had a
big party on Wednesday, and Major Hayter
another on Friday. Pretty Leslie Harris, the
bright-eyed Papi maiden, and Mrs. Garew Smyth
all glide glidefully.
A story reaches me about the alleged deed of a
certain she-medico who approached the powers
that be for an appointment to inspect the recruits
who are to form the backbone of the country’s
future defence. “What objection can you have
to me ?” she wired, on hearing that the authorities
hesitated. “ I don’t object,” ticked off the person
addressed, in reply ; “it’s the recruits.”
It was a great day at the dead-leaf-perfumed
Pinkenbaon Monday. All Brisbane was there to
meet its sisters, mothers and aunts by theOrontes.
Also two girls were present to meet their engage-
ment rings. Miss Willcocks, driving the big red
motor full of buffers, was triumphant in the
knowledge that her ring was coming in the waist-
coat pocket of “him,” and was to be put on
under personal supervision ; while Miss Hicks’
colonel could only send the symbol along with
entreaties to the girl of his heart to come back to
him soon.
As the boat warped in Mrs. Gilbert Wilson
(who has lost 10 years of her age in the Cold Land)
was the centre figure. Frocked in simple but
perfectly cut navy sicilienne, with a greeny-blue
toque, the returned songstress made a picture
that her husband on the wharf must have been
proud of. Mrs. Wilson, who is in splendid voice,
will lift her notes for the Liedertafel next month.
There were many others on board. Mrs. Melba,
as a fellow-passenger and all-round sport, was
voted a full-blown success.
Mr. Joseph Cook, of the Federal Opposition,
has been here, and has opened his mouth at the
School of Arts hall about the terrors of something
or other which, it seems, can only be averted by
making him Prime Minister at once. The
position, I understand in a vague sort of way, is
quite alarming, and we are tottering on the verge
of the Abyss.
A marriage of interest to Brisbaneites will be
that of Miss Lucy Goggs and Mr. Stanley Chap-
man, which is to eventuate in Melbourne on the
25th inst.
There are serious rumors of a matrimonial kind
in the air concerning two of last year’s prettiest
buds. But of this later.
Dead at Cannes, in Frogland, of pneumonia,
Dr. Thomas. The deceased, who married a
daughter of the local Dr. (Methodist) Youngman,
was formerly at the general hospital. Afterwards
he practised in Fiji ; then went back to Clifton,
in this State; and later was resident medical
officer of the Rockhampton mending factory.
“What,’’asked Mr. Joseph Cook at Ipswich
on Thursday, “is political dry rot ? ” “Dunno,”
piped a tired voice at the back of the hall, “but
it might be main like what you’re talking.”
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The breeze about the appointment of
Chief Justice in N.S.W. is a mere zephyr com-
pared to the cyclone which raged in Bananaland
over the appointment of its first C.J. Just half
a century ago the imparted young Herbert, as
Premier, brought out Judge Cockle from England
at a salary of £l2OO a year for the job, although
Judge Lutwyche was at the time receiving £2OOO
a year ns the sole occupant of the Supreme Court
Bench. It was several years before the atmo-
sphere cleared, and then the salaries were
levelled up. The imported figurehead was a
distinct, not to say awful, failure in criminal
law, so there was no end of trouble while he lasted.
After 15 years’ service Cockle retired on a pension,
and fled back to the Cold Country, where he con-
tinued for some time to draw an allowance of
£1250 a year. Another great row arose in the
land when Samuel Griffith gave up the Pre-
miership to walk into the C.-J.’s billet at an in-
creased salary. Subsequently he was transferred,
with his pension rights, to the High Court, and
now there are rumors in Bananaland that h©
intends retiring.


agricultural groups from abroad.
Under special conditions families from, the same com-
munity are allowed to settle in groups, so as to permit of
their retaining their social relations.
Groups of from six families to as many as seventy
families have already been successfully formed.
It is a good plan for friends to club together to pay the
expenses of one of their number to go to Queensland to
find land for a “ group ” to accommodate them, all.
The authorised agent of a group can obtain a free rail-
way pass to any part of Queensland suitable for a group.
Terms up to ten years may be allowed, ivith interest at
5 per cent, per annum on instalments paid after six
months from, time of sale.
Applications for land may be lodged, if necessary, at the
Agent-General’s Office in London, or at any local Land
Office in Queensland, or inter-State agencies in Sydney
and Melbourne.
Whatever the members of a group, formed in London,
pay for passage money to Queensland, up to £l7 per ’mem-
ber of family over 16 years, will be credited to them as
having been paid towards the purchasing price of the land
they have selected. Individual selectors in London obtain
the same concession.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XI.
MORE ABOUT SETTLEMENT ON THE SOIL.
(BY J. D. FITZ GERALD.)
Among the advantages which intending settlers
will find in Queensland to perfection is one
already noted—the great variety ,of land tenures
which are suited to all classes, of immigrants,
from the millionaire who wishes to become a
“cattle king” down to the humblest product
of the great cities who feels that he wants to
quit the cramped conditions of his environment
and launch out into a freer and nobler life, under
more favorable climatic conditions, and with all
the assistance which a Democracy, organised on
business lines, can give him. And among these
tenures the group system must be specially em-
phasised, and the fact that the group may be
organised before the settler ever leaves his own
soil. The conditions of group, as of individual,
settlement can be ascertained beforehand, by any
man in Europe, or any group of men who think of
changing their abode. A band of discontented
farmers in Canada or the United States may,
in that extended leisure which the long and bitter
winter gives them, discuss with each other the
possibility of going to Queensland. They may, if
they like, then and there resolve that they will
transfer themselves, as a neighborhood group, to
the Sunny South.
The next step would be to write to the Queens-
land Government Intelligence Department, Bris-
bane, or to the Agent-General’s office in London.
All particulars would be furnished without delay ;
J. UPRICHERD PLOUGHING, TALLEGALLA, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
the Government officers in Queensland could ap-
portion land for the group, and descriptions could
be forwarded as to quality of soil and suitability
for special purposes, rainfall, proximity to mar-
kets, climate, classes of timber, water, schools, etc.,
etc. Thus, without leaving their firesides, the
proposed group could have all these particulars
before them, with maps and photographs, and
with their eyes fully open they could come to
their determination ; and, with a short interval
for preparation, the whole group could be trans-
ported from the bleak climate of the Mother of
Snows to the genial warmth and the fecund soil of
Queensland. And the same conversation and dis-
cussion over the winter fire [by the way, what a
lot of firewood they must burn —a costly busi-
ness !] could be conducted in the German, French,
Russian, Danish or Swedish languages, and the
same arrangements made, so that the location of
the new group may be predetermined before ever
they leave their original home. Thus there need
be no uncertainty, no waste of time upon arrival.
Moreover, if more abundant caution (as the
lawyers say) were required, it lias been the cus-
tom for many years for Indian Civil servants who
are retiring on pensions, and who do not care to
risk the return to the harshness of the English
climate, to send forth “spies” to Australia ; and,
upon the report of these “ spies,” all those con-
cerned are guided as to their ultimate site for
settlement. A group of Scotch fishermen re-
cently sent representatives to Australia to inquire
into the prospects of the fish industry, and to pick
out a suitable site for their operations. Thus the
group in Canada and in Europe could, if they did
not care to take risks (though there is little
enough of those), send forth one of their number
to “ spy out the land,” and upon their report
action could be taken. On arrival in Queensland,
or in London, the officers of Government would
take them in hand, and pilot them round. In
Queensland free passes on the State railways
would be given to any bona-fide agent, who could
proceed to make a personal inspection of the land
offered to himself and his friends.
It must be remembered that the Queensland
Government grants a free railway pass to theintend-
ing settler desirous of inspecting land. So that the
Government shares with the new-comer the
expense of getting him settled down wherever he
chooses to go. When he has selected, the State
carries his family, personal effects, and furniture
fre • ‘ o therailway station nearest to his land. Then,
cg*vo, it grants him, after he has started, special
rates for the carriage of building material and
fencing wire ; and fencing wire is sold to him on
long terms, and wells are sunk for him under cer-
tain conditionsnotonerousin character. What other
country in the world deals with him so liberally ?
Before dealing directly in this article with one
or two specific instances of the manner in which
the Queensland Government makes provision for
the settler’s welfare in the matter of obtaining
the choicest land, it might be as well to quote
here a few cold-blooded paragraphs from the
BURNING OFF. —RUBSTEIN’S ORCHARD IN THE FOREGROUND, MOUNT
SYLVIA, GATTON, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
“ Official Year-Book of the Commonwealth of
Australia,” the annual publication of Mr. G. H.
Knibbs, Commonwealth Statistician. One does
not expect embellishment in a statistical publica-
tion, and therefore the paragraphs will appeal to
those hard-headed, wary persons, who are not
attracted by lurid word-painting, and to whom all
appeals are wasted, which are at all of the circus-
poster kind :
POINTS FROM THE COMMONWEALTH
STATISTICIAN’S YEAR BOOK.
Land Tenure—Queensland.
The vast area of the State, 670,500 square miles,
permitted of greater liberality in the disposal
of land than was shown to settlers in the
Mother State.
Generous provisions were made to facilitate the
exploration and occupation for pastoral pur-
poses of the interior
country.
Under pressure of the
new social move-
ment, great facili-
ties have been given
to they working
classes tb' enable
them to acquire
possession . of the -
soil.
A Land Court, consist-
ing of three per-
sons, is constituted
to deal with a
variety of matters
affecting thealiena-.
tion of Crown lands.
The State is divided
into Land Districts,
in each of which
there is a public
Lands Office, under
the management of
a Land Agent, from
whom plans and in-
formation as to the
quality, rent, and
price of land avail-
able for selection in
each particular dis-
trict may be ob-
tained.
Full information re-
spectinglands avail-
able throughout the
State, or on any
matter connected
with the selection
of holdings, may be
had at Enquiry Office, Department of Public
Lands, Brisbane (and at London, Sydney
and Melbourne offices, as already published
in these articles).
Land may be set apart as homesteads, farms or
prickly-pear selections, for any body of
selectors Who, having some measure of common
interest or capacity for mutual help, are
Two generations of Australians near Cairns
(Q.). They are living in a country the heat of
which is said to be “ unendurable .” The baby
has a greater “expectation of life ” than the
babies in any countries in the world except
Maoriland.
Photo, by H. C. Blackwell.
desirous of acquiring land in the same
locality.
The more accessible lands near lines of railway,
centres of population, and navigable waters
are usually set apart for agricultural selection
up to the maximum area of 1280 acres.
Areas of land already surveyed are available for
selection as grazing farms over a great extent
of territory within accessible distance of the
seaboard (up to 60,000 acres). '
The selectors of a group of two or more grazing
farms, the area of none of which exceeds 4000
acres, may associate together for mutual assist-
ance (and residence conditions may tie per-
formed by a certain proportion of the
co-operators).
Lands which are entirely or extensively over-
grown with scrub are available for selection in
different classes according to the proportion
HARVESTING ON THE TENT HILL STATION , SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
of the land covered with scrub. (Area up to
10,000 acres : lease, 30 years ; rent, pepper-
corn an acre for five years, |d. for next 10
years, and Id. for remainder of term for best
class of lands.)
The Governor may proclaim any town or subur-
ban Crown lands to be sold by auction.
(Half-a-million acres may be sold annually in
this way.)
Provision is made for
the setting apart of a
portion of Crown
lands for the pur-
poses of a group or
association of per-
sons for co-opera-
tive settlement (not
less than 30 in a
group).
Lands may be repur-
chased by the Crown
(from private own-
ers) either by agree-
ment or compul-.
sorily. (£500,000 may
be spent each year
in this way.)
To Mr. Knibbs’ infor-
mation may be added
the fact that an Act
exists to provide the
means of assisting cer-
tain persons to settle
upon the agricultural
lands of the State. The
Secretary for Agricul-
ture may extend aid in
money to all or any of
the members of a body
of selectors. For each
body of such selectors
there shall be an over-
seer, who shall have the
managementand control
of the general business
during such period as
the Minister thinks
proper. During such'
period each selector shall be amenable to,
shall promptly obey all directions and de-
cisions of, the overseer. The overseer will act as
arbitrator in all disputes between the settlers.
Advances may be made to each selector for the
purpose of buying rations and tools to a value not
exceeding £BO ; advances may also be made for
the purpose of buying stock and poultry to an
amount not exceeding £6O. Each selector remains
upon probation for a period of six months from
the date when he entered the selection. If,
during that period, the overseer reports to the
Minister that the selector is lacking in industry,
sobriety, or thrift, or is otherwise unfit for the
calling of a farmer, the Minister may demand im-
mediate repayment of the whole of the debt due
by the selector. The selector may be called upon
by the overseer to perform work for the common
good of the body of selectors of which he is a
member, such as the destruction of noxious weeds,
the conservation of water, and the like.
I want to deal with one instance of the elabo-
rate preparation which the State of Queensland
makes to bring its land into occupation. I have
before me the plans and particulars of the—
MARY VALE REPURCHASED ESTATE,
open for selection at the Lands Office, Warwick,
on and after Tuesday, 2nd March, 1909, at eleven
o’clock forenoon.
Two maps are given, one the “local sketch”
map, showing the position (marked in red) of the
land in relation to the district in which it is situ-
ated. The second shows the subdivision of the
allotments, with the boundary lines marked in
red, and with the number of each lot are plainly
printed the area, the price, and particulars of soil,
etc. To take one at random ; we have —
Section A.—Lot 103, etc., rich agricultural land,
lucerne, 116 acres, price £1420.
Then, all over the map, each lot is described, e.g .,
‘ ‘ well-grassed ridges,” ‘ ‘ box and gum forest, ” “rich
brown soil,” “own spring,” “scrubby,” “apple,
box and gum forest,” “ broken country,” “rock,”
“high forest ridges,” “rich soil slope,” “well-
grassed slopes and spurs,” “rich agricultural
land,” “stony country,” “dense scrub, etc.”
A table is given of the number of the lot, the
parish, number of the portion, the area, the amount
of survey fee. the purchasing price (deposit, sub-
sequent payments, and total), and the total deposit
of rent and survey fee. Another table shows the
“annual payments to be made as instalments of
purchase money (showing principal and interest
separately), and the payment, exclusive of rent,
to be made in any year after the fifth to acquire
the freehold of any selection under the Act.”
Then the terms and conditions of selection of
the agricultural farms on Mary vale Estate are set
out, as to (1) manner of application to select; (2)
rule of priority in case of simultaneous applica-
tions for the same land ; (3) the declaration of
bona-fides, in that the selector takes up for himself,
and not as agent, servant, or trustee of others
(this is to prevent “dummying” and land grab-
bing) ; (4) the length of lease—2s years; (5) terms as
to rent (no rent is payable during the second, third,
or fourth years of the term); (6) conditions as .to
enclosing the land within two years, or the making
of substantial improvements ; (7) conditions as to
issue of the lease, and the giving of permission to
mortgage, or sublet, or subdivide; (8) conditions
as to residence on the selection by the selector
himself, or his authorised agent; (9) the condition
for the conversion of the leasehold tenure into
freehold, etc. These are all set out; and there is
also on the map the proclamation of the Governor,
throwing open the estate to selection (with a
priority reserved to “ William Jacob in respect of
lot 35”; doubtless this is the owner’s reserved
block to which he is entitled “ for purposes of
residence or business,” when his estate is re-
sumed), and proclaiming that the maximum area
that can be selected by any one person shall be
780 acres. , . , . ~ ,
Finally/there are printed on the map, in black
type, particulars of mileage from Brisbane, the
capital city, to Warwick, near which the Mary-
vale Estate is situated ; and also tlie distance from
Warwick to the head station of Mary vale Estate
—in the former case 168 miles and in the latter 18
miles. Here, then, a few miles from the main
line railway, is a splendid estate being thrown
open for settlement, and the prospective settler
abroad need not chafe in impatience. There is
any amount of this kind of land, which, as the
needs of population call, will be made available.
This Mary vale estate, which may be taken as an
example, is situated in the beautiful Darling
Downs District. Of this particular part, the late
William Henry Traill (formerly editor of The
Bulletin) wrote in 1901: “The Darling Downs,
everywhere lovely . . . have no more lovely tract
than that which lies in the neighborhood of
Warwick. . . . Having on three sides some unsur-
passable land for any purpose whatever, with an
elevation about 500 ft. higher than Toowoomba
[2oooft.], and a rainfall equal in quantity and
frequency, and being favored in addition with
mineral lands close at hand, Warwick, with its
population of over 4000, is one of the pleasantest
places of residence in Queensland.”
This is the class of country which is available
to the settler who looks longingly from great
distances abroad to the possibilities of the Great
Northern Giant State as his future home.
Note. — The writer is still anxious to get photographs of
Queensland bush scenery, cattle camps, hocks of sheep,
mobs of horses, prize cattle, sheep or horses, strange
scenery, farms, stations, houses, huts, and any distinctive
features of Australian pastoral and agricultural life or
coastal life — pearling, or biche-de-mer fishing, etc ,
Photos, of'fine trees especially welcome. r l he pictures,
where suitable, will be reproduced with acknowldgement,


And Head was Beyond Words—Suf-
fered for Six Months—One Rem-
edy After Another Failed—Even
Medical Aid was Ineffectual,
WAS CURED IN A MONTH
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“My trouble started with swelling
on my face which became red and very
painful and irritating. From there it
went to my head and it is impossible
for me to give any idea of the agony I
went through during the six months
that the eczema continued. I tried
first one remedy and then another,
only too glad to test anything that my
friends suggested. Nothing seemed to
be of the least good. I went to a doc-
tor several times and his treatment
was as ineffectual as the rest. I was
almost in despair. One day I read of
a similar case of eczema having been
cured by the Cuticura Remedies, so
I though'-, I would have at least one
more try to get my head and face right.
I bought the whole treatment (Cuti-
cura Soap, Ointment, and Pills) and
persevered with it for a week. By
that time the improvement was ap-
parent to anyone and the relief I felt
was great. I continued with the Cuti-
cura Remedies for about a month,
using two complete treatments, and
I can tell you candidly and heartily
that I was cured. I have occasion
to have great faith in Cuticura for skin
ailments, not only because of the great
§ood it has done me but because of the
enefit I know has accrued from its
use in other cases. My experience
with other remedies for eczema, and
I should think I tried them all,
enables me to appreciate Cuticura to
the full. Miss Maggie Hynes, Esker,
ICilkelly, Mayo, Feb. 13, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
The agonizing itching and burning
of the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled
head all demand a remedy of ex-
traordinary virtues to successfully cope
with them. That Cuticura Oint-
ment, and Pills are such stands proven
by testimonials of remarkable cures when
many remedies and even physicians
have failed. One set is often sufficient.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world
Depots. London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris. 5, Rue
de la Patx: Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydnev;
So. Africa. Lennon. Ltd., Capetown, etc.: U. S.A.,
'''>Uer Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
THE
FEURICH
PIANO.
THE FEURICH Piano is
one that has played itself
into popularity throughout
Australia. There is no other
high-grade piano that has
achieved such a huge success.
Sweet and pure in tone, light
and responsive in touch, artistic
and durable in construction are
among the features that in-
dividualise the FEURICH.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:
Nicholson & Co. Ltd.,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNF.Y,
BAD NIGHT?
BAD LIVER?
INDIGESTION?
CONSTIPATION?
“ LAXATINE,” that most generous purifier of the
system, provides the REMEDY. Great relief follows,
and the system is drained of its banked-up poisons.
LAXAYINE is eaten like a lolly, and is pleasant to take,
LAXATIME is obtainable at all Chemists; price Is. per
bottle. Insist upon having LAXATINE.
m
4
iLbHEALTH
dogpinp your footsteps
Are you always suffering ? Per-
haps it is constant headache. Or
pain after eating, and nausea. May-
be you get suddenly dizzy and tired
without any reason. Perhaps you
have a pain near the heart, and
feel as if you were choking after
going upstairs. 111-health will con-
tinue to dog your footsteps until
you cure the Indigestion which is
the cause of these symptoms. Take
Mother Seigel’s Syrup and all these
troubles will vanish as they did in
the case of Mr. A. Wadsworth, 181,
Ann Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
In a recent letter he says:
“My appetite declined and my strength
left me. When lying down at night, I felt
suffocated, and was obliged to take what
little sleep I could get in a sitting position.
I took all sorts of medicines without finding
a remedy, and feared X was in consumption.
At the last, three large bottles of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup completely restored me to
health, and I have remained well ever since.”
Ebaasrt MOTHER uJ
SEIGELS
SYRUP.
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boot,
22/6
yt
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Bfcot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at : -22/6-
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
LET US
REDUCE
■
[37
t
When science offers a complete, positive;; safe,
lasting-, and effective cure for Obesity, it Seems
a crime nearly that any fat woman or man should
continue their life a burden to themselves, and
a laughing-stock for their acquaintances.
“FATCURE”
will reduce your weight by as much as five pounds
a week, and, at the same time, it is beneficial to
your general health, No drastic dieting or kill-
ing exercise is required when thismethod is used.
Put up in tablet form, it can be secretly taken if
desired, and is pleasant, and absolutely harmless.
It is rjipst beneficial in all cases of weak heart,
especially if fatty degeneration is suspected. A
few doses improve your breathing, and the
treatment will restore your figure, and reduce
your weight to normal.
Trial Sample Free . —Send a 2d. stamp
for free sample, and full particulars. Our Free
Hook Plain Talk on Obesity—will prove very
interesting. Write or call TO-DAY.
The Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
I
j WHAT IS CATARRH?
JCATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
r throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi*
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
A
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, Cd. The Bulletin Office.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
BE WISE!
To Save Money
Buy your Cutlery and Plate at McLean’s.
j
THE
Sheffield
Cutlers/ Parcel
Contains
PIECES (0)
follows.
1 Bread Knife.
6 Table Knives.
6 Dessert Knives.
I Carving Knife.
I Carving Fork.
6 Table Forks.
6 Dessert Forks.
i Table Spoons.
6. Dessert Spoon?
6 Tea Spoons,
t Sugar Spoon,
a Salt Spoons,
t Mustard Spoon.
PIECES
for
POST fREE.
gfdh
Sold under absolute guarantee.
Send for New Plate and Cutlery Catalogue.
McLean Bros. 8 Rigg Pty. Ltd.,
147-149 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
P enetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hollows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
;m
m
m
3&.
3 for 1Q/ m
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, to inches.)
Free to any address.
Post
Worth twice tire money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
/MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swaiston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.] [5
M
KINGS
NORTONII
cartridges ||
Patriotism should be practical,not mere
talk. When Minaturo Range Shooting
always make a point of using King’s
Norton” Cartridges—they are British
made. Obtainable in .22 calibre from all.
Ammunition Stores.
Agents
Colonial Ammunition Co.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
g. & g. 34
The military aeroplane—which engine of
destruction has not yet quite finished its teething
—already has its medicine waiting for it. The
cable has it that the British authorities have suc-
cessfully tested a howitzer with a six-inch grin.
The new weapon will sit on its haunches like a
thoughtful bulldog and stare at the sky until the
aero, floats like a frail wasp within range. Then
the up-ended blunderbuss will bark and send forth
its unpleasant pill. As the artillerist hitherto
has had no occasion to shoot at the sky, and as
the old-style sights were invented before the over-
head enemy was thought of, the howitzer probably
possesses something novel in this direction.
Last week Sydney might have seen a quiet
waterside tragedy if it had been there. A man
was crossing Pyrmont Bridge when his hat blew
into the harbor. He threw off his coat, and,
plunging in, swam after his head covering. The
water police recovered his body some time later.
So a life was given for a piece of second-hand
clothing worth perhaps Is. to its owner ; and the
casual philosopher is left to ask why civilised
man’s hat is so precious to him that he will risk
his life and all his other garments to regain
possession of it. A perfectly sober, elderly man
has been known to risk chasing his hat across a
railway line in front of an onrushing train. Then,
there was the case of the man who sat sobbing
but uninjured on an embankment after a particu-
larly awful railway smash ; there were dead and
dying all round him, but louder than their
shrieks and groans his voice kept crying, “But
where’s my hat ? I want my hat! ” Why’ is man
such a slave to his hat?
“Common Law Side” on the N.S.W.
Chief Justiceship
Sydney Star told a story (8/3/’O9) concerning Wade and
C.-J. Darley, and the C.-J.’s leave-paj 7 , that has gone the
rounds of the Bar during the last few davs. It has its
origin in a letter written from Adelaide by the 0.-J. to
ex-Justice Walker. Put briefly, it is that Mr. Darley
didn t of his own accord ask Wade for a. year’s retiring - -
allowance, but let Wade talk him into asking for it.
Mr. Darley’s case, as put by the Star, is its own con-
demnation. Consider it“ He was urged to make the
application, he was assured that his eminent public ser-
vices fully entitled him to the holiday, and he was given
to understand that it would be conceded without hesita-
tion or trouble, as a public recognition of his lengthy and
exemplary services. Yielding to the strong representa-
tions thus made to him, he consented to make the appli-
cation. It was at once granted.”
Mr. Darley is still capable, presumably, of distinguishing
between the correct and the incorrect thing. The fact that
Wade made “ strong representations” to him to do some-
thing that was inadvisable is no justification for having
done it. Picture the scorn with which the citizen would
have been overwhelmed who offered an explanation like
that to the C.-J. when he was on the Bench. The latest
revelations don’t exonerate Mr. Darley ; but they do a
lot towards darkening the case of C. G. Wade Here is
what Wade told S. M. Hkrald (22/1/’09): “ It would be
presumptuous of me to indicate the reasons that weighed
with the Government in granting this application. It is
sufficient to say that no greater insult could have been
hurled at a true and loyal public servant than by the re-
fusal on the part of the Government to accede to the
request of the Chief-Justice for 13 months’ Vive. Can
anybody question the propriety of the action of the
Government up to this point?” Assuming that Mr
Darley’s statement of the case is correct, this, to say the
least, was a very disingenuous way of putting it.
“W.”: The comment on the Melbourne
Water Board (8., 4/3/’O9) would apply with a
little local adaptation to Sydney ditto. When
pugnacious exchanges between the military secre-
tary and inflated suburban aldermen are off, and
a calm reigns, someone asks whether Monday
will be convenient for the next inspection (i.e.,
picnic), and the secretary says he will see to all
arrangements (i.e., whisky). No tangible result
comes of these inspections, because the Board
employs an engineer to look after little things
like-serious business. One of the standing jokes
of the meetings is Jake Garrard’s eternal growl.
Any expenditure (especially on concessions to
employees) never fails to “draw ” him, and a per-
ceptible wink passes round the table as these
items are reached. Wicked members have even
been known to put things on the business paper
for the purpose.
A Critic’s Dream.
(Dedicated to Any Art Society.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dreamt I saw twelve artists
Perched on twelve pedestals,
And they were gladly eyeing
Their Dingbats on the walls.
“ O Dingbat ! Dingbat! Dingbat!
I heard each artist sing,
And all of them were plying
The red wine-flasks of Spring !
For they had sold their Dingbats—
Their nightmares of the brush,
And all of them were dyeing
Their throats in costly lush.
“0 Dingbats ! Dingba-ts ! Dingbats !
Ye horrors framed in gold ”
I cried. “ What ass did purchase ?
How were such darned things sold ? ’’
Then lo ! there rose a trustee —
The man who’d bought the things ;
And O ! he waxed indignant
And flapped his ears like wings.
“ Dear Dingbats ! Dingbats ! Dingbats!
I thee defend ! ” he cried,
And O ! his voice was pregnant
With tears and grief three-plyed !
For he had bought the Dingbats
That I rose to condemn,
And O ! he smiled benignant
Thro’ his salt tears on them !
“ M y Dingbats ! Dingbats ! Dingbats !
Pot-boilers mine ! ” he yelled,
And then the thirteen seized me
And on the floor downheld !
They made me swear that Titian
Could not paint gems like theirs,
And “No!” I gasped, assenting,
Threatened by lifted chairs !
“ Sweet Dingbats ! Dingbats ! Dingbats !
They are Grand Things,” they cried,
And then my hat was bent in
And I was thrown outside !
And in the distance : “Dingbats!
Dear Dingbats ours !” I heard—
It was the artists chanting
Self-praise with one accord !
“Oh Dingbats! Dingbats! Dingbats!”
On bended knees they trolled.
While I crept home and wondered
How such darn things were sold 1
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Arnott’s Milfe Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE, FOOD.”
■
:8
i
W‘
mmm//
Wi
r
mwm
If yovi are
thirsty
try a
glass
I of
r 4f;
°*tf
*>
>»
LIME
JUICE.
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink,
HADE IN TWO KINDS—
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
ĵyt
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompany
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., Pty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong,
riSHING
Every
p Requisite
/m
TACKLE
Trout
.Perch
Cod
.Sea
Bream
'WRITE!
.Price-List
J.ScOTT. 364Bourke3tTMELBOURNE
fHORRiss
IMPERIAL
„ EYE.
OlHTMEMt
CURES
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Cd, from The Bulletin Office.
DON’T PAY YOUR DOCTOR
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of so “e pate
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system is a foolish s y stem *We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on oun health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little Is known of medicine
and Its use The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action
thing’s he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENG
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there wa s any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know the
is not.* Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONb, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
bodiy with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
DrIMqUUGHUN’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small j.^as'c! omfo r taWv a asovou 0 vour o clothing’
It worßs w hile you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as } our ciotmn^
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure o a nger
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full cl HJ; en . •’ f ’ it puts
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it wine p
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as m many cases.
w
m
ca
LU
UJ
If you, want to be Strong
and Vigorous, 'with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our ptew Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that nijake a man feel
liKe BEING a Man! . './Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. / Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., \
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts.,, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castleraagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOR.
Name •••”,?
Address
1
m see
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the; Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
/Cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when mot obtainable locally.
The international crime of “dumping,”
against which Britain has of late been proposing
to legislate, is really a British invention of the
days when the gentlemen of England were not
ashamed to make fortunes out of the toil of women
and children who worked naked in coal and iron
mines ; or to build a class prosperity on the bodies
of thousands of dead babies slaughtered in the
cotton mills. The British exporters of iron and
cotton goods to America and Europe were for
many years the sole employers of the dumping
plan, to which they used to refer as “economic
foresight.” It was in part the ruthless character
of the British dumping campaigns in both conti-
nents that drove the United States and Germany
to adopt Protective tariffs. Now Britain is
squealing loudly at the application of its own in-
vention. It had reckoned without Protection and
all its remarkable consequences.
“ Koala ” (who is in a position to know) :
A Bulletin contributor (18/2/’O9) says that the
man who found the Welcome nugget at Bakery
Hill, Ballarat, is now an inmate of the local Bene-
volent Asylum. The actual finder of the “Wei
come” was named Jeffrey, who, like many another
good man who stayed long at the game, became a
victim of miners’ disease. He died a year or so
ago. Of the 22 Cornishmen who formed the co-
operative party that owned the mine in which the
nugget was found, only two are now living—of
whom the man in the Benevolent Asylum is one.
Both of the two men have lived many years within
a couple of miles of the scene of their luck of 50
years ago.


“ SIIVERDEP ” Re-plating Powder
Absolutely puts a deposit of Silver on Hard
Metal, Copper, Brass, etc. Guaranteed to con-
tain no mercury.
If unable to obtain locally, send direct to
BONO & ROBERTS,
Dental Depdt, 102 Market Street, Sydney,
when a Packet will be forwarded for 1/-, Post
Pree, with full instructions.
Missing: Friends.
MRS. J. M. DAVIDSON, nee Mary
McMurtrie, or anybody knowing her
whereabouts, please communicate with Messrs.
McMURTRIE BROS., Orange, N.S.W.
Amusements
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE ?R I , L .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Amusements.
Y. M - c - A - hall, SYDNEY.
HERR EMIL GREDER’S
GRAND VOCAL RECITAL,
WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF THE STUDENTS OF
HIS OPERATIC SCHOOL,
WEDNESDAY NEXT, MARCH 24.
Plan at Paling’s. 35., 25., Is.
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 O’CLOCK.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in—
TT AVA N A A NEW MUSICAL PLAY, and
xj-xi. y xxxy xx, LONDON GAIETY SUCCESS.
MERRY MUSICAL MAGNIFICENT.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, FRIDAY, MARCH 19,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE DUKE’S MOTTO.
SATURDAY, MARCH 20,
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS,
The Great Spectacular Napoleonic Play,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell & Gunn’s Co.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
NIGHTLY RECURRENCE of BRILLIANT TRIUMPHS.
HARCOURT BEATTY and MADGE MeINTOSH
in Sardou’s TPUTWY-U A
Celebrated Play, LDOIYiI.
SATURDAY NEXT .. SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.
Farewell Weeks in Australia of Madge Mclntosh.
PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is. Plans at Elvy’s.
A L A CE THEATRE, S Y D N E Y
Direction of MACMAHON & CARROLL.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, and following four Evenings
MATINEE-SATURDAY, MARCH 20.
MACMAHON & CARROLL’S Pictorial Reproduction of
Marcus Clarke’s Historic Australian Novel,
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
in conjunction with a REMARKABLE SERIES
OF MOVING PICTURES.
NEWCASTLE, MAITLAND, and COUNTRY TOUR TO
FOLLOW. G. L. Merriman, Business Manager.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE begs to announce
FOR A SHORT FAREWELL SEASON,
Commencing on WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24.
LEO, JAN and MISCHEL
CHEKNIAVSK I,
THE RUSSIAN “WONDER CHILDREN,” who have
created so profound an impression on Australian
Music Lovers.
JH E LY CEU M HALL, SY DnTey.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Palings, 2s 6d.
JHE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
“ Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PAUL CiNQUEVALLI, World’s Incomparable Juggler.
Mr. G. W. HUNTER and MADAME DESIREE.
MR. TOM WOOTTWELL. THE TWO BELLS.
GEOFFREY and BENSON, Comedy Artists.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
The THREE DONNELLEYS. Miss MERLE LAWRENCE.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician.
(Simply Indescribable.)
CISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
STROSS and FELLOWS, Instrumentalists.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “ The
Power of the Idol.”
YEOTHA and CAPT. G. GRADE, Sharpshooters.
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LaER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
LAST NIGHTS OF
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Must be withdrawn to appear in Sydney for the
Royal Show and Easter-time.
,Bpx Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A STIRRING AND GREAT ATTRACTION.
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, in
FOR THE TERM OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
100th Performance and the End not in sight.
MEYNELL AND GUNN’S...
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices —55., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays
J.B.N.TA I T’S
PICTURES.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
ON THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“D.” : I wrote this (B. 18/2/’O9) :
“ J.C. W. is thinking- of producing some Shaw plaj's in
Sydney, and has asked Julius Knight to say which he
thinks would best suit the co. now showing at Sydney
Theatre Royal. ‘Arms and the Man ’ contains an ideal
Knight part. Julius’ cynical mouth twist, much ex-
ploited by him in ‘ The Breed’ would be an invaluable
asset in the portrayal of Shaw’s scoffer at sentiment and
of chocolate creams.”
Then happens along “ Lorenz ” with the following:—
“In the matter of G. B. Shaw and Ju. Knight, it
behoves ‘ D.’to read the plays again. Knight’s cynical
mouth-twisting would be quite wasted while playing the
chocolate-cream soldier.”
Writing Without prejudice it strikes me as an uninformed
bit of criticism. The Biuntsehli mouth-twist is as custom-
hallowed a bit of stage “ business ” as any on the boards
to-day. I saw it exploited in America myself: Barker,
of the famous Vedranne combination, who played Blunt-
schli at the (London) Savoy revival of “Arms and the
Man ” last year, duly used it; and William Archer in his
“Theatrical World of 1894” (page 114) makes special
mention of its effective employment by Yorke
Stephens, who first enacted the part. 'it is as
appropriate, almost, that Biuntsehli should smile with
mouth cynically awry as that Falstaff should be fat.
“ Lorenz” visualises Biuntsehli as no “ cynical poseur,”
but an ingenuous, “ fresh-faced young man.” To me he
appears otherwise. I hold that the argument, “ You
haven’t read the play carefully,” is banal, so I won’t hurl
it back at “Lorenz.” Instead I will quote against him
the views of a couple of recognised authorities in dramatic
matters. Here is what Archer (he was a colleague of
G. B. Shaw on London World at the time) said on first
making Bluntschli’s acquaintance at the Avenue Theatre
(London) 15 years ago : “ Mr. Shaw is by nature and habit
one of those philosophers who concentrate their attention
upon the seamy side of the human mind. You will never
find me using the word * cynic ’ as a term of moral re-
proach. But to say of a man that he is persistently and
habitually cynicalistoimply an artistic limitation. To look
at nothing but the seamy side is to see life steadily, but not
to see it as a whole. As an artist, Mr. Shaw' suffers from
this limitation.” And then comes this : “ Biuntsehli, in
whom, the author practically speaks in his own person
without any effort at dramatisation.” Max Beerbohm,
writing in the Saturday Review (4/l/’08) of the “ Arms
and the Man” revival at the (London) Savoy Theatre,
said: “ Mr. Barker would have given the essence of
Biuntsehli better than Mr. Loraine.' It is essential that
Biuntsehli should be played not merely as a real person,
but as the mouthpiece of the anti-Romantic author.” I
have seen G. B. S. and heard him speechify. Assuredly
he is like many another man of genius, a confirmed
poseur; assuredly he habitually wears the cynical
mouth-twist which I suggested Julius Knight would
assume if he played Biuntsehli; assuredly he is Blunt-
schli. The idea of the character, which Shaw designed
even more than the Philanderer to depict his ow n. com-
plicated personality, being played as a “ straight ” part,
would probably bewilder that author utterly.
“Grey Lynn,” anent a bogus Chow : Chung Ling Soo,
now baffling Melbourne, is not, as his name would imply,
a Confueian. His rightful moniker is Robertson ; he W'as
born in America, and he comes of Scotch-German
parentage. He conjured as Robertson till he met the
original Chung Ling Foo, who was magician to the late
Dowager Empress of China. Foo was performing at the
time on the British music-hall stage. Robertson offered
to do any 20 tricks in Foo’s repertoire, and £lOOO a side
was lodged with the editor of the Examiner. Robertson
won, and made defeat bitterer for his distracted Chow'
adversary by introducing extra stunts that the latter
couldn’t touch. He was forthwith (if not before) engaged
in lieu of Foo, and readily adapted himself to the Chow
garb and atmosphere. Then he blossomed out as Chung
Ling Soo. Since when he has strode forward much.
Dante the Great (of old St. George’s Hall fame) was a
pupil of Robertson’s.
“ 10-2-4” : Geoffrey and Benson, an imported pair now
showing at Sydney Tivoli, have mastered the knack of re-
ducing stage emotionalism to insanity. This brand of
acting hovers always, even as genius is supposed to do,
on the border line of mania. In the hands of Benson and
Geoffrey, it slops right over the boundary, and howls and
gibbers meaninglessly on the hither or asylum side of it.
Geoffrey (or any other husband) is at breakfast with Ben-
son (or any other wife). Geoff, objects to the bacon.
Does he say “ Damn ! ” once or twice, and then order the
offending comestible out of the room? No! That is
not G.’s way. He raves, he rages, the veins start
from his forehead, he screams, bangs the table, stamps,
declines all nourishment, and finally crashes through the
door like an avalanche. All about a bit of bacon. Benson
resolves to give him a lesson. She tells the audience
that her twin-sister is coming to stay. She will im-
personate her sister. Then, as she thinks of her
wrongs and of what she will do to Geoffrey, she
goes fanti. Her eyes blaze, she yells, glares, laughs,
gnashes her teeth, and smiles weirdly all at once. In a
tornado of gusty fury she bangs Sunshine-catastrophe-
wise through a door that Geoff, has not yet ill-treated.
And so on for a quarter of an hour. At' the end of it,
both performers are weary, hoarse, perspiring; They
have not comported themselves like rational beings for
one consecutive minute. The onlookers are, for the most
part, severely unamused, not to say sad. In the language
Of the distinguished Austrian thinker, Muldoon, I venture
to propound the query “ Cui bono ? ” What is to prevent
Geoffrey and Benson from dropping; the trying art-form
they have evolved and getting back to the path of
reason ? I should visit the Tivoli oftener if I thought
they would.
The Cherniavski brothers—Leo, Jan and little Mischel
—are to start a return season at Melbourne Town
Hall on the 15th of next month ; and thence
they come on to Sydney, opening at the Palace
on the 24th. In Maoriland the musical youths
and their ornate trimmings have been a draw all along
the route. The Cherniavski effects are nothing if not
pretty, and women, who have the first and last say in the
world of concert-goers, are generally fond of sweetness
and light. They want the performer to look sweet, and
the programme to be in keeping with velvet knickers.
Avalon Collard, who gives a mild and harmless musical
monologue entertainment, is to get a benefit concert at
Melbourne Masonic Hall on the 30th to cheer him on his
way back to the England whence he came. Collard is not
Mel B. Spurr, or even Leslie Harris, but as a “society
entertainer” who leans upon a piano for support he is at
least the equal of some who have probably had a better
time in Australia. Mrs. Jansen is booked to sing at his
concert for the last time on a Melbourne platform prior
to her long holiday trip abroad, so the friends of both the
intending departees should help to give a bright financial
color to the send-off.
“Star”: The recent experience of W. S. Percy is not
an uncommon one with actors. They are continually
being claimed by wild women ; but, as a rule, the pro. is
positively identified as a long-lost husband. Possibly
Percy’s deceptive juvenile appearance is responsible for
the inconvenient yearning of elderly dames to mother
him. When actors are not claimed as missing heirs and
wife deserters, they are generally seized as levanting
boarders, and any experienced actor will tell you the
latter is the most trying ordeal of all. One day last
month a bright young pro. was snared in Bourke-street,
Melbourne, as he was making' for the theatre, and claimed
as a lost boarder of the ’95 vintage. The woman held on
to him to the stage door, and subsequently fought her
way into the theatre, and wanted to leg-rope her captive,
and sit in the wings, holding him on a chain while he per-
formed his functions. There was nothing else for it, and
the woman had to be paid. It is sometimes the best way.
“S.S.”: The running of moving-picture shows pro-
mises to become the most overdone game on earth. Con-
sider Melbourne, where the Athenasum Hall, the Bijou
Theatre, an old-time music hall, Wirths’ Olympia, the
Glac.arium, and the Continental Garden are all now
devoted to sillymatographic exhibitions. Occasionally,
too, the Town Hall is pressed into the service, and living-
picture turns are features at the Gaiety and the Opera
House. St. Kilda has four picture shows to its own
cheek, South Melbourne has two, and many of the other
suburbs are catering for the local demand, while fit-outs
are in active preparation all over the place. Every man
in town who can afford a picture squirt and a bed sheet
thinks his fortune is made, while in the country the
peripatetic dramatic co. finds itself frozen out of every
barn by sixpenny entertainments composed of St. Vitus
figures trickling on a tablecloth.
“ Bloggs” : Noted a sign of the times at Sydney Tivoli
last week. G. W. Hunter, comedian, was monologuing
anent a visit to certain waxworks. “ Un'then,” he said,
“ ther guide took me un ther mis'sis to ther Chamber of
Horrors. *’Oo’s that ? ’ ses I. ‘ Wade,’ ’e says ” To my
amazement, a Sydney audience, composedof the identical
people on whose behalf Wade professes to untiringly fight
the Commonwealth and anything else which is lj’ing
round handy, cheered vociferously at the injurious gibe.
The only protestors against the demonstration that I
could find afterwards were a couple of bookmakers of
my acquaintance. “A blank ! shame !” they agreed.
“ Wade’s a good bloke, a good bloke.” But they
were political indifferentists, and cleaved to Wade only
for his spirited action in favor of maintaining racecourse
gambling' at Rand wick, Rosehill, etc., and for his apathy
in the matter of introducing the dreaded tote.
Binns, the heroic wireless telegranh operator of the
wrecked White .Star liner Republic, who, by hurling
messages broadcast across the ocean for hours, brought
help and safety ultimately to the passengers and crew,
has been offered £250 a week to expose himself on the
London music-hall stage. It was inevitable. The surest
draw on the Cold Land boards to-day is someone who has
done something that has got into the Daily Mail. The
public doesn’t worry about whether its notability can act
or not. All it requires is that he or she shall
have been divorced, or gaoled, or shall have swindled
an unusually large number of people, or been suspected
unjustly of some appalling crime, or, in general, been
mixed up in any unusual happening. The lad who was
tried and acquitted the other day for what was known as
“the studio murder,” had actually closed with a big
music-hall offer when the Crown stepped in and forbade
him to fulfil it. Binns, to his credit, refused to show at
any price, saying acidly “I’m a wireless operator, and
can’t act.” The only instance Australia has had of this
tendency, to date, was the engagement by the Mevnell
and Gunn firm of the lady whom Plantagenet Bigwood
abandoned in favor of Carrie Moore. Which is gratifying.
That sort of thing can only do the mumming trade harm ;
and experts in such matters vow it is the unhealthiest of
social signs.
Judging by some things that have happened lately,
Sydney’s Municipal Council is largely composed of . asses,
and, in the case of some of them, manners don’t seem to
have been included in their education. The treat-
ment of Mr. Wale in connection with his report
on the city organ is one evidence. Mr. Wale,
who is an organ expert, and holds better testi-
monials than anyone else at present in Australia—
unless some one else has arrived surreptitiously
within the ' last few days—was asked by the
then Mayor of Sydney to report on the con-
dition of the organ. He inspected the instrument,
and discovered certain parts of it were obsolete, in-
efficient, or wanting. Moreover, the framework of this
splendid instrument, one of the great art treasures of the
world, had been sadly hacked about to admit certain
combinations or appliances requested by visiting and i
other artists. Wale made no attack on anybody ; but
being asked to report on the organ as he' found
it, stated frankly and lucidly what he saw. The
tuner of the instrument resented this report, denied ;
Mr. Wale’s statements en masse, and then in detail
admitted five out of the eight defects and shortcom-
ings mentioned by Mr. Wale. He made a report in reply,
in which much mud was thrown at the man who had
been asked to inspect. Mr. Wale applied for a copy of
the tuner’s report, but it was refused. The Finance
Committee asked Mr. Wale to attend its meet-
ing, and he did so; only to find himself ex-
posed to a bitter personal attack. The Finance
Committee got quite away from the question of
the organ, and dug down into some personal matter
between the tuner and Mr. Wale. The tuner was
allowed to call evidence to allege that Mr. Wale’s state-
ments were untrue, and Mr. Wale was not allowed to
call evidence, or to demonstrate in any way the accuracy
of his report. The tuner’s reply to his report was read
to him, and he was expected at short order to answer it.
One bright gem of the long-winded paper by the tuner
was that Mr. Wale’s report that the solo louvres
failed during his recital was not true, as he, the tuner,
“was inside the organ during his recital assisting the
mechanism, and making sure that the pedal worked pro-
perly.” Organs are difficult things to understand, but
what would be said of the state’ of perfection of, say, a
ship, if a man had to get overboard to haul the rudder
chains to assist the steering gear? And after that
astounding statement, the City Finance Committee de-
cided by a majority that the organ was in very good
hands.
The villainous gorgeosity in tub-like form
which usually disgraces the retirement of some
done-with Excellency was, happily, absent in the
Masonic farewelling of Excellency Rawson. The
selection of an appropriate object of bigotry and
virtue was, fortunately, left in the hands of one
instead of a dozen, and this one had a'rt sense. It
is true he was confounded with innumerable im-
possible tubs, decorated with the likes of nothing
in Heaven or ear,th. So he vouched. Various
firms were consulted, and Hardy Brothers, of
Sydney, successfully responded with a design for
a beautifully-formed Celtic loving cup, tenderly
supported with three charmingly graceful stems,
the cup being strapped and studded in the true
Celtic style. The fact that the utensil is 27 inches
across, and weighs 220 ounces of Australian gold,
adds, of course, to its glory, but the departure
from the usual hideousness is the really refreshing
feature of the,case.
“ Oby ” writes :• —
Frankfort was worse in the ihatter of narrow, crooked
streets than Sydney, but it is now a well-laid-out, well-
arranged city. The German municipal system provides
for expansion according to a regular plan, and not
according to the whim or judgment of a passing
Mayor or transient group of aldermen. There is sel-
dom any compensation given when land is re-
quired for widening streets, the improvement being
supposed to be sufficient compensation to the owners of
the frontages. Where an extension of the city is decided
on the Council prepares a plan to cover the new area.
The various plots of land possessed by various owners
are thrown into one, and on this are marked sites for
streets, public squares, schools and gardens. When this
is approved the landovvners receive.back their land, less
their share of the area taken up by the streets and other
public conveniences. Even the landowners seem to con-
sider the increase in the value of the property that re-
mains as fair compensation for what is lost, and it is only
when one landowner, owing to the position of his bit of
soil, has t.o bear a very undue share of the cost that there
is any cash payment. Frankfort is no slouch of a city,
and if the improvement system is a trifle high-handed it
at least works well.
THE CHERNIAVSKIS, -
The little Russian “ Wonder-Children ,” whose
playing has created so deep an impression on
Australian music-lovers. They commence u short
Farewell Season at the Palace Theatre, Sydney,
on Wednesday, 24th inst.
TWO SOULS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two earth-souls journeyed to Heaven’s gate ;
And one was early, and one was late.
“ I came hot-foot,” said the first, “ St. Pete,
Have I any chance for a heavenly seat?
I’m not too St for a harp, I know ;
But p’rhaps there’s room in a far-back row.”
St. Peter smiled as he shook his keys :
“ You’ve got no corns on your soulful knees,”
He said ; “ and you haven't a saintly face ;
How, what have you done that you claim a place ? ”
And the lone soul said : “ In the earth’s great plan
I was only a stage comedian.
I borrowed and stole, and never repaid,
The best old jokes that ever were made ;
And I’ve played the fool, and I’ve danced and sung,
And won wide smiles with a brogue-tipped tongue.
There wasn’t much wheat in my humorous chaff,
But I did my best that the kids should laugh.”
“ Enough ! enough ! ” and St. Peter smiled,
“ Here’s a harp and a crown for you, my child ;
For you gave the kiddies a meed of mirth,
And they' lack sweet laughs on the poor old earth.”
Soul 11. saw Peter beside the gate,
And sighed, “ Good Saint, I am somewhat late ;
But I saw earth’s sin, as I passed this way,
And kneeled on a wide wet cloud to pray ;
But Jordan’s river is safely passed,
And I’ve come to my home in Heaven at last.”
Said Peter: “ Son of the gloomy face,
What have you done that you claim a place ? ”
And Soul 11. answered : “Must I infer
You know not I was a minister?
The godless stage and its dance and song
I damned as lures that to Hell belong :
And at social follies I shook my fist,
As becomes a man and a Methodist.
‘ Life, life,’ I cried, ‘ is a solemn thing.
Weep, weep for your sins ere life takes wing.*
Yea ! ever and ever in Christendom
I preached the pain of the wrath to come ;
And many a soul it was mine to save
From the hell-fires burning beyond the grave.”
Then Peter said to his youngest clerk :
“Here, show this soul through the outer dark ;
For the kiddies cried for a meed of mirth,
And he preached them pain on the poor old earth.
Tell Satan I think it is meet for him
To preach far out where the ghosts are grim,
Till he wins each spook with a smile to see
In Heaven, or earth or infinity.
The Love of God is the glad caress
Of laughter born of life’s joyousness.”
VICTORIA.
MILKY WHITE.
ALAS! POOR YORICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His eyes were full of maudlin tears,
And on his heavy breath there hung
The scent of long, departed beers,
That had inspired his Cockney tongue ;
And, like a tragic actor-bloke,
He folded up his arms and spoke.
He talked about the days of old,
Of ’is, and ’Enry Hirving’s fame ;
And confidentially he told
Us ’ow ’twas ’im made Shakspeare’s name ;
“In those departed days,” he said,
“ An actor ’ad to ’ave a ’ead.”
“ When ’Enry Hirving played with me,
In ‘ ’Amlet ’ (which you might ’ave ’eard),
All London raved in ecstasy,
For there was Art in every word ;
We made those good old nights ’istoric—
’lm as the Prince, and me as Yorick ”
VICTORIA.
JACQ.
BY.WAY OF FAREWELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The preliminary steps towards the abolition of bar-
maids, as provided for in the Licensing Act of 1908, have
been taken. Certificates of registration will be prepared
for those entitled to them. Daughters and step-daughters
of licensees are not required to seek registration. After
31st March any licensee of an hotel who employs an un-
registered barmaid, unless she is exempted from registra-
tion, will be liable to a penalty of not less than £2, and
not more than £25. The girl concerned is also liable to a
fine not exceeding £5. — Adelaide news item.
Red-nosed, divorced, I lean upon the bar
And gaze my last upon your dimpled face.
A little while, and you will be afar,
And I’ll sit mooning in this drinky place.
So, while we watch Time’s ebbing store of sand,
Lean down and let me hold your small, white hand.
Yon pallid youth who glares at me and frowns
We will ignore awhile. His time’s not yet.
There, with his face as white as any clown’s,
He laughs and sneers. Poor lad ! Ido not fret.
His dad and I, some twenty j'ears ago—
(You were a little girl in those days, Flo !) ...
What was I saying ? Oh, yes ! You will pass
Out of this game, and I’ll sit soaking here
The same old brand. You know it! ( Where’s my glass ?)
Jus’by my hand? Ofcourse! Thank you, m’dear !...
My word ! you’re sharp sometimes, eh, little Flo?
Remin’s me ... someone else I ... used t’ know ! ...
Orright, I’ll go—like you must later on.
Goo’ ni’, m’ dear ! It’s hard on me—and you ;
We’ll miss each other when these times have gone. ...
Don’ laugh, m’ dear ! I ’sure you it’s qui’ true !
Well, dear, goo’ ni’—an’ don’ you grieve f’r me !
. R’member ? ... daughter of .. . th’ licensee !
n.s.w.
BRR DOOR.


EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing 1 One
Dozen Aeeorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street. Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
*
I
1
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Dife, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Si'iui Stamp for Illustrated Lists ot Books and Xoveltie-s
(Viadame Panza,
Sox 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bi Is of any O'f the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mort[ra<re Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Ride only
BROOKS
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham.
England.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
1&
m
*■
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
(N
fIOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Gtieltenham, England.
Agents Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwa.de & Co., Melbourne.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David B rah am & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
94 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
BLAIR'S
■Gout
Pills
nCour t Rheumatic'
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUf and
1
MW
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
BLAIR'S GOUT and
Rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poison from the
eyetero, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
Jherefore PER P E CTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at 1/I>2 and 2/9.
BLAIR'S HAVE STOOD
THE TEST OF TIME.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLJRYS Ltd., LONDON, # Bridge Sts., Sydney
-pOpsix* 1 -
AND
9
It acts like a eharm in
DIARRH(EA.
I *■
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
!T IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively userl»bv Medical Men in their official a.nd private practice, at Home and Abroad, have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over ihe world , in bottles , Is. 1 2d. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. , 4 oz., 4s- Qd. each.
WARNING.
Every bottle of the
GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE,
which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the
ELEPHANT
Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
& Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chlouodyne, ctd., a.
e., ii.ng.ana.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt
4
*
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
There was a queer collocation of names in a
S. Australian newspaper paragraph the other
day. John Heaven, who lives at Jerusalem, near
Wallaroo, was stated to be suffering from anthrax
contracted from slaughtering a bullock. But
whatever happens, Heaven and Jerusalem wdl
still be very near the Wallaroo miners, who are
almost to a man fervent Methodists of the old
tvpe. Some of them even follow the general
manager of the big mine to Sunday-school until
they have to hobble there on crutches.
Azrael has at length removed George A.
Johnson, who was a fairly well-known operatic
s nger some years back. He was a member of
\V. G. Lyster’s Opera Co., and figured with some
distinction in the companies of Martin Sitnonsen
and George .Vliisgrove. Fifty-two years ago he
made his first Australian appearance as an alto
warbler in the choir of St. Peter’s Church,
Eastern Hill, Melbourne. It was rheumatism
that finished his professional career, and sent him
limping into private life.
The idiots who cling to the importing
theory so firmly that they hold that even Aus-
tralia’s defence should be imported will be inter-
ested to know that experts have condemned the
present British short army rifle. The muzzle
velocity' attained with service ammunition does
not exceed 20G0ft. per second as against the 2900 ft.
per second given by the German army rifle, and
2650 ft. per second by the. United States army
weapon. High muzzle velocity is the great point
about the modern rifle, for it makes for accuracy ;
hence, all else being equal, the man armed with
the German rifle is a better marksman than the
man supplied with the British article. The real
bad spot in the rifle, however, is admitted to be
its weak bolt, yet J. Bull’s Snore Office will not
face the expense which the necessary change in
the structure of the weapon would entail. The
explanation is that Bull is waiting for one of the
Continental nations to take the lead in introducing
automatic rifles. This is the state to which Free-
trade has reduced father Bull—the great and
mighty John Bull that once boasted of his splen-
did isolation, and who wasn’t in the habit of
sitting down to wait until someone else took the
lead in introducing new methods in butchery or
anything else.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
EV>e LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
B
BEAT
vSporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
mum '
mummrnm
uuuuu
Best Selected SilKworm Gut. Hand Polished
The “RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable
Regular, 12in, 9d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., lid. ; Padron No. 1, I7in., Is 6d ; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 6d;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 4s : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
No. i2SO.-SparrOW Catchers’ Nets, fitted complete with ropes, pegs & sticks-
Clap or Ground Nets—
-5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 22/6 each
5 x 15, do. do. 27/6 ea.
5 x 20, do. do. 32/6 ea.
5 x 25, do. do. 40/- ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 43/6 ea.
No. 13BF—Bat Folding Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 30s. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
Bridles
SS
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s Od posted. Mereie
England, 9d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s »Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR '■ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are'answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.Asy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
falden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements op Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers op Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron op Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ipr~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
<>.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
HOw to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO BEAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Beynqlds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
GBD
*4
| BRIARS do hot
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australia •
23ICtarer\ce5t.Sydr\ey
fgjfg
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machiae on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Hway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
1 Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ,y
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKK A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering thisadvertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
. among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee bv the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish foroue of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. G.P.0., Sydney, JI.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
jfg
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE 17
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on haviug NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take
Por sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, >tdnet. *
Sample bottles and full particulars , by voit
Is. 4d. (stamps j to make 5 gallons spray. ’
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Pficp (Sfl POST FREE, £1 per year,
1 i IV/W in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


Four Health Facts.
1. 111-health very often arises from a constipated
condition.
2. This condition is seriously aggravated by
purgatives, but easily overcome by the
natural influence of
Note
Trade Mark.
(tiPs
i)
1
KIDNEYS, UVER ANO BOWELS.
COIONIU f
iJ
jfg
3« California Syrup of Figs, “Nature’s Pleasant
Laxative.” gently, pleasantly, and promptly
rectifies the sluggish digestive organs, a d
leaves them permanently benefited,
4. It especially suits delicate women and chil-
dren.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
THE AGGORDEON for Country Residents.
jfg
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and ail kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches,Jewellery, etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
V/ONDERBERRy
THEWONDERBERRY
A luscious Berry ripening in three months from seed.
Luther Burbank’s Greatest Creation.
Fruit blue-black like an enormous rich blueberry in looks andtaste. Un surpassed for eat-
ins raw, cooked, canned or preserved in any form. The greatest garden fruit ever introduced
and equally valuable in hot. dry, cold or wet climates, Easiest plant in the world to grow suc-
ceeding anywhere and yielding great masses of rich fruit all the year. The greatest boon to
the family garden ever in troduced. Everybody can and will grow it when known. We are the
sole introducers in all parts of the world.
Seed One Shilling per packet, 3 packets for Two Shillings, postpaid.
Also our Great Catalogue of Seed, Bulbs. Plants and New Fruits for 1909, FREB, Nearly
ISO pages, with colored plates and many startling novelties.
JOHN fcUWIS CHIUDS, Floral Park, New York, V. S. A.
cs
IF YOU ARE PAYING FOR
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings
ryou are entitled to some kind of guarantee that these World-famous
are exclusively used in the construction of your bicycle.
Remember that even one part of inferior imitation stuff may spoil the
whole bicycle and bring about disaster or disgust.
For your protection all component parts of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings are stamped with the well-known trade mark of the
“three piled rifles,” and the presence of this mark upon
every part of your bicycle is in itself an unequalled guar-
antee of the highest quality attainable in cycle construction.
For fuller details of B.S.A. latest designs and trade marks, also
of the famous Eadie Coaster and Hubs
and Free Wheels, ask your dealer for the 1908
Handbook just out, or write to —
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. CO. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building,
MELBOURNE.
0
et
D
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingnam, England,
jfg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Ballade of a Boiled Owl.
“I feel just like a boiled owl.” —Common Saying.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BEHIND a monstrous chimney-cowl
The moon leers down on me, in bed
Upon the attic roof there yowl
Two healthy felines, lately wed—
Their thrilling duo wakes the dead,
And penetrates right through the towel
That damps my hot and throbbing head —
I feel just like a New Boiled Owl!
0 Sleep, kind Sleep—fiends take that fowl !
It’s crowed all night from A to Z !
Just Heaven ! shall those damned dogs howl,
And I their mongrel blood not shed !
Hark! What a shriek ! A cry of dread
That has no consonant, nor vowel—
A baby squalling to be fed !
I feel just like a Fresh Boiled Owl !
The sky, o’erclouding, seems to scowl,
Now Rest is slain and Silence fled—
What's that ? A burglar on the prowl,
Or an uneasy bobby’s tread ?
My eyes are fire, my brain seems lead,
My throat is sore, my palate foul;
My arm is burning where it bled—
I feel just like a Well-Boiled Owl!
Envoy.
Grim visions of the Night are bred
When Sleep and Hell lie cheek-by-jowl
And Life is hanging on a thread—
I feel just like a Large Boiled Owl !
n.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.
My Moth-Ball.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was my first public appearance after
my return from the continent of Europe. I
had been very glad to come back among
people who had the decency to speak our own
language ; to be at home again in Clapham, Lon-
don, and to have a mother to fuss over me once
more. True, to a man of 22, with a position in
the bank to keep up, it is sometimes somewhat
irritating to find that your mother expects you to
wear woollen gloves, and persistently buys you
sanitary collars and rude-colored, hygienic ties.
Still, during my trip on the continent—l really
only went as far as Paris, but I’ve heard that
the rest of Europe is rather expensive and quite
uninteresting—l missed my mother sadly in the
matter of undarned socks. And after my return
it was nice to know that if I went out in my fine-
weather boots—the ones with the large gaps in the
centre of the soles —and it came on to rain, my
mother would be waiting for me in the hall with
warmed slippers the moment I returned from the
city.
When my cousin invited me to a little dance
his wife was giving, my mother was extremely
gratified.
“ You will be able to wear your new evening
suit,” she said. “You know you’ve never had the
chance of wearing it on the continent, and I
folded it up so nicely for you that I’m sure it
hasn’t creased a bit—except where it ought to
crease.”
So when I went up to dress I found my new
evening suit laid out on the bed. It was a very
beautiful suit. But when I took it up I found it
pervaded with a peculiar perfume ; the room
smelt like a soap factory.
I asked my mother about it. “ That must be
the moth-balls,” she explained. “ I was so afraid
of your clothes getting moth-eaten in those hor-
rible, dirty foreign cities that I put some moth-
balls in your trunk. That is what is the matter
with your suit. I’ll air the clothes for a while,
and by tjie time you’re at the dance, the odor
won’t be noticeable at all. Besides, moth-balls
have a very healthy scent. I’ve read somewhere
that they are antiseptic and the best of disinfect-
ants. So, if any of your partners have smallpox
or enteric, it might just be as well to have your
clothes thoroughly disease-proof. You mustn’t
run any risks.”
Run any risks ! And I had just come back
from Paris ! I said I would risk the smallpox if I
could only get rid of the smell.
When, half an hour later, I put the things on,
the fragrance of the moth-balls was about them
still, but I decided to walk to my cousin’s, and so
get rid of the last vestiges of that aggressive odor.
On my arrival I thought that the scent was cer-
tainly not so strong—or perhaps I was getting
accustomed to the perfume. But moth-ball is not
a fragrance that you can get accustomed to. I
had no difficulty in getting my programme filled
—nice girls they were, too.
My first partner was a girl I knew intimately.
We started blithely, but before we had gone down
the room she said to me, “ Don’t you notice a
curious scent in this room—something like sewer-
gas ? I wonder if the drainage is all right ? ”
I said, “Of course!” and asked her hastily
whether she had been to Earl’s Court lately.
The moth-ball must have been worse than I had
suspected.
She would not rise to my bait, but returned to
the subject of the scent. “ It is really very bad,”
she declared. “I wonder what can be the
matter? Don’t you smell it? ”
I protested I smelt nothing. She looked so
surprised that I had to murmur something about
a bad cold in the head.
“Really,” she said a moment later, “I must
ask you to stop. Please take me out into the
open air. This odor is becoming worse and
worse.”
And really it was rapidly increasing in
pungency. There was a flavor, a nuttiness, about
these moth-balls that I had not noticed before.
I caught sight of curious looks directed our way.
I led my partner quickly to a balcony, and left
her to get her an ice. When I returned she said
she felt quite revived, but on my offering to lead
her back to the ball-room she said she preferred
the open air. And she declined with such prompt-
ness that I almost imagined she suspected. I left
her, and went in search of my next partner.
This was a girl of whom I had vague hopes.
She had given me three dances this evening—l
had taken care to ask her as she stood at the door
where there was a little breeze —and I felt that
this was My Chance. So it was with trepidation
that I approached her. But she only smiled win-
ningly up at me, and we began. Almost the first
thing: she said |to me was that she had a slight
cold in the head, and I knew the gods were on my
side. We thoroughly enjoyed that dance. Then,
perhaps it was only my sensitiveness, but it
seemed to me that people were beginning to edge
away from my partner and myself, gradually
leaving us more and more space to ourselves.
But we enjoyed that waltz very much. I remem-
ber I got exceedingly hot. But as I was leading
her to a secluded seat she suddenly said :
“Really, there is a very nasty odor here. Don’t
you notice it ? ”
I said I had noticed a smell—something to do
with the supper, I thought. Perhaps they had
cheese sandwiches.
She demurred as to the cheese. “ Rather more
like something dead,” she thought. “Dead a
long time,” she added a little later on.
To distract her attention I pressed her hand.
She replied by indignantly withdrawing it. But
I had found that with girls this might mean any-
thing—even encouragement. I decided to inter-
pret it as encouragement, and I was right. She
let me press her hand again. ... I told her many
things—many more tilings than I had meant to
tell her ; but when a girl lays her head spon-
taneously on your shoulder and looks up at you,
well !
I felt I was getting on. It was My Chance. I
decided to Risk All.
“ Alice,” I began, “I want to tell you some-
thing that ”
That sentence was never completed. I saw
Alice sniff at my coat, saw a horrible suspicion
grow in her eyes, saw a disgust settle upon her
lips. She had traced the moth-ball to its lair.
“I think,” she said icily, “that if you will
leave me here alone for a little I may feel better
by-and-bye. I could never care for a man who
used such scent! ”
I went, cursing moth-balls, cursing my poor
mother!
Then followed a period of purgatory. I took
unsuspecting partners upon my arm, danced a
few turns, and was requested to lead them, before
it was too late, to the open air. One girl refused
to dance at all with me. She felt so faint, she
said, that she would rather not dance that waltz.
Another woman deliberately gave my dance to
another man. From the look in her eye I saw
that she had been warned.
Then the men began to move away from me. I
never had so lonely a time in my life. I think
I had some insight then into the mental condition
of a dog who has a tin can tied to his tail and
yearns for the companionship of other dogs. The
thing that puzzled me was the awful persistence
of that moth-ball odor. Instead of dissipating its
fragrance upon the air as the evening went on, it
seemed to grow- in intensity from hour to hour.
If moth-ball had any disinfectant power the
plague couldn’t have harmed me that night.
Cancer would have fled from me ; one sniff of me
would have cured leprosy.
I was a marked man. I did not dare to ask
anyone for another dance. I made up my mind
to go home.
And then I noticed Her. She was sitting by
herself—ostentatiously by herself—in a corner of
the room. She looked pretty and white and fluffy
and nice. I wondered to see her neglected.
I seized an acquaintance by the arm. He fished
for his handkerchief, but I held him fast.
“Introduce me,” I said, “to that little girl
over there.”
He laughed. “ I wouldn’t dance with her if I
were you. You’ll regret it. I did. Never
again.”
Then he seemed to have the usual suspicion,
sniffed once or twice, and suddenly chuckled.
“All right,” he said, “I’ll introduce you;
come along. I should say he looked at me and
laughed again—“ you two would just about suit
each other! ”
I asked her for a dance. She smiled gratefully
on me, and said “With pleasure.” The music
began. She danced divinely. I feverishly rattled
on, keeping the conversation away from the sub-
ject of fragrances, yet she suddenly looked up at
me shyly and said :
“Do you notice any peculiar perfume about
here? ”
I lied valiantly.
“I’m so glad,” she whispered. “ Because I
may as well tell you that I had my gloves cleaned
with benzine, and they smell awfully. I can’t get
away from the odor all night, and I fancy ’’—her
beautiful shy eyes looked suspiciously bright, and
her voice had that intimate touch in it that is so
near to tears—“ I fancy my partners have smelt
it, too. None of them have come for me for the
last hour.”
I could have laughed for joy.
“Come along, let’s go into the garden ! ” I said.
And we found a breezy seat near a bed of sweet-
smelling violets with a syringa bush just behind.
In this environment, benzine and moth-ball didn’t
have a sporting chance.
We had a nice, long, intimate talk. She told me
of her lonely life at home. I told her of my mother.
She said she would like to meet my mother.
She was sure that I ought to wear thick socks. I
remarked that I rather liked the perfume of ben-
zine. She said she did not object to moth-ball.
She called my attention to the divine fragrance of
the syringa. I referred incidentally to the per-
fume of the violets.
She said the night was rather warm, and would
I mind if she took off her gloves? She had such
prettily-shaped hands, and when she dropped her
gloves into the bed of violets, I agreed with her
that it didn’t matter. She thought she would
leave them there. After all, what did one want
with gloves on a warm ryght like this ?
I would have liked to have followed her ex-
ample with my suit, but other things claimed my
attention.
But she would not lean her head upon my
shoulder. And yet it was a nice, breezy night.
At last she remarked that she thought it must be
getting late. I put my hand into my pocket for
my watch—and found a moth-ball !
I found two other moth-balls in the pocket, and
explored further. In every pocket in that suit
there were three moth-balls. Altogether I was
carrying round seventeen moth-balls, some of
them securely sewn in the lining! My careful
mother !
They explained things. The hotter I got with
dancing, the more virulent their mothiness.
Before we left—l saw her home —I mingled
with the crowd round the supper-table, and
dropped a moth-ball or two into the pockets of the
most popular men. The dance, I heard since,
broke up rather suddenly just after we left, and
my cousin had the plumbers in for a fortnight
looking for a defect in the drainage system.
I think it served them all right. She agrees
with me. We often look back with fondness on
our Moth-Ball. We are going to call the first, if
it is a girl, “ Moth,” and if a boy, “ Ben ” —short
for Benzine.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


PROFESSIONAL NURSES
Praise Bile Beans*
jfg
Bile Bcansarethe
PROVED cure for
Biliousness, In-
digestion, Head-
ache, and ail
Liver, Stomach,
and digestive ail-
ments. Obtain-
able from all
Chemists and
Stores at 1/IJand
2/9 per box.
NEXT to advice direct from a physician is that from a
thoroughly qualified Nurse. Not infrequently, indeed,
based as it is on long and careful observation of innumer=
able cases, the Nurse’s advice is equally to be relied upon.
The preference of Nurses of long professional training for Bile
Beans as a medicine not only eminently preferable for their
own private family use, but as a remedy suited for recom=
mendation to their patients, serves as further proof, were it
needed, of the purity, wholesomeness and efficacy of this
great standard remedy.
A Sydney Nurse’s Praise.
Nurse Baldwin, residing at 106 Bourke Street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney,
says : —“ About seven years ago my health began to break up through over-
work and worry. My liver was sluggish in its action, and I suffered from
constipation, indigestion, and, finally, decline. Several doctors prescribed
for me, but strange to say I derived no benefit from their treatment. I
also tried several medicines advertised as a cure for my complaints, but
still failed to improve in health. Bile Beans were recommended by a
friend. Their effect was marvellous from the first few doses, and, con-
tinuing the course, I was quickly restored to health. Since then I have
never been without Bile Beans in the house, and have recommended them
to scores of my patients, and in each case they have derived great benefit.”
A Melbourne Nurse Speaks.
Nurse Lomax, who resides at 3 Federal Street, Footscray, Melbourne,
writes “ For fully 10 years T was a great sufferer from biliousness in a
very acute form. Many were the so-called remedies for biliousness I tried,
but none of them did me the least good. Some two years ago I gave Bile
Beans a trial, and derived such benefit from the first few doses that I deter-
mined to undergo a course of this medicine. Biliousness soon became a
worry of the past, for which I am very thankful, and an occasional dose of
Bile Beans is all I require to keep me in thoroughly perfect health.”
A N.Z. Nurse’s Gratitude.
Nurse Metcalfe, of 32 Heydon Street, Auckland, says : —“ I have much
pleasure in acknowledging the benefits I and my family have derived from
Bile Beans. For the past five years they have been our only family medi-
cine. Bile Beans cured me of biliousness and indigestion, and, as a Profes-
sional Nurse, I have recommended them to patients with beneficial results.”
BILE BEANS
Beauty’s Favourite®
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
i - ■
Matchless for the Complexion,
The Iron Wedding Rings.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN these days of peace and money, free to all
the Commonweal,
There are ancient dames in Buckland wear-
ing wedding rings of steel;
Wedding rings of steel and iron, worn on wrinkled
hands and old,
And the wearers would not give them, not for
youth nor wealth untold.
In the days of black oppression, when the best
abandoned hope,
And all Buckland crouched in terror of the prison
and the rope,
Many fair young wives in Buckland prayed beside
their lonely beds
For the absent ones who knew not where to lay
their outlawed heads.
But a whisper went through Buckland, to the
rebels only known,
That the Man across the Border had a chance to
hold his own.
There were men that came in darkness, quiet,
grim and travel-worn,
And, by twos and threes, the young men stole
away to join Kinghorn.
Slipping powder-horns and muskets from beneath
the floors and thatch,
There were boys who kissed their mothers ere
they softly dropped the latch ;
There were hunters’ wives in backwoods who sat
strangely still and white
Till the dawn, because their men-folk went a-
hunting in the night.
But the rebels needed money, and so, through the
Buckland hills,
Came again, by night, the gloomy men of mono-
syllables ;
And the ladies gave their jewels to be smuggled
out and sold.
And the homely wives of Buckland gave their
wedding rings of gold.
And a Buckland smith in secret, and in danger, in
his shed,
Made them rings of baser metals (from the best he
had, to lead),
To be gilt and worn to market, or to meetings
where they prayed,
Lest the spies should get an inkling, and the hus-
bands be betrayed.
Then a silence fell on Buckland ; there was peace
throughout the land,
And a loyalty that puzzled all the captains in
command ;
There was too much Law and Order for the men
who weren’t blind,
And the greatest of the king’s men wasn’t easy in
his mind.
They were hunting rebels, certes, and the troops
were understood
To be searching for a stronghold like a needle in a
wood ;
But whene’er the king was prayed for in the
meeting-houses, then
It was strange with how much unction ancient
sinners cried “ Ah-men !”
Till at last, when all was quiet, through the
gloomy Buckland hills
Once again there came those furtive men of
monosyllables;
And their message was—“ Take warning what the
morrow may reveal,
Death and Freedom may be married with a wed-
ding ring of steel.”
In the morning, from the marshes, rose the night-
mist, cold and damp,
From the shipping in the harbor and the sleeping
royal camp ;
From the lanes and from the by-streets and the
high streets of the town,
And above the hills of Buckland, where the rebel
guns looked down.
And the first one sent a message to the camp to
fight or yield,
And the wintry sun looked redly on a bloody
battlefield ;
Till the man from ’cross the border marched
through Buckland once again,
With a charter for the people and ten thousand
fighting men.
There are ancient dames in Buckland with old
secrets to reveal,
Wearing wedding rings of iron, wearing wedding
rings of steel;
And their tears drop on the metal when their
thoughts are far away
In the past, where their young husbands died on
Buckland field that day.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
The First Wash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT arose out of one of those solitary,
roving, predatory expeditions which the
Links (like the cats now) were given to in
the lawlessness of the wild epoch when ties and
duties were few and impulse ruled—when the
“lord of the creation” ate his food raw and shel-
tered in caves and hollows, carrying his life in his
paws when he went out of them.
A glorious time ! Then joys were joys, pur-
chased at the price of adventure, with often a
spice of tragedy.
Just a little matter of that kind : the encounter
and pursuit of some fleshy, pretty, riotous witch of
some strange clan, right into the arms of her mob ;
and now, here he was, perched on the outer
limb of a big tree, with the whole yelling pack
clamoring for his blood at the foot of it.
He sat there, balancing himself and lovingly
licking the blood from a great tear in his forearm,
got in a tussle with the girl-Link’s outraged mate
before he had managed to break his neck for him.
But a Link was not a dog, with just plain
instinct that could not think and scheme escape.
It was cunning, not cowardice, that took him now
to the far end of the longest branch overhanging
the river. He knew the boldest of them would
not venture on any part of the tree that overhung
the water—that awful, queer, colorless element
of which, from earliest infancy, they had been so
shy, and into the mysterious depths of which,
from time to time, some of them had disappeared
never to return.
The sight of its limpid current flowing under-
neath him awed him, too, but one will do much
for his life.
Meanwhile the horde on the bank increased like
ants. All the colony was there, filling the air
with the hysena-like screams and guttnralities
that passed for speech at that time, and shying
stones and sticks at the solitary figure perched on
the slim, outer extremity of the uttermost limb.
At last, hate and fury begat courage to do and
dare, and they scrambled up the tree. Link fol-
lowed link, till the bough was weighted
with them, and their cunning saw that
by swaying it in unison they might shake
the enemy off—shake him off into the
awful certain death of the water below. He
stuck like a limpet, twined himself round his
branch and became part of the tree ; but it availed
him not. His weight and the shaking together
broke the limb off with a loud crack, and down he
went into the river, to their infinite rejoicing.
But he clung to his huge bough, even under the
water in the first plunge, when he thought he was
being burnt alive !
* » * *
It was when he came up, with his head out,
still holding on to the bit of tree and still feeling
whole, that he recognised that something ex-
traordinary had happened. Not his escape
from the alien horde—that was a sort of day-in-
and-day-out occurrence—but the harmlessness of
the water !
Here he was, after a complete going under, not
only none the worse, but actually invigorated and
refreshed by it—inexpressibly comfortable, in
fact, with the glow of the reaction.
Never before in all his life had he known quite
such exhilaration. He was safe too—hid in the
bough and floating down stream with it rapidly,
away from the scene of battle. Presently his raft
caught against other growth at a bend, and he had
no difficulty in getting from one thing to another
on to the bank, and was free.
If his feelings under the “water treatment ’
had surprised him, his appearance afterwards did
so even more.
Before the occurrence he was, like all the rest of
the kidney, colored a nondescript dark brown all
over. Now he was a distinctly handsome pale
drab ! There could be no doubt in the world that
he had discovered Washing ! Having now no
fear of the liquid, he finished the job in a shallow
pool, and found that all his color was really soluble
and removable at will.
It took some time for the full significance of the
great discovery to come home to him.
Manifestly, now the dirt was off, the Links
were very much more ahead of the apes in the
scale of evolution than had hitherto been sup-
posed, and in other things besides the shortness
of their tails. Biology was scarcely an exact
science in those days, and discoveries were rare,
and to think the honor of this discovery would
belong to his pack and his cave and him !
Think of all it meant to him ! He would be
great ! He would move to a larger cave ! The
females would now probably leave the leader of
the herd and frolic round him instead. Yah !
Yah !
But he would not give way to pride. He would
be just the same as he always was.
Bounding on, and vibrating with these new in-
terests in life, he had the good fortune to
come suddenly on a toothed bird about five
feet high—really something of a cross between a
reptile and a bird. He sprang on it unawares
from behind, and dislocated its long neck before it
got any of its own work in (for it could bite like a
shark), and as he sucked at its blood he remem-
bered how famished he was. He had left the
brotherhood some time before lunch that morning,
and it was now dusk. Grasping his prey by its
rope-like neck, he slung it over his shoulder, and
made his way through the forests of strange-
shaped trees and enormous ferns, interspersed
here and there with playful monsters of the thick-
skinned rhinoceros and hippopotamus type, until
he at length arrived within sight of his own
backyard.
Strange and unusual must he have looked in all
his new-found washedness as he trod among the
old surroundings, and there is no doubt that the
Race at that moment was on the threshold of a
stupendous change, for, broadly, there is no
greater distinction in the Lord’s great earth than
between the washed and the unwashed. But (alas
for the discoverer, and alas for ethnological pro-
gress !) the Race was forced to remain, for that
occasion, anyway, only on the threshold !
Ignorance, of the most crassv crassness, and
blind, fatuous barbarity, of the fattiest fatuous-
ness, were destined once more to put back the
clock of progress for an age or a half-million years
or so.
As luck would have it, the very first to catch
sight of him was the old Bull Link himself,
strolling along the green verdure in front of his
cave in the cool evening, surrounded by the
lustiest and most boisterous of his does. He stood
stock still with astonishment. “What the”
But speech was not yet invented, and a set of
modulated gutturals managed to express all that
was necessary. The females, when they saw the
Washed Link, broke into a babel of screams and
sounds of the period, of fright, horror, curiosity,
first-love, or fiendishness, just as you like to take
it.
As for the newcomer, his sensations from his
new-found standpoint of purity were those of
revulsion. Could this dirty rabble be his kins-
men ? But his revulsion was soon turned to fear.
There could only be one question there when a
stranger happened along among that crew—he
was, or was not, of them ; and they, of course,
never recognised him, and reckoned him some
new kind of beast, and therefore lawful game to
be killed and eaten offhand, along with the animal
he was carrying.
Neither is it for us to lift the stone against our
rude forefathers for this !
At least, not while Frenchmen are the
“natural foes” of the English, and (as is well
known) would eat them in their beds to-morrow,
if the Channel tunnel were excavated !
So the close of that fine day away back in Link-
dom was marred by a painful scene, and the Clean
One received short shrift. The whole Noah’s
Ark set on to him, and he was literally torn in
pieces by the mob. But in the middle of it one
of the more matronly and important of the
females seemed to recognise something familiar
in the curl of one of the victim’s screams (for
even then every cow knew the bleat of its own
calf), and then there was a fine to-do !
But apologies were useless. His head was half
off, and in another half-second it was quite off.
So we remained unwashed for many a day, for
none of them ever made out the reason of the
deceased’s metamorphosis. It remained among
their venerated Unsolved Problems, of which they
had even more in those days than we have.
G. BRON.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
m
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.’
Mrs. E. Harrison,
Gawler, S. A.
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S I arsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
u just as good.” See that you get AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
The Standard Beinedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT*
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history —the book is free- or write
s. GREEN, £lO, Lam belli Road, Loudon, Eng.
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
214 George Street,
jr
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CIJBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
venience
in
hour!
Each Capsule hears the name
m
Wearne 8 Breakspear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
STRONGROOM
Manufacturers DOORS.
Government Contractors.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all Hies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining-room, sleeping-room, and all
Clean.', neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts , the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
■ i j r a g g i s t s,
Groce is and
Hardware
D e a la r s ,
among whom are
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Fanlding & Co., O'Connell St.;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St.
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St.; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co, Pitt St.}
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., 0-S-A
iff
Y. J. Dalev’s “At Dawn and Dusk.' - ’ a
coll action of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s Od. from all booksellers. lost
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine B ,
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
jt
Checks and
arrests Fever.
Croup, Ague.
-
The Best
Remedy
Known for
GOUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
■■
Acts like a charm In
IRHCEA, and is the only
and DYSENTERY.
THE “JOHNSTON”
Patent Spanner
and Pipe Wrench.
>
Grade Tool of Remarkable
■■ ■■ ■
12 inch.
4 to 1 inch,
16 inch.
\ to li inch,
24 inch.
1 to 2J inch,
225. 6d.
OF
CRUCIBLE STEEL.
ujrt
THREE PARTS
ONLY.
The Jaws adjust themselves to the different sizes, and are instantly released by simply
raising the handle.
Warranted not to crush. Will grip a worn, corroded or greasy nut.
N. GUTH
DGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
cqlo ?JV> |s po
POST CMOS.
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you ra
O packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. "When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from thelist of j ewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH aud CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MU EE CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALE THE RISK.
YOu can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post sards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
net make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at oner, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OU' PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
every cage positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we waut.
* V I-7 »
TOGMTPb&T CA«DCVI26 O'COHH£LL OWEY.
Woman’s Beauty.
Features may be well formed—eyes—mouth complexion, all
may be collectively and separately beyond reproach—but if
the magnetism of expression be lacking there is little lasting
charm. Real beauty includes animation, energy, an interested,
alert attitude of mind, elasticity of step, smiles and sunlit eyes,
and for these perfect health is essential.
Even the most fascinating woman looks and feels at a dis-
advantage if she is ailing or unhappy. As genius is to Art,
Music, and Literature, so is expression to beauty.
“ What a lovely face ” always conveys an accepted reference
to the expression of that face. Such beauty is an attribute
beyond all estimation—and yet how often it is marred by
anaemia, nervous debility, headaches, depression and general
ill-health. In this connection thousands can testify to the
efficacy of
bekham's
pius
They ensure a good supply of pure healthy bloou, correct
and strengthen the organs of digestion, regulate the secretions
and brace up the nerves. Women who use this medicine
intelligently generally possess in a remarkable degree those
attractions which form the charm of their sex.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, England.
Sold in Boxes, price 10)d. (36 Pills),
111% (56 Pills), and 2/9 (168 Pills).
ifpl
m
“ ’Twas midnight,
And. the setting sun was sloivly rising in iht west."
An extract from the nonsense verse of the
celebrated Lewis Carroll, illustrative of the
Land of Topsy-turvydom.
The “Steel Wings ”
is another illustration of a topsy-turvy
reversal of ideas in the windmill world.
The windmill runs inside the tower, and has a
bearing on each side of it; the tower revolves,
and hasTa/base one foot square ; and the result is
not nonsense, but a strong, serviceable machine
of correct mechanical construction, which gives
longer service at less cost, with a 50 per cent,
increase in power.
Address Correspondence to Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD RAILWAY STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
fM
m
MEN
AND
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.
&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
i! the diseases of men AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States or any where o" Au S -
t.r&lia. for the next'
FREE
re stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures
Men’s Sneeial Ailments.” This medical work contains 69- Pages, over
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is different to ■ those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being v a complete Umcjci
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. NotHnUjar book ha, ever
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work: from' any of the J
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in montS
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three mont
on receipt of stamps to cover postage. . ,
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address.
D/f f MARTIN. M.D.m “&miey House," /£»/ E!izab®th-st*,
Please mention this paper whee writing. jam—... HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Ever Worn a Watershed ?
ujrt
You certainly ought to have
one, for there’s no coat will
ao thoroughly protect you
whether riding, driving or
walking.
It is made of double material
throughout, thoroughly well
oiled and cured by an improved
process.
The “ DUCONG ” is light, and
made of the finest Japara for
305., carriage paid.
The ‘'RAINBOW” is for
heavier and rougher usage,
and costs 255., carriage paid.
You can order direct from
us—the patentees and manu-
facturers—or purchase from
leading storekeepers through-
out Australia.
Write for the “Watershed”
booklet— 3'ou will find it very
interesting.
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber floods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
HEENAW g FROPDE LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney „
Water 9
IN ABUNDANCE
May foe had by using:
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
ft*-
&
Rider.
jut
Write for
“•B"
J Catalogue
IMPUCITY
: FICIENCY.
FT1HE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
JL Senes, IV V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten. lOd. '
Mat-Virtue
SEND FOR OUR NEW HANDBOOK (Tree)
to J
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED. , .
■— a-Ty Sub-Agents
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY
rujht
leave the sheep properly shorn. That’s why so many sheds in
the Commonwealth and New Zealand are fitted with them.
(smrTH aiibt'da'i , S « ke ll e^ 464 , Co,lins Street, Melbourne.
OUEEMS^fINn R . A rlri 1 F f« e u a S £® ep Shearin ff Co - Ltd -» Currie Street, Adelaide.
1 WEITEIh fl^< s TPa?fr a c 8 Co Ltd > (viar B’ a ret Street, Toowoomba.
I aMn TB^ L A 'if« der u sh ® e P Shearin g(W A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
ItmmSu**.? ■ i! 0 l r C !,ambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
I TASMANIA: Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Also Agents for
Biackstone Oil Engine, Paxman
Portable Steam Engines, Oil Sheep
Dip, Kilgour Acetylene Generators-
Specialities:
FERRANTI. LI»
■I
gf ETC DC A US TIiAUA N OFFICE : E. S. & A. Bank Chambers, George Street.
S ■ ■ SWITCH GEAR, High md Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders. Send us your Inquiries.
M»w Omci •
ll BROADWAY,
NEW YORK.
m
Min Amtbauuh Ofvicb
41 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE.
41 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ROCK DRILLS
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Tools, Coal Cutters,
STONE CHANNELING MACHINES
COMPLETE MIXING. TUNNELING AND QUARRYING PLANTS.
JQAN STREET,
KALGOORLIE.
Pneumatic Tool Dept.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Caulking Hammers.
Complete Stocks, etc., kept in
Australia.
j
PRICE
OF
Postage—N.S.W.,
7d.
I VJ. ,
«fr t?
1
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
&
m
ii
- r
, 4 : 'V
■
.:~"
mm
,^ : .-
;
'4A
-v
mz
m
5r
J. A. FAY & EGAN CO.’S
NEWEST AND MOST IMPROVED TYPES OF
BAND SAW MILLS.
ESTIMATES FURNISHED. WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
We have in stock and to arrive Woodworking Machinery, including Planers, Matchers,
Molders, Tenoning, Mortising and Boring, Saw Benches, Band Saws, Lathe Mills.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
H. P. GREGORY & CO., 74 Cl are„ce Stre C t, Sydney.
THE KEYSTONE
IS TR E PIONEER MANUFACTURER OF
Portable Drills for Well Boring (Water
DRILLER CO.
or Oil), Mineral
Prospecting, Goal Testing.
Obtained Grand Prize St. Louis Pair.
Large Complete Catalogues Free.
MANY OF
DRILLS ARE IN SUCCESSFUL OPERATION IN AUSTRALIA.
N. GUTHRfDGE LTD.,
Sole
Agents,
263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
KEfStOWi'emu ep-xo
mm
<a*»
