

A Word to the Wise is sufficient-" ID
A
11
R. O-. WATKINS «SE- CO.,
IOV Kent Street, Sydney,
/ —POK— . . . ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. -
gd
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
See Wild Cat Column.
AND ’
128 William Street, Melbourne* |
3EEOB^.i>rr.
.'>ML»WWiiiininii..
. «a
[jadleys Orient {jotel.
P.IO'NEER
LEATHER
ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ƒg
"Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
Why should we rehearse
In stammering Verse,
What pretty-one knows
In epic and prose?—
That
Honey Kisses
Make lovers of friends,^
And friends of foes.
d ~Ut&
td
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
™“ Accumulators and Dry Cells for Ignition Purposes.
W« always keep in stock supplies of those wanted Electrical Accessories. We repair and re-charge Accumulators,
and stock all Electrical Requisites. Prices on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE. STREET SYDNEY.
BENSDORP'S
fdfd
COCOA!
FOR
MALTHOID ROOFING
keeps out rain and
defies the elements under
all circumstances.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MALTHOID ROOFING
is infinitely superior to
slates, tiles and shingles.
Malthoid is perfection.
fd fgd
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDQN SPA WATE
Thousands of Testimonials come to the HELIDQN
SPA Co.’s office from persons of middle life.
■s*uaS?v
“oo v Nmoo
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.—N0. 1513.1
[Thursday, February 11, 1909.
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET.
SYDNEY.
New Books, including those reviewed to-day and in recent issues.
I
Vigars, Station Bookkeeping, new edition, Bs, postage 4d.
Ramsay, Sir Win., Essays, 9s, postage Sd.
Swinburne, The Age of Shakespeare, 7s, post 4d.
Lord Kelvin, “ Men of Science ” Series, Bs, postage 4d.
Herrick, Robert, Together: a novel, cloth Ss 6d, post 6d.
Hewlett, M., The Halfway House, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Birtles, Lonely Lands, fully illus., 3s 6d, postage 4d.
Bean, With the Flagship in the South, Is, postage 3d.
Courtney, Secrets of Our National Literature, 9s, post Bd.
The Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book, 1909, Is 3d, post 3d.
Wallace, Study of Ore Deposits, 15s, postage Sd.
Duncan and Penman, Electric Equipment of Collieries,
12s 6d, postage 6d;
Penrose’s Pictorial Annual, The Process Year Book,
1908-9, fully illus., many in color, 7s 6d, postage Is 6d.
Who’s Who, 1909, 12s, postage Is.
Academy Architecture, new issue, vol. 24, 4s, postage 6d.
Dawson, Great English Letter Writers, 2 vols., 6s, p. Is.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
AN IDEAL. REMEDY
AUSTRALIA* '
MEOICAU OMITTt'aWS.-
/ 'SHOULD PAOVt OT STOAT
!^yosS
C.HUDSON
,{IPSVriCH, AUSTRALIA. ,
CSS;
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
■J /0 in Stamps,
'
COMPANY, LTD., 19 YORK STREET, SYDMEY.
The RED PAGE
A Sign from the Smoke
WHAT becomes of the shoals of
journalistic literati who drift Lon-
donward ?
The seasoned Fleet-street Antipodean dis-
plays unparalleled genius in the matter of
sticking to his job. His paper’s hopeless
insolvency, combined with a violent inrush
of bailiffs, are the only things likely to unseat
him. Yet for the moment I cannot recall
one Australian journalist whose place could
not be filled, a thousand times over, by
plug-shouldered Fleet-street men, men
nourished on whisky and smoke and the
putrescent airs of cellar clubs. The Lon-
don-born Fleet-street man who drifts
into paralysis at forty-five possesses the
temperament of an ironclad. Unlike the
Australian, he is without emotion, has no
enthusiasms, and doesn’t fret over the un-
attainable. Sometimes the workhouse gets
him, but more often than not he finishes his
career doing 44 bloods” for Carmelite House,
vf/
Each Australian mail brings a barrowload
of mss. to London ; stories, articles, verse,
rejects mostly from The Bulletin and other
papers. And from experience gained here,
this writer knows that the English magazine
editor regards the Australian mail with no
friendly eye. According to one editor the
stuff doesn’t reach the British level. Some
of it is brilliant but storyless, packed with
inconsequences, and without consideration
for the English reading public, who like their
matter well polished, rounded off, under-
standable.
44 We received a dozen short stories last
mail,” said the editor, “and each one left us
to guess the end or imagine half the begin-
ning. We are no good at guessing this side ;
and I should like to advise the majority of
young Australian writers to send then-
matter to America.”
I arrived here under the impression that
all story mss. got a chance, especially stuff
bearing an Australian address. Fortunate is
the author whose name and title arrest the
type-weary eye of the half-blind sub. Ninety
per cent, of mss. are judged on their titles
alone, for the man who perpetrates a weak
or silly yarn is bound to cap it with an un-
attractive or meaningless headline.
Despite literary competitions and other
on the part of the paper bosses to
acquire cheap copy, the agents get the pick
of the good stuff and practically control the
magazine supply. They do the sifting and
rejecting. And the editor knows that his
time is not being filched when handling the
agent’s morning pile of scrip.
vf/
If, as a novelty, some influential news-
paper had suggested the f ending of an Aus-
tralian literary eleven f.o England, there
would, in my humble estimation, have been
some difficulty in selecting the best half-
dozen. Randolph Bedford would have made
an excellent longstop, ah hough it is hinted
here that he nearly killed an inoffensive
editor with one of his throw-ins.
Lawson would be barred, even as an
emergency ifian, not on account of crudities
of style or technique, but because it is under-
stood that editprs and agents are usually
unhappy while he is in the field.
Dyson, as captain of an Australian literary
eleven, would be a tremendous success if he
could be restrained from bowling his stuff in
a little too fast. There is something of
George Giffen in Dyson. Upon second con-
sideration, we prefer to hold him over for
further consideration.
Arthur Adams, although he has batted at
Lords and scored his Century (article), would
be seen to better advantage in literary lawn
tennis matches. His volleys and returns
would gain him prominence in international
games. Doubtful whether Steele Rudd has
a chance of ever reaching form on an English
wicket. Being somewhat of a one-attitude
man, it is whispered that his play would go
to pieces if he were asked to score without
the help of 44 Dad.”
W
One has to admit that the London literary
market is crowded to its limits. To me it
seems the only profession in the world where
there is no room at the top. The Caines and
Humphrey Wards, the Wells and Parkers
must have their place of honor in every cur-
rent periodical and magazine. As story
makers they are tireless producers ; and
dozens of more brilliant young men and
women are “cut” mercilessly to allow the
stars’ slush to overlap and swamp the
monthly issues.
I gained an opening and held it for 14
months in a high-class English magazine.
My stuff was front-paged ; the pictures were
attended to by Michael and Cuneo. Then
came Wells with his airships, and away went
my illustrators to wash the big man’s gas
bags and air-flappers ; away went my series
to the middle, and finally to the back of the
maga. when Conrad tramped in with his
usually excellent Napoleonic serial.
When an Australian writer comes to Eng-,,
land to fight for his life, he enters a ring
where innumerable pens and bludgeons are
against him. Only by a miracle will he get
within a mile of the front. And if he is
content to fight on for half-a-score of years
the editors and public may become aware of
his existence.
It must be remembered that England does
not offer the advantages to Australian
writers which are held out to our visiting
athletes and sporting teams. Here the
athletic world is in a state of neurasthenia,
crying for new blood and sinew, while the
writing field is palisaded with the pens of
the cultured rich. Each avenue of letters is
guarded by regiments of specialists, Bible
experts, and stunt commentators, diplomats
and historians who frequently sit in the
House of Lords. The common love or gore
serial is booked years in advance, and
executed by men and women of seemingly
imperishable reputations.
Finally, London is a full-fed Titan, cruel,
deaf, and blind. The small boy from the
Antipodes grows weary and faint through
shouting in his ear.
London.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Swinburne as Critic .
Swinburne, spurred by the enthusiasm of
Charles Lamb, has long been adventuring
among the dramatists “whose glory shone
round Shakespeare’s ” ; and the result is a
body of appreciations, alliteratively raptur-
ous and sonorous, a paroxysm of praise, com-
bined under the title of The Age of Shakespeare
(Cliatto and Windus). He has something
superlative to say of Marlowe, Webster,
Dekker, Marston, Middleton, Rowley, Hey-
wood, Chapman and Tourneur —the bright
suns that sudden galaxy of dramatic
splendor that surrounded and reflected the
light of the new star, Shakespeare.
Swinburne’s style is always vehement and
effervescent ; his sentences trail impetu-
ously, voluminously, and sometimes almost
incoherently, down the turgid page. He
luxuriously abounds in big words. He speaks
of : “ Such a daring and immedicable capacity
of misrepresentation, based on misconcep-
tion as when this most ingenuously disin-
genuous of all controversialists,” etc.
And instead of saying “ pot boiling,” he
paraphrases : “So many effusions or im-
provisations as served for fuel to boil the
scanty and precarious pot of his uncertain
and uncomfortable sustenance.”
While his sentences often labor wearily to
their gasping close. Here is the conclusion
of one sentence ;
“In like manner, the sublimity of sim-
plicity in Marlowe’s conception and expres-
sion of the agonies endured by Faustus,
under the immediate imminence of his doom,
gives the highest note of beauty, the quality
of fitness and propriety, to the sheer straight-
forwardness of speech m which his agonising
horror finds vent ever more and more terrible
from the first to the last equally beautiful
and fearful verse of that tremendous mono-
logue which has no parallel in all the range
of tragedy.”
Yet, here and there, the style a,ptly fits
his subject, as in this sentence in which he
has echoed the manner of Marlowe with a
marvellous exactitude :
“The majestic and exquisite excellence of
various lines and passages in Marlowe’s
tragedy must be admitted to relieve, if it
cannot be allowed to redeem, the stormy
monotony of Titanic truculence which
blusters like a simoon through the noisy
course of its ten fierce acts.”
vt/
It is characteristic of Swinburne’s un-
critical enthusiasm that for every one of
his dramatists he has an exuberant superla-
tive. Of Marlowe: “He is,the greatest
discoverer, the most daring and inspired
pioneer, m all our poetic literature. .. .
Webster, it may be said, was but, as it
were, a limb of Shakespeare ; but that limb,
it might be replied, was the right arm.” Of
Dekker he records, with reservations, ‘ ‘ the
grace and delicacy, the sweetness and spon-
taneity of his genius.” Of one act of a play by
Marston this generous appraiser avers that:
“It is the most astonishing and bewilder-
ing production of belated human genius that
ever distracted or discomfited a student.
Yerses more delicately beautiful followed by
verses more simply majestic than these have
rarely if ever been given assurance of eternity
to the fame of any but a great master in song.”
Of Middleton: “We recognise the graver
and loftier genius of a man worthy to hold
his own beside all but the greatest of his
age. Andthatagewastheageof Shakespeare.”
He talks of Rowley’s “austere master-
piece,” of Hey wood and Chapman in similar
terms, while in discussing Cyril Tourneur he
states: “The only poet to whose manner
and style the style and manner of Cyni
Tourneur can reasonably be said to bear any
considerable resemblance is William Shake-
speare. . . . In commanding power and pui’ity
of language, in positive instinct of expres-
sion and direct eloquence of inspiration the
author stands alone in the next rank to
Shakespeare.”
The Age of Shakespeare Swinburne pic-
tures in many a striking phrase.
“ There is siich an overflowing life, such a
superb exuberance of abounding and exult-
ing strength in the dramatic poetry of the-
half-century extending from 1590 to 1640,
that all other epochs of English literature
seem as it were but half awake and half alive
by comparison with this generation of giants
and of gods.
“ Shakespeare’s audience was one at once
capable of enjoying the roughest and coarsest
kind of pleasantry, the rudest and crudest
scenes of violence, and competent to appreci-
ate the finest and highest reaches of poetry.
“Every other mart who could speak or
write at all was a lyric' poet, a singer of
beautiful songs,' in the generation before
Shakespeare’s : every other such man in
Shakespeare’s was a dramatic poet above
and beyond all comparison with any later
claimant of the title among Shakespeare’s
countrymen.”
The book will have served its purpose if it
stimulates the reader, hitherto rather ob-
sessed by the name of Shakespeare, to adven-
ture among the only slightly lesser literary
giants who formed his splendid bodyguard.
That service, somewhat too alliteratively,
S winburne has done English literature.
“Jimmie Pannikin” wishes to shake
hands with ‘ 1 Alpar. ” “ Australian sentiment
is growing, thanks mainly to The Bulletin’s
unceasing preaching of the sanest of all
doctrines—‘Believe in your own country,
or leave it.’ I know one burly inspector of
schools, whose first address to teachers
throughout the length and breadth of his
inback district was, ‘ An Australian National
Sentiment—how and why and when and
where to cultivate it.’ The appallingly un-
Australian aspect of many of our State
school-grounds, interiors, and libraries still
hurts the loyal, lusty lovers of this land.
Many Australian schools never fly the Aus-
tralian flag ; their poor pupils never sing
Australian songs ; never read Australian
literature ; never grow the lovely Australian
trees and shrubs and flowers ; never think
Austral ianly ; —but the tide is rising and
rolling in that will sweep away all ashamed
and apologetic Australians. Amen ! ”
A dainty book of dainty verse—no more —
is Dreams in Exile, by Richard Arnold
Singer (privately printed at Auckland, M.L.).
His quality—cultured, restrained, lacking
the pulse of great poetry—may aptly be
divined from this fragment titled ‘‘ On the
Death of a Friend ” :
You ! y° u ! The fates are hard :
The sudden hand of Death
Has touched you, blotting out
Life’s ill-writ shibboleth.
Well, to the task ahead ;
We cannot, dare not, wait.
We had you once : enough ;
Our love came not too late. , ,
Or the equal simplicity of this in praise of
Muorilaud :
Joy c,f the sea and the sky and the hills,
The scent of the earth and the play of the rills,
The color of hie in the air that thrills ;
And who cares at all for the care that kills,
With the sea and the sky and the sight of the hills ?
City afar, and no sound of its call.
Only the song of the waterfall;
Who cares for care
With the spray in the air,
And the sun looking down upon all ?
S. O. Homes, writing from Texas, reminds
us, in answer to a query by “Pard,” that
Thomas B. Mosher, Portland, Maine,
U.S.A., has brought out a complete edition
of Wilde’s «poetical works, printed on
Yan Gelder hand-made paper, with Wilde’s
portrait on Japan vellum, price three dollars.
That amateur photography in Sydney is popular
is evidenced by the two useful and artistic maga-
zines devoted to this subject. The Australian
Photographic Journal (Harrington, Sydney) ad-
mirably reproduces its artistic photographs, and
makes a feature each month of a lavishly illus-
trated article upon the work of one of the leading
Australian camera artists. But it is dis-
figured by crude pen-drawings and inartistic
make-up. The Australasian Photo Review (Baker
and Rouse, Sydney) is artistically produced and
illustrated, as may be gathered from the fact
that this magazine is now edited by Walter Burke
and Harry J. Weston.
Of course Literature in Australia pays. Here
is the third edition of Station Book-keeping , by
F. E. Vigars (W. Brooks, Sydney), bringing the
book into the sixth thousand. If only our poets
would write in ledgers !
The Lyric in Australia.
“ You can get lyrics by the bushel in Aus-
tralia ” — The Lone Hand (l/12/’08). Can you ?
Dunno. You can get reams and reams of quasi-
lyrical verse —stuff that is lyrical in form—
but the true lyrical output of Australia is
meagre indeed. Let us see. Take Mr. Bertram
Stevens’ Anthology. It contains some 150
items, most of them bven from a literary
standpoint utterly unworthy. How many
are lyrics ? Kendall’s “After Many Years,”
“Araluen.” Holdsworth’s “My Queen of
Dreams, ” “ Quis Sepambit ” (last two verses).
Mrs. Foott’s “ Where the Pelican Builds her
Nest.” Jephcott’s “ White Paper.” Jessie
Mackay’s “ A Folk Song,” “ The Grey Com-
pany.” Mary Gilmore’s “ Good-Night.”
Brennan’s “Romance.”
That leaves us with 140 pieces of varying
metrical value, from Lawson’s 'doggerel up to
—whose ? R. Quinn had the lyrical gift, but
his magic soon exhausted itself. “The Camp
Within the West ” is, in my opinion, the one
imperishable Australian lyric to date. It is
made to endure. Essex Evans, on the con-
trary, couldn’t write a lyric if his life de-
pended on it : he can give you any amount
of verse which would be lyrical if it could.
So with E. B. Loughrau, J. L. Cuthbertson,
J. B. O’Hara, J. Le Gay Brerecon, etc. A
verse added to or subtracted from any one
of their “lyrics” doesn’t affect the general
effect of the piece—it has no organic unity,
no intense continuity of emotion which may
be devitalised by the addition or the sub-
traction even of a word. Take, for instance,
Shelley’s “The fountains mingle with the
river,” or his “One word is too often pro-
faned,” and note how the imaginative emo-
tion seems to dominate and every
word with its own intensity. There is no
analysing such things. Not even the
grandest poet can, by taking thought, rear
such star-flowers of song as these. They are
of the God -within the singer, and are in
essence divine.
vt/
Henley, in that stimulating preface to his
“English Lyrics,” says : “It is easy to tell
a lyric when you see one. It is not so easy
to say what a lyric is. 1 Lyrical, ’ says Pal-
grave in his preface to the best-read an-
thology in the language, ‘ has been ’—pre-
sumably, therefore, should be— ‘ held to
imply that each poem shall turn on some
single thought, feeling, or situation.’ I
would rather say that unless ‘ thought,’ and
‘ feeling ’ and ‘ situation ’ are all single, and
are all present, and sp present that in the
final result ‘ feeling ’ shall oblige us to forget
the others, or at least consider them as
chiefly essential to its triumphing expres-
sion, that result is not a lyric. ... It is the
absence of this quality (emotion), or its
presence in the smallest doses, and these
extremely disguised, which makes the lyri-
cal output of the years between Rochester
and Blake so scant in quantity and so poor
in kind. . . . Southey, to take an example
from the antipodes of letters—Southey had
it not (that is, the lyrical temperament), and
you shall search his dozen volumes in vain
for as much as a trace of it. There is plenty
of verse in those volhm'es that would fain he
lyrical if it could. But it never can ; for
Southey was not thus gifted. And, just as
there is little or nothing in all Shelley which
has not at least the lyrical thrill, so is there
never a lyric in all Southey. As I think,
then, the specific attribute, the saving and
essential virtue of verse that is lyrical to ear
and heart as distinguished from verse that is
lyrical to the eye alone, is temperamental in
origin and emotional in effect. The emotion
thus distinguished may be grave or gay, or
anything you please. But, whatever its
character and quality, there it must be, and
it must be projected through a temperament.
Or lyric there is none.” Having cast this
somewhat large pebble, I’ll get me back into
my glass residence.
ROBT. CRAWFORD.
Altogether too technical for the general
reader is the biography of Lord, Kelvin in
Dent’s ‘ ‘ English Men of Science ” series. Tfie
biographical facts are reduced to the mini-
mum consistent with the explanations, often
in abstruse terminology and algebraic formu-
lae, of Kelvin’s work in natural science. Yet
from it the general reader understands how
widespread the activities of this remarkable
mind were, and how much the world owes to
his inventions.
William Ramsay’s Essays , Biographical
and Chemical (Constable), designed for the
scientific reader, are popular resumes of cur-
rent scientific beliefs, hardly novel now, and,
ii/ the rapidly' changing conception of elec-
tricity, hardly up-to-date. The biographical
essays are interesting ; but the book, as a
whole, seems rather stale.


ik
vee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ 20 DAYS SALE
BE WISE! AVOID the
FINAL KUSH!
Nearing the End.
LAST DAY:
THURSDAY, FEB. 18.
Men’s Tailor-Made Sac Suits
Coat: Round or Square Cut*
Vest: With Collar or Plain fronts.
Trousers; With Side o£ Cross FocketS;
ALL MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
All of tHis Season’s MaKe.
Only Sizes Listed can be supplied at Sale Prices.
Men’s Serge Suits.
Usual
Price.
s. d.
261 Navy Diagonal Serge, .sizes 3to 7, 4Jto7| 30 0
116 Blue Serge, worsted finish, sizes 5,6,
7 only 30 0
122 Fox’s Maritime Serge, sizes 3to 7 ... 30 0
30 Fox’s Indigo Serge, sizes 5 and 7 only ...32 6
145 Soft finish Serge, sizes 3to 7 ... ... 35 0
83 Blue Diagonal Indigo dye, sizes 4to 7 ... 45 U
86 Blue Diagonal Indigo dye, sizes 4j
to 47 6
131 Fine Diagonal Serges, sizes 3 to 7 and
6J only ... 47 6
25 Navy Corkscrew, sizes 5 and 7 only ... 50 0
97 Medium and soft finish Navy Serge, sizes
3to 7 ... 50 0
85 Fox’s Fine Indigo Serge, sizes 4£ to 9J... 55 0
59 Fox’s Fine Indigo Serge, sizes 3 to 7 and
only 52 6
303 Twill Serges, worsted finish, sizes 3 to 7,
,4Jto7i 55 0
216 Twill Serges, worsted finish, sizes 3 to 7,
4£to6i ... 60 0
Men’s Tweed Suits.
19 Light Tweed, sizes 4£ and 6J only ~,27 6
130 Dark Heavy Tweed, sizes 4£ to 9J ... 30 0
427 Heavy and Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7,
.4 to 9i 30 0
63 Hair Line Tweed, sizes 3to 7 30 0
125 Heavy Line Tweed, sizes 3t07, 8J and 9£ 32 6
215 Fancy Tweed and Hair Lines, sizes to 7,
4£ to 9£ 32 6
68 Sergerette and Light Check Tweed, sizes
3to 7, 41, 64, and 74 35/-, 37 6
45 Heavy Tweed, sizes 4to 7 35 0
194 Tweed and Fancy Worsted, sizes 3to 7... 37 6
165 Sergerette, sizes 3to 7 ..40 0
103 Check Worsted, sizes 3 to 7,4 J and 6|,
7i and 9£.-. ' 40/-, 42 0
195 Fancy Worsted, sizes 3to 7 42 0
163 Fancy Worsted, sizes 3to 7 and 7i 0n1y... 45 0
324 Self Check and Fancy Tweed, sizes 3to 7 50 0
Reduced
to
s. d.
... 22 6
... 24 0
... 24 0
... 25 0
... 27 6
... 35 0
... 37 6
... 37 6
... 40 0
... 40 0
... 40 0
... 42 0
... 45 0
... 45 0
.. 21 0
... 22 6
... 22 6
... 23 6
... 24 0
... 25 0
... 27 6
... 27 6
... 28 6
... 30 0
... 32 6
... 34 0
... 35 0
... 37 6
Men’s Washing Trousers.
315 Crash, sizes 3 to 7, 4| to 9£
19 Khaki, sizes 5J and only
43 Khaki, sizes 3 and 4,5 J to 7\
13 Assam Silk, sizes 4J- and only
58 Striped Flannels, sizes 3 to 6
3/6, 4 0 ... 211
... 5 0 ... 311
... 7 6 ... 6 0
... 10 6 ... 7 6
... 11 6 ... 8 6
PIANOS AND ORGANS.
“ Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast,”
And so have Anthony Horderns’ Famous Sale Brices.
The following PIANOS are by makers of repute, and possess
every modern improvement:—
The Weidig Piano, in walnut case, a splendid instrument,
tone quality good, and the touch perfect.
Usual price, £42; reduced to £39 10s.
The Rubenstein Piano is an instrument of great repute, well
known and appreciated for its splendid tone and perfect
touch. Usual price, £39 10s; reduced to £36.
Celebrated PACKARD ORGANS.
“Music is nothing else but wild sounds civilised into time
and tune. ” — Fuller.
The following Packards only Reduced during the Sale.
Other Models at Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 281. Low-top Organ, walnut case, 5 octaves, 11 stops, full
organ and knee swells.
Usual price, £l5 17s 6d; reduced to £l4 12s. 6d.
No. 341. Cabinet-top Organ, bevelled mirror, walnut case,
5 octaves, 11 stops, full organ and knee swells.
Usual price, £l7los ; reduced to £l5 10s.
No. 344. Cabinet-top Organ, same model as No. 341, but has
14 stops, full organ and knee swells.
Usual price, £2O; reduced to £l7 17s.
Ladies’ Sunshades,
Parachutes and Umbrellas
Usual
Price.
Reduced
to
2 11
Silver mounted
3 6
Silver mounted
4 11
620 Fancy Sunshades in White, Fawn,
Navy, Myrtle, Cardinal, and Floral
Borders with plain centres ...
360 Black Parachutes, 21tjin. rib, Silver
mounted handles ...
300 Black Parachutes,
handles
420 Black Parachutes,
handles, tube stems
200 Black Parachutes, Gold and Silver mounts
100 Black Parachutes, Gold and Silver mounts
150 Black Parachutes, Gold and Silver mounts
140 Black Parachutes, Gold and Silver mounts
96 Black Parachutes, Gold and Silver mounts
60 Navy Sunshades with White spot
66 Sunshades in Cardinal and Myrtle with
White stripes
60 Black Sunshades with White stripes ...
60 Black Moire Sunshades
72 Fancy Sunshades in various colors
96 Cream Sunshades, Floral Borders
84 Cream Sunshades, with self colored stripes
24 White Sunshades, trimmed Black Chiffon
A few Fancy Trimmed Sunshades,
no two alike, AT HALF PRICE.
i ii
2 9
3 11
6 3
7 6
8 9
10 6
13 6
18 6
2 3
4 11
5 9
6 11
8 6
10 9
14 6
1 9
4 9
5 6
5 6
8 6
8 9
5 6
15 0
3 11
4 6
Tasteful TRINKETS
FOR THE TOILET TABLE.
45 doz. Scent Bottles, square, hobnail pat-
tern, sfin. high, silver band round neck
260 doz. Scent Bottles, four-sided pyramid
shape, 6fin. high, silver band round neck
40 doz. Scent Bottles, round pyramid shape,
7fin. high, silver band round neck
36 doz. Glass Puff Boxes, “Angels’ Chorus”
design on E.P. lid
38 doz. Glass Hair Tidy Boxes, with words
“ Hair Tidy ” on E.P. lid
8 doz. Glass Puff Boxes, E.P. lids, with
picture tops
4 doz. Brass Powder Boxes, word “Powder”
on lid ...
8 doz. Fancy Metal Puff Boxes, colored
design on sides and lid ...
12 doz. Colored Papier Mache Puff Boxes ...
4 doz. Xylonite Puff Boxes, colors Tortoise
or Black, with word “ Powder ” in silver
letters on lid
9 doz. large size Swansdown Powder Puffs
14 doz. fancy design Scented Sachets
8 doz. Curling Tongs, with pull-out bar for
heating ...
LADIES’
White Washing Dress Skirts.
No. 34-
No. 131-
No. 32—White Drill Skirts, trimmed bead-
ing, very Special Value ...
-Cream Linen Gored Skirt...
•White Muslin Skirts, trimmed
Valenciennes Lace
-White Crashed Skirts, trimmed
Torchon Insertion
-Cream Linen Skirts, trimmed Em-
broidery and Insertion
-White Linen Skirts, trimmed In-
sertions and Medallions ...
-White Linen Skirts, trimmed hand
Embroidery linen
-Grey and Butcher Blue Linen
Skirts, Embroidered
■Cream Sicilian Skirt, narrow Black
stripe, gored shape, gathered at
back ... ...
No. 807—Cream Sicilian Gored Skirt
No. 7731—Cream Sicilian Knife Pleated
Skirts
No. 64-
No. 512-
No. 646-
No. 136-
No. 1339-
No. 691-
No. 622 —Dark Stripe Tweed Gored Skirts
No. 428 —Navy Linen Skirts, 3 lin. tucks at
foot |
Our reputation for honest trading stands
behind the statement that the reductions set
out in the Sale List are in every case genuine.
Be wise, and reap the full benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS SALE PRICES
Travelling Requisites
Dust Rugs.
250 Linen Dust Rugs, in assorted stripes,
with fringed ends, for driving, size
48 x (Min
200 Linen Dust Rugs, assorted checks and
stripes, with fringed ends, for driving,
size 48 x 64in
140 Wool Travelling Rugs, with fringed ends,
in assorted designs, size 54 x 66in.
108 Wool Travelling Rugs, with fringed ends,
in serviceable colors, size 60 x 70in. ...
Wool Bush Rugs.
96 Wool Bush Rugs, for bed and camp use,
in assorted stripes, size 60 x 80in.
84 Wool Bush Rugs, fine warm rugs for
camping purposes, size 70 x 90in.
Hand Bags.
Tan Leather Brief Bags, lined Silesia, nickel-
plated locks and end slides, neat japanned
frames, light and handy bags.
98 Size 12in.
108 Size 14in.
108 Size 16in.
60 Size 18in.
Strapped Kit Bags.
Cowhide Kit Bags, with straps all round,
nickel-plated spring lock and turnover clips ;
a first-rate week-end bag.
24 Size 18in.
36 Size 20in.
36 Size 22in.
24 Size 24in.
Senator Hand Bags.
Cowhide Square Hand Bags, with nickel
sides and locks, on strong japanned frame.
18 Size 12in,
33 Size 14in.
30 Size 16in.
24 Size 18in.
Special Kit Bags.
8 Real Pigskin Kit Bags, covered frame,
lined drill, spring top lock, nickel clips,
size 14in
6 English Cowhide Kit Bags, lined best basil
leather, covered frame, top lock, patent
swivel handle, size 14in
Made of Genuine Cowhide, on stout frames,
with rounded corners, plated press-in locks,
and supporting slides.
18 Size 16in.
18 Size 18in.
14 Size 20in. ...
Girls’ and Infants’ Footwear.
80 pairs Girls’ Black Glace Gipsy Shoes,
sizes 10’s to 13’s pair
98 pairs Box Calf Button Shoes, sizes B’s,
9’s, IPs, 13’s and 2’s ; Box Calf Oxford
Shoes, sizes 7’s and B’s; Tan Glace
Button Shoes, sizes ll’s and 12’s ; Tan
Glace Oxfords, sizes 10’s, ll’s and 12’s
65 pairs White Canvas Ankle Strap, ditto
Gipsy, sizes 7’s to 10’s pair
150 pairs Clark’s Tan Button Boots, sizes B’s,
9’s, 10’s ; American Tan Glace Oxford,
pump soles, sizes B’s to 13’s ... pair
188 pairs Clark’s Tan Sandals, all sizes pair
200 pairs Infants’ Glace Ankle Straps, Glace
Gipsy, Tan Gipsy, Blue Canvas and
Kid Strap Shoes, Cream Kid, White
Canvas, and Doeskin Tie and Ankle
Straps, sizes 3’s to 6’s ...pair • 3/6 to
1000 pairs Infants’ Soft Sole Shoes, in White,
Tan, Red and Black, sizes o’s to 4’s pr.
Boys’ Boots at Bargain Prices.
80 pairs Glace Button Boots, sewn, sizes 10’s
to 13’s pair
80 pairs Glace Button Boots, sewn, sizes l’s
to 4’s pair
56 pairs Tan Balmorals, stout make, sizes
10’s to 13’s pair
56 pairs Tan Balmorals, stout make, sizes
l’s to 4’s ... pair
70 pairs Tan Hide Balmorals, machine sewn,
sizes l’s to 4’s ... pair
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


dfgf
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
x-tca..
S YDNE -3T.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agfents in N.S.W. for tlie McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Passenger Agfents for P. & O. S.N. Co.’s Royal Mail Steamers.
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
WALSH’S POPULAR
HORSE 8 CATTLE
DOCTOR.
An invaluable treat-
ise on the various
Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms and Treat-
ment.
II
Post Free
1/2.
HA MIL TON’S GREA T
STABLE MANUAL &
HORSE DOCTOR,
8/6, post free.
“Jim Jeffries in Full
Action,” and 30 other
splendid Photo-Illustra-
tions, showing the Fight-
ing Positions and Blows of
the World’s Professional
Pugilists, appear in
Donovan’s Art of Boxing,
price 1/3, post free 1/3. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter W riter. 1 /-.
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
g
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing' Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2‘-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tub Above Two Triors (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
GEEASELESB BULLET CAKTEIDGES
f
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOH.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CW TAILOR-MADE m
• W&9 CORSETS.
The most Stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’B Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
HS*
■C
iILOR
CORSETS.
ƒdfdg
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
fd
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director,
ydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
Bad Results of
Tram Accident.
The Case of Mrs. Mackie.
Nothing but good can result in giving to the
public some hint as to the various incidents in
which Mrs. Kate Mackie, of No. 2 Stanley-street,
WoolloomOSioo, once played a prominent part.
In beginning her story, Mrs. Mackie said :
“The ups and downs of life experienced by me
since arriving from Kilkenny, fifty years ago,
would make interesting reading, and I must say
that, taken altogether, I have a great deal to be
thankful for.”
“You have had your share of bad luck, as well
as good luck, like most people,” suggested the
pressman, who had called on a mission of enquiry.
“ Indeed, I have, and I consider the worst mis-
fortune that befel me was in connection with an
accident that happened two years ago, when I
was unfortunately the central figure. I intended
visiting Lavender Bay, and when I got as far as
Circular Quay in the tram, I was in the act of
alighting, when the car started off, and I was
thrown on to my face and hands on to the road.
A notable bump, such as I got, does not agree
with a woman well up in years, and my system
suffered severely from the terrible shock I received.
I was thrown out of gear altogether, and it looked
for some time as though the consequences were
going to be very serious, for I might have died.
My nerves were fairly broken up. To give you an
idea of the fright I received, I may tell you that I
have not been in a tram since. I have a positive
dread of them. I believe if I boarded one of them
now I would take a fit, my aversion is so strong.”
“ Perhaps you are still suffering from nervous-
ness ? ”
“Oh, don’t you believe it; for I was not long
in getting something that attended to my troubles
in respect to nerves, and I chanced to read of it —
Clements Tonic —in the papers. The advertise-
ment I read appeared before me one day, like a
beacon acting as a guide to a mariner in distress.
The case fitted in with my own in some respects,
and something whispered to me that Clements
Tonic was what I required to put my system to-
gether again. And, believe me, sir, I was fear-
fully weak and ill, not a vestige of strength
remaining in my body. It must have been dread-
ful for other people to see me shaking like I did,
and I could not , have written with a pen for any-
thing. But how wretched I was at night, not a
wink of sleep ever coming to my relief, while the
thoughts that ran through my brain were some-
thing horrible. The same round of things went
on from day to day—no appetite for breakfast,
dinner, or tea ; a head that felt like bursting with
aches from daylight till dark, and then On through
the night; when I stood 1 up, a giddy feeling that
made things appear to be turning around m the
room ; terrible pains in the chest, and no life or
energy to help me withstand it—no wonder I felt
that I would rather be dead than alive.”
“ Yes ; there is not much to live for when one’s
trials are so great.”
“And another thing I suffered from for years
was palpitation of the heart, and had tried nearly
every known medicine in the hope of getting
relief, but no—not till I bought some Clements
Tonic, and then I certainly did get something for
my money. And, oh ! what a joyful surprise it
was when I at length realised that my nervous
affections were commencing to subside, for the
possibility that threatened of being a confirmed
invalid for life became more remote as each bottle
of Clements Tonic was finished. The constant
twitching of the nerves at last gave way to a
steadiness that had hitherto been unknown to me,
and in every respect (in regard to my digestion,
especially) I was reaping benefit each day. 1
thanked God for my good fortune in coming into
contact with Clements Tonic, as it was undoubt-
edly the one remedy that saved me. My illness
had pulled me down a lot, but through sleeping
so soundly, and eating so well, under the influence
of my latest medicine, I picked up wonderfully,
and was soon as right as could be.”
“This can be published, Mrs. Maekie?”
“ Yes; in any form your mind suggests.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, KATE MACKIE, of 2 Stanley Street, Woolloomooloo,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any waj' my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
4-0
- Subscribed and declared at Woolloomooloo, this
twenty-eighth day of February, one thousand nine hun-
dred and eight, before me,
l 2]
JOHN JACKSON. J.P,


Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
filler’s
yiair Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N. Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor and preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
fd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle bought of us. Tour
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim Brakes, variable gears
and all lateBi improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. _We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGEKTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our * vecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO Dept. 280 Liverpool -
Flat-Chested
Women
Cannot Appear to
the Best Advantage.
Every woman is entitled to
have a full, rounded bosom
with pleasing curves and
figure. Don’t Stay Thin.
m
[4
u
DR. FALLIERE’S
Flesh-Food
puts on flesh at the rate of five pounds a
week, and rapidly develops the bust to nor-
mal. Your measurements increase rapidly,
and the improvement is lasting. This treat-
ment is positively harmless. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial and full particulars.
Falliero “ Flesh-Food ” Co.
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlkreagh St.,
SYDNEY.
GEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
Pure, Wholesome
and Beneficial.
Agents—Harrison &• Atwood, Sydney.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
fd
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
tJL
Have you seen the new
* Prana” Sparklet Syphon
for making pure, fresh sodawater or any sparkling
•mineral waters, just when you want
to, wherever you may be ? It*s done
in a minute by using
“Prana” Sparklets
which can be obtained of all Stores,
Ironmongers, &c«, throughout Aus-
tralasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms, who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne;
G. Wood, Son & Co,, Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Fremantle;
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators, Ltd., ** Prana ** Sparklet Works, London.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Hoplick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Stapch. .
No confusi'on arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one 4s needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quiredin the preparation of Horlick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough, Bucks, England,
\
t
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.
Average Dose:— A wine glassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
ď
THE TESSAR
P 3-5, F 4*5, F 6*3.
‘■■rv'-r.V^
Simplicity in Design. Brilliancy of the Image.
Exquisite and Uniform Definition from
centre to margin.
6HN BE FITTED to almost
HNY eHMERfI.
New Booklet p7B post free. Obtainable from all Dealers and
CARL ZEISS,
Jena.
ENGLISH BRANCH-
-29, Margaret Street, Regent Street,
London, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Maxim.
Of all the maxims I retain
Within the precincts of my brain
There’s one I’m quoting daily ;
Which maxim of immortal truth.
Distasteful to my callow youth,
Was uttered by Disraeli.
Lord Beaconsfield, as he became
(Beneath this English titled name
His ancestry concealing).
Said lightly—meaning to express
Love’s attitude of lowliness—
“ Man serves a woman kneeling.”
With passioned prayer and tender plaint
He pays his homage to the saint,
And soulful sighs he heaves her :
But —note the words I now repeat —
But “ when he gets upon his feet
He walks away,” and leaves her.
The lady, though she storm or scoff,
Cannot prevent his walking off
Abstractedly, or gaily ;
The passion-flower is born to die,
And man is bound to justify
The maxim of Disraeli.
It worried me whene’er I knelt,
For, all the times, I always felt
That soon I must be going;
And from one’s knees it’s hard to rise
If tears from sweet Belinda’s eyes
Are picturesquely flowing.
But as I knew we had to part,
The scruples in my honest heart
I never failed to smother.
Such loves are holy. In the past
Each seemed more holy than the last —
Then, why not try Another ?
And were the lady staunch and true,
Or just a flirt, the sky was blue
And all the hours were golden.
For love’s divinest ecstasies
To her who kept him on his knees,
The lover was beholden.
Perchance the dream would sweetly end,
And she would call me “ dearest friend,”
Or treat me “ as a brother,”
And softly speak with smile serene
Of all the raptures that had been—
Then, why not chase Another ?
Ah ! like the moons that wax and wane,
The roses died and bloomed again,
And fresh young charms each gal ’ad.
Inflamed by new poetic fire
I gratified my new desire
To write another ballad.
And now I lilt the easy lay
Of one who knelt, and walked away
When love had spent its fever,
The maxim printed on my mind
Forbade me (who says Love is blind ?)
To be a seZ/-deceiver.
VIC.
EDMUND FISHER.
Exodus.
When the heat-haze is a-shimmer on the city ;
When the water-carts are fighting with the dust;
When pavements ooze, and all the air is gritty,
And the world is dry as any last week’s crust,
Then it’s O, for the cliffs beside the sea,
And it’s O, for the salt wind blowing free,
It’s hey, for the roaring of the surf,
And the wide white sands for me !
When the temp’rature’s a hundred in the shade,
Though the Block be glowing gay with summer
frocks ;
When there’s quite a boom in ice and lemonade,
I long to smell the kelp-drift on the rocks ;
And it’s O, for the bluffs the gannets know,
The backwash and the seething undertow ;
For the booming of the breakers on the beach,
And the races where the tide-streams flow !
There’s the whisky and the ice-chest left for you ;
There’s the punkah, and the panama and fan ;
When the skies are glaring into molten blue,
There’s the syphon and the merry ice-cream man;
But it’s O, for the sails along the bay,
And it’s O, for the porpoises at play,
It’s hey, for the swirling tides for me,
And the waters where the seaweeds sway !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Same Old Sea.
The same old sea we sat beside before,
The ceaseless break of waves upon the shore,
That croons a lullaby
To vain regret and sigh ;
The long, bright reach of clean, untrodden sand, *
The sweet, rich scents of Spring from off the land
In blossoms all aglow—
As ’twere the long ago.
The same old sea ! It changes every day,
And cries aloud that naught doth pass away—
How good it is to rest
By sea and sky caressed
Again a little while. Oh ! sweetheart mine,
This same old sea gives pledge of love divine—
Plaything of winds and tides,
Rejoicing it abides.
And still our hearts within our bosoms beat,
And still we love with tempered lovers’ heat—
Then, sweetheart, let us dream,
And catch the vagrant gleam
Of what hath been and may for ever be;
The smiling sky doth kiss the laughing sea;
Their beauty is sublime,
Yet both are old as Time.
The same old sea we sat beside before,
The ceaseless break of waves upon the shore
As frolicsome and gay
As boy and girl at play ;
Dear heart, whate’er you ever were to me,
You are as much and more, as are the sea,
The sky, the merry Spring,
And every joyous thing.
VIC.
ANDREW SARD.


ARCHITECT
SPECIFIES
s> Ef u
O)
o
£
‘O
c
&L 1^
B-W
The up-to-date architect's practical experience has taught
him that the Wunderlich Designs embossed in Metal are
the ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
They looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms; Postal Address: Melbourne Showrooms;
56 PITT ST. Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST.
7Jie*JEssence of V/ t“S!li fv
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
ivjfr,
SUPPORTS
MILLIONS
€
f
0
0.
0
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham.'
England.
ATTRACTIVE CHEAP QUEENSLAND FREEHOLDS.
S Mil FS FROM BRISBANE.—SOB acres, 200 acres being splendid agricultural land, balance first-class
grazing land, permanent water, well improved, fenced, subdivided, 40 acres cultivation, 40 cows in
profit.” 755.’ per acre.
5 MILES FROM CITY, FREEZING WORKS, Etc.-15,350 acres freehold, rich alluvial soil, well grassed,
black soil and ridges, river frontage, lagoons, fenced, good house, would fatten 600 to 800 bullocks
annually. 40s. per acre. Good terms.
13 MILES FROM SOUTHERN AND WESTERN LINE.-2230 acres, 1000 acres light scrub, balance plains,
frontage to creek, also well, windmill, fenced (new), five paddocks, 1800 lambing ewes given in. 70s.
per acre. Freehold. Good terms.
3 MILES FROM DALBY.—4O2B acres, freehold, rich black soil, box and myall, permanently watered by
wells, with mills and reservoirs, securely fenced, good residence, yards, woolshed, etc., splendid
property, recommend inspection. 84s. per acre.
For further particulars, apply to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY C 0. t LTD.,
Stock, Land and Property Salesmen, BRISBANE.
“RATITE”
IS USED
by Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube; 3 Tubes, 10/- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANE)
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Go. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
EVERY PIPEFUL A PLEASURE
PERFECTION
VSt tobacco
LIGHT and DARK
In or Cot TJp in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
ALWAYS HAVE
fd
By Royal Warrant
handy in the kitchen for Soups, Gravies, etc.
m
M- M
rr r
JTT
The best galvanised iron is soon corroded by the effects of
the sea air. RUBEROID ROOFING is unaffected by sea
air or salt water, hence its special adaptability for Dressing Sheds, Seaside
Camps, Bath Houses, etC. E. RICH CO.. Ltd., Sydney <a Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1513.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1909.
PIUOK 6d
THE ATTEMPTED COALITION.
"Here I’ve been turning this blessed churn for a month, and the stuff won’t come to butter.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
I>rln , ari( l Published by William Macliood, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Jlhe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North
Sydney, JN.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
jr> (i» Advance, Only)
£l6o
flat]-yearly n c
Quarterly ;* 0 7 0
7 l Urect to Tl " s Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
sterling you can have Tine Bulletin posted
regular ly to you every week for a year.
etc -< and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Uotv to A (Illness I.etters.
s^rrespoi,.dents to The Bullktin would oblige the paver
, “ extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
", 7 etc.) should m no case be addressed to the Editor,
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
is , not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is "*** P erBon ma V not be there; the official
Special 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
usiiers. She right to reproduce or translate any part of
toe contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved bv
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge m the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
outions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
•social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(tnose dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns m length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
dential lmUniCai * 0m re 9 ar^ as strictly eonfi-
Thk Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
or retuni it ‘will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tub Bulletin
desires further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'/'« A mil fairs in Itlnclc ami White.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or tvash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—t.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Akrica.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown.; The Central News'Agency
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Ml Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. It. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Bong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. xlUin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ffi^^xxZZelzm,.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1909.
THE DISADVANTAGES OF BEING
SLOPPY AND SPASMODIC.
Almost every time there is a strike or a lockout
of miners there is a revival of the demand to
“nationalise the mines.” The strike or lockout
ends, and nothing is heard about nationalisation
until the next mine-labor trouble happens along.
Always the peg on which the demand is hung is
the tremendous profit made by one or two mines.
Just at present it is the Broken Hill Proprietary,
whose glittering record dazzles many eyes, and is
in startling contrast to the miserable wages which
it is suggesting that some of its workmen should
accept. Now, it would have been a very fine
thing if the Broken Hill Proprietary had been
kept and worked by the State. The trouble is
that, when we keep our eyes fixed on this one
mine and its glittering record, we are simply
humbugging ourselves ; and when, after a while,
we find that out, we drop the subject, and go off
on another tack ; and that means a deal of wasted
time and effort and opportunity.
* * * *
As The Bulletin said just now, it would be a
hne thing for the State to own the Broken Hill
Proprietary. But whether the State owned it or
not, the mine would first have had to be found-
ed ® roken Hlll Proprietaries take some finding’
A, Sunny Corner mine had to be found first.
Ihat did not anything like pay back the money
that was put into it; yet the talk of the great
things it was going to do reminded somebody of
some silver-lead which once had been brought
down to the Darling .River from the Barrier : so
presently the Barrier was explored. In the course
of that exploration a couple of hundred claims
were taken up and worked before the Broken
Hill mines were found. Of those couple of
hundred certainly not more than half-a-dozen are
working to-day; and not more than that many
ever paid a dividenck though in some of them—
the Round Hill and Pinnacles, for instance— tens
of thousands of pounds have been sunk That
takes us up to the discovery of the Broken Hill
Proprietary, 23 or 24 years ago. Since then prac-
tically every other silver-lead show that has been
looked for or worked, not in N. S. Wales alone
but m every other State, has had the Broken
Hill Proprietary for a background. All the
prospecting that has been done, all the shaft-
sinking and tunnelling, has aimed at discovering
another Broken Hill; and the other Broken Hill
still keeps itself hidden. Obviously if the State
na lonalises the Broken Hill Proprietary it must
also nationalise the 10,000 others that don’t turn
l jr °hen Hills; if it takes the dividends it
f i us , P d y the calls ;if ic pockets the profits from
, labor of the men who find the nuggets, it must
also pay the prospectors, even though they find no-
nng , if it pays for the shaft and the tunnel that
reach ore, it must also pay for the 10,000 shafts
and tunne s that reach nothing at all but inferior
road metal, or only just enough precious stuff to
" lln ß the miner on. It is very fascinating to talk
of nationalising the Broken Hill, just as it would
oe to talk of nationalising the winner of the
Melbourne Cup as soon as lie has won it; but
it would be a different sort of proposition to
nationalise every animal that somebody thinks is a
racehorse. If the State could pick its Cup winners
petorehand, it would be a charming arrangement,
just as it would be if it could pick its mines.
* * . .
But the worst effect of this spasmodic talk
about nationalising the mines in a general way is
that it is really preventing nationalisation in cer-
tain directions. As soon as it is seen what the
nationalisation of the whole industry means, the
subject is dropped—until the next labor trouble
arrives. Between times, mainly because of these
spasmodic agitations, it is practically im-
possible to get the nationalisation of a few
coal mines considered. It is utterly absurd
that the N.S.W. railways, etc., should be
buying from private mine-owners every ton of
the coal they consume. The State has still tens
ot thousands of acres of coal-bearing lands, even
though it has made the usual ass of itself and
handed over hundreds of thousands of other acres
to the private landlord ; yet though it has these
tens of thousands of acres, with millions of tons of
coal awaiting development, and though the
Covernment departments are by far the largest
consumers of coal in the country, the State hasn’t
got one coal-mine, and it allows the private mine-
owner to make a profit out of the taxpayers in
lespect of every ton of coal which its railways,
etc., consume. Nor need it do much pros-
pecting for coal; its geologists can tell it
almost exactly where coal will be found,
and give it a very good idea what sort
of a seam exists underneath. Of all mining, coal-
mining is the least of a gamble ; even the Stock
Exchanges recognise that, and so they put coal
shares, not in the wild-cat mining list, but among
the investments. Of all mining, therefore, coal-
mining is the branch which the State mierht most
properly take in hand ; and it might all the more
properly take it in hand because it is itself so
large a consumer. Nevertheless, though the ques-
tion has been raised in a desultory fashion again
and again, the ephemeral agitations during times
of industrial trouble seem to exhaust all the
interest in the subject of State mine-owner-
ship, and nothing is done. Instead of the Labor
men steadily urging that this practical step in
nationalisation or State-ownership be taken,
they allow themselves to be side-tracked’
and talk mine-nationalisation in a vague’
general way, once in five years or
and quote figures that are often wrong anyhow,
and furnish the Daily Tklegkaph and other
papers of the same sort with a fine opportunity
to throw effective bricks at them.
* * * »
It isn’t the gamble—especially the gamble at
long odds—that we need to nationalise ;it is the
certainty. The State has enough of the uncer-
tainties passed on to it; Private Enterprise can
always see four-and-twenty good reasons why the
State should do things that don’t pay, and it can
always see just as many reasons why Private
Enterprise should handle whatever there is money
in. So it is the job of the State to put up and
maintain lighthouses; but Private Enterprise
collars the job of running the ships past
them, and collecting the fares and freights,
while the State’s servant in the lighthouse
sits on his rock or his sand-bank and collects
nothing but loneliness, and often, in the end, weird
spooks. It is the State’s job to fish up the un-
productive dead dog, and the equally unremunera-
tive dead marine from the depths of the harbor ;
but Private Enterprise has carefully clung to
the job of making 15 or 20 per cent, out of the
traffic on the harbor after the dog and the marine
have been got out of the way. It is the State’s
or the municipality’s job to lay down the footpath
which anybody can use without toll or fee ; it is
Private Enterprise’s job to tear the stones up
again, and lay down underneath the gas-pipe or
the power-main which will give the 10 or 15 per
cent, dividend. There are scores of things that
the public must have, scores of services
that must be rendered; and it is simply because
the public must have those things that Private
Enterprise is so interested in grabbing them. The
State can have the other things—the removal of
the unremunerative dead dog and the like—and
welcome.
It is just about time that those who are in-
terested in the extension of State services decided
to change this ; and, for a start, instead of talking
vaguely of Socialism and nationalisation, resolved
upon setting out to get control of a few specific
services that really matter. The waste of energy
involved in clamoring at random and in spasms is
tremendous. If the Labor party said, “We are
going to nationalise the ferry services,’’ or the
lighting and power services, or all the water-
supply services, or the milk supply, or
any other of the absolute necessities of
modern life, and if, after deciding upon some
one or two things, it bent all its energies upon
those one or two, it would accomplish something
practical. If a ship goes out from a port in a
loose, large, general way, and the captain decides
to-day that he will go everywhere, and makes up
his mind to-morrow that he will go to Callao, and
the day after forgets all about Callao and reckons
that Singapore would be a very good place to look
in at, and on the third day remembers the various
charms of Auckland and slogs away in that direc-
tion-well, that ship gets over a vast quantity of
ocean, and consumes much coal and biscuit,
and the crew has to put up with a great deal of
weevil, but it is apt to get nowhere. The man who
“arrives” is the man with a definite purpose, who
knows exactly what he wants and keeps on till he
gets it. After he has got that, he makes up his
mind that he wants something else, and he mostly
gets that too. It is exactly the same with a party.
It must concentrate to win. It can’t afford to be
diffuse, and vague, and general, and sloppy. And
of all parties the Labor party ought to know that
best —and yet seems to know it least. “ Union is
strength” was the first simple motto of the ele-
mentary trades unions. While they were divided
they didn’t have a hope. Nevertheless they
still persist in division. They clamor for
the nationalisation of this to-day and of that to-
morrow. On the third day they cry for national-
isation in general but of nothing in particular. If
they kept to one or two things at a time, they
could perfect their arguments, and make sure of
their facts, and they would command the respect
and eventually the support of that big crowd of
onlookers who always have sympathy and admir-
ation for a man or a party that knows just what it
wants and has persistency enough to peg away
till it gets it. Also they wouldn’t alarm a
quarter as many people. If the party said
that, so far as it was immediately con-
cerned, Socialism meant the nationalisation
of the ferry services, for instance, quite a
lot of people who imagine that they are anti-
Socialists would be suddenly discovered to be the
very opposite ; and the support of that section of
the public ought to be quite enough to at last give
James McGowen the State Premiership in N. S.
Wales; and instead of T. Price being the one
Labor State Premier in Australia, there might
easily be three or four to keep in his highly-
respectable company.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Making a Start.
After weary years of discussion, Australia has
definitely started on the task of constructing an
Australian naval force. It is not much of a start,
but almost any is better than none at all. Two
torpedo ships of the river class are to be built in
England, and sent out here to be copied by the
local builders when Australia has laid down the
Commonwealth Dockyard. Australian artisans
are to be sent away to learn how it is done, and,
presumably, unless someone offers them higher
wages while they are away, will return with the
completed fighting craft. Assuming that there are
no unseen difficulties, a better way would have been
to lay down the ships in Australia, and proem e
skilled artisans from Britain to do the work/if we
have no Australians able to do it; thereby not
only would we have created our own fighting
ships, but we would also have established a base
in which they could be repaired during war time.
Facilities for quick repairs are the key-
note of success in modern naval warfare.
When two squadrons meet and both sustain
severe damage, the one that can haul off and refit
in the shortest time eventually wins. It can
make for its fortified base, repair damages and
come out again in a few days, practically new and
spick and span, to fall on a battered and more or
less demoralised enemy. Exactly why the Aus-
tralian Government has gone to Britain for such
small craft as river torpedo boats is not plain,
unless it is the difficulty Premier Deakin en-
countered when he applied to the Admiralty for
the plans and specifications of certain ships with
a view to starting warship building in the Com-
monwealth. The Admiralty replied that the ships
mentioned were built by Private Enterprise, and
that the designs were the property of the com-
panies which constructed the ships, and it referred
Deakin to them. When Deakin applied to the
companies concerned they told him that they were
in business to make money. They would build
the ships with pleasure, but they were not
in the habit of selling designs which gave them a
practical monopoly of the making of certain types
of war craft. So presumably the object of the
Government in getting the first two built in
Britain is to get the design, which is not otherwise
procurable for patriotism or money. It is a doubt-
ful expedient. As the State Superintendent of
the Fitzroy (Sydney) Dock says, ships cannot be
very well copied, any more than a house can be
copied. There are a certain number of ship de-
signers who could be induced to come to Australia
by the simple expedient of making it worth their
while, and there is every reason to believe that a
designer who had some experience on our
coasts would turn out a more suitable class
of torpedo craft for Australian conditions than
one who had gained all his experience
in British environment. A warship is not com-
plete without a refitting base, and the creation of
that base is just as much a part of a naval defence
scheme as the building of ships. By building the
ships locally we provide that base, and make our
naval defence scheme complete and self support-
ing. However, it is good to know that we have
started to create an Australian navy in some sort
of way, and now that the good work has been
begun, there is more chance of it being got on to
the right lines than if it had never been started
at all.
-♦
Anti-Sosh. Says It Doesn’t Feel Well.
0. W. Oakes, M.L. A., and hon. Deform Minister,
said this significant thing to the daily papers the
other day :
The organisation of the N.S.W. Liberal party is every
whit as complete as the organisation by the Labor party,
but the response of Labor sympathisers is ten times
better than the response made by Liberals.
He spoke the truth. Yet the tale regularly
exploited by the heads of the Deform party, as
each election looms, is to the effect that Labor is
massing as one person for the destruction of help-
less and unorganised Respectability. As a fact,
no party in the Commonwealth combines for
election purposes to the extent parties do (say) in
the Cold Land, where even at by-elections the
spectacle of 85 per cent, of those eligible
recording their votes is common. Condi-
tions here are too easy and pleasant to make
for wild enthusiasm over political issues.
Nevertheless, the Deform yarn anent the Napole-
onic organisation of the Labor vote is told and
re-told, the sole object being to make the well-to-
do citizen’s flesh creep. It is hoped that if the
well-to-do can be scared sufficiently they will put
their hands in their pockets and agitatedly drag
out subscriptions to the Deform funds. Un-
doubtedly, as C. W. Oakes notes, party spirit is
weaker amongst local “ Liberals ” than amongst
Laborites. There are good reasons for it. The
trouble with the Liberals is that they haven’t
either (1) a cause, or (2) leaders over whom they
can enthuse. The “Liberal” policy, whether it
is voiced by a Joe Cook or a Wade, is a negation;
and where it isn’t that it is mostly a class affair
that makes strong appeal to a small section
of the community only. The local Tory who
owns a logical mind has grown to wince at
the term “ Anti-Socialism.” He never thought
about the monstrosity of Sosh at all till G. Reid
rose up and assaulted it. G. Reid’s strange con-
duct caused the Tory to hunt for the maligned
creature’s spoor, and look up its “references.”
And immediately he did this he found that he
was living in the Beast’s very cage, as it were,
and withal suffering no harm thereby. Samples
of its ravages were all round him. He realised
that it bore him swiftly, comfortably and cheaply
to his business in the morning and home again at
night; that it laid itself out, with some success,
to preserve his health and that of his family ; and
that it guarded his person and property from
assault and robbery. The closer he looked into
social conditions around him the more of the
Horror he found, and always the arguments
against it were few and feeble. .A man can’t
summon up a genuine dread of a thing which
dwells with him day and night and does him
nothing but service. And so the Tory grows
cold on his Anti-Sosh. He keeps up' the old
catch-cry when he remembers, but he is con-
tinually liable to forget; and in the midst of a
philippic against the thing his party exists to
oppose, he is apt to stop and demand seed-wheat
for his farm at the State expense, or free carriage
of his stock by the Government railways. And
when it is represented to him that that is the
Menace in its foulest form, he throws party
discipline aside and says things about sturdy indi-
vidualism that are heresies in the ears of Bruce
Smith. Anti-Sosh is as unhappy in its leading
lights—its Reids, its Joe Cooks and its
Wades —as it is in its policy. Reid is
cried down more mercilessly by his own
class to-day than by any other. With the
aid of the Conservative daily press of two
States they have shaken him off their backs
in a measure ; and in his place they have got Joe
Cook. A less inspiring leader, temperamentally,
than Joe Cook cannot be conceived. He is about
as imaginative, as warm, and as humanly sympa-
thetic as a dead mullet. Also he is objectionable
to the all-wool Deformers on other grounds—
as, for example, his hopelessness as a social
figure. Insane though the point of view may
appear, it is general, and is likely to last as
long as “Liberalism” is run, as it is to-day,
by the social climbers of the various centres.
Wade is probably the least personally-popular
Premier N.S.W. has known in its history. His
legislation has maddened a big proportion of the
community, and is daily pin-pricking to a condi-
tion of militant anti-Deform many other citizens
who, till Anti-Gaming Acts, Anti-Liquor Acts,
Police Offences Acts and the like appeared, never
dreamed of anything but picnicking on polling
days ; and, at the same time, he has disappointed
the ultra-pietists. His much-boomed Industrial
Hiputes Act has seen more and worse strikes in
its 6£ months of existence than the Arbitration
Act did in years. As a preliminary to winning
any measure of sympathetic regard in the con-
stituencies, it looks as though “Liberalism” will
need to deport its present stock of leaders, and
dynamite its policy.
♦
Australia’s Shocking Example.
Victoria continues to be the awful example of
the Commonwealth in the matter of scarce babies
and comparatively frequent deaths. These figures
for the quarter ending September, V. ' 8, just com-
piled by the Commonwealth’s Statis . cai Bureau,
show the State’s ignominious position :
Excess of
Deaths Births Births over
per 1000 per 1000 Deaths per
of Popu- of Popu- 1000 of Po-
State. lation. lation. pulation.
Westralia „, 10-39 3019 19-80
N.S.W 10-29 27-61 '17*22
Tasmania .. 12-70 29'70 17-00
Queensland .. 10'61 27'08 16'47
South Aus. .. 9-59 24’90 ]s‘3l
Victoria .. 13-11 IVBS
For some years now Victoria has been at the
bottom of the list, keeping close to South
Australia in its birth-rate, and, up to about
a year ago, to Westralia in its death-rate.
And there is only one available explanation for it.
The young men are being crowded out by the big
landlord, and are seeking occupations in the other
States, leaving behind them the babies, the un-
married girls, and the old people. Those other
States have not dealt anything like as rigorously
with their big landlords as they should have done ;
but, excluding the Tasmanian island speck, they
have a larger area, wherefore the failure to shift
the big landlord hasn’t in those cases had the same
disastrous result— yet. Nevertheless, the end of
their decent territory must come, and with
some of them the end isn’t far off, and
then the same disastrous thing must happen
there. Consequently the depressing Vic
torian figures don’t merely concern Vic
toria; they constitute also a solemn warning
to the other parts of the Continent to deal with
the big landlord promptly. And not merely tc
deal with the present big landlord, but also tc
pi event the accumulation of any more big land-
lords ; and that is an accumulation which, in the
absence of a graduated land-tax, is proceeding
steadily. Even, however, if the other States
dawdle, Victoria can’t afford to. There the case
is, and has been for years, particularly and speci-
ally urgent. No State had such a large proportion
of its population engaged in the temporary job of
rooting up gold; and, as that job is rapidly run-
ning out, the State must either provide some other
sort of job or lose the displaced population, and
also the growing sons of the men who see that
there isn’t enough in Victorian mining nowadays
to justify them in encouraging their families to
pursue the old track.
The Lord and the Big Landlord.
John Tebbutt in his defence
As I do not subscribe to The Bulletin and but seldom
see it, the bitter attack upon myself as a landowner in
your issue of the 14th ultimo might have escaped me had
my attention not been called to it by a friend. As the
attack is in “ Plain English,” I will reply to it in similar
language.
For my own part, I go neither to Milman nor to The Bul-
letin in order to ascertain what were the land laws framed
by Moses for the guidance of the Israelites, but to the origi-
nal source itself, namely, the Hebrew Scriptures. Your
reviewer of my conduct as a protester against prize-fight-
ing tells us that the land system of the Hebrews was
handed down with the Ten Commandments and other
decrees for the guidance of man. He holds the view that
if the Hebrew land laws have no status in modern times,
then the Ten Commandments fail to have authority also.
As the establishment of perpetual slavery was closely
associated with the land laws of Moses and has equal
authority with them, it necessarily follows that my critic
is in favor of slavery*, and yet he writes vehemently*
against the oppression by landlords in this country. If
he wishes to ascertain the true character of the Mosaic
code, he had better increase his partial knowledge on the
subject by consulting the writings of the great Lawgiver
himself. The Ten Commandments, however, which he re-
gards as having only equal authority with the Mosaic land
laws, stand on their own pedestal. They constitute
the moral law, and are of perpetual obligation among all
the families of mankind. Almost as far back as the
Scriptural origin of man we have the principles of the
moral law, and these principles have been confirmed by
the greatest of moral teachers. But where is the equ;i I
authority for the Mosaic code, with its encouragement of
slavery? What an absurdity it is to suppose that in
these modern days we are to be bound by the political
relations of the ancient Israelites ! Such relations would
be quite out of place.
Your contributor conveys, if not directly, at all events
by insinuation, that I am a landlord who enforces the
payment of rent by having recourse to the bailiff. Ido
not say that the landlord, if rent is due to him, should
not have the same means as other creditors have of en-
forcing payment, for, be it remembered, there are dis-
honest tenants as well as exacting landlords. But as
your contributor conveys the impression that I am a
landlord who resorts to the bailiff, I now call upon him
to substantiate the accuracy of his insinuations by
stating the instances in which I have thus availed my-
self. For my own part, I have lost thousands of pounds
not only by the inability of tenants to pay, but also by
absolute dishonesty, and yet have not had recourse to a
bailiff. It fortunately happens, however, that most of
my tenants have been good and worthy men, some of
whom have been associated with me for very many years.
I can only look upon the violent denunciation of my
censor as the result of personal spleen, or an attempt to
sow discord between landlord and tenant, as an addition
to that civil industrial warfare which is fast ruining the
interests of this country.
My critic says there is no denunciation of boxing or
similar exercises in the Bible. But I did not enter my


protest against boxing, but against brutal prize fighting.
Neither in the headings nor in the text of my manuscript
letters sent for publication have I characterised the recent
prize fight as a boxing contest. But if prize fighting is
not expressly referred to in the Bible, it is certunly for-
bidden by the general teaching of One who exempli-
fied the beauty of the moral law in His own holy and
practical life. Assuredly the teacher who went so far in
His teachings as to tell us not to return evil for evil
would not offer a shade of encouragement to the brutal
scenes enacted at the Stadium on the day following the
anniversary of His own birth.
To wMch (after saying that the only references to
bailiff* occurred while modern landlordism was
being discussed in a general way) it is only neces-
sary to briefly remark that it was Mr. Tebbutt,
and not The Bulletin, who took his stand on
religious grounds. The Bulletin’s contention
thereupon was that, if Mr. Tebbutt judged prize-
fighting on those grounds, it might reasonably ask
him to consider himself and the landlord system
on the same grounds. His reply is that, while
the Ten Commandments were of general applica-
tion, the Mosaic land law was of special appli-
cation. It seems almost a pity that that vital
difference wasn’t pointed out by the Lawgiver him-
self, instead of being left for Mr. Tebbutt, the
trouble being that Mr. Tebbutt is something of
7'nterested party.
Police—or Pinkertons?
Although Prime Minister Fisher doesn’t seem
to recognise the fact, N.S.W. Premier Wade has
raised a question which is going to cause some
dust when Parliament meets. Hitherto it has
been generally understood that the privilege of
shooting down the people of Australia in cases of
internal disorder belonged exclusively to the
Commonwealth Executive, and that the right to
maintain armed forces was the prerogative of the
Commonwealth Parliament. Section 6 of part 5
of chapter 1 of the Commonwealth of Australia
Constitution Act provides that the Commonwealth
Parliament has the power to make laws for the
naval and military defence of the Commonwealth
and of the several States, and the control of
the forces to execute and maintain the laws of
the CommonwealthNLßut if the daily paper
accounts are to be otelieved, Premier Wade
allowed the Broken Hill Proprietary Mine to
be turned into a fort, with entanglements of
barbed wire, and other defences, and garrisoned
it with infantry and cavalry, which he calls re-
spectively foot and mounted police, and made
elaborate preparations for shooting down Austra-
lian citizens. According to the daily paper
accounts, the whole force was armed with rifles;
and the mounted men actually paraded the city
of Broken Hill wearing swords. X Chapter V.,
clause 11, of the Commonwealth Constitution Act
says : “ A State shall not, without the consent of
the Parliament of the Commonwealth, raise or
maintain any naval or military force.” If any
State Premier can raise and maintain an armed
force by means of the legal quibble of calling it
“ police,” then the whole object of the framers of
the Constitution, which was to deprive the States
of the control of armed forces, and to make the
Commonwealth supreme in the last resource, is
nullified, thrown overboard, and generally broken
down. If any State insect has the power to raise
armed police, he can, if he has a subservient
majority behind him in his State Parliament,
practically bring about a levy en masse by the
simple expedient of passing a short Act requiring
every man to serve gratis as a special armed con-
stable ; and that is in flat opposition to the spirit and
letter of the Constitution. Quick and Garran,
in “The Annotated Constitution of the Austra-
lian Commonwealth,” say on page 948:
A State is forbidden without the consent of the Federal
Parliament to raise or maintain any naval or military
force. This inhibition, coupled with sec. 51, vi., has the
effect of conferring on the Federal Parliament exclusive
power with respect to naval and military forces. The
negation in this section is so strong, “no State shall
raise or maintain,” that it begins to operate immediately
on a colony becoming a State ; thereafter it will render
the raising or maintenance of naval or military forces
by a State absolutely illegal.
In view of this it is about time that Andrew
Fisher called upon Charles Gregory Wade to
explain the presence of his armed force on the
Barrier —a force which marches through the city
in military array. If C. G. Wade replies that it
is there for the maintenance of law and order,
Andrew Fisher should reply firmly that the
maintenance of military forces is a matter reserved
exclusively to the Commonwealth, and that any
armed force is military in its character.
«
State Frights and Stale Scraps.
Clara Oxley, 42, widow, told the N.S.W. jam-
trade Wages Board that she was employed at a
factory, and did any kind of work except filling
and labelling. She was paid 10s. a week, and had
herself and three children to keep. The girls in
the factory gave her the food left over from their
lunch to take home, and people gave her clothes.
Then H. E. Pratten, managing director of one
of the biggest and reputedly most prosperous
N.S.W. jam factories, told the Board his woes.
They didn’t include feeding his family on the
scraps left over from the work-girls’ lunch, but at
least they did include the absence of any divi-
dend for two years. Asked to explain how it
was that, while some of the work-people were
paid so deplorably, the employers were making
no profits, Pratten said that they had to compete
with Tasmania, where wages were only a few
points above zero. If they paid higher wages, and
thus increased their costs, the business would
simply pass oyer to their competitors in
the low-wage States; consequently in order
to keep their works open they couldn’t pay
wages much in excess of those paid in the low-
wage State which competed with them. A State
Arbitration Court or Wages Board can’t do much
good in such circumstances ; it certainly can say
that an employer shall not pay less than so much,
but since it has no control over the sweating
manufacturer in any other State, it dare not
award decent conditions in its own State for fear
of wiping the industry out altogether, and con-
demning the workpeople to no wages at all.
The object of the Commonwealth tariff is to
make it possible for every worker in Aus-
tralia to get decent wages; but while that tariff
shuts out the foreign sweater it doesn’t block the
sweater who sees his chance and sets himself up
in the low-wage State. Thus in order to secure
for the worker the full advantages of the tariff,
the Commonwealth must have control of the in-
dustrial legislation which is now in the hands of
the States ; for clearly, since there is inter-State
Freetrade, the sweating of the workers in one
State must also affect the wages of the workers in
the other States into which the sweated goods are
entitled to pass. So, between them, Clara
Oxley (42, widow with three children, living on 10s.
a week and scraps from the little factory-LizziEs’
lunch-baskets) and H. E. Pratten (managing
director of a factory that pays no dividends) pro-
vide another argument in favor of unification, and
drive another nail into State Frights. State
Frights may look mighty large and impressive in
a State politician’s mouth ; but unfortunately, as
we see in this case, they also mean 10s. a week and
stale scraps from the work-girls’ lunch baskets for
Clara Oxley, and no dividends for H. E.
Pratten.
Victoria’s Record of Imaginary Crimes.
Recently-published statistics show that last year
in Victoria the police and law authorities had to
deal with no fewer than 900 cases of imaginary
crimes. When interviewed in Melbourne regard-
ing the awful increase of females who indulge in
capers of this sort, Dr. Jones, the Inspector-
General of the Insane, said that “a morbid
craving for notoriety—a desire to stand in the
limelight, even for a moment —is largely respon-
sible for these imaginary offences. Hysterical
women often report that they have been assaulted,
and relate circumstantial stories, which after-
wards are proved to be untrue.” Asked if he
would describe such women as lunatics, the doctor
replied that “they were no doubt mentally de-
ficient. The stories related by these women
sprang from vanity, and they were un-
able to master their morbid temptations.”
Years ago Forbes Winslow, the British lunacy
specialist, was consulted by a man who told him
that he felt an “irresistible impulse ” to kill a
certain person ; and the man wanted to know
what he should do about it. “Well, I know what
I shall do,” replied the specialist. “ I shall be at
the inquest and the trial, and do my best to get
you found guilty of murder.” It is the same with
these “morbid temptations.” If the young
woman with the love of notoriety were made to
realise that she stood in great danger of two
years’ gaol for perjury, she would in most cases
think better of it and refuse to be tempted.
But she has been allowed to run wild,
and the absence of perjury prosecutions has
simply encouraged her to let her so-called “irre-
sistible impulses” go. Then sometimes—in 900
cases last year—the police or the Courts find out
that the girl was a perjurer. But there is no record
of the number of times when they don’t find that
out; and when they don’t, then some innocent
man has the gaol brand put upon him—and a gaol
brand, too, for a particularly objectionable offence.
♦
An Act to Harass the Hatter.
The need to curb illicit traffic in gold is admitted
by most Victorian mining men. But in making
it difficult for the dishonest miner to dispose of
his booty, the Gold Buyers’ Act has created no
end of trouble for the legitimate producer who
works “ on his own ” ; and apparently most of the
so-called Parliamentary representatives of mining
constituencies are unaware that such people exist.
In the first place, the holding of a gold buyers’
license entails such onerous charges and conditions
that almost all of the reputable storekeepers, who
formerly purchased the fossickers’ gold in small
country townships in Victoria, have thrown up
the business in disgust. In most cases, such
buyers paid a good price, generally £4, for alluvial
gold, and made their profit out of the goods which
the fossickers took in exchange. Now the
fossicker is obliged to tramp, perhaps 20 or 30
miles, to a large town, and then sell to the banks,
which pay, as a rule, about 2s. 6d. an ounce less.
The plain proof of the effect of the law
lies in the fact that, in many small
centres, fossicking has practically ceased,
and the old fossickers, who formerly lived on
the gold they won, are now forced on to the
old-age pensions. Small as each fossicker’s con-
tribution to the national wealth may have been,
in the aggregate it meant a large sum ; and an
Act which forbids the production of that gold,
and in its place makes a serious call on the tax-
payers’ money, can hardly be said to be a success.
In other ways the Act bristles with hardships for
the small producer, and in view of the airy way
in which the Bent Government declined to admit
that the Act caused trouble to any but “a few old
fossickers,” a few concrete examples may be
given :
(1) A man was cyaniding a tailings heap belonging to
another party, and was paying heavy tribute per ton.
He endeavored to obtain a license, but the Act pre-
cludes anyone but the legal owner obtaining a license,
and then the holder of the license must “ accept all re-
sponsibility ” for what the user of the license does with
it. The owner of the lease refused to apply for a license,
and as there was no one licensed to smelt for the public
in the district, and as wages, etc., had to be paid, the
tributor at last smelted his own gold himself. Result:
He was run in and fined, the Bench admitting that it was
a very hard case.
(2) A man is purchasing a tailings heap from another
on terms, and has been cyaniding it for months, and is
suddenly blocked by the Act in disposing of his gold.
The Mines Department informs him that he must obtain
a transfer of the tailings before he can obtain a special
smelting license to enable him to smelt his own gold, and
the owner naturally declines to transfer till the final pay-
ments, which are not due for some months, are made.
As there is no licensed assayer and smelter in the district,
the only alternative is for the owner of the tailings to
apply for a smelting license and allow the purchaser to
use it, running the risk that, if he misuses it, the Depart-
ment will probably refuse to grant its holder one for any
other tailings heap.
(3) A man applies for a gold-mining area, and after pay-
ing the necessary fees, starts work before the issue of the
lease, which may take six months or much more. On
obtaining a clean-up, he is confronted by the fact that if
he smelts the gold without a license he is liable to punish-
ment, and, besides, won’t be able to dispose of the gold,
and yet he cannot obtain a license till the slumberous
Department issues his lease.
These are simply three ordinary instances of what
is going on every day, and all day, in Victoria to
hamper the small producer of gold. If only the
farmer with wheat to sell were similarly treated,
the Government responsible for the “outrage”
would be standing on its ear on the outermost
doormat within a few months.
♦
A Superfluous Society.
The Bulletin has received a circular from a local
branch of the British Peace Society (the main object
whereof is to bring about a limitation of arma-
ments) asking for subscriptions. The circular,
which purports to have been addressed to “ the
leading business men and citizens of Australia,”
talks of—
The great destructiveness of war, its interference with
business, the accumulation of indebtedness, the burden-
ing of the people with taxation, the waste of human life
and property, etc.
And winds up:—
Here in Australia the work ahead of us is very great,
and therefore we appeal to you for financial assistance,
which we trust will have your generous support in Aus-
tralia’s national interests and your own.
The Bulletin has not sent any subscription. It
classes Peace Societies’ aspirations after universal
disarmament and Ereetrade together as foolish, im-
practicable things. The British Peace Society has
been in existence since 1816. In all those years it
has achieved nothing worth mentioning, A few
worthy old ladies and gentlemen have assembled
together from time to time, and talked pretty
nothings anent love and charity and the beauty
and charm of lamb-like behavior as between
nation and nation. And the next day or week or
month, as the case might be, national interests
clashed in France or Prussia or India or Egypt,
and straightway the Peaceites were brushed aside
and red war raged as though they had never been.
And so it shall probably be during our time, and
for so long after as not to matter. There is cer-
tainly no country on earth that needs a Peace
Society less than Australia. A depressingly large
section of our population is as unashamedly peace-
able as the primary products it attends to and
breeds. The many who constitute this section
need no schooling in the art of knuckling down
and dodging trouble. Nationally speaking, they
never mean to meet trouble. They regard anyone
who talks seriously of Australian defence as part
zany, part traitor. They hold that Australians
ought to content themselves with being simple
pastoral people. They consider that the inhabit-
ants of the Commonwealth should rear sheep, till
the earth, float wild-cat mines, borrow money, and
so forth, and leave the job of staving off Asia to
Ma. When it is suggested (1) that Ma may con-
ceivably find herself in such a position some day
that she will be unable to journey to this hemi-
sphere and stave off Asia, or (2) that it is an
unworthy act for a rich continent like Aus-
tralia to pole on an aged relative for its
national insurance money, the words “fool” and
“disloyalist” are hissed by any member of the
section above referred to who happens to be
around. The hissers are natural-born peace
enthusiasts. The idea of arming themselves
renders them frantic with puzzled indignation.
What really is wanted in Australia just now is
not a Peace but a well-organised Defence Society.
Such an institution would devote itself to show-
ing, day in day out, the futility of so desirable a
country as this expecting to avoid for very much
longer the blood-baptism that every other desir-
able country in history has known. It would
impress on the local loyalist the contemptibleness
of his attitude in relying on Ma to protect his
native land for him in the hour of need merely
because it happens to owe the old lady money.
It would point out to the local pro-peace citizen—
the sort of lunatic who objects to universal service
on the grounds that it “ may exasperate Japan ”
—the fact that it is wiser to exasperate a potential
foe than to impress him with the conviction that
you are “ a dead easy thing." It would demon-
strate for the benefit of the same lunatic, when he
argued that the British-born citizen doesn’t need
compulsion to make him enter his country’s ser-
vice, that in the United Kingdom Haldane’s
territorial scheme, with all the attractions it
offered to recruits, and with all the influence that
was brought to bear to make it a success, has
proved a pathetic failure. To a society that laid
itself out to do sensible and patriotic things of the
above sort, The Bulletin would subscribe money.
But Peace Societies leave it cold. They are for
old women and children—-for very old and foolish
women, and very young children.
♦-
No-License and Prohibition.
Maoriland begins to suffer from a depressed idea
that all these years it has been running after a
vain thing and barking up the incorrect tree. The
No-License movement grows and spreads in
Maoriland. Every general election now sees more
No-License districts declared, more drinkeries
shut, and more self-glorification on the part of
the No-License brigade. Yet the consumption
of liquor increases; the number of arrests for
drunkenness increases ; and the liquor revenue
grows handsomely. Last election represented
another big triumph for the No-License party,
and immediately the beer revenue leaped like a
kangaroo. Mr. G. D. Clark, of Sydney, general
superintendent of the 1.0.G.T., reckons, after
much delving in Government statistics, the Maori-
land drink bill at 755. lOd. per inhabitant
annually, against Victoria’s 695. lid., and
N.S.W.’s 665. lid. The fact is that the
No-License movement isn’t a Prohibition move-
ment. It closes hotel bars, but it doesn’t
close up breweries, or abolish the wholesale
trade, or prevent liquor being brought into the
No-License district. So there are three notable
results of No-License : (1) the hotels, deprived of
their bar trade and reduced to the status of
common lodging-houses and eating-houses, tend
to become frowsy, seedy and horrible ; (2) the
person who used to buy a bottle of beer in a hotel
is now compelled, by the abolition of the retail
trade, to lay in a keg; (3) the person who used to
drink in a bar with the public eye upon him as a
sort of restraining influence, now soaks lonesomely
in his own home, or perhaps in a hired room or a
quiet paddock, where he and his cronies can sit
round their joint and several beer barrel or keg of
spirits and be at peace. A furtive gloom sits like
a long-dead elephant on the No-License dis-
trict, and it smells surreptitiously of beer. Why
Maoriland went in for No-License instead of for
Prohibition it is very hard to say. A Prohibition
district is one in which liquor cannot legally be
sold, made, imported, consumed, or kept about
the premises. It is a place where beer is a wild
beast to be shot at sight, and whisky is a noxious
animal with a reward offered for its scalp. On
the other hand, a No-License district is a region
where the hotels are falling into decay, and where
a man has to buy a barrel of liquor when he only
really wants a pint.
*
The Mild and Charming Jap.
It is still the fashion in certain quarters here tu
uphold the Jap as an essentially gentle, peaceable
and desirable citizen. The untravelled Aus-
tralian gazes on picture post-cards of geishas in
picturesque environments, or regards the engag-
ing antics of a musical-comedy star in Japanese
clothes, and comes to the conclusion that the
whole race is quaint, harmless, merry, and good-
natured. Now and then wanderers drift back to
these shores (as A. It. Weigall, of Sydney, did
the other day), and tell hair-raising tales of the
Yellow Man’s unpleasantness when encountered
on his native paddy-field. But your hard-shell
pro-Jap casts discredit on complaints of the
sort. “Take it from me,” says the cheap-
labor enthusiast —the type who once had a
Jap cook that was not entirely unsatisfactory,
or who was attentively waited on by a Mongol
servant in a club, in the long ago—“ the man that
gets ill-treated by a Jap has richly deserved it.
The Jap is the most chivalrous, kindly little chap
on earth. He’s the Englishman of the East,” etc.
Any reference to newspaper reports from Korea,
which represent the Jap as torturing and murder-
ing his degenerate brown relative there in the
most comprehensive way, rouses the ire of the
Australian pro-Asiatic. He points out that such
stories were all very well as applied to the Jap
half a century ago, but that since then he has
adopted British ethics and the British system of
justice. He has been purged of his old barbarity
and iniquity. He is now a law-abiding, scrupulous
person—a professed Christian, in many cases—
one whose standard of conduct and morals is
tremendously high. The injurious stories circu-
lated regarding him are, his defenders insist,
“rank lies,” faked up for the most part by
“ Socialists, who fear to compete industrially with
hard-working, sober people, like the Mikado’s
subjects.” Now and then, however, an unim-
peachable authority comes along and, for the
moment, silences the worshippers at the Yellow
Idol’s shrine. Such a one is C. K. Kirkpatrick,
R.N.R., who has been employed as civil engineer
by the Mikado’s Government in Yokohama since
his retirement from the British Navy, and who,
while in Japan, was admitted to the 4th degree
of the Order of the Rising Sun. Here are some
things C. K. Kirkpatrick told the Vancouver
(8.C.) Daily Province (10/10/’08)
There’s absolutely no law for the white man in Japan,
and as for the treaty with Great Britain, no value has
been attached to it since the time of the school troubles
in San Francisco, when, had it not been for the attitude
of Great Britain, the Japanese Government would have
declared war upon the United States.
No European or American resident, who has not be-
come a citizen, can own property.
Many of the fine terrace gardens on the bluffs over-
looking the city, which were formerly the property of
European residents, have been converted into play-
grounds for the children of the Japanese, who claimed
that the “ foreigners ” had no right to own any property
whatsoever in Japan, and that they could not claim the
rights of tenure unless they became citizens.
This system of doing what they please with the property
of the white residents was remarkably exemplified dur-
ing the great drought. Many kind-hearted Europeans
permitted the Japanese coolies to draw water from the
wells in their own compounds. On account of the abuse
of this privilege this drawing of water had to be re-
stricted to certain hours. The coolies became incensed
at the restriction placed upon them, and many of the
wells were filled with carbolic acid. Barbarous as this
may seem, it is true.
A few months ago a Mrs. J. Gray, the wife of the
accountant in Lane, Crawford, and Co.’s large whole-
sale establishment in Yokohama, refused to pay what
she considered an extortionate fare demanded by the
rickshaw man. Upon her refusal the rickshaw man be-
came angry, and twisted the lady’s wrist, severely
spraining it. Mr. Gray gave the man a good thrashing,
and was called to appear in the courts, where, in spite of
the evidence, which was dead against the rickshaw man,
Bread Upon the Waters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ship Carnarvon Bay and the barque Ashmore both
cleared the Heads, wheat laden, for the English Channel
yesterday. —Daily Paper.
Bread upon the waters,
Tossing up and down ;
England’s sons and daughters
Starve in London town,
Whilst the ships are steering
Home ’gainst all the fates,
Where grey England, peering,
Sits within her gates.
Bread upon the waters ;
Battered —beaten—h urled,
Homeward come the porters
Back across the world,
Each his burthen taking
Where his mistress calls,
Ere the millions waking
Hunger in her halls.
Tho’ the fog delay them,
And the hidden shoal
Seek by stealth to slay them,
Still they reach the goal;
Him, star-lighted oceans
Heave beneath their feet
With slow, cradle motions
As they bring the wheat.
Empty English meadows,
Where once grew the corn,
Now are filled with shadows,
Ghosts that fly at dawn
(Oh ! the long-dead reapers
Gaze with eyes of fear
On the lounging keepers
And the browsing deer 1).
Bread upon the surges
Half a world away,
With the wind’s mad dirges
And the sleet and spray,
Plunging, swerving, rolling,
Crushing seas to foam,
To the bell-buoy’s tolling,
So the wheat comes home.
Old, grass-covered furrows
In the English fields,
Where the rabbit burrows,
Speak of former yields,
Tell of ploughmen banished
To strange lands afar
(England, when they vanished
Paler was thy star !).
Bread from foreign valleys,
Past the foeman’s guns ;
Homeward wing the galleys,
And the moons and suns
See their tops’ls gleaming,
Watch them fade again,
Like cloud castles dreaming
On a wind-swept plain.
Bread upon the waters
(Pity them, 0 Sea!) —
England’s sons and daughters,
Children at the knee,
Wait in white-faced anguish
In each lane and street
For the ships that languish
In the tropic heat.
England, old and haggard,
By the Channel gates
Calls to ev’ry laggard—
Calls and peers and waits;
And the ships of treasure
Over Northern seas
Dance an ocean measure
Towards her granaries.
While the wolves are sleeping,
While the ways are free,
Shall the grain come creeping
From the outer sea ;
When, ’cross Channel lying,
Rolls a battle wall,
Of starvation dying
Shall an Empire fall.
Bread upon the waters,
Tossing up and down,
England’s sons and daughters
Starve in London town,
Whilst the ships are steering
Home ’gainst all the fates,
Where grey England, peering,
Sits within her gates.
N.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINCTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
was convlcfced 01 a criminal offence; and suc-
, es v Cap,n £ a sentence of six months’ imprison-
“hfei y , by - an t a P u ol °ffy bei "gr offered by the entire
white population of the city.
It may not be generally known in Vancouver that at
° f th f r , lotshere last Hll the Japanese across the
racific boasted that if their fellow-countrymen in Canada
were not granted the same rights as the white population
® et afire and cut the water mains,
ana that if the militia were called out they were prepared
to seize upon the armories.» People may call this wild
calk but there can be no doubt that the Japanese
would be very pleased to become possessed of the Pacific
coast of North America, of the Hawaiian islands and of
Australia.
These are the people whom the Spruce Myth
school of thinker asks Australians to regard as
cpnte innocuous. They contemptuously refuse
justice to the white man, whether Briton orother-
wise. They seize the property of foreign residents
in their midst. They talk fire and slaughter to the
Caucasian who gives them a mild dose in his coun-
try of the exclusive treatment that is meted out to
the white in Japan. It is noteworthy that the
Jap ‘ would be very pleased to become possessed
of the Pacific Coast of North America, of the
Hawaiian Islands, and of Australia.” He can’t
have any part of North America, for the U.S.A.
owns a fleet. He can’t have Hawaii for the same
reason. The Commonwealth is not in the com-
fortable position of North America and Hawaii,
and the sooner it sets about remedying’ the
anomaly the sooner it will be free of the possi-
bility of about the most unpleasant conquest on
earth.
East and West: Their Proposed Meeting.
Said Joe Cook, last week, to the Sydney morning
dailies, apropos the Deakin-Cook coalition that
some of the daily papers are just now strenuously
promoting :
As to whether the movement is likely to succeed, I
should say that I know of no overwhelming reason why
it should not. . . . There are difficulties to be faced, anil
promises to be made, and they cannot all be made on one
side. One party cannot simply be annexed by the other,
there must be give and take on both sides,'but with a
broad and tolerant attitude and a spirit of real earnest-
ness, the problem ought not to be an insoluble one.
It presents the case in a nutshell. There is no
reason whatever why this coalition scheme should
fall through-provided always that Deakin and
Cook don’t display a too bigoted adherence to
previously expressed principles. Office is a cer-
tainty so long as the office-seekers don’t mind
wading through a certain amount of mud to get
it. The views of the DiCAKiN-ites and of the fol-
lowers of Joseph Cook are diametrically opposed.
All that is needed to give Labor the painful
dispatch is that Cook and Deakin should
agree not to differ any more on vital questions of
Australian polities. Certainly the differences of
the two leaders are many and various. The
DEAKiN-ites, for example, are committed to an
Australian navy and to the principle of the com-
pulsory training of citizen soldiers for the Com-
monwealth’s land defence. G. Reid, B. Smith,
Willy Kelly and the rest of the true-blue Anti-
Soshites have laid it down (1) that the idea of an
Australian navy is insane, and (2) that merely to
discuss it is tantamount to disloyalty to the
Motherland. Deakin has proclaimed on scores of
platforms that Australia’s only hope of national
salvation lies in what Cook has damned as con-
scription. In beautiful language and picturesque
imagery, the ex-Prime Minister has demonstrated
over and over again that Australia’s only in-
surance against the trouble that shall surely
strike her, before she is much older, is a Common-
wealth in arms. He has besought the adult male
of Australia—by his self-respect, by his patriot-
ism, and by every other thing he holds dear—to
learn to drill and use a rifle. And Cook has as
often replied with a sour protest to the effect that
such views are un-English, that the Briton was
never yet found wanting in the hour of need, that
the forcing of men into the military service is re-
pulsive to the genius of a free people, and so
forth. Deakin is bound by every tie of honor to
the New Protection policy. The Lyne tariff is in
operation to-day mainly because Deakin gave
the Laborites his assurance that the New Pro-
tection would be a corollary to a reason-
ably high duty schedule. The followers of
J. Cook are not New, or any other sort, of Pro-
tectionists. The only member of the party to
express an even moderately favorable opinion of
the policy so far has been G'. Reid. He said three
months ago that if the country was to be blighted
with Protection, the new variety seemed to him a
rather less offensive one than the old. That is not
enthusiastic commendation; but it is many degrees
warmer than the rest of the party’s pronounce-
ments on the question. The B. Smith or logical
Anti-Sosh school of thought holds that the New
Protection is a deadly stab at individualism, and
will not have it at any price. The fiscal question
—apart from its bearing on the New Protection
policy—stands between the Cook party and the
DEAKiN-ites. Good Protectionists hold that there is
still a multitude of tariff anomalies to be rectified.
Deakin in alliance with the mostly-fanatical
Foreign-traders who follow Cook would be im-
potent to amend the tariff in the direction re-
quired. That Willy Kelly, B. Smith, and the
rest would leap upon the feelings of their Calico
Jimmy constituents by voting for increased Pro-
tection is unthinkable. Cook and his band
bitterly oppose the Navigation Bill, and clamor
for free competition between foreign and Austra-
lian shipping. Deakin has hitherto supported
the Bill warmly. Cook takes G. Reid’s Anti-Sosh
spook seriously ; Deakin has been laughing
at it for three years. It is the habit of
Cook’s adherents to appeal on all possible occa-
sions to the miserable old State Frights sentiment.
Deakin and the majority of his Parliamentary
supporters have denounced this stirring-up of
inter-State hatred frequently, and with vigor. Is
there, in fact, any one subject of importance on
which the Deakin and Cook parties aren’t at
fundamental variance? If so, it is obscured from
this paper’s view. The two parties may come
together and fraternise for their common profit,
even as the John Dunn and William Sikes do
occasionally. But, even if Deakin should con-
sider it seriously, it won’t be an honorable alli-
ance, and the odds look strongly against it even
being a profitable one to the parties concerned.
The “Greatest Curse” and the Men Who
Supply It.
Gr. Reid, the superannuated proprietor of the
Dog, is now doing the suburban ’alls. At Marrick-
ville (Sydney) the other night he deplored the
congestion of population in the cities. "The
greatest curse in Australia is overgrown Sydney
and overgrown Melbourne,” he said. "In every
15 New South Welshmen you find five Sydney
men. Yet the same Gr. Reid has been struggling
to get the capital of Australia put close up against
Sydney’s back-door, so that the congestion should
steadily become greater. There was a proposal,
adopted by the Commonwealth Parliament, to
open up a new and practically unoccupied country
in the Monaro by establishing there a new capital
with an outlet to a new harbor alongside a river
which would provide power for new industries.
This same G. Reid fought that proposal, and
backed up a yarn that he had only consented to
Sydney being barred as the Australian capital on
an "understanding” with-the other Premiers
that the site should be no more than about 100
miles from the place where already the congestion
of population is most appalling ; and that yarn
undoubtedly helped to drag the capital site away
from Monaro and fix it vaguely in a district
whose trade, it was thought, would have to be
dragged to and fro through Sydney—with the
result that Sydney, of course, would grab most of
it as it passed. Therefore Reid in this matter
has been guilty of promoting the thing which he
describes as Australia’s greatest curse; and when
he had an opportunity to make the curse a trifle
less vigorous he threw all his heavy weight upon
it, and sooled on the dog. Moreover, the party
to which he is attached in State politics—the
Wade party, which is the Reid-Cook party
in its insect form—is struggling at this
very moment to add to the congestion.
The Australian Government, having just
decided to make a start on an Australian navy, is
casting around for a site for a Commonwealth
dockyard ; and obviously the place to turn to is
either Twofold Bay or Jervis Bay—the only two
that have been seriously submitted as Federal
ports. Wade, however, in pursuance of his Anti-
Sosh; principles, calls aloud for the construction
of at least one of the two destroyers in the State
shops in Sydney Harbor ; and he is also pressing
the Commonwealth Government to take a strip of
ocean frontage in the same harbor for the purposes
of a permanent dockyard, so that there may be
still more congestion of population in the capital,
and that “the greatest curse in Australia”
may be as much more vigorous as he can make it.
And up to now G. Reid hasn’t referred to Wade
as an abettor of the curse, and a public nuisance
and a danger, and he isn’t likely to.
«.
The Commonwealth Government took all sorts of
care that the Stinking Fish party shouldn’t hatch
another Petriana myth out of the Clan Ranald
wreck. The owners’ Adelaide agents, George
Wiles and Co., at once offered to give any neces-
sary bond with regard to the survivors ; but the
S. A. Customs were instructed to do nothing be-
yond keeping in touch with the rescued Lascars
and Manila men, who were all transferred to the
co.’s other ships in Australian waters within the
week. While they were waiting they were well
cared for at the Seamen’s Home at Port Adelaide,
and visited by Lady Dudley and suite, in the
absence through illness of the Governor-General.
Even all this, however, did not prevent a
dead-fish “Patriot” from rushing into print in the
Register. That paper had printed the exact
facts, and when it praises the Federal Govern-
ment, the case must be pretty strong. Yet
“ Patriot ” worked hard at the usual points about
our “dishonor,” and “we so-called Christians,”
and “our King Edward,” and “our Heavenly
Father.” In fact, " Patriot ” set going the plain
lie that “our country has sunk so low that we
may not heartily and gladly reach out to help a
drowning seaman. ’ There was no echo to this
outcry. It fell quite flat. Anyone encountering
a Clan Ranald myth will therefore please burv it.
It was born dead.
L
“Dandalup”: Not only from Japan and the
“Far East,” as the Englishman calls it, may
White Australia expect sudden invasion and
devastation by colored people, but from a much
nearer base —namely Java. This luxuriant isle is
only two days’ sail from North Australia, and
has a black, tan, brown and yellow population of
32,000,000, overcrowded on about 51,240 square
miles. Included are 300,000 Chinese and other
Asiatics, and every year sees these figures in-
creasing. The Javanese population alone has in-
creased 100 per cent, in the last 25 years, and, if
it goes on multiplying at this rate, this seemingly
insignificant island of Java, balanced on the
uppermost rim of our continent, may possibly
upset some of its surplus on to our unpeopled
northern stretches. Further, judging by close
observation, they won’t be all Javanese either.
Many of the Chinese have flourished exceedingly,
and they almost control branches of the trade of
the island. Arthur Pearson, a well-known Mel-
bourne mining man, just returned from a visit to
those parts, related to me a remarkable conversa-
tion he had upon the White Australia policy with
a Chinese millionaire merchant of Java. “A
White Australia,” he told Pearson, was “abso-
lutely impossible,” besides being “an insult to
him, his family, his nation, and all the colored
races in the universe.” Not only would the colored
races arrive in Australia soon, in spite of all
policies and embargoes, but some of his money
would go towards seeing the thing through.
The Australian was astonished by this yellow
Fatman’s outspokenness, and has now hurried
back to yell "Wake Up!” into Australia’s ear.
Pearson, bv the way, only went to Java and
Singapore, yet he returned with an acute attack of
“ yellow fever.” Before he left Australia he had
his doubts about a White Australia ; now it’s—
“lf we can’t keep Australia white, then God
help us ! ”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Duchess of Dantzic.”
Theatre Royal “Scarlet Pimpernel.”
Criterion. . t “ The Squatter’s Daughter.
Palace “ The Old Folks at Home.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Cos.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Cos.
Kino’s “ My Partner.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
“ The Duchess of Dantzic ” has the ad-
vantage of getting a good start. There isn’t a
better song or a mqre rousing one in the whole
three acts than Hughes’ drinking chorus, and not
a night passes at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) but the
audience insists upon having another with the
vigorous singer. But within sft. 37sec. or so of
that excellent performance there is one of those
inartistic things that are only permitted because
they have grown into a habit. It is in the wash-
house scene, and one of the washer-ladies makes a
remark; whereupon, on the down beat, all the other
washer-ladies—3o or so of them —say : “ Oh, how
delightful! Isn’t it a fine day !” or something of
the same inane sort. One washer-lady might say
it; by a coincidence two might say it simul-
taneously ; by a miracle even three might. But
when the whole crowd bursts out into the one
poor, drab observation, the unreality of it
stabs you in a tender place the same
place in which, later on, the disappointing
Gouriet’s gambollings as Court milliner give you
pain. Little Betty Ohls is on the sick-list, but
her substitute is effective ; and Florence Young
continues to do admirable work as Sans-Gdne,
afterwards the Duchess. Florence Young, before
the mirror in the last act, is one of the little
things in play-life that a man is likely to remem-
ber, and a woman is likely to want to forget.
** * *
Viewing “The Squatter’s Daughter” re-
vival at Sydney Criterion last Saturday night,
the writer gave himself up to musings on why it
should be the amazing success it is. He could
find no valid reasons. Better productions are
falling dead every night of the week the world
over. “ The Squatter’s Daughter” has two char-
acteristics that distinguish it from other works of
its class: (1) the primitive frankness of its love-
passages ; (2) the brainlessness of its chief un-
desirable. The tender passion is presented mostly
in its comic aspect. The female woos the male of
her choice with a curiously dogged intensity.
Heroine Violet does it ; it is also her friend
Jenny’s way, and likewise that of the elderly
Virginia Spriggins. Even the lubra Mulga
pursues this method with her aboriginal swain,
Nulla-Nulla. The male—from juvenile lead
to comic relief—adopts an awkward lumpish man-
ner under the torrid advances of his affinity. The
hero drops his gallant debonair style, the funny
man grows grave. There is much embarrassed
shuffling of feet, and inarticulate gasping and
gulping, and agonised hand-friction. In real life
such spectacles would embarrass and pain the on-
lookers. Why do they “go” like mad at the
Criterion ?
* * * ■*
A stupider villain than Dudley Harrington
never sinned. During Act I. he puts into the
pocket of honest Tom Bathurst a letter that shall
convict Thomas of complicity with Ben Hall and
his myrmidons. Within a foot of him is crouch-
ing Nulla-Nulla, a native who, in addition to a
stainless character, possesses the figure of a
Thomas Bent. Dudley remains stone-blind to
the obtrusive presence of Nulla, and so
gets roundly rated for an untruthful scoundrel
when he attempts, later on, to prove Bathurst’s
treachery. In the next act he gives Violet a
compromising letter which he has received from
Sarah, “one of his victims.” He says the screed
belongs to Tom. A futile lie. He is stultified
hopelessly, and at once. His love-making would
discredit a lad of 16. Meeting Violet—the matri-
monial catch of the district—in “ The Eucalypti
Gorge,” he behaves so shamefully that she is im-
pelled to say to him: “By the memory of your
dead mother, Dudley Harrington, who is now
looking down on us from her seat on high, I beg
that you will desist from this dread crime.” He
is present in the conservatory of Waratah Station
what time Bathurst proves himself to be the son
of the affluent James Harrington by producing a
locket which contains the portrait of Mrs.
Harrington, deceased. At once he steps for-
ward and claims the gaud. 'He has never
seen or heard of it before. The attempt
has nothing but its insane hardihood to
commend it. The contemptuous laughter
of the gallery has hardly died down before he is
off on more of his fatuous deviltry. None loves
to watch a stage villain at work more than the
writer. But his machinations must show at least
a faint glimmer of intelligence. How Dudley
finds favor in the eyes of an audience that is
accustomed to schemers who, however desperate,
put a certain amount of thought into their mis-
deeds, is a mystery.
* * * VC
Several artists are new to Sydney in this
piece; among those who call for notice are Miss
Leighford and George Carey. Miss Leighford
plays Virginia Spriggins, and makes a life-like
and diverting old female of her. George Carey
grapples with the part of Archie Macpherson. It
was created in the first instance by Bert Bailey.
Carey’s style is less exuberant than Bailey’s. In
his hands Macpherson is 'no longer a raving
maniac, but a mild loon, which is all to the good.
* * * -*
On Friday night the horrific odor of burn-
ing steak will be wafted across Sydney Royal
footlights for the last time, and the agonised yell
of the ill used meat will be hushed. For, after
that date, “Rat” Reresby becomes “The Scarlet
Pimpernel.” Miss Beatrice Day will play Lady
Blakeney, the rfile that Miss Ola Humphrey sus-
tained last year. In other respects, the fine
original cast will remain unaltered.
-Jfc 'Jfc zfc
Sydney Palace is a house of many changes
these times. The Mosman Musical Society holds
the timber at time of writing with “ Martha,’’but
its four-nights’ lease expires with a final top-note
on Wednesday night. On Thursday evening the
Sydney Muffs enter on an extended season of two
consecutive nights. “The Old Folks” will be at
home on Saturday night—as all Old Folks should
be—and the Palace will then resume its
stern, professional aspect, and the box office
its usual commercial look. In descending on
an amateur show, the savage critic doesn’t
really draw his bowie with the intention of
inflicting grievous bodily harm. The preliminarv
whoop and the brandishing are all there, but the
cutting part which hurts is omitted, and a pat Qn
the back substituted just when the carving-up
process might be expected to start. Judged bv
amateur standards, “Martha” is a highly com-
mendable entertainment, but the fact that it will
be musical history when this sees print makes any
extended notice unnecessary. It is one of those
fleeting shows that pass in four nights and elude
two Bullktins by rushing though the week-end
that is out of reach of both of them. The critic
therefore, sharpens his knife on his heel and sits
down to wait for the “Old Folks,” who are due
on Saturday, 13th; and the “Old Folks” are
hereby warned that their age will not protect
them.
*■ * * *
Several changes have come over the bill of
Sydney Tivoli, and one or two turns which
threatened to become chronic have disappeared.
Stross and Fellows are the most notable of the
new arrivals. The first-named partner is reputed
to be able to extract more melody from a cornet
than any other man on the North American con-
tinent ; and if South America contains a better
cornet player, he must be in hiding somewhere
near the head waters of the Amazon. Honey
and Cherry, horizontal bar experts, also infuse
a little freshness into the evening’s proceed-
ings, but their turn is muscular instead of being
melodious, and Tivoli frequenters are just a little
tired of gymnastic exercises. Mackinnon’s Scot-
tish Meisters, Geoffrey and Benson, Lawson and
Namon, and Tom Dawson are also among those
present. On Saturday, 13th—so rumor asserts—
the only Cinquevalli is due to reappear and trifle
with cannon balls, dog-carts and other sundries ;
and, as Cinquevalli is a star of the first magnitude’
the stampede to see him will probably call for a
larger treasury to hold the gate receipts.
He. He. He. He
MR. ROLAND BOTTOMLEY
in a dashing vein.
(Melbourne Royal,
“ Cinderella.”)
At the King’s, the third and last week of
“Sailor Jack” finishes on Friday, and Walter
Baker’s amended version of “My Partner”
comes to light on Saturday. He promises that it
will be “enlarged and altogether improved”;
but even if it be no better in effect than the old
original version it will satisfy The Bulletin.
People looked for gleams of probability in their
dramas at the time when “My Partner” was
written. The action was less rapid than we get it
nowadays, but the happenings were more or less
accounted for and the characters presented a
humanly natural appearance. There was con-
siderable flesh and blood, likewise bone and sinew
in the play that George Rignold identified himself
with. If Baker’s alleged improvements are in the
way of adding muscle to the literary body and
giving symmetry to its outlines, the result should
encourage him to do similar work in other direc-
tions. Meanwhile the result is awaited with
mingled hope and suspicion.
* * *
“0.K.”: Walter Baker has ventured
some considerable editing of “My Partner,”
the old ’Murkan drama which is to follow
his own concoction of “Sailor Jack” at
the Anderson theatre in Melbourne. Pre-
sumably the sacrilegious Baker has left un-
touched the strongest scene of the play,
where Joe Saunders, the miner, comes back to
shake hands with Partner Ned, after quarrelling
with him, and finds that the gay Lothario has
been murdered meanwhile. George Rignold, of
yore, was positively “great” in this scene when
he had an appreciative audience to play to, and if
Baker can produce anything like Rignold’s burst
of emotion over the discovery of Ned’s corpse, it
will be a revelation to the gods at the King’s.
At one time and another some fine acting was put
into “My Partner ”in Melbourne. The first cast
included Kate Bishop, Brian Darley and Gus
Glover, with Handsome George. Later on it
was revived under the early Brough and Bouci-
cault management, when Mrs. Brough appeared
as the girl whom giddy Ned had got into trouble,
and Brough was the light, low-comedy young
man. The piece, with all its faults, was worth
doing well. It is one of the few melodramas in
which the heroine “loses her character ” in the
first act and comes up smiling at the finish.
The Selection Committee seem to be going
the right way to send the best Eleven to England.
Prompted by D.C.L. Whisky, ability always goes
the right way about everything. What would
happen in great crises without the inspiring
influence of D.C.L. is too dreadful to con-
template. D.C.L. is the Good Spirit of Great
Achievement.*
The other sorts of Melbourne show—
The comedies and dramas—
Are born to die ; they come and go
Like moving panoramas,
Or Rickards’ “turns.” But all the time
The city swears by pantomime.
Her Majesty’s has “Jack and Jill,”
A pair of full-grown nippers ;
The Royal “Cinderella” still
Is running in her slippers ;
The glow of health is on their cheeks,
For they’ve been running many weeks.
To be exact, this is the eighth week of the
pantomimes ; and neither of them threatens to
leave the track. The pantos, are pacing one
another, without any apparent idea as to when
either of them will ring the bell for the final lap.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Philip Newbury, making his re-appearance
in Melbourne after a lapse of long years found a
fairlv large audience waiting for him at the I own
Hall on Saturday. It was always a pleasure to
hear the mighty-chested Philip humor his big
voice and to sav that he now sings as well as ever
is not to sacrifice truth on the altar of Respect.
The voice seems a trifle harder—more metallic
and less sugary—and the mezzo singing has a
stronger suggestion of falsetto in it, but the art ot
the vocalist strikes one even more forcibly than of
vore. Although handicapped by the echoing
empty spaces in the Town Hall and the poor
piano accompaniment, the accomplished . ballad
tenor-robusto was very effective in his solo
numbers, which ranged from the “Che Gelida
Manina,” of “La Boheme,” to “Annie Laurie.”
In the duets, he was partnered with Miss Rosina
Buckmann, whose confidence is greater than her
warble. For the rest of the concert there were a
pianiste and a violiniste, and they played respect-
ively and jointly with about as much skill as one
'expects from the star-performers of a suburban
musical family.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the latest
comers are Fred Graham and Miss Nellie Dent,
in a comedy sketch—“ The Power of The Idol.”
The Idol imparts to Graham and Dent the power
to realise a limited number of wishes, but they
make such an awful mess of the privilege that
they finally wish to be as they were before they
started wishing. A similar plot, with the same
moral, was embodied in a nursery tale which pro-
bably dates back to Ancient Egypt. The five
St. Leons have added accuracy to the activity of
their acrobatics since they
took the floor a fortnight
ago; the Latonas are
repeating themselves,
whereas Rickaby has
weakened, his
“ turn” ; and J. W.
Winton works his
dummies forall that
ventriloquism is
worth. The
number of
ventriloquists
who were less
entertaining
than Winton
may be
stretched to
the limits of
a long recol-
lection. The
bright and
harmless turn
of Yeothe and
Captain Grade
retains its air of
novelty, and a
“ short farewell
season” of Miss
TOM PAINE (“Cinderella.”
Melbourne Royal)—he has not
yet reached the age of reason.
Amber Austa is accepted without protest. • Miss
Austa’s serio-chronic equipment consists mainly
of a spangled skirt with a stiffened circum-
ference, but the mere glitter of that garment goes
for a good deal.
** * *
An atmosphere of tombs and mummy-
wrappings lingers about “ The Girl Without a
Character,” staged at Melbourne Bijou on Satur-
day. Assumed to be a farcical comedy, it may,
perhaps, force a little queer laughter, like the
vision of a five-legged megatherium, but it excites
in the reasoning observer a feeling chiefly of per-
fect indifference. Nearly every character is
singularly simple and every-day, though one;
represented as a weird harridan of outr'e angu-
larity and cast of countenance, is productive of
vague terrors. Flat and forbidding like the wall
of a chasm, and doubtless looking de Irop in a low-
eeilinged apartment, she is the grim, joy-
devouring mother-in-law of the usual giddy
benedict. Pictured by John Cosgrove, with
some rotundity and with a voice like the booming
of surf, this giddy gentleman befriends “The
Girl Without a Character ” in the semi-paternal
fashion of a very “ sad dog,” and spends most of
three acts of weariness in explaining the girl’s
presence on the premises. As for the girl, she
seems the archetype of the stage “ tart”—a rather
common young person, gifted with unflagging
assurance and a fondness for alcohol and
cheap cigarettes. Mainly she makes play
with a wealth of saddening raillery, and
receives much facetious assistance from a
bleating sprig of the stock of Yere de Vere,
equipped with a monocle, a thirst, and about four
Willie-boy ejaculations. The entertainment is
merely a curiosity—in reality, a concoction of
alleged farce, vocal bits of the ’Ome Sweet ’Ome
type, some cinematographic pictures, and a reci-
tation by John Cosgrove.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia, where West has
established a mint, “The Red Hand,” with its
bits of the Parisian underworld, is still scudding
across the screen. Co-scudders on Saturday were
“Vaccination Against Injuries,” “Scenes in
Egypt,” “How London Gets Its Milk,” and
“ The Smuggler’s Daughter ” —this last depicting
a pretty love story, wherein the hero, a cherubic
exciseman, is seen receiving a donation of
canoodle, what time the lady’s irate parent spots
the offertory from a cliff.
*• * * *
J. and N. Tait at Melbourne Glaciarium are
displaying, in “ A Fisherman’s Betrothed ” and
“The Guerilla,” phases of that acute period of
self-hypnotising wherein a young man’s mind has
room for nothing but liis donah. In both
of these pictures this rather fashionable mono-
mania is distinctly suggested, since both
heroes (of irreproachable character and in-
tentions, by the way) pass through much
physical, and perhaps mental, suffering to
rescue their sweethearts from the clutches of
nefarious libertines. The downfall of those liber-
tines and the happy reunions in the last act are
much to this paper’s taste, and it hopes that the
subsequent history of the couples is partly em-
bodied in §ome register of births and marriages—
or, rather, some register of marriages and births.
*■ sfc * *
Adelaide Royal has re'-opened with “ Jim
the Penman,” one of the best drawing-room
dramas of recent times. Specially fine is that
quiet scene, almost without action, in which the
wife and her old lover talk at cross-purposes, and
gradually get round to the fatal truth. The play
brings back memories of St. Maur and Agnes
Thomas, Maltby and Christie Murray and Frank
Cates. It gets good treatment now at
the hands of Harcourt Beatty and Miss
Mclntosh and a strong company. Olym-
pia has turned away its Girl-from-Arles
drama (biograph, Parisian actors) for G. R. Sims’
inelo., “Lady Letmere’s Jewels.” The faithful
film gives all the action without any of the talk.
The military and the ambulance crowds have con-
tinued to give a moonlight demonstration on the
Oval, representing the taking of a Himalaya
fortress, with bandaging thrown in. At the
Tivoli, Mr. Rickards, after thoughtfully giving
Burns three days’ start for the West, has intro-
duced Johnson to the Adelaide public, which is
learning more than it ever knew before about the
art of Stoush. By the way, how much more of
that commodity English supporters demand for
their money than do Australian ! The films of the
savage Burns-Moir contest show that.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged ..£l6O 4 1
Anon, (pen-name mislaid —received
February 4) .. .. .. 5 0
“ Lone Hand ” Camp (W. A.) .. 2 0 0
“Isolated” .. .. .. ..150
£163 14 1
The list will close on the 16th inst.
The Yankee can still perform some feats of slick-
ness. Wireless telegraphy demonstrated its
worth as a life-saver at sea in the Republic-
Florida collision, when ethergrams from the
stricken liner enabled rescue steamers to arrive
and take off hundreds of passengers and crew be-
fore she foundered, and straightway Congress
hurried through a*' bill compelling all ocean-
going vessels to install “ wireless.” Also,
France is projecting a similar measure
for all boats over a certain tonnage. Now
Australia gets more than a hint from the
wreck of the Clan Ranald to do the same thing.
For seven and a half hours that ship was drifting
about the Gulf of St. Vincent in trouble. “ Wire-
less ” notification to Adelaide or the Port would
have brought assistance within three hours, and
then the worst that was at all likely to happen
was the loss of the vessel and cargo ; and even that
might have been averted. The Fat party has
raged hitherto about Australia's alleged want of
consideration for the drowning sailor. Under those
circumstances the Fat party may surely be relied
upon to put no obstacle in the way when the
Fisher Government proceeds to show its con-
sideration both for the sailor and for the passenger
by insisting upon “wireless” installations on boats
of more than a certain tonnage that plough around
these coasts.
Dentist Carter, of Mittagong (N.S.W.), has
been handed a richly-deserved sentence of seven
years’ hard labor at the Goulburn Quarter Sessions.
Being aweary of his wife, he decided to convict
her of the offence which has hitherto come within
the jurisdiction of Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson. The
fact that the lady was perfectly virtuous didn’t
worry hi mat all. In Carter’s em ploy was one Alfred
Ernest Stacey. He told Stacey of his project,
and Stacey sympathised warmly. A confederate
was imported from Sydney to the Carter home at
Mittagong. Following the best traditions of
French farce, Carter then made believe to leave
the district. On a given night he re-
turned to his home, taking with him Stacey
and the confederate. The latter was ushered
into the bedroom of the sleeping Mrs. Carter,
where he undressed. Then, with a well-simu-
lated howl of jealous fury, Carter proceeded to
kick down the door of his wife’s apartment (a
work of supererogation, since he held the key of the
room in his hand at the time), and, followed by
Stacey, to dash in and confront her with the un-
clothed form of Dale. It all went magnificently.
The astounded Mrs. Carter woke to find a
stranger cowering with affected horror before the
levelled revolver of Carter, while, in the back-
ground, Stacey stood muttering conventional
expressions of shocked morality. All would
have been well from the Carter viewpoint, and
Mrs. Carter would now be a discredited outcast,
had not Stacey weakened on his infamy. When
faced with the job of going into the box and
swearing to Mrs. Carter’s guilt, he grew cold.
Solicitor Arthur Deery, who had Carter’s case in
hand, grew suspicious. He propounded a few
probing questions to Stacey, and then that miser-
able specimen of humanity “broke down” as
hopelessly as any hanging Judge. Solicitor
Deery drove him forth with disgust, and from
that moment Dentist Carter’s cake was dough.
And now the world has been rid of him, at least,
for seven years or so.
The Cold Tea-ites pf Williamstown (Vic.)
carefully picketed the local pubs one recent Sun-
day, the pickets being armed with cameras, with
intent to snapshot all thirsty sinners who might
enter the forbidden places where the cool, frothy
beer gurgles. They had the advantage of the
Broken Hill pickets insofar as they had law-’n’-
order on their side, sundry constables being also on
duty ; and their idea was that, having made a
great haul, they would provide backing in black-
and-white to the police evidence next day. But
the pitfalls of the righteous are many, and Cold
Tea realised the-fact when the day’s “catch”
panned out at seven bona-fide travellers, six
boarders, two barmen, and a small youth sent as
a decoy, whom Bung ejected in disorder. And,
alas ! as Cold Tea plodded home in the moon-
light, and bumped against numerous mellow roy-
sterers, it sadly realised that it had been “had ”
as usual, and that its plans and specifications
hadn’t worked out as intended, somehow.
“ A.M.” sums up the tar of the hour :
Strange is the type into which the deep-water sailor-
man has evolved of late years. Consider him as he
lounges in scores about Sydney shipping office, and look
in vain for the bronzed and bearded mariner of 50 years
ago —for him of the rolling gait, the reckless eye and the
deep, rumbling, saltwater voice. The roll has become a
shamble ; the rumble, a mumble; the beard has
disappeared in favor of a scrubby and unbeautiful
moustache; the clothes are longshore togs of the
slop variety, and the head is never surmounted by
anything but a greasy cloth cap. Nothing now about
Jack of the remote suggestions of the seas —the aloofness
of great waters. Aloof enough he is, certainly, in one
sense, for he mostly looks as if he had just stolen
eighteenpence from a blind man’s hat. But, for the rest,
he is an ugly and sordid figure, as empty of all picturesque
and romantic associations as he is full of a mechanical and
unemotional profanity.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Star” : John Bryan, the veteran actor, who died in
Austin Hospital (Melb.) the other day, was known only for
his performance as the cabman in “ The Silver King,” and
was content to be known by it. He considered that a
marvellous effort, fit to rank with the most noteworthy
impersonation of our time. “ Few act-ors have done any-
thing to be remembered, me bo-oy, and only one could
hand a cabman down to posterity. His name is Bryan,
me bo-oy—John Bryan.” He said this with a grandair of
conviction. Really, Johnnie had that cabman on the
brain, and lately, when someone gave him a chance in a
small part, it was found he simply could not shake off the
cabbie, but inadvertently wedged in scraps of “The
Silver King,” with astonishing results. “ Couldn’t some-
one run in and say, ‘ Hi, mister, yer ’oss has fallen ! ’ so
that I could reply, ‘ Why, yeh young warmint, yeh must
V bin pushih’ him ’? ” asked Bryan plaintively. But the
part was that of a blind old clergyman, so Johnnie had to
give way to a mere nobody.
“ Stargazer I see that Mr. Julius Knight declares bis
objection to applause during a performance, because it is
inartistic. Admitting that there is really something
artistic in the plays and performances with which
Mr. J. Knight has been associated in Australia, I
am wondering if he considers the blare of orches-
tral music with which his appearance in a scene
is heralded an artistic feature. A subdued orchestra,
modestly handled, and without any particular enthusiasm
for the star, lends a necessary atmosphere and helps the
illusions of a dramatic performance ; but the scurrying of
the fiddles and the squealing of the brasses to add vim to
J. Knight’s heroic excursions and alarums are sheer bar-
barisms. The frantic pursuit of the limelight on the heels
of the ramping hero is another artistic outrage which
Julius must suspend permanently, if he wants his fine
sensibilities to be taken seriously.
“Snell”: I have discovered the source from which
George Reid, Jack Forrest, Waddell, and the rest of the
borrow-borrow-borrow gang take their notions of finance.
They have been studying Lady Orred in “ The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray,” particularly at that point where she
explains her drunken husband’s weakness for smashing
old china. “Excuse me, but perhaps George cannot
afford it,” remarks Mrs. Tanqueray ; and Lady Orred
replies in hurt tones : “ Paula, how strange you are this
morning! Dodo can always mortgage something, or
borrow from his Aunt.” I hear Forrest, the Orn d finan-
cier : “Australia can always mortgage something, or
borrow from the dear old mother country ! ”
The “Cinderella” panto, at Melbourne Royal is the
one that Robert Courtneidge first produced in Manchester
ten years ago. He and A. M. Thompson (his collaborator
with “ The Dairymaids ” and “ Tom Jones ”) adapted it
from the older and more extravagant panto, versions of
the fairy tale. It has been played in about a dozen of the
principal English provincial towns, and this Christmas it
was staged by Courtneidge and George Edwardes at the
London Adelphi. Some of the scenic effects in the Adelphi
production are new, but the characters and arrangement
of the action are much about the same as in the Meynell
and Gunn panto. Cinderella’s sisters are not ugly
shemale low comedians, nor is the Prince’s valet a
prancing buffoon. These three are played on “ straight ”
lines, like the name part, and even the farcical characters
have a musical comedy temperament. One of the spite-
ful sisters of Cinderella at the Adelphi is Marie Rignold,
who came to Australia with Van Biene and appeared as
the high-toned villainess in his unique ’cellodrama.
Beauteous Phyllis Dare, the much-photographed girleen,
is Cinderella; Carrie Moore is her principal boy, the
Prince ; and Maud Thornton, formerly of Melbourne and
Sydney, acts as Carrie’s equerry. “ Australian ex-
perience ” seems to be a recommendation for a billet in
Courtneidge’s company.
“ Noah ” : Some correspondent (B. 21/l/’O9) wants the
mystery cleared up about the two Charles Youngs.
Coppin brought over from Launceston to Melbourne, in
1845, as members of his company, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Young. Mrs. Young was only about 18 years old,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomson, also members of the
company. Her sister was Mrs. C. Jones, who became a
rival to Mrs. Guerin, Nellie Stewart’s mother, as a Sydney
favorite. Young’s sister was Fanny Young. Mr. and
Mrs. C. Young went to England in 1856. They were
divorced there. Young returned to Australia. Mrs.
Young married Hermann Vezin. Now comes in Sir
Charles Young, the dramatist, author of “ Jim the Pen-
man.” It was remarked as curious that Mrs. Yezin was
more successful than any other actress in various plays
hv Sir C. Young’. The best of these, long a sheet-anchor
with Mrs. Yezin, was one called “Miss Chester.” By the
time Sir C. Young wrote “ Jim the Penman ” Mrs. Vezin
was too old to play the heroine, which part was taken bj
Lady Monckton. Sir Charles Young must not be con-
founded either with the Rev. Charles Mayne Young, son
of Charles Young, a great tragedian with Kemble, Nor
must any of these Youngs be confounded with the
brothers Richard Younge and Fred Younge.
“ Harrison O.” : The great Coquelin’s death came just
when English and Continental papers were announcing
the production in Paris, in March next, Of “ Chantecler,
a new play by Edmond Rostand (author of “Cyrano
de Bergerac ”), with Coquelin in the chief part. In it
there are 100 characters— all animals. The beast which
stands oftenest in the limelight is the cock, the part for
which Coquelin himself was cast. Coquelin was brought
up as a dough-puncher, but developed into a fine
“ literary ” actor.
Melbourne has found another Milo. The new undress
artist, who is billed as Marguerite Von Something (other-
wise “ the Golden Venus”), and is alleged to hail from
Vienna, is now showing her shape at a side-show. A base
slander that Marguerite, etc., is Sanscrit for Maggie Mul-
ligan, and that Vienna is a suburb of Footscray, is indig-
nantly denied by the management. The new-comer can-
not boast the massive proportions of La Montague, but
has the pleasing advantage of wearing less cover-
ing, facing the fierce limelight in a tissue of
gold leaf. The poses are mostly Venus, but, con-
sidered as representations of statuary they leave
a lot to the imagination. The Von Mulligan will have to
hold herself together better before she can hope to rival
the statuesque Milo. On the first night she swayed like
a Bent politician. Also, her sense of humor is a little too
evident. Venus of Padua greeted the baldheads with a
winning smile ; the smile had grown to a grin when
Venus of Arles arrived ; the Vatican Venus giggled ; and
finally, Venus de Medici disrupted in a laugh that allowed
the audience to see more than it had paid for.
“Trotter”: Societies which have no parallel in Aus-
tralia are the Sunday night theatrical debating clubs of
London. Here the shows of the day are criticised. There
are four of these institutions. (1) The Playgoers’ Club,
whose headquarters are in Clement’s Inn, Strand, and
whose members sometimes debate in a private room at
the Hotel Cecil Restaurant or Gaiety Restaurant. (2) The
O.P. Club, which foregathers in Bedford Chambers,
Covent Garden, and debates o’ Sundays in the Criterion
Restaurant. (3) The Gallery First Nighters’ Club, which
assembles in the Bedford Hotel, Garden Lane. Its annual
dinner at Frascati’s is an event of the season. And (4) the
Dramatic Debaters’ Society, which dines annually at
Frascati’s. The time-honored General Debating Club,
known as the Ancient Society of Cogers, meets at the
Barleymow, Salisbury Court, Fleet Street, every Satur-
day night. It was founded 1755 and has been discussing
the events, theatrical, social and political, of the current
week ever since.
The Stage Society (London), which goes in for produc-
ing “ unpleasant ” and “ questionable ” plays, has just
ventured on one by St. John Hankin, entitled “ The Last
of the De Mullins,” which is slightly “warmer” than
G. B. Pshaw’s “ Getting Married.” Miss De Mullins is a
young lady of 27 who yearns for an infant, but not for a
husband. While she badly wants a child (she finds a
Teddy Bear but a poor substitute), she cannot bear the
thought of living in the same house with a clumsy brute
of a man. Moreover she has imbibed Wells and Shaw in
large quantities, and has “ views” of her own —or rather
their own—concerning old-fashioned things like marriage.
She, therefore, annexes one Monty Bulstead (aged 20);
and after Miss De Mullins has become a mother, he goes
off to some war or other. The Young Lady with Ad-
vanced Ideas is disowned by her family, and starts a
fashionable milliner’s shop in London, representing her-
self as a widow whose husband was drowned at sea, and
whom, with delicious humor, she refers to as Mr. Sea-
grave. After an interval of eight years, all the characters
meet again in the heroine’s paternal home, where she has
re-established herself. Her mother suggests that all may
yet be “ put right ”by marriage. But Miss De Mullins
laughs this antiquated custom to scorn ; snubs her sister
who “ has never known the feel of a man’s arms around her
and his kisses on her lips ” ; treats her father to a charac-
teristically Shawian sermon, and, finally, turns upon
Monty and informs him that he is a person of no import-
ance, and that “ the child is all that matters.”
The Meynell and Gunn firm has the Australian rights
in “ Tom Jones,” a musical comedy that scored a notable
success in London two years ago. The music in “Jones”
is said to be good stuff, and the story has Fielding’s
characters and plot, but, like “ The Duchess of Dantzic,”
it needs a thoroughly artistic interpretation to make it
brightly interesting. The virtue of most musical plays is
in the fact that the music is easy and tuneful, and the
characters can go as they please.
“E.D.”: West’s bioscopic melodrama, “The Red
Hand,” is easily the best of its type to date, and shows
the way the bio is drifting. The tinned drama is inevit-
able, and must give the old-time theatre a dizzying knock
on the point; and since the Frenchmen are easily the best
pantomimists in the world, Paris will, in all probability,
run all the great canning factories, to the vast detriment of
English-speaking pros. The eloquence of gesture and
facial expression is so vivid in this “ Red Hand” film that
he who runs may read. The bio speaks all tongues, and
presently the great machine actor may go down to a
wider posterity than any other artist can hope for.
“ S.S.” : They are showing a new milk-can trick at Mel-
bourne Gaiety, and the place is rushed by dairymen and
milk-vendors. The Government inspectors have tumbled
to all the old tricks.
The fierce complaint of a tall ac-tor, whose resounding
voice had secured him a steady billet as spruicher at a
living picture mill. He was speaking to a brother pro.,
in broken boots, leaning dejectedly on a lamp-post:
“ You envy me, and you pretend to be an artist! I tell
you, me dear fellow, it’s a beastly grip—beastly ! Why,
dem it all, man, I stand there in the dark all the dashed
night, while a confounded lot of pictures are literally
soaking in limelight. You—you positively can’t realise
the temptation to step out into that refulgence ; but if a
man didn’t repress his natural instincts, what would
happen ? They’d sack him, my boy—sack him without a
moment’s notice. It’s awful.”
The wig-wearers who gathered to farewell
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley were a varied lot at
the top end. The horsehair was not from one
horse by any means, and some of it was badly
cured, curled and cared for. If the foolish habit
of putting on such gear is to be continued, a court
wig-tester should be attached to the judicial staff.
Mr. Brief should not be let into the premises
without inspection, and indeed it might be neces-
sary for the Board of Health to issue certificates
in order to give confidence to clients and the
public generally. Barristers’ wigs may be dis-
seminators of many malignant diseases, and
though some place mothballs in them when their
heads aren’t there, others don’t. At the very
least every barrister wearing a horsehair con-
trivance should pin a label to one of the waggles
stating when the thing was last purified. For all
we know, many a man may have been snatched
from the gallows only to die through being de-
fended by a counsel with an insanitary wig.
The two great objects of Democracy are the
abolition of poverty and the elimination of disease.
With the former great progress has been made. The
elimination of disease is a more intricate matter.
Scattered around outlying districts in Australia and
Maoriland are thousands of families who have not the
advantage of having a medical man to consult when the
health is found to be impaired. In regard to disease,
prevention is infinitely better than cure, and a
very little study of good medical literature enables
the average man or woman of intelligence to do
much in the way of prevention, besides getting
some idea of what to do in cases of emergency when the
doctor may be 20, 30, or 60 miles away. To alleviate
suffering, and enable people to deal with the minor ills
of life, and recognise when the time for summoning a
doctor has really arrived, The Bulletin proprietary is
issuing at a reduced rate the Australian Household Medi-
cal Library. This library consists of The Illustrated
Australian Medical Guide (2 vols.—usual price £3 35.),
The Attainment of Health and the Treatment of Dif-
ferent Diseases by Means of Diet (usual price 10s. 6d.),
and The Feeding and Management of Australian In-
fants (usual price 2s. Gd.), by that eminent Australian
practitioner, Dr. P. B. Muskett. The w r hole of these
books will be posted post free from The Bulletin Office
on receipt of post office order for £3.*
THE ABSTRACTED GHOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Theatre Royal, Christchurch (M.L.), thieves car-
ried off £320 belonging- to Mr. Bland Holt, and intended
for the payment of salaries. —Daily paper.
No ghost will walk to-night,
My painted friend !
No villain of limelight
Whom we can rend
Hath done this curs6d deed!
Yet, tho’l am in need,
I will not send
For Jones who in Act 111.,
Before the end,
Upholds the Right and ME
(Whom God defend !).
No ghost will glide this eve,
I grieve to say ;
No minion saw it leave,
It w'ent to-day,
Led by some villain hand.
(I cannot understand
This real way,
But I’d not worry so—
I would be gay—
If he were but my foe
And in the play !)
Then would I rest content
In joyous Jones,
Who, when I’m ill and spent,
For all atones
By giving Vice no rest
And strangling by his vest
•(Which breaks no bones)—
I say I would not mind
(Excuse these groans !)
If he were of that kind,
And I had Jones.
Act 111. would see him crash
Upon the floor
The Cigarette, its Ash
To flick no more,
While Jones in dreadful clothes.
His finger on his nose,
In a mad roar,
Announced, without remorse,
The awful Law
Must do its worst. (Of course
That means red gore.)
But neither Jones nor I
Are worldly clay ;
As clear as yonder sky
Our plots alway ;
The villain in the cast
Is baffled at the last,
But in broad day
The villain from the gods
Who cheered our pla.v
Robs us like common clods —
We are his prey.
N.s.w.
AN TOO SOON.


HEN’S HATS SHOW BIG REDUCTIONS.
During our Sale all goods, except a few proprietary lines, are reduced. Our Men’s Wear is
now offered at prices much below the ordinary.
fdg
Take Hats as an example :
Special Line of Black Hard Felt Hate, all fur
English manufacture, lined or unlined.
Usual Price, 10/6. Reduced to 6/9.
PANAMA REDUCTIONS.
Big reductions in genuine South American Panamas
'older shape, with medium brims. We are over-stocked
with these goods, hence the big reductions.
u .. _ , Usual Price, Reduced to
Hative Panamas, brims 2Jin.
to 3£in. wide
15/6
21/-
25/-
30/-
12/6
17/6
21/-
25/-
SOFT FELTS.
A large collection of Soft Felt Hats, new shapes, with bound or unbound brims in Green Lurht Grev
and Beaver shades, in well-known makes—Glyn, Christy, and Woodrow etc ’ ’ Urey
Usual Price, 14/6. ’ Keduced to 12/9
Sent carnage paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD., SYDNEY.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY. pp“ Noted for Quality, Value and Reliability.
Solid 15ct. Gold Circle
Brooch, handsomely set
with real Turquoises and
Pearls, £3.
Watch and Jewellery
Repairs at Moderate
Prices.
15ct. Gold Music Brooch, pearl
set, 40s. ; 9ct. Gold, 20s.
Solid 9ct. Gold Watch and Bangle, strong, serviceable,
and good timekeeper. Warranted Five Years.
Price, £5 ss.
Catalogues Free upon Application.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE DEPRESSION IN TRADE.
1ST ANARCHIST: “How is business?”
2ND DITTO (gloomily): “Bad! Only had one
miserable duke through my hands since that
little affair with the King of Portugal.”
A new legal quibble under the blessed
N.S.W. Liquor Act is to be decided with much
Costs by various Courts of Law. The Act
says that no female under 21 must serve in a
bar, unless she is the daughter of the licenses.
The Act further states that no person under 17
must be in a bar at all. Lately the bobby force
of a country town found the son of a local bung in
the bar. Mr. Public-house’s lawyer argues that
as Parliament expressly allows a young girl, she
being the daughter of the licensee, to frequent
the beer engine, it certainly intended that the old
man’s son could likewise assemble there. The
police reply that Parliament didn’t say so, no
matter what it may have intended to say, and
there is to be a great legal struggle to decide
whether Mr. Public-house’s 16-year old son has
the same rights as his 16-year old daughter.
The Vic. police and detectives are putting
in a strenuous time picking up clues and mislay-
ing them. Besides inquiring about some eight or
ten lost youths, the force is casting an investigat-
ing eye on the myterv of Farmer Brown and his
wife. Charles Brown reached Drouin, in Gipps-
land, on Sept. 2 last, with a chestnut mare, a good
dray, a set of new harness, and considerable
household goods, which he deposited on a farm that
was to let, and for which farm he paid a month’s
rent in advance. A few days afterwards a woman,
presumably Mrs. Brown, came and stayed for a
week, and then departed, and hasn’t been heard
of since. On Sept. 26 Brown walked out of the
farm and the district, carrying a swag, but leav-
ing behind the horse and cart and furniture
—-and he hasn’t been heard of since either.
Somebody has suggested that it is Mr. and Mrs.
Brown whose bodies were found down the Morn-
ing Star shaft at Rushworth, but the problem of
connecting a missing couple with two unidentifi-
able corpses is far beyond the capacity of men who
failed to get on the track of the murderer of
diamond-dealer Bauer, even when brought hot foot
on the scene. As for the Rushworth tragedy, now
that the shaft has been emptied after two months’
baling, a second head has been found among the
slush ; but it is so battered and decayed that even
the sex of the person it used to belong to is un-
certain. The Rushworth exhibits now comprise
two “ remains,” one male and the other doubtful,
several shirts, sundry damaged articles of cloth-
ing, four silver coins and a few etceteras—also a
quantity of hopeless theories.
■**••*■*
Sydney’s City Council has on its hands a
very pretty kettle of fish. With a teeming fish
supply, a horde of fishermen, and a big and hun-
gry public, the people of Sydney cannot procure
good and cheap fish in plenty; and a recent
inquiry into the problem seemed to show the
Council that the fault lay with the Private Enter-
prise middleman, the agent. The Council there-
fore decided to instal a municipal fish-seller at
the Woolloomooloo fish market. He would sell
anyone’s fish by public auction or other-
wise at a fixed and modest commission. The
agents immediately recognised that this bit of
practical Socialism was so unhealthy to their in-
terests that it would have to be nipped in the
bud ; so they organised a strike, vacated the
Council’s fish market, and started to sell fish in
private premises in Redfern. The Council has
now set out to fight these agents. But the agents
at the start have a big advantage. The only fish
going to Woolloomooloo is that caught near to
Sydney by the local fisherman. The means of
transporting the fish from the outports where the
big catches are made, along with the ice boxes,
the carts, etc., are all owned by the agents. Fur-
ther, many of the fishermen have pawned them-
selves to the middlemen, and cannot get off the
hook. The sales of fish by the Council representa-
tive have, however, mightily pleased the few
fishermen fortunate enough to' be able to benefit
by them. Everything is open, there is no keeping
back the best fish for big customers at fixed con-
tract rates, and there is no combination to
keep down the price. The buyers are
also pleased because all the fish available is
displayed for sale, and there is no chance
of the market being “ rigged ” against them by
the agents’ combine. So pleased, in fact, are they
that they want the City Council to go the entire
hog, and superintend the whole business from the
time the fish chews the bait until the lydy buys it
at the door. Town-clerk Nesbitt is keen on un-
dertaking the job, but the city aldermen, uncer-
tain how the ratepaying electors will jump, are
trimming on the question.
Percy Hunter, N.S. W. Advertiser-General,
has found a new cave at Jenolan—at least, some-
body else found it, but the State’s stipendiary
barracker turns the limelight on it and makes it
visible. According to Hunter’s present judgment,
the new cave is the greatest even of the Jenolan
system, and its discovery seems to have been a
graceful compliment to the Advertiser-General on
his recent return from round the world.
• * * *
The crematorium at Spring Yale (Vic.)
cemetery will get its third or fourth job in a few
weeks’ time, when the remains of a very dead
man will be condensed and put in a tidy parcel
for shipment to England. The deceased became
so some 14 years ago, in Brisbane, and was duly
buried there ; but it appears that his relatives in
the Foggy Country—he was a new-chum—desire
some memento of his person, or want to be cer-
tain he is thoroughly and completely dead, so
what is left of him is to be exhumed and brought
round the coast to Melbourne, where a relative,
now on his way out, will take charge of the ashes.
Then it is to be presumed they will adorn the
family mantelshelf in a porcelain urn, and visitors
will be impressed with the trouble and expense
incurred in rescuing “ our poor, dear uncle from
that dreadful country, inhabited by savages and
Socialists.” They are a quaint people, some of
these English, and have a curious idea about
giving peace to their dearest friends’ ashes.
* * * *
The comic-relief man had his little innings
in the Broken Hill melodrama last week, when
the Labor paper found itself picketed by its news
runners. Broken Hill has two daily papers; a
third, the Flame, which eomes out
when it can, holds aloft “ the torch
of the revolution.” One of the
dailies, established a few months
ago, is owned by the unions, and
can’t find enough adjectives to
blister the mine-owners and the
police with. Unfortunately for
its peace of mind, it whooped
joyfully that its success was being
something conspicuous; it was, it
said, making profits even in these
bad times at the rate of a hundred
or two a month. At the mention
of that word “profits” the news-
runners promptly sat down on the
dusty kerbstone and collogued.
“Making a profit,” they said—
“out of our flesh and blood!”
Then, having looked in at the
other daily paper—the “capitalis-
tic ” one—they got another tup-
pence a dozen knocked off the
wholesale price of the papers there;
and with that cheerful victory
buzzing in their little heads, they
marched on to the Labor office, and
wanted some of those profits that it
had owned up to —wasn’t the
laborer entitled to the full fruits of
his industry? Then the Labor
paper went inside to consider the
bird that had come home to roost
on its own doorstep, so to speak;
and as the Labor paper took longer
to consider the matter than seemed
necessary, the youngsters posted
their pickets, and raised Cain,
and bought stale eggs and bombarded the
office till the latter was driven to ring up
the police, just like any ordinary body would.
A news-runners’ strike somehow always is a
popular entertainment while it lasts, the young-
sters are so desperately serious ; but it is simply
impossible for the man behind the counter, with
his news getting cold and insipid, to take in the
humorous side of the situation.
At last week’s meeting
Of the Bank of Victoria a
reverend shareholder re-intro-
duced the old, unpleasant de-
mand for a living wage for
the clerks and clerklings.
Strange to say, Fatman was
somewhat divided against
himself on this capital v.
labor question. When the
disturbing parson referred to
the “discontent among mem-
bers of the staff with regard
to salaries,” Chairman Ed-
ward Miller, M.L.C., said
“he knew that all bank
officers were underpaid, but
salaries were as high as
bankscould give.” Sodanger-
ous an admission couldn’t be
allowed to pass unchallenged
by Fatman in general; so
Henry Butler, speaking as a
large employer of labor, sug-
gested that the chairman
couldn’t have meant what
he said. Butler begged to
explain that bank clerks
merely “ thought ” they
were underpaid. As a result,
no doubt, of their luxqrious
life, they suffered from ab-
surd delusions, and merely
imagined that their bloated
salaries didn’t suffice to keep
afamily as well as pay for
their own collars and cuffs.
Henry Butler didn’t, how-
ever, mention the worst de-
lusion that some of these
poor hypochondriacs suffer
from : they even think that
hard working men like Henry
Butler are overpaid for their services, both to the
bank and toother concerns. But, thank Heaven,
some of us can see things clearly. There’s Henry
Butler himself, for instance: he knows that his
income is but a poor recompense for his toil.
***''*
The case of Miles Flynn, which has made
many people in S.A. uneasy for some years past,
must now be regarded as settled. Lawson, who
was admittedly guilty of highway daylight
robbery, maintained (after conviction) that the
man with him was not Flynn, but a certain miss-
ing Sparks ; also there was a very fair alibi. A
quiet agitation at last resulted in a Commission,
which has heard everything either side had to say ;
and the three K.C.’s who constituted it now
report that they see no reason for disturbing the
verdict which the other 12 men gave.
* * * *
The Law in Melbourne lately discovered
five thirsty persons consuming tanglefoot in a pub
at an hour when they should have been sleeping
off the effects, so to speak. Thereupon it made a
new departure and fined the licensee the cus-
tomary fiver, the customers the usual £1 apiece,
and the harmless, necessary barmaid £1 also.
Florence and Kitty promise to become a vanishing
quantity in South Aus.; and now that the Vic.
law threatens to collar a good deal of their wages,
they begin to wear a harassed look, and to wonder
how long it will be in that State before they’ll
have to toil at something more “respectable”
but less payable.
CONSOLING.
INVALID: “Do you think you can cure me,
doctor!”
DOCTOR : “ Well, I ought to. I’ve had experience.
I've treated a patient with your complaint
for the last 20 years.”
SOME ADVICE FROM INDIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Frida^v.—The South African Federal Capital
scheme is based on the Caleutta-Simla precedent. It in-
eludes the adoption of the Indian Camp Office principle
y? Capetown, while the Federal Parliament is in session.—
(Jable.
When the sun beats down on Calcutta and the ice-packed
butter flows,
Then I take my Viceroy and Council and send them up
to the snows,
And the laws they make there are good ones, and plain to
every fool.
Because of the mountain breezes which are marvellous
sane and cool.
The heat-haze dazzles the coast lands and the sunrays
strike at the brain
Where the cities huddle together far out on the naked
plain,
But sanity dwells in the mountains where the snows lie
on the peaks
Like wigs on the heads of Judges. Aye ! ’tis there that a
wise Law speaks!
Arise and get out, Australia ! You wrangle and sweat
by the sea !
Climb up on your snow-clad ranges and make laws on the
hills, like me ;
I can hear Kosciusko calling, where a noble river flows ;
Get back from your humid coast-line and hurry away to
the snows.
I’m old, and wrinkled and ebon—l’m yellow, and mauve,
and brown,
I’m nothing but age and troubles in a gaudy old dressing-
gown ;
But the best of the tricks I’ve stolen from beneath Time’s
sunburnt nose
Is this: “ When in search of Wisdom, climb you up to
the cooling snows.”
N.S.W.
THE RIPPLER.
“ Milky White ” tells of what may happen
to a man who wants to get married in Victoria :
A Victorian bush schoolmistress holds the office of
Registrar for Births, Deaths and Marriages for her
district. Just before the Christmas holidays, a buiiy
Outback splitter known as Bill lobbed down on her with
a buxom lass of 12 or 13 stone.
“ We want yer ter hitch us up,” he said to the school-
miss.
“ What! Marry you ! I wouldn’t dream of such a
thing. I’ve never been asked to do it before ! ” exclaimed
that blushing maiden lady. »•
“ But yer got ter. You’re the register, ain’t yer? ”
“Yes—l—l—am the registrar,”'faltered the school-
mistress.
“ Well, git ter work. I’ve got the gonce ! ” He rattled
some coins.
The schoolmistress didn’t feel that way inclined, how-
ever. “ Oh, but I couldn’t really—really ! ” she exclaimed.
Then a brilliant thought hit her. “ Besides, you must
give me three days’ notice.”
The splitter was disappointed; so was his girl. ITe
gave the required notice. On the third day he turned up
again with his bride. The schoolmistress had sought the
aid of a parson.
“The Rev. Mr. will perform the ceremony for
you,” she said to the splitter.
“No ! by cripes ! No parson for me ! Wot’d I come
ter you for?”
The bride pleaded; but it was useless. Bill was com-
pletely off parson.
“ Come on,” he said to the schoolmistress; “ vev got
ter do it. It’s the law.”
“ But you’ve got no witnesses,” said the shy, unwilling
registrar.
Bill thought hard for a minute, then roped in the par-
son. “ I’ll stand him as a witness, Miss. Now, come on
and git goin’.”
Then the school-marm was overcome by a convenient,
but violent, fit of hysterics, and after a long wait Bill
was forced to depart—still unmarried. He said he
couldn t come back until Saturday, and when he arrived
again with his mass of girl, the teacher had fled away on
her holidays. She wouldn’t marry a man for worlds.
Bill pounded at her door and swore as no bridegroom
had ever been known to swear. Eventually a sympathetic
coachdriver drove him into the “big” township 15
miles away. Bill made statutory declaration that proper
notice had been given, and was promptly hitched up by
the registrar there. The bride caught the return coach
with an ostrich feather in her hat, and the honeymoon
was spent in a bark hut.
ME SIXPINNY
CIGAR
ite \>o£s saj Ir*j atoijg pea
flash as
Beeos. m/lj rq ijgj on n;e 1
I 7 toj/>7 a saterJee l^tT
A'walkiVwVre ffee^^lis^iUes
AV pretty ladies are
I puts aside n;e pipe
He c^ar!
hs''ttfei) I feels a box o' 'tricks
An a little
about" -Hje kncks,
TW shovel a?' "tfeT I7OJ
;
betiijJ ffee bar'.
A puffu? ' as I takes m drink
Tie 51*pen c^ar-'
An wWIn? tiurtj 00 Hje Jot
1 loves -is wake a splask
.Al 7 anjooi Itje Uoomi/njot
Wot-Sits teVwJ ttvT"cmJ;,
fiCrj me tut ferry Mjitfeir kgk^
A? we tlad l aslai%
111 -still wVle njoi^sfeal^,
n c J* r '
F.P.


The Truth Must Stand.
You know the proverb, “A lie has no
legs ” —it cannot stand when put to the test.
If the public try an article advertised to
possess certain merits and the advertised
merits are found to have “ not a leg to stand
upon,” that article cannot gain in the public
favour. Sunlight Soap has steadily gained
in- the public favour from the date of its
•‘ntroduction, and long ago it attained, and
’*t continues to maintain,, its pre-eminent
position amongst Soaps of having the largest
sale in the world.
MR. ARTHUR GRIFFITH, senior partner of the
late firm of GRIFFITH & ALLEN, Patent
Attorneys, of 163 King Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen
Street, Melbourne, announces that Mr.' T. C. Allen has
retired from the firm, and that his place has been filled
by Mr. CHARLES HATTON (Member Viet. Inst, of
Engineers), late Manager of the firm’s Melbourne Office.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
dfg
fdg
CORRECT DINNER STYLES!
Don’t forget that the time for Dinner Jackets will soon be
here, and that more than usual care should be given to
their selection.
We are acknowledged leaders in these goods, and have two
styles—one with the back seam and vent, the other plain back.
Both are of extra fine quality Dress Twill, Silk-faced
Collar, hand-padded shoulders and shape-retaining front, silk
sewing throughout, and the linings the best possible
obtainable.
Both styles are highly satisfactory in wear, and particu-
larly pleasing to discriminating dressers.
Coat and Vest, Centre Seam
and Vent, 63/-
Trousers, 18/6.
Coat only (Plain Back), 427-
Coat and Vest, 50/-
Trousers, 18/6.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Vic. Marine Board made half a desirable
innovation the other day when it ukased that in
future all applicants for masters’ and mates’ cer-
tificates must possess a “first aid” certificate.
That half of the job was well done ; but the other
half—the one providing that the shipowner shall
pay for the extra efficiency and additional scien-
tific knowledge demanded of his employee—was
unaccountably overlooked.
* * ' * *
Seemingly the uncommercial A.N.A.
management has killed the goose that laid the
golden Exhibition eggs. Many of the Melbourne
firms which helped to make the show attractive in
former years are not represented this time. The
absence of exhibits from other States is pretty
well compensated for by a number of depart-
mental stalls supplied by the Vic. Government;
but the stirring things in local manufacturing
business—the things that gave most of the life
and animation to former A.N.A. Exhibitions—
were conspicuously missing when this year’s egg
was hatched. Private Enterprise has tired of
making expensive efforts to draw the public.
Other exhibitions have grown out of the original
A.N.A. scheme, and these others have been more
enthusiastically managed and supported than
the parent show, which is now in danger
of getting cold-shouldered out of the running.
Even the important detail of a band—a noisy,
advertising band—was listened for in vain when
the A.N.A. started the celebration of its Nationa
FDte Day.
* * * *
The Young Australia Tour League, of
Westralia, has made arrangements for 40 boys of
the Columbia Park Boys’ Club, of ’Frisco, to
swap homes for a while with a like number of
youthful ’Gropers in May or June. The idea is
to give the Yankee children free board for a
pitinth, and show them the sights of the country-
including John Forrest, Newton Moore, the
State Debt, and the Golden Mile—and to be
similarly treated in return. Afterwards, other
parties are to swap homes with other youngsters
elsewhere, if other parties are agreeable. The
scheme will broaden the views of the partici-
pators, and probably teach them to appreciate
their own country better ; but, seeing that quite a
number of Australians know precious little about
Australia, it would be less expensive, and much
more advantageous, to arrange for the lads to
swap homes round the different States of the
Commonwealth. As a plan for encouraging the
Large Australian view, that scheme has numerous
points in its favor.
* * * *
The remarks of a chemist:—■
Those surgeons who are just now using and advocating
the use of stovaine, the new anaesthetic, applied by in-
jection into the spinal canal, seem to have overlooked the
possibility of the drug—a Japanese preparation of hem-
lock —proving hostile to the European constitution,
though it may suit the Asiatic. The instances where
it has caused partial or total paralysis of the lower limbs
are so numerous as to justify its prohibition, except when
the possible results of its application have been fully ex-
plained.
STILL HOPE.
BELLA (tartly): “I congratulate you, I'm sure,
on your bulky and valuable catch.”
LUCY (tartlier): “O there's hope for yourself!
I hear there are two whales in the bay.”
The small victim of a particularly horrible
mishap has been defying all medical experience
in Adelaide. He was aged only years, and he
wandered under the guard of a circular saw.
According to the Register it was “a terrible
wound down the centre of the face. From the
top of the forehead to the upper lip the saw had
made a jagged cut. The deepest part was above
the eyes, where the bone had been severed like
cardboard, and the nose was cut in halves.... The
brain tissue was protruding from the cut.” And
yet the kiddy’s sight was in no way injured ; the
face-wound healed fairly, and the sufferer took
quite a lively interest in things round him at the
hospital; also he lived on for three weeks before
giving up the unequal fight with protruding brain-
tissue.
WHERE DRESS IS SUPERFLUOUS.
MARY : “ They say her - husband allows her positively nothing to dress on.”
MAUD : “No wonder, the 'poor woman almost lives in the sea.”
O. R. Snowball, who leads the ivay in
Victoria in the somewhat futile pastime of Pope-
defying, discovered yet another instance of
Vatican guile last week. “Rome,” he told a
number of anguished co-religionists, “actually
dominates the Federal Parliament as to what
books peopleof the State should read.” “Do you
know,” he continued, “in the Gazette a notice
appeared forbidding the importation into Vic-
toria and Australia of ‘ Maria Monk ’! Rome
stepped in and got the Federal
Minister of Customs to put
in a notice forbidding the
, importation of this book,
as well as another, viz.,
j ‘ The Priest and the
j Confessional.’” “Maria
I Monk ” and “ The Priest
and the Confessional ”
I are pornographic works
which make a certain
j appeal to the callow
young citizen with a
prurient mind. They are
vended mostly with Paul
de Kock translations,
which go as near to the
! knuckle as the police will
| allow, and can mostly be
i found hidden away with
other works whose only
claim to the shilling or
eighteenpence of the
passer-by is the aroma
of impropriety which
surrounds them. At the
worst, the Pope wouldn’t
be doing any grave pub-
lic wrong in striving to
scotch these inartistically
unsavory volumes. How-
ever, as a fact, he had
nothing to do with the
matter. The prohibition
orders against Maria and
her clerical associate
were issued in 1904 by
G. Reid. He did the
act on his own, as it
were, and without pre-
viously consulting the
then Pope. The litera-
ture whose exclusion
Snowball ascribes to the
Scarlet Woman has been banned in W.A. for the
past 15 years. As its importation wasn’t forbid-
den in the other States, it began to slop over the
W.A. border, even as the Chow slops over the sea
border into the N. Territory. A Westralian
Senator objected, not on the ground of Rome, but
merely on that of decency, and thus the prohibi-
tion was made general.
“K.”: Snowball, chief Yellow Pup
yelper in Victoria, addressed a “Protestant
defence” meeting at Melbourne a few days ago.
According to the Age, he said:—
He had noticed in the Commonwealth Gazette, the
other day, something which indicated a secret form of
domination. An intimation had appeared forbidding the
importation to Australia of “ Maria Monk.” Apparently
the Roman Catholics not only wanted to dictate as to
what the children in the State should read, but also as to
what the adults should read throughout the Common-
wealth. Surely people ought to be able to read what
they liked so long as it was not in violation of the moral
law ?
I happen to be a Presbyterian, and I possess a
copy of that capital Presbyterian work, Cham-
bers’ Encyclopaedia. It is edited by a Presby-
terian, and published by a Presbyterian firm, in a
Presbyterian country. Bo I presume it is above
suspicion. And here is what it says—and all it
says —about Maria Monk :
Maria Monk : A woman of bad character, who
pretended, in 1835, to have escaped from the H6tel Dieu
nunnery at Montreal, and who, coming to New York,
found a good many credulous adherents, and published
“ Awful Disclosures ” and “ Further Disclosures,” which
had an enormous sale.
I thought everybody knew by this time, that
Maria Monk’s yarns were full sister to the shock-
ing story which the perverted young girl tells the
police once a month or so in this country, and of
which we are all very tired. I have italicised
three words in Snowball’s howl ; and, if he is cor-
rectly reported, I am sorry for him. If he
likes reading Maria Monk, well, he has missed
his occupation. He ought to be an attendant at
the Moulin Rouge, in Paris. For unadulterated
filth the books are both hard to beat; and lam
interested to know which of the two Snowball
likes best. I have found the awful things in the
hands of innocent country girls, their misguided
mothers, misguided by such remarks as those just
made by Snowball, thinking it was right that they
should read them. Does Snowball allow his own
daughters (if he has any) to read the filth ? Yes,
it was high time the books were put on our
national index expurgatorius. They should have
been there years ago.
The recent declaration of a fat half-yearly
dividend on the greatly-diluted shares of the
Metropolitan Gas Co. gave Melbourne a chance
to talk Socialism the other day. Referring to the
general monopolistic vices of the co., as shown by
its continued charge of ss. per 1000 ft. for ordinary
gas, the Age renewed the old and almost-forgotten
suggestion that the Melbourne City Council take
the concern over as a municipal enterprise. The
company is in effect merely bleeding the com-
munity for the benefit of its shareholders, and,
like other private monopolies the world over, it
never enters into new works by the extension of
its mains until it is absolutely assured of rich
returns. Therefore, argued the Age, “this brings
us to the point whether it is not time for the City
Corporation to come to the relief of the citizens.”
By Section 249 of the Company’s Act, the City of
Melbourne has the right of purchase under terms
which are “ 18 years’ purchase of the net annual
profits, estimated on the average of the next pre-
ceding three years.” The sum required for the
purchase is estimated at £2,000,000, and, going on
the company’s results, it looks as if the Corpora-
tion could borrow the money without risk, seeing
that interest at 3lt per cent., plus enough by way
of a sinking fund to redeem the loan in 50 years,
could be taken from the profits and still leave
sufficient to cover the cost of imperative new ex-
tensions, etc., and the demanded reduction in
charges to the consumer. There are already 260
municipal gas enterprises in conservative Bull-land,
which are not only doing well, but are also supply-
ing gas at an average charge of 2s. Bd. per 1000 ft.,
which is little more than half of what Melbourne’s
monopoly is charging. Under those circum-
stances, the Age’s suggestion is worth a heap of
consideration—more consideration than the city
father Weedons are likely to give it.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) had sent an invitation
to Governor-General Dudley to open its show,
and an idea got about that his Ex. was an
acceptor. Newcastle is also just about to have
its election for Mayor, and the chance of chumming
up with Dudley made most of the councillors
starters for the Mayoralty Stakes. A fight for
the billet was actually commenced, and then the
G.-G. declined the invitation. Now the aldermen
are all trying to find excuses for also declining the
Mayor’s job. Wade is to be substituted for
Dudley, and the anxiety to dodge Wade is
tremendous.
“ Oudeis,” from a London newspaper
office :
The latest adjunct of the up-to-date newspaper office is
the telewriter, an adaptation of the telephone, in which
written words are substituted for the spoken. The trans-
mitting end is just an ordinary roll of paper that pushes
forward like the sheet oh a typewriter, and a little electric
pencil. The receiver is weirder by far. When it gets to
work it reminds the spectator of the old steel engraving,
“ Belshazzar’s Feast.” An uncanny little finger swings on
two long, thin brass elbows, and the impression of a ghostly
hand guiding it is unsurmountable at first. Line drawings
are negotiated by the pencil imp just as easily as ordinary
writing, and the invention is already practically at work
between London and Manchester (200 miles), and between
London and Paris. Also the pencil imp has written his
“ Mene Mene ” on the walls of every newspaper telephone
room in London, to the great joy of all deaf reporters and
nervous sub-editors. Christmas Eve I sent along to some
colleagues in an office in Manchester an invitation to have
one with me. Here is the reply, as received in my own
office —words and illustration written by the telewriter: —
“W.C.M.”: The importing disease is
now ravaging the N.S.W. Department of Public
Instruction. The position of Superintendent of
Music, lately held by Hugo Alpen, has been
passed to one Tearne, Mus. Bac. (Oxford). Two
Australians, Chandler (organist at St. Stephen’s,
Phillip-street) and S. A. Kenny (lecturer in
music at the Training College), were available,
but were passed over. Both the rejected have
had large practical experience in teaching in Aus-
tralia. Yet the importing experiments so far
made have not been encouraging. The latest—
A. Mackie, M.A., Principal of the Training
College—has proved a disappointment; which is
natural enough, for he has no knowledge of Aus-
tralian schools or conditions. And the worst of
it was that a brainy Australian, Percival Cole,
M.A. (Sydney), holder of the Woolley Travelling
Scholarship, was turned down to make way for
Mackie.
JOY IN YASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yass, Monday.—The Sydney Morning Herald was read
in Yass to-day at 11.15 a.m. The townspeople are
delighted at receiving the Herald so soon.
—S. M. Herald news item,.
Last week Yass was a gracious sight;
At fifteen past eleven,
Throughout the township, left and right,
Gleamed countenances all alight
With glee ; folks smiled with main and might.
Depression threw a seven.
By ev’ry post a Yassite stood.
His Herald in his grip,
And read of axes smeared in blood,
And how Brown, with a chunk of wood,
Slew Mrs. B. ; and muttered “ Good ! ”
Likewise “ Hooray 1 ” and “ Hip ! ”
Outside, and in each pub, large bands
Of citizens were massed ;
They spoke of Labor’s wild demands,
Of Anarchy’s long claw-like hands
Choking the life from these doomed lands ;
And ever, as they gassed,
They smoothed the Herald’s wrinkled face,
And peered in its inside,
And passed remarks (all commonplace)
Concerning Parliament, the Mace,
And Joe Cook and his charm and grace,
And Reid, and why he died.
Murders, divorces, burglaries,
And tales of battered ships,
Of earthquakes, crimes, and tragedies,
Gladdened the morning hours of these
Good souls, who drank them to the lees,
Then stopped and smacked their lips.
Unceasingly their great content
Soared with a mighty soar,
Because stern Anti-Sosh had lent
Its aid to have the papers sent
To Yass (the “seat of Government”)
Earlier than before.
N.S.W.
D.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT «
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Repreeented fl r thur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY: Post Offioe Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDICO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining 1 Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK— Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair M Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
About the proudest person in Melbourne just
now is Robert Harper, chairman of the Commercial Bank
o{ Australia, and the last of the seven directors who took
the job of its reconstruction in hand 16 years ago. One
other survivor of the original seven —Captain Currie—-
had to retire on account of his connection with the
Government Savings Bank. At last week’s meeting of
shareholders, Robert Harper was able to talk of the
bank’s bad old past in the tone of a parent who pats his
once prodigal son on the head and commends him for
having worked out his salvation. After dealing with the
latest facts and figures, the chairman said : “Of course,
nothing the directors could do would restore the losses
made before the new bank was constituted. They could not
recover money’that was absolutely gone; but they had been
the means of saving millions by the manner in which the
estates had been handled and the bank kept alive. From
a complete wreck in 1893 the bank had been made a
prosperous institution.” Under the circumstances, it was
excusable for the unemotional Harper to gaze admiringly
at the achievement andcall it “ marvellous.” Practically
he was the doctor who prescribed a successful scheme of
treatment for the old moribund bank. James Service and
Captain Currie had shares in the Commercial, and the
former was intensely concerned about its welfare. Robert
Harper and Sargood, who came to the rescue at the plead-
ing of Service, had no direct interest in the matter, and
they had to buy shares to qualify for the directorate.
The rally of new directors sufficed to “ restore confidence ”
and keep the sick concern going for two or three years.
• Then the original scheme of reconstruction propounded
by the old management was found to be unworkable, and
James Service once more began tearing the remnants of
his hair from his harassed head. Harper meanwhile had
been talking to the bank’s depositors in Britain whilst on
a “ holiday ” trip, and he was just back in Australia when
he got a telegram imploring him to draft a new plan of
salvation for the sufferer. But, as it happened, the ship
he came back in was quarantined at Albany, or Adelaide,
or somewhere, and the result of much telegraphing was
that Service came to the quarantine station and talked to
Harper through the boundary' barriers.
Then the returned merchant drafted a scheme
which he thought might be accepted in Britain, and Ser-
vice took it off to Melbourne. Mr. Harper, having served
his term of quarantine and gone back to his own business,
wanted a lot of pressing to return to Britain and talk to
the creditors some more. But he went and talked to the
reasonable ones, and threatened the unreasonable ones,
until his prescription for the gasping bank was finally
endorsed. That was 13 years ago, or thereabouts.
Gradually the patient improved. It began to breathe
more freely’. It put on flesh, and now the man who, apart
from the “inside” staff, mainly'pulled it through the
long, long illness, is naturally proud to think that he
took up the job in a disinterested spirit i.e.,
disinterested insofar that he stood to lose nothing if the
bank collapsed. All these years of brooding- over
questions of new ways to dispose of old liabilities have
brought Robert Harper to the conclusion that his scheme
for Federalising the States’ Debts ought to be put into
practice right away. The principle of his pet scheme was
accepted by the Deakin Government. Sooner or later
the Commonwealth must take over the States’ borrowings
and issue Australian Consols to cover the liabilities, and
the ambition of Robert Harper is to be the consulting
engineer of the big work.
* * * *
Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £1517 8 per cent. = £lOOO £517 £8,783
June, 1903.. 1349 8 ~ ~ 1000 349 9,132
Dec., 1903.. 1744 8 „ „ 1000 744 9,876
June, 1904.. 3036 12 „ ~ 1500 1536 11,412
Dee., 1904.. 2435 8 „ „ 1000 1435 12,847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 „ ~ 1500 2275 15,122
Dec., 1905.. 3225 8 ~ ~ 1000 2225 17,347
June, 1906.. 2616 12 „ ~ 1500 1116 18,463
Dec., 1906.. 2314 8 „ „ 1000 1314 19,777
June, 1907.. 3301 12 ~ „ 1500 1801 21,578
Dec., 1907.. 1994 8 „ „ 1000 994 22,572
June, 1908.. 1256 12 „ „ 1500 22,328
Dec., 1908.. 2585 8 „ „ 1000 1585 23,913
The declared profits of this co. are very erratic, probably
owing to the manner in which the commission on the
corpus or capital value of the trust estates is dealt with ;
that portion of the earnings seems to be reckoned in with
the profit in very irregular lumps. Therefore it isn’t
much use looking at any single year’s declared profits.
The whole income, from investments and commissions
alike, is trussed up into one item ; last half-year it
totalled £5405 “ after providing for contingencies.” Fol-
lowing the reserves is an item—“ Contingent and other
liabilities, £800.” Probably this amount has been set
aside out of the corpus commissions for the half-year—
the item hasn’t hitherto appeared in the balance-sheet.
The capital is £25,000 ; the whole of that and £2OO besides
is represented by public securities, while the amount of
the reserves is in the co.’s premises (£15,962 at cost), ad-
vances, and cash. The value of estates in hand is not
mentioned ; but, assuming that about ss. 6d. per cent,
per annum is realised from them, apparently the total is
something like £3,000,000. For the reason mentioned
above, no single half-year’s profit figures are much
to go by ; but lumping those of the last two half-years
together, they show £8 Is. sd. per cent, on the capital
and reserves combined—an excellent return, considering
the gilt-edged character of the securities into which the
capital has been put.
* * * *
The Brisbane G-as Co.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £9,688 11£ p.c. = £8446 £1242 £21,915
June, 1903.. 9,054 11 „ „ 8085 969 22,884
Dec., 1903.. 11,762 ll£ „ ~ 8452 3310 26,194
June, 1904.. 11,042 111 „ „ 8452 2590 28,784
Dec., 1904.. 11,634 11J ~ „ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1905.. 10,309 llj „ ~ 8452 1857 33,823
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital 13,823
Dec., 1905.. 10,898 10 p.c. = 8400 2498 16,321
June, 1906.. 10,768 10 „ ~ 8400 2368 18,689
Dec., 1906.. 11,227 10 „ ~ 8400 2827 21,516
June, 1907.. 11,223 10 „ ~'B4OO 2823 24,339
Dec., 1907.. 12,011 11 „ „ 9240 2771 27,110
June, 1908.. ll „ ~ 9240 3013 30,123
Dec., 1908.. 13,032 11 „ „ 9240 3792 33,915
Besides those reserves there is an item, “ Land—Sus-
pense Account for Dividend Reserve Fund, £5100.” It
looks as though that ought now to be taken into
reserves. Some years ago the co. made a good bargain
with the Brisbane municipal council for the sale of some
property on terms ; and this suspense item was under-
stood to be part of the profit on the transaction—the
difference, that is, between the book value of the pro-
perty and what was got for it. Until the transaction
was completed the amount was kept in suspense ; but
during the past half-year the last £2OOO has apparently
been paid by the council, so that the £5lOO might now be
shown as a reserve. The reserves that are shown are
lumped in the balance-sheet; they’ consist of a formal
reserve fund, and funds for renewing holders and retorts.
The net amounts added to these funds in each half-year
are also necessarily shown as profit; and yet they’
are only’profit with some qualification. “Manufacture,
depreciation, etc.,” is charged to profit and loss; but if
not enough is marked off revenue in that way to cover
depreciation, then clearly some of the profit shown is not
trile profit. In the past half-year £907 was transferred to
the gas-holder renewal fund, and £2Ol to the meter fund.
Probably these may be taken as contributions to reserves
for making-special replacements—ordinary replacements
appear to be included among working expenses. Theco.
has certainly been making solid progress :
Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1902. 1907. 1908.
Liquid assets .. ;i £33,525 £47,237 £47 t 481
Liabilities .. 3,684 4,002 4,248
Surplus .. .. £29,841 £43,235 £43,233
in six years, therefore) the co. has paid its dividends)
paid for all additions to mains, plant) etc., and also put
by £13,392. Certainly this can’t be regarded as all surplus
profit, because depreciation has to be taken into account;
yet, considering that renewals have been also paid for
during the period, the position is a remarkably strong
one. Sales of gas, etc., in the last half of 1902 amounted
to £22,056, equal to £29 11s, per cent, per annum on the
book value of plant, buildings, etc., at that date ; for the
past half-year the sales brought in £28,098, equal to
£34 4s. per cent, per annum on the present book value \
so either Brisbane is sitting- up later at nights than it Used
to, trying to figure out what ought to be done with
Kidston, or the co. has mains, etc., which it has paid for
out of revenue, and hasn’t, therefore, added to the book-
value of the plant. Either way, or both ways, the situa-
tion is all right.
f * *■ *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light Co. :
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £3200 6 p.c.=£1597 £359 £1244 £7,341
£1713 Share Premiums used to reduce Debenture Debt.
June, 1903.. 2852 6p.c.= 1654 203 995 8,336
Dec., 1903., 3329 6 „ ~ 1654 600 1076 9,411
June, 1904.. 3110 6 „ ~ 1654 100 1356 10,767
Dec., 1904.. 3342 7 „ ~ 1929 100 1313 12,080
June, 1905.. 3011 7 „ „ 1929 3 1079 13,159
Dec., 1905.. 3327 7 „ „ 1929 433 965 14,124
June, 1906.. 3016 7 ~ ~ 1929 4 1083 16,207
Dec., 1906.. 3438 7 „ ~ 1929 1609 16,716
June, 1907.. 3208 8 ~ ~ 2205 31 972 17,688
Dec., 1907.. 3940 8 „ ~ 2205 206 1529 19,217
June, 1908.. 4070 9 ~ ~ 2481 1589 20,806
Dec., 1908.. 4805 10 „ „ 2756 19 2030 22,836
The reserves consist of formal reserve fund £21,000,
retort renewals fund £260, special works fund £5OO, and
undivided profit £1076. Something is written off profits
to provide against depreciation; the amount is not
stated. The special works fund, £5OO, will alsoiprobably
be written off presently. Almost everything depends on
what provision is made out of revenue to cover wear and
tear and decay ; obviously if not enough is used for that
purpose, then the true profits are less than the amount
stated ; on the other hand, it is possible that more than
enough is stuffed away into new works; and in that case
the true profits are understated. Plant, buildings, etc.,
stand in the books at £83,495 ; the gas sales, etc., brought
in £9944, or at the rate of £23 17s. per cent, per
annum on the book value. Six years ago plant, buildings,
etc., stood at £75,802, and the sales, etc., brought in £7262
= £l9 3s. per cent, per annum. The works are, therefore,
earning a good deal more money now ; and part of the
explanation of that may be that considerable extensions
of mains and new plant have been paid for out of profits
(depreciation allowance), and not charged up to capital.
Anyway, the position has clearly much improved. The
paid capital is £52,500, in 70,000 fully paid 10s. shares and
50,000 cumulative pref. 10s. shares paid to 7s. The latter
are entitled to 6 per cent. ; then, after ordinaries have
also got that div., both lots rank alike for the balance.
There are also £15,000 of 4 per cent, debentures,
payable in 1915 ; but there are no other debts worth
mentioning, while on Dec. 31 the co. had £7910 of liquid
assets.
* * » *
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £6,453 7 p.c. = £3937 £2516 £7,990
June, 1903.. 4,724 7 „ „ 4153 571 8,561
Dec., 1903 .. 6,495 8 „ „ 4997 1498 10,059
June, 1904 .. 5,366 7 ~ ~ 4408 958 11,017
Dec., 1904 .. 6,782 7 „ „ 4768 2014 13,031
June, 1905.. 5,484 7 „ ~ 4812 672 13,703
Dec., 1905.. 7,229 7J „ „ 5270 1959 15,662
June, 1906.. 7,474 7§ „ ~ 5465 2009 17,671
Dec., 1906 .. 8,014 7£ ~ „ 5622 2392 20,063
June, 1907.. 8,997 8 „ ~ 6000 2997 23,060
Deo., 1907 .. 10,307 8 ~ „ 6000 4307 27.367
June, 1908 .. 8,681 8 „ ~ 6000 2681 30,048
Dec., 1908 .. 11,532 8 ~ ~ 6000 5532 35,580
The co. puts it this way for the past half-year : “ Net
profit on sales of ga«, ete. (after allowing for reserves and
depreciation), £6032.” To the formal reserve fund has
been added £2500, and £3OOO has been put by as the
nucleus of an insurance fund. Neither of these is a
depreciation reserve ; the revenue written off on that
account is not ascertainable. It may be much, or it may
be little. Whatever it is, it is going into new mains,
plant, etc. ; that is to say, as a set-off to decay of old
mains, etc., new mains, etc., are being paid for out of
revenue. But how much of that is being done it is not
possible to calculate from the published figures. Six
years ago on £124,967 of capital invested in land, plant,
mains, and other fixtures, the net profits for the six
months were alleged by the profit and loss account
to be £3953 “ after providing for depreciation.” For the
past six months the profit, “ after providing for reserves
and depreciation,” is alleged to be £6032 on a fixed in-
vestment of £205,115. Thus, on the published P. and L.
account, the return six years ago on the “fixed” capital
was £6 6s. 6d. per cent, per annum, and for the past
half-year a shade under 6 per cent, per annum, But in-
vestors and the public are under no obligation to take
these figures as the last word on the matter. For one
thing, the additions to the formal reserve fund are not
included in the stated profits for the past half-year.
Presumably with the idea that the less ammuni-
tion the co. provides the less the co. will be
fired at, very little information of any certain
value is furnished. That starves the ' municipal
tiger, no doubt ; but it also starves the inves-
tor. What the directors think of the situation,
and also what the real history has been lately, can
perhaps be judged by the fact that the co. is now about
to issue another 30,000 shares—one for every five, at par.
This is partly to pay off debts ; there were £23,028 of
these on Dec. 31, with £11,855 of book debts on the other
side. The liabilities have been mostly accumulated in
buying still more land near the works. The present paid
capital is £150,000 ; it has gradually got up to that from
£112,500 in 1901. If the co. can pay £20,000 or so for land
which certainly can’t add to the consumption of gas, and
can see its way to pay 8 per cent, on £25,000 of new capital,
it must have been putting aside a handy trifle during the
past few years. It would be a fair undertaking to pay
that on new capital even if that new capital all went into
revenue-earning mains.
* “ * « V
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’O3 .. 2925 12 p.c. = 2520 450 18,641
June, ’O4 . 2461 12 „ ~ 2520 164 18,418
Dec., ’O4 .. 3142 12 „ „ 2520 622 19,040
June, ’O5 '.. 2537 12 „ „ 2520 17 19,057
Dec., ’O5 .. 2710 12 ~ „ 2520 200 19,047
June,’o6 .. 2563 12 ~ ~ 2520 112 18,978
Dec., ’O6 .. 3271 12 ~ „ 2520 751 19,729
June,’o7 .. 2534 12 ~ ~ 2520 14 19,743
Dec., ’O7 .. 2576 12 ~ ~ 2520 200 19,599
June,’oB .. 2609 12 „ „ 2520 210 19,478
Dec., ’OB .. 2424 12 „ „ 2520 19,382
Things go on getting no better. It isn’t as though the
co. was socking away profit in new mains, plant, etc. It
may be putting some away, and thus indirectly writing
something off for depreciation ; but there is no sign of it
anywhere. On the contrary, there is a steady increase in
the book-value of plant, etc., signifying that additions
are being charged up to capital and not to working ex-
penses. Under those circumstances it is hard to justify
the 12 per cent, dividend, which in the past two years
has cut into reserves to the extent of £347. If not
enough has been written off out of profits to cover cur-
rent wear and tear, then the co. lias really drifted further
behind than that. No doubt the expenses during the
past couple of years have been unusually heavy, owulg to
the high cost of coal; but, though the coal-market is a
trifle easier, there is no prospect of an early return to the
old rates; in fact, the old rates are not likely tt> come
back in view of the steadily-increasing demand for Coal
for Australian industries, and the depletion of some of
the most easily-worked ocean-side mines at Newcastle.
The maintenance of the Bendigo Co;’s 12 per Cent, is
therefore doubtful; the co; is ih a very easy way finan-
cially ; it owed only £515 on December 3lj and had
£6078 in cash, deposits, and outstanding accounts;
* * * *
Broken Hill, Water Supply, Ltd;
Writ-
ten To Re- Tte-
Profits. Dividends. Off, serves, senses.
June, 1002.. 11,386 10 p.c.' = 10,000 1,386 28,093
Dec,, 1902.. 13,200 10 „ „ 10,000 3,200 31,293
June, 1903.. 12,893 10 „ „ 10,000 2,893 34,186
Dec,, 1903.. 1,421 5 „„ 5,000 30,607
June, 1904.. 9,456 5 „ „ 5,000 4,456 35,063
Dec., 1904.. 12,080 10 „ ~10,000 2,080 37,143
June, 1905,. 15,622 10 ~ ~10,000 6,622 42,765
Dec., 1905.. 16,197 10 ~ ~10,000 6,197 48,962
June, 1906.. 21,579 10 „ ~10,000 11,579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., 1906.. 21,796 lOp.c. =lO,OOO 11,796 72,337
June, 1907.. 35,119 10 „ „ 7,500 37,698 62,258
Dec., 1907.. 40,660 10 ~ ~. 7,500 4,355 28,805 91,063
June, 1908.. 27,422 10 ~ „ 7,500 2,291 17,631 108,694
Dec., 1908.. 25,283 10 ~ ~ 7,500 17,783126,477
This concern is really less profitable than it looks from
the foregoing figures ; yet, after all necessary allowances
are made, it is gilt-edged. The allowances are necessary
because, under its Act, the co. has to hand over the
works in 28 years ; and 18J of them have already expired.
Originally the capital was £200,000 ; but of that amount
£25,194 was spent on water-right and in engineering the
bill through Parliament (there wasn’t payment of
members in those days, by the way). So far as
substantial assets go, the co. thus began with a
deficit of £25,194. As shown above, it has now
reserves amounting to £126,477 ; and, moreover, the
works, etc., have been written down to square a
repayment of £50,000 of the capital. It is now’proposed
to repay another £lOO,OOO of capital, when, of course, the
capital of the co. will be. £50,000 (ss. per share). The
W’orks will need to be written down to correspond. The
repayment is amply provided for ; after providing for
liabilities, the co. has over £120,000 in cash and liquid
assets. It will then have about nine years in which to
pay back the other ss. ; but it already has £20,000 towards
that, besides probably £lO,OOO w’orth of assets which it
will not have to hand over. Probably, therefore, the co.
has not got to earn more than another £20,000 in order
to get all its capital back. And it has nine years to do it
in ! As shown in the table, the profits in excess of the 10
per cent. div. last year alone amounted to £35,414.
When it has put aside the whole £200,000, the
co. will presumably “ save its face” by putting by some-
thing in the shape of a contingency fund. No doubt
contingencies may arise. Thus the co., in order to con-
tinue a revenue-producing concern, may have to spend
some money on main renewals, or it may have to remove
some of the silt from its shallow reservoir. But it may
be taken for granted that in its latter days it won’t spend
any more than it is obliged to. On the other hand, it
should be taken into account that, though the mere
w’riting-down of the book value of the reservoir, etc., to
£50,000 won’t reduce its earning power, something else
may—a new reservoir, for instance, owned by the muni-
cipal council, the Government, or a Trust; and something
in that way has been threatened for years. The co. has,
however, staved off opposition hitherto, and has just now
made another bid fora monopoly by reducing the price of
water from ss. to 4s. 2d. per 1900 gallons so long as the
consumers don’t struggle hard enough for another supply
to secure one, or even to seriously threaten to secure one.
On the ss. per share basis future dividends will no doubt
be big; yet recent profits are not likely to be main-
tained. First, the reduction in price will effect the reve-
nue ; and secondly the passing of the recent metal boom
will work the same way. (Most of this co.’s water goes to
the mines.) The shares (at present 15s. paid) are now
worth about 225. ; so, after the present distribution, the
people wh buy at that price have to get back 12s. instead
of ss.
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.:
Written To De-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. off. Reserves, ficit.
1899 .. £11,614 10 p.c. = £8,438 £1250 £1926 £5,441
1900.. 16,498 10 „ ~11,250 1000 4248 1,193
1901.. 10,058 10 „ ~11,250 2,385
1902.. 13,140 10 „ ~11,250 1890 495
Reserves.
1903 . . 13,499 10 „ „ 11,250 2249 1,754
1904 ... 13,889 10 „ ~ 11,250 2639 4,393
1905 .. 13,260 10 ~ ~ 11,250 2010 6,403
1906.. 14,187 10 „ ~11,250 2937 9,340
1907 .. 13,092 10 „ ~ 11,250 1842 11,182
1908.. 12,636 10 „ ~11,250 1386 12,568
This co. isn’t likely to think much of Benjamin Franklin,
and Edison, and the other people who have been re-
sponsible for the modern boom in electricity ; for it is the
competition of the electric lift that makes this co.’s
figures shrivel. Still it hasn’t so far got much to com-
plain about. Originally the co. had a paid share capital of
£75,000 and a debenture debt which stood for some time at
£35,000. In 1899, when the debentures fell due (the co.
was then 10 years old), the shareholders paid up another
£37,500 (those 75,000 shares are still only paid to 10s.),
and the debentures were wiped out. The new capital at
once carried 10 per cent. The year after that, as the co.
was restricted to 10 per cent, (anyway, anything over
that has to be divided with the City Council), the
engineering part of the business was turned over to a new
co., with a capital of £15,000, and the shareholders started
off with a 15 per cent, div., which has since, however, been
down to 10 percent. The parent co. has now completed its
20th year ; and, even though the electric lift must be
something of a nightmare, looking back on the past the
co. can fairly reckon that it has had a very good time : it
has got all its money back, with 5 per cent, interest. And
it still has a good business : the trouble is that it hasn’t
grown with the city—it has been marking time ; and ex-
penses have, in the natural order of things, moved on a
trifle. A weak feature of the case is that Parliamentary
rights and concessions remain in the balance-sheet at
£15,000 ; this, being a paper asset, has been disregarded
in the table above. Other assets also remain in
at cost, including a leasehold at Waterloo; there-
fore the reserves are not true reserves, nor are
the profits stated above true profits, seeing that
nothing is deducted to cover depreciation. Appa-
rently, however, current renewals are paid for out of
revenue ; for there is no sign of any having been paid for
out of the renewals fund. It is possible, of course, that
the cost of renewals is added on to the capital expendi-
ture, as a set-off to the renewals reserve ; but that isn’t
likely. The cost of plant, buildings, etc., has been
£122,009. Even if only 1 per cent, were written off, that
would call for £1220 a year ; and even on that modest
basis there isn’t much of a margin left nowadays.
•*•* ■**
North Coast Steam NavigatonCo. (N.S.W.):
Unex-
plained
Busi- Addi- Written
ness tions to off Re- Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1902 ... 5507 13,097 8p.c.=5250 41,506
Dec., 1902 .. 3988 2,894 8 „ ~ 5250 43,138
June, 1903.. 2583 6 ~ ~3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903.. 2665 500 6 ~ ~3938 40,820
June, 1904 .. 3992 775 6 ~ ~3938 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5596 3,987 8 „ ~5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5860 4,542 8 „ ~5250 51,134
Dec., 1905 .. 6230 852 8 ~ ~5602 52,614
June, 1906 .. 7245 1,000 8 ~ ~6750 54,109
Dec., 1906.. 8021 1,500 8 ~ ~7000 56,630
June, 1907 .. 8791 1,573 8 ~ ~ 8266 58,728
Dec., 1907 .. 8783 8 ~ „ 8750 2274 56,487
June, 1908.. 6239 3,526 8 ~ ~8750 57,502
Dec., 1908.. 8959 1,756 8 ~ ~8750 59,467
This CO; has been making: rapid additions to its fleet
during: the past few years. At the end of Dec., 1902,
ships were valued at £133,879 ; they now stand in the
books at £285,000, and, “in view of the requirements of
oUr trades, your directors have decided to at once con*
struct, two new steamers, ’* Apart from those two, a new
one has just arrived. The co, does not issue a profit and
loss account, but merely states profit “after providing
for depreciation and insurance of ship property, etc,"
There is an insurance and repairs fund, which now stands
at £49,230 ; £1756 has been dropped into this fund during
the half-year. But that isn’t necessarily all the provision
made for depreciation. Si* months ago ship property
(including money paid for a new vessel) stood at
£248,266, As mentioned above, the item is now £235,000,
Possibly something may have been sold meantime, or
lost; but there is no mention of anything of the kind. In
the absence Of any mention of either sale or loss, it is fair
to assume that the difference—£l3,266—has been written
down out of undisclosed profit; or, at any rate, out of
revenue, In Spite of the recent purchase of ships, the co.
is still in an easy way financially ; book debts and cash
total £29,155, and total liabilities are £15,628. Of course
the raising of £77,500 of new capital in 1905 helped the
situation. There are 250,000 shares, on which 2s. 6d. is
uncalled ; and it looks as though the co. might want that
money in view of its further shipbuilding programme.
The only fly in the oo.’s butter is the probable effects,
direct and indirect,, of the new North Coast railway--
direct, in regard to competition ; indirect, in regard to
the State’s probable indifference about keeping open the
northern harbors and rivers.
*'**•*
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd, (Sydney) s
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Reduc- not
tion of reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an Asset),
June, 1902.. £3263 6 p.c, =£lsoo £1763 £44,907
Dec,, 1902.. 2993 6 ~ „ 1500 1493- 43,414
June, 1903.. 1746 5 „ „ 1500 246 43,163
Dec., 1903.. 2055 5 ~ ~ 1500 555 42,613
June, 1904.. 1611 5 ~ ~ 1500 111 42,502
Dec., 1904.. 1622 5 ~ ~ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905.. 1661 5 ~ ~ 1500 161 42,219
Dec., 1905.. 1730 5 ~ ~ 1500 230 41,989
June, 1906.. IS3O 5 ~ ~ 1500 330 41,659
Dec., 1906.. 2704 5 ~ ~ 1500 1204 40,455
June, 1907.. 1527 5 ~ ~ 1600 27 40,428
Dec., 1907.. 3112 5 ~ ~ 1500 1612 38,816
June, 1908.. 2487 5 „ ~ 1500 987 37,829
Dec., 1908.. 3005 5 ~ „ 1500 1505 36,324
All but 20 years ago this co. was formed to take over the
business of two men who had made a name for themselves
both at valuing City property and at knocking it down.
For the goodwill the co. paid £57,500; all the cash that
remained was £2soo—enough to buy another rubber
stamp or so, a new hammer, and leave a bit over for till-
money. In the foregoing table this paper asset isn’t, of
course, reckoned as an asset at all. The management has,
however, gone steadily to work to put substantial assets
in the place of the shadowy, intangible, uncertain thing
called goodwill, and, as shown above, the deficit has now
been reduced to £36,324, so that more than a third of it
has disappeared. And as the substantial assets in-
crease, the wiping-out process will steadily gain in
pace, provided the div. gets no larger and the
business gets no smaller. In liquid assets the co. has
£24,178 in excess of liabilities ; and it is receiving about
£9OO a year in interest, which goes a good way towards
the dividend of £3OOO a year. In the seven years
shown above the accumulated profits have totalled
£10,346, or almost half of the total accumulations of
£21,176. (Certainly in the early years of the co. the div.
was higher, but in the late ’nineties it got down to 3 per
cent.) After providing for all liabilities on December 31
the assets, mostly liquid, totalled £25,176, which is equal
to Bs. 4d. per share. The current market quotation is
145., so the price paid for goodwill by those who come in
now is ss. Bd. per share, or £17,000 in all.
* * * *
All through the piece The Bulletin has been
saying that the Broken Hill Prop, management wasn’t
worrying at all about having the mine shut down; in
fact, it wanted a shut-down —a temporary shut-down,
anyhow. Also the opinion was expressed that when it
re-opened it wouldn’t re-open on the recent scale. When
Justice Higgins went to Broken Hill to hold an Arbitra-
tion Court, he at once asked questions on these points.
He wanted to be told by each party what it was going to
do about his award supposing he* gave one—were they
going to obey it ? If they wouldn’t give that under-
taking, then he wasn’t going to waste time. To the aston-
ishment of the crowd which has been saying that the
men Were opposed to Arbitration (a noisy little section
gave that impression), the unions’ counsel came into
court next day, and said they pledged themselves to obey
the award whatever it was. The co. wanted longer to
think over it. Two days later the directors announced
that they would give no guarantee at all beyond that they
would work the zinc plant and the smelters, employing
(say) 1500 men at Broken Hill and Port Pirie. In other
words, they wouldn’t undertake to work the mine at all;
for the zinc plant deals with stuff that is already at the
surface, and part of the smelting plant could be kept
employed on the ore and concentrates from other
mines with which the B. H. Prop, has contracts. As
for the rest the directors said they would have to see
what the award was before they decided what they would
do. That, however, may be taken as finessing. The co.
will work the mine all right, whatever the award may be ;
but it won’t work it on the old scale no matter what it
may be. It wants to build up an ore-smelting business ;
and a co. can’t do that successfully unless it has a mine
behind it. Consequently it will now proceed to husband
its own ore resources so as to spread them out over the
period during which it hopes to make money as an ore-
•melter.
Junction North, Broken Hill, has more faces
than usual in rhodonite, and the metal results show the
change badly. Very shortly, unless things alter, it will be
hinted that some changes in the plant are necessary; in
fact, changes to meet the altered ore are being made now
as circumstances allow, though that way of doing it isn’t
altogether satisfactory. The expectation of a dividend
has quite evaporated for the present.
* * * *
Broken Hill South Blocks mill, which is part of
the most complete surface plant on the Barrier, is doing
very fine work, as mill work goes. The January figures
show a recovery of no less than 80T per cent, of the lead
and 66 - 6 per cent, of the silver. The South, next door, gets
what are reckoned first-class results ; yet in its last half-
yearly report it showed a recovery of only 73’6 per cent,
of the lead and 53d per cent, of the silver. Of course, by
comparison with the ore in Block 10, the Junction North,
or even the deep levels of the B. H. Prop., milling either
the South or the South Blocks ore is merely a kind of
light recreation.
» • * •
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.), the English-owned
concern which worked out its oxidised ore and then dis-
covered that it hadn’t got a process ready for treating the
sulphides, has now adopted another scheme—forspending
the fast-disappearing money. As announced here some
time ago, Manager Shallcross, of the Gold Recovery Co.,
who now controls the Cobar Gold Mines’ affairs in Aus-
tralia, strongly recommends the roasting and leaching
process followed at Mount Morgan ; and the directors are
sending out one of themselves, Pellew-Harvey, presum-
ably to see whether Shallcross knows his business. Pel-
lew-Harvey, besides being a director, is also a member of
the firm which acts as the co.’s consulting engineers.
*■*■*■*
Still another of the Cobar (N.S.W.) litter calls
in the undertaker—Mt. Budgery; and Mt. Budgery
wasn’t by any means the least promising of that bunch.
* * * *
Kangiara (N.S.W.) is doing a Sydney market
flutter on the strength of rich assays from various parts
of the mine. But tonnage doesn’t seem to occupy the
attention of anyone, and Kangiara requires to supply a
good deal of loading to the railway and smelting works to
pay its wages bill. It is announced that smelters are to
be put up. Much the same smelting problem confronts
Kangiara as had to be dealt with at Chillagoe. A mixture
of lead and copper, although it offers no obstacle to the
up-to-date metallurgist, entails greater expense than a
single-metal proposition.


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained
and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
F. H. LLOYD & CO. Ltd.
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers,
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
2
LOHMANN (Si COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating & Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing- Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
John’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industr.a! and Eiostrical, Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [A
New Hillgrove (N.S.W.) shares are down nearly
to zero - but it is possible that 2d. per share may be an
under-valuation, even though the concern is so debt-
ridden. The history of the New Hillgrove section has
been an almost continuous pounding of rich stone with
10 head of stamps ; and, although only a solitary dividend
of Is. in 1905 is recorded, it should be remembered that
the show was tremendously handicapped by a big swag of
shares and expensive management. Weak finance and the
saddling of the Hillgrove section with the cost of developing
the Eleanora have produced the present trouble. Baker’s
Creek, next door, has sunk the main shaft to within a few
feet of where No. 19 level will be started. The co. is also
sinking a winze below No. IS ; but there is no reef in the
bottom, so shares are out of favor. Stone is being stoped
from the back of No. 18, but a reduced output is to be
expected.
* * » *
Bayley’s (W.A.) again wears a sickly expres-
sion. When the old co. snuffed out in 1907 some more
capital—it has never leaked out how much—was sub-
scribed to work the property, and early last year a start
was made to look for an Sft. body of lOdwt. ore at the
1000 ft. level, and other riches alleged to have been left
behind by the deceased. The Bulletin said at the time
that it wasn’t safe to go nap on finding this wealth, and a
thorough sampling of the mine proved this assertion far
beyond the hilt. Now another death-rattle is heard on
the premises, and the local undertaker is waiting for
another little job.
* » ■* *
Associated Northern (W.A.) is not long for
this world. The management announces that an average
of Bdwt. per ton can be maintained during the current
year. It might with safety have said a little longer than
that; but, all the same, like its once rich neighbor, the
Oroya-Brown Hill, the Northern’s days as a dividend-
earner are numbered. Last year the co. took a big sum
out of accumulated profits to distribute ss. per share, and
so keep up appearances, but it can’t live beyond its in-
come in this way for very long.
* • * *
After brooding over its misfortunes for four
years, the Millionaire, Ltd. (W.A.), exposed its poverty
in a report, issued in* London, the other day. The
accounts show a book loss of about £l5OO for the term
mentioned, and the outlook is as poor as Lazarus. No
fees have been collected by the directors, no interest has
been paid to them on account of £2550 (money lent), no
office rent is shown, and the secretary’s salary has ap-
parently been allowed to slide. Having told this tale of
woe, the report states that the Board would have convened
a meeting before but for the expense involved in printing
and circulating the statement of accounts. Where the
windfall ultimately came from to pay the printer and buy
the stamps is not stated, but the co. must have got a
streak of luck from somewhere, as the available funds are
practically nil, and it is into the bank as far as it is ever
likely to get. At the time the previous report was issued,
in 1904, work was being done on a lease called the Turn of
the Tide ; but, although developments looked up for a
time, they afterwards fell flat, and the working of this
block only landed the co. deeper in the mire. The Board
says that, despite past failures, it thinks the property
will turn out well in depth, but the mere think-so of a
Board which has never seen the show doesn’t carry con-
viction.
* * * *
Hainault (W.A.) is getting ready to treat con-
centrates on the mine. It was stated in an official
circular, issued about the middle of last year, that the
yield from this source should add about £4OO a month on
to the profits, but this must not be taken to mean that
dividends are nigh. Even under the most favorable cir-
cumstances it will be a long time before the finances of
the co. permit it becoming generous in this way.
Gregory lease, at Tampa (W.A.), is now being
prospected with Oroya-Brown Hill money, and stands a
good chance of being acquired by this co. later on. In
the old workings 12fc. of good grade ore is showing, and
work recently done at 100 ft. on the underlay shows a
continuance of good values.
* ■* * *
According to the mine authorities, the first
clean-up from Tindals (W.A.) since the new mill started
on November 21 gave an average of 6dwt. or thereabouts.
The old battery ran 10 or 12 days in December, and the
new one was hung up about seven days, but no mention
of this is made in the announcement covering the return,
which, save 119 oz. “ got from scaling old plates,” is
represented as coming entirely from the new mill. As
usual no costs are given, and the value of the gold is
withheld, so that it is impossible to say whether a profit
or loss was made. This way of doing things never yet
helped a company along, and it won’t help Tindals.
*' * * w *
The Sandstone Development (W.A.) has had
another good crushing—7so long tons for 9160 z., esti-
mated to be worth £3400. The tailings are estimated to
be worth 14s. per ton. This stone was broken from the
old workings, from which they have now started to drive
in good ore to connect with the new workings.
* * * *
The Roeburne (W.A.) copper mines, from which
some Sydney people had great expectations, are now
quite idle, and the co. isn’t likely to do any more with
them. At the best they are little shows, containing
small lenses of rich ore ; and from these and others very
like them in the same remote district, small parcels have
been gouged for close on 40 years whenever the copper-
market has boomed. The Sydney co. didn’t even get
hold of the best claim in the neighborhood ; a local (Roe-
burne) syndicate owned that, the Blanche, and had a
giddy time while the recent boom lasted. Unfortunately
the boom didn’t last long enough, and then the syndicate
found itself in trouble. There are appalling difficulties
in the way of working these small shows.
Steamers call at Cossack, about seven miles away;
that is to say, they lie out in the open
roadstead. Sometimes the lighters can get their
cargo aboard, and sometimes they can’t. The Adelaide
Steamship Co. runs a steamer up as far as Derby and
Wyndham with mails ; but it hasn’t got time to trouble
much about cargo; and the other line of steamers seems
more interested in getting cargo to take on to Singapore.
The'idea up that way is that the co. which runs this line
is also interested in a line from Singapore to Europe;
hence the preference given to cargo in that direction.
This is one of the standing grievances of the far nor’-
west.
Fuel is another of the troubles in the nor’-west
of Westralia. Up as far as Gerald ton there is good
timber; but for a very wide stretch beyond that along the
coastal country it is hard work to boil the billy. Conse-
quently the claims not only have to get their little lots of
ore away at great expense, but they also have to get fuel
up at great expense. Producer gas plants are the best
things under the circumstances for power purposes.
Collie coal can be got fairly cheap at Fremantle—about
23s.—but it won’t stand the repeated handlings ; and
charcoal costs less in the long run. But by the time any-
thing is landed the price just about breaks the heart of
the average man who lands it, which probably accounts
for the fact that there are a couple of small mills lying on
the sand ijust where they were put ashore —they
have never been used ; and there other small and practi-
cally unused plants scattered all over the district. Dyna-
mite, for instance, costing say 38s. a case in Perth, stands
the miner in at about 655. by the time he gets it where it
will do him any good—and that is for the shows which are
almost alongside the water.
The one claim up in the nor’- west that is getting
through somehow is the Whim Well. It is of a different
type to the others ; probably it is a surface deposit, one
of those basins of ore like the old Burra (S.A.). There is
no telling when it will peter out; so far the co. hasn’t
shown any energy in sinking. But it is better off than
the others so far as marketing goes, because, having its
own launch and a bigger claim, it can make fairly regular
shipments.
• • • *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has just had another half-
yearly squaring up. After making provision for depre-
ciation £6lO, and “deficiency ” £1707, the accounts show
a debit of £2 on the half-year’s operations. Cash and
bullion in hand amount to £967, which, with £23 sundry
credits, brings the liquid assets apart from plant up to
£990. But as £649 worth of debts has to be chipped off
this, the co.’s real credit is £341. A new 10-head mill
has just been purchased on the time-payment system,
and as this will mean a liability of at least £2500, the co.
will have to keep its nose to the grindstone, and stir up
shareholders for more calls for a little longer. It seems a
bit hasty, however, on the Board’s part to buy a battery
on the hire system, seeing that only 7454 tons of 435. ore
are blocked out, and the mine is still in the first stage of
development. Why wasn’t the money in hand, and as
much more as can be wrung from shareholders, put into
the property, instead of being ear-marked for plant?
Only the fool or knave erects a treatment mill on an un-
developed property.
* * * *
Minister M'Bride, of Victoria, having £60,000
of mining grants to sling about, went to Bendigo. The
trip has resulted in the following big applications by
Bendigo cos. For deep pumping plant, £lO,OOO ; Vic-
toria Quartz deep sinking, £lO,OOO ; New Chum Rail-
way deep sinking, £lO,OOO. A multitude of other
begging requests show how soon a self-reliant community
falls from grace when a bounty-bestowing Minister comes
along. The pumping problem ought to have been settled
years back, when the cos. affected had money. It is too
bad that the rest of the State should have to pay to-day for
work that ought to have been done out of profits. To help
the two deep mines to go from 4300 ft. another 1000 ft
towards Hades is far more legitimate. What would have
been better would have been to have offered a bonus for
the first dividend-payer on some of the neglected side
lines. Bendigo’s output for January was 13,7290 z. —
figures above the totals for the corresponding periods in
1907 and 1908, and not betokening poverty.
* * * *
Horwood and Burrowes, Bendigo, have never
got profits out of the much-belauded 1528 ft. reef. The
west leg south is miserably poor, so prayers for better
stone are ascending fast and persistently. If good stone
is to be got it will be in the cap. A hope exists that the
Sea shoot at 1444 ft. may help the co., but nowhere are
the tints so rosy as they were some months back.
* * * *
The hundred-eyed Argus, through its Ballarat
man, still flogs up Sebastopol Plateau. Since Star of the
East made ’Enery Edwards and Bobbie Turner, nothing
has been more deplorable than Band and Loch, Star of
the East, South Star and Central Plateau. George
Lansell lost a fortune in his one venture into Ballarat,
Gilpin died poverty-stricken, and so the tally could go on.
The late “ buck ” in Star of the East rested on the slender
foundation of a couple of small crushings of Albion stone
which went lOdwt. A third crushing brings the average
to 6dwt., proving again the unreliability of the Albion
lode. When Ballarat people themselves are seen backing
Plateau stocks and paying calls manfully, regardless of
the market, the public can step in. Till then —Keep off
the grass !
• * * *
Victoria has a Messina-like movement over the
Dunn-Hunter (rather a good combination of names, that i)
strike of coal at Powlett Basin. The Cabbage Garden
always wanted its own coalfield. Now, says Dunn-
Hunter, it has got it, and fortunately near to old friend
“Daddy” Lohr’s pub at Inverloch. The only people in
the Cabbage Patch who don’t feel happy about it are the
coal-lords who trundle Newcastle coal southwards.
These, with the shipping ring, don’t want a State
coal mine in Victoria to give relief from their thraldom.
Conservatives and these Fatmen consequently talk about
vested interests in the mines down at Outtrim. Seeing
that the dividends paid out of that field have come from
State benefactions in the way of railway freight rebates,
the State needn’t give that particular cry much atten-
tion. There is also an under-current of whining, too, by
the would-be floatees of the brown coal properties that
are being hawked about in London and Germany. But
the State needn’t waste sympathy over a crowd which
goes abroad for cash when it ought to put up its own
divs. ; so, again, a State coal mine need not be stopped
on their account.
■* * * *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has hit upon a patch
of dirt on McMillan’s reef. Eager fish are biting, and the
gentle broker maketh the most of the nibbling. There is
something Mark Tapleyan in the way in which Daylesford
talks of prospects —3ft. of stone carrying good gold at
No. 6 level. 4ft. with more good gold at No. 4, and 9ft. at
No. 3 with a thicker crust than ever of the precious metal:
“ Excellent samples of gold-bearing stone have been sent
away to the manager’s office to-day.” Nice ground-bait
are these same specimens. Eighteen months only
have gone since shares were £B. Three months since
they were down at about a crown. Now they are up
towards 40s. As memory is short, it can be repeated that
40s. a share is not in sight in the mine, that it has to be
proved that the present strike is more than a patch, and
that Daylesford shoots have never paid back in divs. top
market prices. This was the warning The Bulletin gave
when the first Ajax boom was on, and it has to be
repeated more emphatically than ever.
* * * *
“ Quidam ”: The Lord Nelson North, St.
Arnaud (Vic.), has crushed 175 tons for 59Joz. retorted
gold, and has also got five tons of pyrites. Altogether
1000 tons is to be put through. On present showing the
North is likely to reap some reward for its fine bit of
steady mining development work. In view of the fact,
however, that St. Arnaud “gold” is generally alloyed
with enough silver to bring its value down to £2 or so an
ounce, it would be interesting to know the value per ounce.
On the principle that charity (to outside speculators)
should begin at home, it is up to Peter Mcßride, present
Minister for Mines, to institute a system of reporting
yields in the form of fine ounces. A centre where gold
runs down to £2, and cyanide bullion sometimes is worth
only 10s., would be a fitting one for such a reform to
spring from. Whether such a reform would suit some of
St. Arnaud’s mining methods is another matter.
* * * •
Last year the Tewksbury Amalgamated paid 25
per cent, on its capital; this was made up of 4s. 4d. per
share by way of divs., and Bd. by way of return of capital.
The Amalgamated Co. was formed to take over four
Bright (Vic.) concerns, and the results are passing ex-
pectations. There are five dredges, and in the last six
months alone their surplus of receipts over expenses (in-
cluding office management, but not depreciation) aver-
aged £2066 per dredge. The working costs of No. 1
dredge got down to an average of l - 362d. per cub. yard,
which is probably an Australian record. The co. follows
the excellent plan of writing down the value of the mine
property as the dredges go through it ; so far £4399 has
been thus applied. As the property is written down
capital is reduced. This is exclusive of amounts written
off machinery to cover wear and tear. There are 66,500
shares of £1 each ; and, as remarked above, eightpence of
this has been returned.
• * * *
Mining speculations just now have no attrac-
tions for the Queensland investor, and any new proposi-
tion wants to be handled very judiciously if it is to be placed
in Brisbane. One reason may be found in the very unfortu-
nate choice hitherto made of local Boards. It is difficult
to call to mind a single recent instance of a Brisbane-
managed show doing any good. Hence the present
reluctance of the man with money to take any risks. A
scheme recently noted to open up a portion of the Argen-
tine field, near Ravenswood, even under such an attractive
title as the King Solomon’s Mines, Ltd., would not catch
on, and it is now announced that the proposition has been
withdrawn from the market, the application money being
returned in full.
* * * •*
There is every prospect of a fight to a finish
between the O.K. Co. and Aaron Hirsch, the latter firm
being just as confident of the result as the northerners.
The cream of Brisbane’s lawyers will, in less than a fort-
night, be grappling with the intricacies of copper produc-
tion and transport, and the struggle will be watched with
much interest to learn whether £lO,OOO odd is to be re-
moved from the suspense account of the co., or to what
extent the co. is to be smitten by the buyers’ claim for
many more thousands than that.
* * • •
A northern metallurgist will shortly start the
plant at the Mitchell River antimony mine to demon-
strate to shareholders that all is not lost, and to investi-
gate T: Opie’s contention that the mine, and not the
plant, was at fault. As a matter of fact, the process in
detail has never been successfully worked out of a labor-
atory, and, although these experiments were considered
satisfactory, some of the experts engaged in the research
work on the subject have expressed grave doubts as to the
probable success of the method on a working scale.
• * *
At Charters Towers New Brilliant Freehold
shaft is now down between 300 and 400 feet below the
Brilliant formation, and a flutter was caused a few days
since by the cutting of a reef Ift. thick, which strikes
N.E. and S.W. These bearings do not agree with those
of the main Day Dawn reef, which was followed for a long
distance nearly due east, but they fit in fairly well with
the hanging wall section of the Day Dawn, which has a
north-easterly trend. Three formations have been inter-
sected in the shaft, but their identity with the Day Dawn
is undecided. Mills’ United finds it difficult to keep up the
supply of compressed air to drive so many levels, hence
work at the Freehold has been confined to stoping and
extending the main No. 7 level. There is nothing to
justify much optimism about the size and quality of the
main Day Dawn reef ; the formation has been followed
far, but the reef has been anything but solid and regular.
* * * »
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is going to be
the scene of a new sort of gamble. A few shareholders,
who haven’t got much of an opinion of the way tlffi con-
cern has been managed from Adelaide, want two cross-
cuts put in on the footwall side of No. 5 level. W. J. Oar-
less, the chief barracker, is so satisfied that the crosscuts
will find a reef that he is prepared to advance the money
which the work will cost. A level has been driven 300 ft.
along a big formation without an attempt being made to
probe it; and a good reef is known to exist 100 ft. below.
Mr. Carless’s chief supporter is J. McFarlane, a Charters
Towers holder ; and the shareholders’ meeting in Adelaide
decided that the crosscuts should be driven at the
expense of these two, “ the money to be refunded to
them if a payable reef is struck.” Apparently the pair of
enthusiasts not only accept the terms as applied to the
two crosscuts, but extend them to the driving of “ the
level known as the bottom formation.”
*C * * *
Chillagoe (Q. ) reports still drive home the truth
that the co. Hasn’t a copper mine of much importance of
its own, but must depend mainly on the railway and
smelting works. True, it owns in the Ruddigore a big
porphyric formation, where ore assaying 3‘S per cent,
copper and l'6oz. silver has been driven into at a depth
of 225 ft. This Ruddigore ore has proved of great value
to Ohillagoe for fluxing. The co.s officials have made
a fairly hopeful report on the Daintree copper mine, near
the Einasleigh river, so the option may turn out good
business, although it would take a big capital outlay to
equip the mine and lay down a tram line to the Etheridge
railway. Water has been met with at 78ft in one of the
prospecting shafts, and a crosscut has been started above
that level. The Huntingdon-Heberlein plant at Chillagoe
closed down for a time, but its re-starting is talked of.
Like most other copper-lead mines, Chillagoe is in the
grip of a tight metal market.
The Croydon (Q.) field, which has not been too
happy lately, has secured a £2OOO loan from the Queens-
land Government for deep sinking, and a like amount is
to be raised locally. Half the total will go to the Golden
Gate Consols, and the balance will be shared equally
between Bennion’s Block and the Highland Mary. This
will enable the Golden Gate, which is down 800 ft., to sink
another 100 ft.; Bennion’s will go down 200 ft. below its
present depth of 190 ft., and the Highland Mary will
double its depth of 500 ft. As the three are in different
parts of the field, the result of the operations should
enable Croydon’s prospects to be pretty accurately
summed up.
* * * »
Mining on Woodlark Island, Papua, looks up
again after a spell of a couple of years. The joint pro-
perties (Kulamadau and Woodlark Island Proprietary)
are now managed by Pemble, who made his name at the
Ruby, on Charters Towers. In driving the old levels of
the Kulamadau enough stone has been opened to warrant
purchase of another Huntingdon mill, which will be in-
stalled early in March ; and theco. hopes to have another
one going in June or July. When two mills are at work,
mining and milling ought not to cost more than £1 per
ton. Shares are held mostly in Sydney and Charters
Towers, about 30,000 being in the hands of one family in
the latter place.
* • • «
The Roma (Q.) bore is the friskiest thing imagin-
able. First a water supply, then a gas supply which
gave out seven days after it was harnessed, then a tongue
of flame while the oil syndicate prospected, then a
problem in fire extinction, then a share market propo-
sition when the extinguisher succeeded. The curious
ought to be excused for asking “What next?” When
the casing was replaced the other day the gas flow coolly
retired just as the manager was preparing to save the
wood bill by using the gas for boiler-heating. In its
place has appeared a jet-black substance in the grease
line, interspersed with silvery specks. Likely as not, if
oil is struck, the Standard Oil Trust will come along and
put its brand on the whole show—if Australia lets it.
Even if no law exists to block the Trust a law must be
passed ; for it is absolutely certain that the Trust won’t
come in for Australia’s benefit—it will consider nobody
and nothing but itself. It will come in not that Australia
may get the advantage of the new supply (if there is
one), but to block it from getting that advantage; in
other words, to make it as though the new supply had
never been discovered.
Mount Lyell’s return for January was 628 tons
copper, 10250 z. gold, and 56,0430 z. silver from 29,946 tons
ore. The gold value has shrunk to the low average of
2s. lid., and silver to 3s. Bd. per ton of ore. Mount Lyell
depends on the furnace concentration of exceedingly low
values of gold and silver, so the shrinkage of Is. per
ton is significant. It practically required 47£ tons of ore
to produce a ton of copper, so every Is. off ore values
hits the co. just as hard as a decline of £2 7s. 6d. per ton
of copper would do. North Lyell has been putting the
plums into the pudding, for its ore constitutes nearly one-
third of the furnace charge, and averages between 5 and
6 per cent. While this comparatively high copper
value can be maintained, a general average recovery of
slightly over 2 per cent, may be expected; and with the
market for electrolytic copper at £6O, 2 per cent, is worth
245., or about 9s. over mining and smelting and convert-
ing costs. If there were no gold and silver to consider,
and blister copper were sold in the rough state at £55
(which is about the price the Queen Bee has been getting),
2 per cent, copper would still return a few shillings per
ton profit! But even the 2 per cent, depends on the
North Lyell deep levels maintaining- 5 per cent., and it
is an exceptional mine that doesn’t get poorer at increased
depth ; and there isn’t much room left for a further re-
duction of costs.
* *
*
In the calculation of working costs m concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and .uncon.
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on t the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Leinpriere, 506 Little. Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
■ —Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* ■* * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * » *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4jft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* [1
* ♦ * *
“Fibro-Cement” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and Co., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
* * * »
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October ’OB number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, as
follows “To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in
1873) the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the
force of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained
in the insurance world.”*
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell's Asbestos Dagger Packing-
is the most efficient, most durable, and the.cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depot for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.*
* * « *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* •* * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific, apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; - weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* • *
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, have found a
great field in Australia for Herbert’s high-class machine
tools. Their Hexagon Turret Lathe-is adapted for use
with high speed cutting tools, and the fact that a 2in.-dia.
bar of steel can be reduced to lin.-dia. at one cut, feeding
6 inches per minute and leaving a perfectly smooth and
parallel job, shows the enormous saving in time and
labor which can be effected by their use. The latest type
of machine embodies a number of improvements, and the
amount of excellent work they can turn out in a limited
time makes them an almost indispensable adjunct to
modern workshop equipment.*
Another tradition gone by the board!
The reputedly frozen wastes of Siberia so attracted
the soldiers who passed through them to the war
that Russia has been emptying itself out eastward
ever since. “ One of the greatest migrations in
history,” the Japan Advertiser, calls it. The
last figures taken showed 420,000 immigrants in
three months! The next Japanese mainland
campaign may bear a different complexion.


EDUCATION BY POST The Proprietors
T T , r> • ii Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of Thb
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore 6end for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address—Stott and Hoare’s Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.*
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
“Post Your Order=
Direct
to
Us!
It does not matter where you live—thousands of miles away,
perhaps— yet you can obtain our Catalogue, which enables you to
secure the Best of Clothes, etc., at the most reasonable prices.
Smart Sac Suits, to your order, from 50/- upwards. Ready-to-
Wear Clothing for tropical or cold climates, Boots and Shoes,
Shirts to order and Ready-for-wear, Pyjamas, Dressing Gowns, Hats,
Caps, Collars, Ties, Umbrellas, Leather Goods of all kinds, Uni-
forms, Ladies’Tailor-made Costumes. Send a post card for Catalogue.
Now! Absolute satisfaction is guaranteed or money refunded!
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The Patchwarra bore, in the north-east of
S.A., within hailing distance of The Edge, and
within a giant’s coo-ee of the treeless Farrell’s
Flat, where the north winds are never at rest,
promises to lie the deepest hole of its species in
Australia. It is now down 4500 ft. The locality
is in the centre of the known artesian area, and
when it was started the promoters reckoned that
the water was at least a mile below their feet.
Already the orifice is down the biggest part of a
mile.
“ Cicfc The
d istinguishi n g
feature of the cur-
rent aboriginal is
not his war
weapon, by a large
number of chalks.
I speak from long
experience of the
ebony one. No;
the main charac-
teristic of the pre-
sent-day Austra-
lian black is his
flea. Separate the
Out-back nig. from
his flea, and he is
forlorn. Allow the
savage and the in-
sect that he loves
to wander in com-
pany, and the faces
of both are wreath-
ed in cheery smiles.
The blackfellow’s
flea does not suffer
from loneliness.
On the contrary, I
will back the flea
appertaining toour
sable relation to
outnumber any-
thing or anyone
else’s parasite by
several billions to
the man. Struck
a deserted blacks’
camp near Wreck
Bay last summer.
The humpies—six
in number—were
constructed of
bark, and were on
the beach and near
unto the sea waves.
They were com-
posed of three walls
and fleas—chiefly
fleas. The nigs,
bad struck camp a
fortnight prior to
my descent on the
spot, and, overflow-
ing with anxiety
to garner the dark
man’s relics, etc.,
I entered. I found
nought but fleas.
They were in mil-
lions of hundreds,
also in dozens and
pairs. They leaped
plunged and crawled and otherwise gam-
bolled about my limbs and eyes, and frivolled
athwart my legs and face. The flight of them was
as the flight of eagles and whales. Frantically I
tore from the hut and made for the ocean, and
hid me and the fleas in the Pacific. Aye, of a
verity, the Aus. abo.’s chief point is his flea.
* * * *
“ Erolb ” : Note remarks of “Sr.”
(B. 21/1/ 09), who reviews previous remarks of
other writers anent (“anent’s ” good ; “ Sr.” may
have it stuffed if lie likes) the bike being the finest
means of transport known to the remover of the
jumbuck’s clothes. Also note that this is disputed
on grounds given by “Sr.,” who plumps heavily in
favor of the sulky. Both are mistaken. Not the
sulky nor yet the bike, but the brougham is the one
thing possible to the first-class wool-cutter. A
microscopic examination of the merits of each con-
veyance will prove my statement. Thus, the bike
can be readily stolen-the sulky can’t. Just here
the brougham begins to show out. The bike is hard
to drive—the sulky makes scarcely any call on
one s energies. Three to one is the odds on the
brougham now The sulky can carry more than
the bike. What price the brougham here ?
-bmally and conclusively—from “Sr.’s”ownargu-
ments—the sulky can be mortgaged more easily
and for more money than can the bike. The
brougham, so to speak, wins in a common canter
at this point. Altogether I know of only one
contrivance to beat the brougham as a shearer’s
( get-me-there, ’ and that is a six-cylinder, 90 h.p.
stinker. I should advise any shearer who is
looking round for something of the kind to pur-
chase a brougham for country and a motor for
town use. (Of course, price is no object, or “ Sr.”
would ‘Sr.”tainly have mentioned it!)
THE GODDESS COW.
PARSON (to cocky who has had two daughters and
a cow struck dead by lightning): “Believe
vie. I sympalhisc with you very deeply. I,
too, have had children of my own."
COCKY: “O ! O! Of But yer've never'ad cows ! "
The rabbit has added homicide to his other
sins. At Millthorpe (N.S.W.) half a ton of him
fell out of a capsizing cart on to Charles Martin,
and Charles Martin is dead now.
E- E. Hill, Bridgetown, W.A., writes :
“From personal experience I can testify to the
efficacy of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Last
wmter I was troubled with a very bad cough? and
tried Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which
quickly cured me. Now I keep a bottle on hand,
and take a dose at the first symptom of a cold, and
nave never since had a cold or cough.”*
INSANITARY.
BILL (haring failed to open window fastened with
new-fangled fastener): “ ’Ow they kin sleep
without eny air in a room, knocks me! It
must he a perfeek ’ell in there!"
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : Permit me gently,
but firmly, to condemn “Agricola” and “Cict”
for stating that the laughing-johnass is in the
habit of consuming carrion. The statement,
“ Scores of times I have seen goburras emerging
from the innards of a deceased beast,” will make
scores of genuine bush-lovers laugh. Possibly
“Agricola” mistook the crows of Corowa for go-
burras. In all my long and varied bush experi-
ence, I never saw a laughing-jackass eat carrion.
I have three tame goburras in my suburban home
garden-uncaged, mind. They have refused to
eat tainted meat over and over again, even when
hungry ; they scornfully hop away from meat that
is very hummy. My brothers and I kept jack-
asses on our orchard at Parramatta, many years
ago, and noted, in those dim, far-off days, that
L. Jack was particular as to his meals. When we
could not dig up sufficient grubs for the birds, we
had to get fresh meat from a near-by slaughter-
yard. Many grain-eating and fruit-eating birds
love a bit of meat, but it must be fresh or cooked.
“S.S.S.” writes about a mysterious occur-
rence :
Poison is a commonsense diagnosis of pouri-pouri.
And yet
Here’s one instance where the poison theory thuds.
A Papuan boy wandered into an island hospital the
other day. He seemed scared, and said he felt “no
proper.” The doctor examined him carefully, and said
there was absolutely nothing the matter with him, but
that he might stay in hospital for the night and absorb a
good feed. The complainant slept like a healthy babe
till, nex t morning. He consumed a mighty meal at
7 o’clock a.m. At ten minutes past he gave a mighty
and honorable howl and died.
Mamoose (chief man in the ward) said that a friend in
Ki-wai—which is 120 miles across the water—had put a
pouri-pouri on deceased, and that the cadaver (before
he was a cadaver, of course) had told them he would
finish at “close up seven.”
Post mortem said that he was well nourished, and that
all his organs were in excellent order. According to all
the rules of the game that nigger couldn’t be dead—but
he was.
* * * *
“Bill the Goose”: I have just read
“ Don Q.’s ” par re bush publicans and the various
occupations they follow (B. 14/l/’O9), and am quite
certain that my nomination will beat his by
several lengths. His name is Treacy, a resident
of Gunbower (between Echuca and Kerang), and
amongst other things he is: (I) publican (2)
general storekeeper, (3) butcher, (4) baker, (5)
postmaster, (6) blacksmith, (7) grazier, (8) coach-
builder, (9) news agent, (10) cartage contractor,
(11) tailor, (12) proprietor of livery and bait stables,
(13) insurance, machinery and manure agent, (14)
proprietor of the public hall, (15) chairman of the
local butter factory and most of the local sporting
and other clubs. It is probable that there are
other jobs, which fill in any spare time he may
have, but the few quoted above should suffice to
establish him high up on the list as a really
numerous publican.
“ Boronia ” : The rain which fell in large
quantities during a heavy thunderstorm here
(Bridgetown, W.A.) t’other day was of a dirty
color, and tasted like smoked weak billy-tea.
Was unable to account for it for a time, but I
think I’ve got it. In the direction from’which
the disturbance came there had been extensive
bush-fires, and most likely when the clouds of
vapor were passing through the clouds of smoke
the moisture was discolored and smoked by it.
* * * *
“ Uckle ” : Strolling along the bank of a
creek t’other Sunday afternoon, searching for the
music of rippling water, which wouldn’t ripple
worth threepence, I happened upon a pathetic
tragedy. Just inside a newly-erected wire-netting
fence were many dying, dead and very dead tor-
toises. The poor little beggars had turned a wav
from a dam in the paddock, from which they must
have been drawing their supplies, and made for
the creek. When they struck something new
in the way of the stuff that the Ma
State Government stole, they had not the
sense to turn back to the dam, but died
there, with their leathery necks stretched out
through the netting, vainly trying to reach the
water, just five yards away. Of the few still
alive, the big majority were babies. Perhaps the
parents died heroes’ and heroines’ deaths, and so
saved the nippers. It looked like it.
* * * *
“Snell”: When Merton, of Bee Flat,
stole down the orchard one night last summer and
discovered a disreputable stranger deliberately-
robbing his hives, his anger was great. But
Merton was slow to show spite—slow but sure-
He went back to the house for reinforcements,
and returning, aided and abetted by his son, who
was just as Large as Merton, and just as tardy in
his emotions, seized upon the marauder, tied him
hand and foot, threw him into the stout log fruit
house, locked the door, and once more retired
for the night. Shortly after daybreak a
yelling employee awakened Merton with terrible
tidings. The fruit house was burned to the
ground. Merton arose and dressed himself. He
went and looked fixedly at the smoking heap.
His son joined him, and the two Mertons stared
for ten dreadful minutes. Then old Merton
licked his dry lips, and said thickly: “Is yon
murder or jist manslaughter, Andrew, maybe?”
Andrew licked his lips and replied that he “was
no well acquaint vvi’ the finer points o’law,” but
he sagely surmised that it was murder with ex-
tenuating circumstances. The Mertons then
raked over the hot ashes till they found the
smouldering remains, after which they silently
harnessed a pair to the American waggon, and
drove into the next town and gave themselves up
as accessories before the act. The results were
tremendous and complicated, and there were tri-
bulations, investigations, analyses, and medical ex-
penses for fully two hours before it was satisfactorily
explained that the mortal and smouldering re-
mains were those of a sun-dried sheep. No
human bones were to be found, and a thick and
oppressive mystery hung over the Mertons till
one day, when a bloke called and said he had met
two coves near the waterworks last March, and
the coves had told the bloke a shrieking story of
how they bilked the benighted beekeeper. A mate
had rescued the captive, then the two substituted
a desiccated sheep and fired the hut. Merton
thought over the matter in an ominous silence for
two days, and then he exploded. “ Damn ! ” he
said. He added, remorsefully, “There! I kenned
this, terrible beesiness would be the imperilin’o’
my immortal soul.”
RISKY.
“I wouldn't use them mugs, Bill. Yer don't
know who's been a-drinkin' out an 'em.”
“Cict”: Re the kookaburra’s disputed
absorption of carrion. While I hail “Agricola”
as a sort of picker-up, I blush o’er his tale
wherein he sighted 14 Jacks consuming one
deceased Carbine. I still adhere glutinously to
my original statement that “the jackass devours
dead meat during famines and out-of-toil
seasons ” ; but that 1 l-6doz. of him would delib-
erately meet and gluttonously jubilate for several
successive days over any old defunct nag is—
well, an error of judgment on the part of my
backer. In 30-odd years of watching, I have
always failed to note more than four of the song-
sters in a herd, and these consisted of the sire
and dam and their offspring; and the congrega-
tion usually occurred j ust prior to roost-time.
AT BUNGENDORE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The new Minister for Home Affairs [Mr. Mahon] is
throwing himself with energy into the task of settling the
question of the capital site. Mr. Scrivener, who left on
Saturday for Yass-Canberra, has been commissioned to
make a provisional selection of a site for the city. He
has been reminded that the site must have a catchment
area large enough to place beyond doubt the question of
a pure water supply for all seasons of the year. He has
also been warned that the location must be one of beauty
—that it must appeal in some decree to the sense of the
picturesque, and give ample opportunities for expansion.
Mr. Mahon thinks that the exact location will be, in all
probability, the small settlement known as Bungendore,
just by the shores of Lake George.— The Age ( U/l/’O9 ).
See him hurtle through the air—Scrivener the debonair—
He is loaded with instructions, he is freighted with com-
mands ;
Mister Mahon’s warning grim, 10, it animateth him—
He is reaching out for landscape with enthusiastic hands !
He is chasing Mahon’s sites, and he cannot sleep o’
nights,
For he seeks an inland Athens where the Cotter doesn’t
roar;
To Apollo lift your song—we, the neo-Grecian throng,
Soon shall hearken to the statesmen when they spout at
Bungendore !
Where the Cotter sometimes flows we shall hear their
perfect prose—
We shall hail our Mister Mahon as the modern Socrates ;
With our philosophic guide we shall sail on pleasure’s
tide—
On the plains of fair Yassberra we will all grow quite
obese !
“Beautiful must be the scene,” said his Nibs with
stately mien—
“ Seek that lake w'hose curling billows sometimes foam
upon the shore ;
But, whatever else you do, paint the sky a peerless blue—
We must have some special sunsets when we dwell at
Bungendore 1
“ When our fleets of ships arrive they must find a bustling
hive—
Dig a ditch, sir, from the Cotter to the shores of Jervis
Bay ;
Look, young man, at Panama—at Suez catchment area,
Never mind how much it costs us—l have spoken, go
away l”
So the young man sadly rose, and he struck a martyr’s
pose,
For, alas 1 he finds no landscapes fanned by gentle
breezes o’er;
Mister Mahon sentenced him to a dreadful fate and grim,
For there’s only dust and locusts to be found at Bungen-
dore 1
Still the Seeker wanders on—pale and gaunt and woe-
begone ;
Lo, he paces through the desert tho’ the sun-rays beat
and glare ;
He has orders to obey, so he wanders day by day
Seeking vainly for the beauties and the scenes which are
not there 1
“ This,” he mutters, “ is the spot,” as he mops his fore-
head hot.
“ This is where he said I’d find it, here the City’s spires
must soar ;
Here the Forum shall arise, here the Statesman—blast
the flies 1—
Here the voice of Willy Kelly 6hall resound at
Bungendore I ”
Mister Mahon distant sits—yea, his brow with thinking
knits.
He is whirling round his office with tremendous energy ;
He is making lovely plans whilst the sun his searcher
tans ;
“ What a City”—hear him mutter—“what a Marvel it
will be 1
Ancient Thebes and Babylon, Paris new and Washington—
These shall pale their splendors paltry, men of these shall
prate no more ;
I will raise a capital that shall spiflicate them all—
I will flabbergast creation with my works at Bungendore !
“ Pericles within his grave—he shall tear his shroud and
rave.
I will beat his blessed Athens and his boasted Parthenon ;
I shall build a City there that would make Vitruvius
stare
I’m the Man to build and bustle, I’m the Man to Push
Things On !
Scrivener will find the place which my Capital shall
grace—
Yes, of course I’ll call it Mahon—never thought of that
before ;
Nations far shall guess my fame when they hear my city’s
name—
I must place my marble statue on the heights at Bungen-
dore 1
“Like Athena I shall stand—l shall find some Phidias’
hand—
Find a sculptor who will sculp me in the Praxitelean
style ;
Make a memorandum, Jones, to be careful with my
bones—
I’m a Man whose fame shall echo round this planet quite
a while 1 ”
Thus the Builder babbled on, whilst the distant mirage
shone—
Whilst his Searcher sat despondent by the Cotter’s arid
shore 1
sitting there amongst the crows, lo ! a tear runs down
his nose—
’Tis the only drop of moisture to be seen at Bungendore l
VICTORIA.
GRANK HERVEY.


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0* Robinson, Proprietor
MR. T. C. ALLEN, Registered Patent Attorney and
Consulting Mechanical Engineer, begs to notify his
many clients and friends that he has dissolved partner-
ship with Mr. Arthur Griffith (late Griffith and Allen) and
will continue to practise in his own name at Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Buildings, corner of King and
Pitt Streets, Sydney.
EARRINGS.
The prevailing fashion is for Earrings.
Will it go out ? Will the fashion hold ?
Yes, certainly, only more so.
Earrings are being worn more and more
daily. They are becoming more pro-
nounced each month. Royalty, Vice-
Royalty, Leaders of Fashion all favor
them. They will run for years.
We make them.
Whole Pearl,
Diamond and
Amethysts,
£3/15/- pair.
Diamonds and Rubies, £25 pair.
Pearls and Sapphires, £B/8/- pair.
Pearls and Peridots, £6/6/- pair.
Pearls and Turquoises, £5/5/- pair.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“X.P.D.”: The Mamba River (Papua)
carries some natural history that I’ve not yet seen
in print. About sunset swarms of butterfly-like
creatures with fat bodies appear over the surface
of the river, alternately flying and lowering their
after-parts in the water, over which they then
skim like miniature hydroplanes. They disappear
as suddenly as they come, just before dark, and
may not be seen again for days. What they are
or what they gather from the water is a mystery.
A SQUARED ACCOUNT.
M UM: “ I told you I’d beat you for playing
with that Crawford boy.”
SONNY: “Yes, but that's settled. His mother
licked him for playin' with me.”
Some Hastings (Vic.) fishermen lately
captured a shark 15ft. Gin. long and 7ft. in girth,
whose contents included a full-sized porpoise and
another shark sft. long. Apparently, owing to an
oversight, an inventory of the contents of the pas-
senger shark wasn’t taken.
ACCURSED MYRBOO.
1st S WAGGIE: “ How fur is it to Myrboo?”
2ND DITTO (enraged): “ Myrboot Dam' Myrboo!”
1ST D ITTO: “ Wot yer got agen Myrboo ?”
2nd DITTO (more enraged): “I lost the lid o’ me billy there.”
. “ Dandalup ” : Some time ago I went
fishing between Geraldton (W.A.) and Gainar
von. Our fishing ground was Shark Bay—and
there I met Nellie. I had heard Olaf, the skip-
per, and Old Fred, the cook, talking about her for
two ’ days after we entered the placid waters be-
tween Dirk Hartog Island and the mainland. On
t he second day, at sundown, Olaf looked out
across the crimson sheet of liquid. Old Fred was
leaning over the gunwale, for’ard, sucking the
grandfather of all “ stink-pots.” “ Seen anything
Q f h er) p re d ? ” asked the skipper, searching the
h 0 “Not a sign,” answered the cook,
“Strange,” muttered Olaf, “she ought to have
been aboard yesterday.”
He seemed depressed.
“P’raps she’ll sign on in
the mornin’,” suggested
the cook. I was curious.
Who was Nellie ? An-
swers from skipper,
crew and cook were all
unsatisfactory. I began
to get suspicious: my
Sunday-school morals
were threatened. I
hinted that I would be
no party to anything of
that sort. The skipper
only smiled sadly and
said, “ Carn’t be help-
ed.” At daybreak next
morning we were all on
deck when Old Fred
exclaimed “There she
is ! ” Suddenly some-
thing swished past my
head and settled on the
top of the companion.
It was Nellie ! She was
the prettiest little sea-
gull ever seen, and she
hopped gaily about on
one leg. Years ago she
had lost the other in
some unaccountable
way. She has never
been in captivity, still
is perfectly tame ; will
feed out of one’s hand,
and will stay with a boat
that she knows the
whole time it is in those
waters. She is an in-
stitution in Shark Bay,
and the fishermen who
come north from Gerald-
ton once a fortnight
eagerly look forward to
her visits; and there is the
revenge of a score of leather-handed,
sun-browned sea-rovers for any man who dares to
injure a feather of her body.
* * * *
“Milky White” writes :
Even the most gifted abo.-liar could not have produced
a more wonderful effect than that which followed a series
of hailstorms—or rather one protracted hailstorm—on
the Gembrook (Vic.) hills early on Saturday, 23rd Janu-
ary. After a long spell of heat, during which bush-fires
ravaged the hills incessantly, a couple of days of inter-
mittent rain led on to intense cold. At 6 a.m. on the
Saturday the thermometer registered 40° Fah. At
8 a.m. it showed 37°, and thence fell quickly to 35°.
About 8 o’clock dense black clouds gathered on the
hills, bringing semi-darkness, and “ raining ” hail as
big as wrens’ eggs. For an hour the “ stones ” fell con-
tinuously, and for minutes together so thickly that
trees 20 yards away were screened off as with sheets of
snow shot through and through with streaks of grey. The
storm passed with a fierce shower that flung jagged pieces
of ice crashing through window panes, and doing much
other damage. At 9 o’clock the roadways and the cleared
ground were covered with from 4in. to 6in. of hail-ice,
and all the open countryside looked as if completely
covered with snow. When the summer sun broke through
and shone on this, one had to shield one’s eyes from the
white glare. But the scene was wonderfully, weirdly, fan-
tastically beautiful while it lasted.
“ Lantana ” : Witnessed a rather curious
happening at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) t’other
day. A big crowd had got itself together and
was absorbed by the unusual spectacle of a Hindu,
accompanied by a wife of his own persuasion and
color. A Hindu with a colored wife is an anomaly.
Half-a-dozen other turbaned rascals, accompanied
by their white misfits, made up the rest of the
procession, but they excited no comment. That
sort of partnership is an everyday and common
alliance in the sugar districts of Cornstalk Land.
* * * *
“N.0.J.”: Ten years ago, when a big
drought lay heavy upon the land, I struck S.
Aus. and learnt that Surveyor-General Goyder
had drawn an imaginary line across the country
beyond which saltbush began and rain nearly gave
out. This north land was then in the grip of the
locust, the rabbit and the crow. Many up towards
the line who could get away from the shopkeepers
trekked south. Some ran away and disappeared
to God knows where. Others stayed, and verily
they have had their reward. Six years ago good
seasons arrived ; and many farmers, who seven
years bade were granted seed wheat, can lay their
hands on thousands, and they can afford to store
their wheat for “rises.” Farms bought at £6 per
acre in 1905 have already paid for themselves.
There are instances of farms bought at £8 per
acre paying for themselves in one year. Of
course, S.A. will be hit when the next drought
happens, but it will be a staggerer, not a knock-
out. A while back, a railway man passing a
wheatfield at Eudunda noticed a stalk with two
heads. He collected and sowed. Result, stalks
with as many as seven heads. He is sowing two
acres of this wheat this year, and farmers are
anxiously waiting to see the numbers go up. If
it proves a permanent pattern of good milling
qualities, what price the easily cultivated lands
of S.A. ?
• * » *
“ M.W.” : The other day I saw a fencer
dumped down on a deserted country siding, with
an assortment of tools, tucker, cooking utensils,
bedding, etc., that must have weighed every bit
of 3cwt. He was going to a job nine miles away.
A long, anxious-looking youth drifted down to
him from nowhere-in-particular. “Want a hand,
mate?” he asked. “No, thanks,” replied the
fencer. “Yer can’t get no carts about ’ere, ” volun-
teered the youth. “Don’t want any.” “Well,
’owinhell yer goin’ t’ shift all that by yerself ? ”
“You’ll see when I’ve finished me smoke,” said
the fencer. The youth drifted down to me. “Must
be a professional weight-juggler, or a new-chum,
or a blanky lunatic!” he said, casually. The
fencer finished his smoke. Then he pulled a
small, wooden, iron-bound wheel from a bag, and
threaded through the centre of it a wire-straining
roller. To this axle he attached two fencing-bars,
and across them with wire fasten* d other tools.
Inside fifteen minutes he had fashi* ned a legless
wheelbarrow strong enough for any 1 bing. _ With
his dunnage piled upon this, he faced his nine-
mile tramp with a “So-long!” that said, quite
plainly, “That beat you now, didn’t it?” The
youth said “Well, I’m damned !” and melted
away into the nowhere-particular again resignedly.
I believe some bushmen could make a presentable
substitute for Heaven with two bits of wood and
a trifle of wire.
BESIDE THE TAMAR.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Beyond the city’s towering spires,
Across the sapphire bay,
The red sun droops in regal fires,
And slowly fadeth day.
Yet many a mile beyond the pall
That darks the far hill’s brow,
How calm the sacred twilights fall
Beside the Tamar now.
Bat-like the dusk flits down. I know
Just how the shadows lie,
And where the white-robed orchards show
Beneath the star-strewn sky,
When break the golden morning hours,
Dew gemmed on bower and bough ;
Methinks the ways are sweet with flowers
Beside the Tamar now.
The while tall gums, the blackwood dark,
The wattles’ fretted sprays
Are tossing free by hill and park
A thousand different ways.
The magpie whistles to his mate,
The rustling reed beds bow,
The cuckoo’s calling soon and late
Beside the Tamar now.
The budding willows sweep the tide,
The lazy leaves drift down,
The wild briar decks on either side
The red road to the town.
The spring—the wine of Life, the joy
(Full well my heart knows how)
Is in the air without alloy
Beside the Tamar now.
Bright buttercups will deck the land
With shiny cloth of gold,
The feathered grass on every hand
Waves wide by wood and wold.
Ah me ! with weary, longing eyes
Through memory’s glass, I trow,
I see the dreamer’s paradise
Beside the Tamar now.
Gold harps of life where youth oft played
Lie broken by its vales.
Grand thoughts and dreams by bright Hope stayed
Are lost amid its dales.
What wonder heart and mind go back
A long, long road, I trow,
And take the memory-lighted track
Beside the Tamar now ?
Back of the years, the years behind,
Ah, well, there’s nought may last.
Who said the mill might never grind
With the water that is past?
Yet Fate might some sweet gleams restore,
And one lost day allow,
If you and I might meet once more
Beside the Tamar now.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
G. Green : (1) Yes, a great many ; (2) we don’t
want to enter into a lying competition with the other
papers ; (3) yes, also in Papua, Fiji, New Caledonia, the
Northern Territory—pretty well everywhere, in fact...
E.L. : “ Dew ” is a pretty bit of verse —pretty in the sun-
shiny and moonbeamy sort of way—but we can seldom
spare space for sun and dew poems and little things about
flowers The B.: “ Twilighters ”is full of a vague and
gentle prettiness, but it says nothing definite, and gets
nowhere in particular Careel: All bad, and the
trouble of trying to decide which is worst has given the
subeditor a headache Cape Yorke : “ Camille ”is too—
too—too precipitous. It is a boshter for precipitous-
ness Lela M. : Conventional story, with convention-
ally happy ending.... Weeroona: The cook’s tale is clever
in spots and interesting in spots, but the metre is too
bumpy and irregular... .L. 8.: “Tropical Butterfly” is
the best of the batch, and even it fluttered out at
last Scipio: “Strange” is rather a weak
little thing, though full of good intentions
Raymond George: The mart who says “ I told you so ”
has been so often and so heartily cursed that we are giv-
ing him a rest from vilification... C. Osborne : The
rhyme beginning “ Mary poisoned mother’s tea” is an
old, old chestnut. Your illustrations to it would damn
it utterly were it quite new W.A.0.: Interested to
hear that your boss tackled a lawyer-fellow on Friday
last, and gave him a hiding, bub it is a matter for the
local judiciary rather than for one of our cartoonists....
..Brownie: Carries no conviction with it....5.T.P. : Ab-
surdly pretentious and inflated.. ..Rona : Hopelessly out
of our line A.W.: Yes, you are improving; but you
haven’t “arrived” yet ..Tepre: The versification is
clumsy, and it is certainly not true that “ all mankind
are born possessing souls to industry averse.” Speak for
yourself, you know Norman C. : Goes well enough,
but shows a good deal of dragging-in Louis Blake :
Sorry they don’t hit us in the right place M.G.G. : All
that'can be said of it is that it might have been worse
Talia: Hazzan doesn’t appeal to us. Modern Pashas
don’t mutilate female slaves and such-like valuable pro-
perty on a point of minor discipline H.A.W. :
“ White Nights ’’ is wanly sentimental, and so it drifts,
sobbing, into the outer darkness, and there abides....
Carolus: Have six good reasons for not printing “Grief’s
Jealousy.” One reason is that we don’t like it... ,R. A.H. :
Pretty verse, but only pretty. Why not send it straight
to the girl ? When she read it she would fall on your
shirt front and crush it to death... .S.N. : “ Missing the
Boat” is the most ordinary tale received at this office
since the late Queen’s jubilee....J.W.B.: “ Local Color"
is colorless itself—deadly pale, in fact Le Fou : Re-
quired more dramatic treatment.. ..Boswell: Good stuff
in it, but it needed stronger handling Vendetta : Two
extreme cases. All poets are not drunken wasters, and all
merchants are not mean-souled hypocrites Tanekahu :
“The Gambler’s Flight ” is m uch the best, and that is spoilt
by occasional weak lines... .S.R.T.G. : Interesting as an ex-
perience, but ineffective as a story H.E.R. : “The
Slayers ” has some crude force, but lacks the necessary
finish Quambo: You leave too much to the imagina-
tion A.S.T. : Hamlet’s observation applies well to it,
“ Words, words, words !”... .Dennis W. : Just consider
the end of it, and you’ll see that you have really destroyed
your own position.. ..Mollie B. : Pretty, certainly ; but
the theme requires more than prettiness... .Sabina:
Without form and void F.T.C. : Far-fetched and over-
strained Myra : Better than the last; and, let us hope,
worse than the next. ..Cumbungy : Reversolets are off...
Owen F. Ollealley: Write to Mr. W. G. Higgs, Post
Office Chambers, Sydney Demo: A bright touch or
two, but in the sum too heavy L.T.W. : Your essay
hight “ Home Influence ” contains several truths that we
seem to have heard before. F’rinstance, “Place does
not constitute Home. Many a gilded palace and sea of
luxury is not a Home. Many a flower-girt dwelling and
splendid mansion lacks all the essentials of a Home. If
the spirit of the congenial friendship link not the hearts
of the inmates of a dwelling it is not a Home. If love
reign not there ; if charity spread not her downy mantle
over all; if peace prevail not; if contentment be not a
meek and merry dweller therein ; if virtue rear not her
beautiful children, and religion come not in her white
robe of gentleness to lay her hand in benediction on every
head, the Home is not Complete.”. .H. Leffler : Your sort
of verse is not our sort of verse. For one thing, it is too
elderly. An instance :
No ! If this slighted heart must see
Its faithful pulse decay,
Oh, let it die remembering thee,
And, like the burnt aroma, be
Consumed in sweets away !
Phiz: For Heaven’s sake “space” your copy more
generously. Copy-paper is cheaper even than the eyes
of journalists.. .Fred V.: Worn to rags G. Meek:
“Actors of the Blade” is a good theme indifferently
handled Millamana: The poems are bad. The par-
able is neatly done, but such things are out of our line.
The Wasp: Print your “tribute” to show people
what they are liable to if they take to pugilism as a pro-
fession :
Tribute to the Memory of the Pugilist, late Peter
Jackson, Clever Heavyweight, Colored.
The angel of death soars to and fro
Among Life’s mighty throng ;
It claims a victim whene’er it likes.
Life’s span is short and long.
Alas! faded and gone is poor Peter Jackson,
Who could hold his own with the star pugs of the world.
He defeated Jim Smith, old England’s champion,
When his banner of fame was proudly unfurled.
In the prime of life the pugilistic warrior,
After a lingering illness, did fade and die.
And sacred to his memory an elegant tombstone
Marks the place where his ashes lie.
..C.M.O. : Yarn re the leg-pulling mail-coach driver
who told a wayside ’roo that there were “ no letters to-
day,” and so stupefied a Briton, appeared in a recent
BonuiTiN Ninrum Nage: “Disillusioned” is not
poetry, nor is it grammar. It is only obscure. In a few
hours it will be dead Trev-Allyn : Poets are strictly
forbidden to muse on the might-have-beens in this
journal O.D.D. : Anecdotes headed “Youthful
NaivetA” are fore-doomed. No youth is allowed to be
naif in these columns K.C. : Two of your tropes
aroused our admiring interest, viz.:
(1) All aerial ones are now in slumber cast,
Except the beetle that goes buzzing past.
Poor foolish creature, he-—like maiden fair—
Flies recklessly unto the heart of Glare.
(2) Ah, well outwitted ! O’er a sloping champ
Pale Luna stretches forth her burnish’d lamp.
But what is a sloping champ ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Cecil M.: What you send isn’t a joke ; it’s a landmark
in ancient history ...S. Crawford : Such a drawing would
constitute an insult either to the dead or to beer. We
can’t entertain the idea of it.


Ife
I^KeJ
s r ,
A ill
a Jfl
t i
°n I
( Importer K
Conference /
6 \
J CooKyj
,;,, s Bvi *
Cs** J’Any'
" Ihe Joroordvmme for
twice A$ thAt" op
Wisher C°v«rnirrent“. [A^e]
fdgfgd
"IsAusH'ali* v*
j>ref*sed 1o f>*J •
qae^+Tort
[oC f.VWeri a,t an a J
lurrcVeo*]
[ft^\
f
\
“ Ccr'tSimly I
doe%, Seem I
our rrtoney — j
Still, Quantity . |
every .
/g^u^ t: —'' WhA+" dyer me An, Will I f
\/ljy you sh» w Article
& let's* see whether iR> Worf/
> pAYitrft {*>' f"
I+i A DhnK»»/^>
AyirfisTp^
ry A L°^ n Bill \
»S to be sub»nVtte4
A\d«nno |>resenr
oj'
JNa Par I* Arne»iT~
t&n -se.
M rfttrnitiTix Wo.n S
A Vo po i -
r > «■> *
A^ + : ’ ifliKc "f^fe
over ! "
'^£orrca'n\r/g_^
i T| ce
"S°we missjvlrfo IS
} ffe.lt" however, m(byife.
State) in i"eo*r4 To +^e
from me Common
, (A^
Sajv_ Army
n - v
y. A
\l Radl/
1 The-re de&J
ih Common betv/«en ~
\ S co ty ,v i«»T jt'fie A.^.A.
| £Cov. (AnnichakelJ
w« "too noticed An
K'll'f" zJ>O(*T
AnnasJ 'fu*i<rfion I
Will Vv>y
ftonK.! '
" He "believed +£**"
C^ol.c s were
•for fje in
(jOmmonwebJfn Cjaaette
_ ■f’or bicldmo
Importation of
l.'
They
WAnt" - tb <st ic'f&te,
wt sSaJI V'ee.d
A$ Veil o«r children
[0 K&nge yt, wb
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


THE NEW
WARFARE.
London, Sunday
Evening.— In con-
sequence of the
sensation caused by
the drama, “The Eng-
lishman’s Home,” Lord
Esher, through the Daily
Mail, is appealing for 11,000
Territorials to complete the
London establishment;
Over 200 large firms are granting
their employees, who are Territorials,
three weeks’ holiday to encourage en-
listing.
LONDON, Saturday Afternoon.—The people of Berlin are displaying an.
absorbing interest in King Edward’s forthcoming visit to the Kaiser.
The entente cordiale will be carried on in deaf-and-dumb signs.
The first plague rat of the season
has been caught in Sydney.
The Missus (consulting the calendar):.
“ Here, wake up. You’ve overslept
.y ourself this year.”
Kaiser: “ What preparations are on
foot for war ? ”
Bulow: “ Well, I have just had the
keels laid for 17 Dreadnoughts,
each twice the size of”
Kaiser: “Dreadnoughts! Dread me no
Dreadnoughts! You should have
sent for the playwright instead of
the shipwright. ‘ The play’s the
thing.’ ”
THE ALMIGHTY DOLLAR.
LONDON, Sunday Evening.—The lowa Legislature is grappling with the race-
suicide problem, and is offering a dollar to a mother for each child.
Deputation (to the State Governor)': ‘‘Why, a dollar won’t pay for the pare-
goric I Make it a dollar fifty, an’ we’ll do our best 1 ” V
There is a pretty squabble on just now among the photographers re obtaining
photographic “rights” in the N.S.W. National Park.
AN AUSTRALIAN NAVY IN EMBRYO.
L.8.M.: “Well, two destroyers do not
look much for a begintliifg; but It
is a beginning—and that’s some-
thing.”
SCENE-NATIONAL PARK.
Week-endlst: “Ah l Haria, how sweet to be In this idyllic
spot with thee alone—‘the world forgetting: by the
world forgot ’ I ”
Voice near by: Just as you sit, please ; don’t move l Steady—one, two. Thank
you. This style 2s. 6d. What address?”
CARTOONLETS.


\
\
\
TheWoplds
Dentifr
nee
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
General “Curly” Hutton, once Com-
mandant of troops in Australia, has been chosen
as the Conservative candidate for Portsmouth at
the next general election. Well, language was
never known to fail him, at any rate.
“ Plugger Bill ” Martin’s management of
the “Direct Importing Co.” (Melb.) seems to
have been an unsuccessful venture. William
assigned his estate, and a local fancy goods mer-
chant bought his stock at something like Bs. 6d.
in the £l.
Besides a living reminder of one world-
wide celebrity in the son of Charles Dickens,
Melbourne has another in W, H. Hansom, pro-
prietor of one of the Press Agencies, whose father
was inventor of the well-known cab that has an
atmosphere of midnight fish about it.
Andrew Carnegie has just published his
fifth book, “ Problems of To-day,” and he is said
to have another in preparation. Perhaps in
building those numerous libraries Andrew merely
intended to provide asylums for his own literary
orphans.
The German Kaiser is quite a recluse ; he
even forbids the press to publish pars about him,
and lies in bed, with the blankets over his head :
Beneath a bushel Kaiser Bill
Has hid his light to show his “ nark,”
And in the dusk he lingers still,
Convinced the world is plunged in dark.
victoria. S.S.
John Walter Balfe, of Houghton Valley
Station (N.Q.), who died the other day, was a
cousin of Michael W. Balfe, the composer of
“The Bohemian Girl” and other operas. He
had spent nearly 60 years in the deadly North,
and, with the help of a mortal disease or two, it
killed him at last.
Many an iron “ orderly ” bin in Sydney is
branded “Thomas Broughton, Mayor, 1847.”
That looks like very ancient history, yet it was
only on the third of this month that ex-Mayor
Broughton’s widow died. And the Mayor of 1847
himself—a fine, stalwart Hawkesbury native—
lasted until a few years ago, when he passed out
at the Glebe.
ENTER ANDY KELLY, M.L.A. (N.S.W.).
J. W. Boultbee, who died on February 2,
entered the N.S.W. public service rather late in
life, and served as Superintendent of Public
Watering Places. For the last six srears5 r ears he occu-
pied the easy billet of Bail Magistrate in Sydney,
and was also frequently called upon to take the
dying depositions of the lady who had had a too-
strenuous argument with some other part of the
gentle household.
There is now no single newspaper
in the Commonwealth that is the sole
property of one cleric, the R.C. Bishop
of Perth (W.A.) having disposed of the
Perth Morning Herald, of which organ
he was for years the proprietor. The
Bishop had, at least, one notable adven-
ture in his life. He was at Glenrowan
(Vic.) —a mere priest he was at the time
—when the Kelly gang was in posses-
sion of the local hotel. Superintendent
Hare and his peelers had set fire to the
house that held the outcasts, and were
bombarding it. It contained some in-
nocent folk, who had no connection
with the Kellys. The present Bishop
of Perth dived in and rescued the non-
combatants ; also he satisfied himself
and the police that Dan Kelly, Joe
Byrnes, and Steve Hart were not
shamming, but dead. But a man may
have nerve enough to rush into burning
houses and face guns and outlaws, and
yet when he buys a newspaper he may
be knocked out in one round.
Ranjitsinghi goes back to India
with a delicate hint from the British
Government that for a reigning prince
to be away from home for a whole 12
months is a thing that shouldn’t happen
again for five years or so—which means
an end to his first-class cricket. He also
goes back with a “ stable ” of five motor-
ears, a suite of 50 (male) persons, in-
cluding three A.D.O.’s, and a private
secretary, who is R. E. Foster, Archie
Maclaren having had enough of that billet.
Another philosophical German shuffled
himself off this mortal coil last week. Lars Otto
Grundt, who practised as a masseur in Melbourne,
had been suffering from an internal something
that left him no joy in life. He went into a
private hospital to be operated upon ; but the
surgeon’s knife seemingly didn’t cut his pain
away, so he finished the “business” by slashing
his throat. Of all civilised people the Germans
are the most impatient of physical or mental
suffering, and the least afraid of risking the leap
into darkness. Also, they are the most matter-
of-fact in their way of committing suicide. At
the inquest on Masseur Grundt it was stated that
he had never “shown any suicidal tendencies.”
He just killed himself as a matter of business.
The will of Dr. Renwick, of Sydney,
M.L.O. and many other things, was proved at
no more than £7711. At one time the little doc-
tor was reputedly wealthy; but wild-cat mines
and banks and building societies tore the eyes out
of his fortune.
Herbert Flemming’s will was filed in Mel-
bourne Probate Office last week. He left £1260,
the rights in certain plays, and what are de-
scribed as “interests in the Brough-Flemming
Company.” He bequeathed the whole of his
interests in the 8.-F. Co. to Beatrice Day, but
as the combination is now disbanded,’ they
don’t amount to much. For the rest, he left
money bequests to relatives and a sum to Miss
Day, which was in the nature of a repayment
of cash he had been shepherding for her. It
is a tragic instance of the unprofitableness of
the mumming profession. At a time when the
country is abounding with prosperity, and any
sheep or cattle-owner able to read and write
is liable to possess a stud of motor-cars, one
of the soundest artists the Australian stage
has known passes over and barely leaves the
price of a bike behind him.
Bishop Stone-Wigg, late of Papua, was
a strong opponent of the tobacco currency,
and ordered that coin should be used as far as
possible. As yams, etc., were about fourpence
a hundred-weight, and labor from a penny to
fourpence a day, pennies were too big for some
transactions, so the Bishop imported a few
hundred new farthings. The natives on the
Mamba had seen sovereigns, and fairly rushed
the missionary with bundles of taro at a far-
thing a time—for the first day. A big warrior
with hair on his teeth stalked into Whitten’s
store and threw his coin on the counter:
“ Want him tomiawko, tabak, nipa, calico,
big-pella. . ..” The storekeeper explained.
There was a row in the camp that night.
A certain Pearce, who “stood for” East
Melbourne some years ago—in the interests of
John Wren, judging by parts of his platform—
was lately elected to the Vic. Political Labor
Council by a large majority. As a councillor of
Labor he should be an expert in one line of in-
dustry. He is measurer of ponies at Wren’s race-
courses.
Recollections of a once champion bikist
were revived, the other day, when Jack Parsons
arrived at Melbourne Hospital to get a wound in
his face attended to. He had strolled up to a
shooting gallery at the Eastern Market, and had
valiantly challenged his mate to pop off his
cigarette ash with a pea-rifle. Being but an in-
different shot, the mate shifted a section of the
Parsons nose instead.
The Combined Unions at Broken Hill
have got the local bands to go forth in the even-
ings and serenade the men who are in gaol for
things they are alleged to have done during the
strike or lockout ructions. When the big ’92
strike took place on the same field, sympathy was
also poured out freely on the alleged “conspira-
tors.” A lady visited the men in gaol. “Never
mind, Mr. Ferguson,” she said to the strikers’ im-
prisoned secretary, “stonewalls do not a prison
make, nor iron bars a cage.” “No, madam,”
replied Ferguson, looking around him ; “ but I
find them a most effective substitute.”
An old battler named Smith was worsted
in a quarrel with the Law last week. He was
proceeded against for rowing a waterman’s boat
on Sydney harbor without a license. The Law
proved that the license issued to him by the Harbor
Trust had been withdrawn. Smith thereupon
produced a certificate issued to him in 1875 by the
Marine Board. The Law then proved that that
certificate had been withdrawn. The ancient next
produced another certificate issued by the Cus-
toms in the ’sixties. This Noah’s Ark curiosity
was too much for the Court, and the old mariner
was fined 20s. on general principles, with leave to
take his museum of certificates to the High Court.
Mr. William Francis, Launceston Tas.,
writes:—“During the recent hot spell in Mel-
bourne, I had a very severe attack of gastritis.
I tried many remedies, but nothing did me any
good. A friend from Queensland, seeing how iil
I was, recommended me to take Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy. I did so,
and had only taken about four doses when I ob-
tained relief. I am a commercial traveller, and
visit many of the mining centres of Tasmania and
New Zealand, and will certainly never go on my
travels again without a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy with me.”*
CRICKET MOTHS.
“ The Light of the (Cricket) World.”
Suggested by the late controversy between the
players and the Board of Control.
There went out at Hawthorn (Vic.), the
other day, Thomas Johnstone Taylor, a journalist,
though of late years he confined his journalising
to Melbourne’s obscure religious press. Taylor,
who was 69 when he died, was a native of Chapel-
ton, Scotland, and had the honor of being the
parent of Mrs. HUneas Gunn, the authoress of
“The Little Black Princess” and of the recent
“We of the Never-Never.” Another of his
daughters was the second wife of the late Colonel
Templeton, of the National Mutual Life Associa-
tion.
Charles Cornelius Cheater, whose death
at 71 is chronicled, put in a little time in Henry
Parkes’ office, what time that valorous old man,
then in his prime, ran the Empire. Cheater was-
accountant, or rather bill-dodger, in the impe-
cunious concern. During the last months of the
paper, Boss Parkes lived in the office—eating,
drinking and sleeping there —in the vain hope
that by keeping down expenses he might yet drag
affairs straight.
There is a preening of wings in the Postal
Department. Next May, or thereabouts, Secre-
tary Scott will retire, and the blue ribbon of the
Department will have to be hung round somebody
else’s neck ; and as a Public Service Inspector is
also due, there will be some vacancies. Oxenham,
a comparatively young man, is assistant secretary
at the P. 0., and will probably take on Scott's
job—temporarily, anyhow. Finally either Oxen-
ham or Bright, the Deputy P.M.G. of Victoria,
may be It.
The biography (B. 28/l/’O9) of the only
Ministerial Joneses who have ever figured in Aus-
tralia, recalls that the house-
knacker lately got to work on an
old Ballarat land-mark at the
corner of Grenville and Cur-
tis streets, which in the
early days was used as a
coffee-roasting establish-
ment by its proprietor,
the late Joseph Jones,
and as a club and political-
platform factory by the
democrats of those days.
Jones, who represented
the city for many years, '
was Railways and Public
Works in the McCulloch
Ministry of 1877, and was
known as “Coffee” Jones, to
distinguish him from another
goldfields M.L.A.—C. E. or
“Mint Sauce” Jones, of the
Paschal Lamb episode. The
Bulletin has lost track of “ Mint
Sauce ” Jones these few years past;
when it last heard of him he had a job
in hand as a peripatetic lecturer fora benefit lodge
of the cold-tea persuasion.
“Ku Klux” : Be “R.S.W.” (B. 14/l/’O9)
on the lack of appropriate nomenclature among
tradesmen. In Mount Alexander-road, Moonee
Ponds, there is a Taylor who is a tailor. Directly
opposite lives a baker named Ovens. I can take
“R.S.W.” to a dozen pubs kept by Porters,
Glasses, Beers, Beveridges, etc. A Liberal and
Deform organiser (female) whose Christian moni-
ker is said to be Sapphira pervades this district,
and a prominent local citizen with aspirations in
the direction of a J.P.-ship goes by the name of
Wade.
Died last week John Bryan, aged 80.
Thirty years ago he weighed 28st., and was a
noted stage figure. He came to Australia in 1864
as chief of the Lancashire Bellringers, under en-
gagement to Coppin, and showed at Mel-
bourne Haymarket. He was as thin as a lathe
when he arrived, but the air or something suited
him, and he began to put on weight. At last he
got heavy enough to take to legitimate drama, and
he appeared as the Beadle with Jennie Lee’s Jo.
As Hercules, in tights, with Jennie as Grass-
hopper, he was unforgettable. He created the
part of the Cabman in the Silver King. There
would have been a riot in those days if a Silver
King had appeared without John as Jarvey. In
later years he lost most of his 28st.
THE PREPARATION
Best fitted to relieve and absolutely cure indigestion is
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules. They contain every
known digestant, and digest every kind of food. Good
results are always certain. For sale everywhere, price
2s. 6d. per Lin. 1 '
Medical works are, as a rule, dry reading,
but there are exceptions. Take this description
of acute alcoholism, for instance, in Dr. P. E.
Muskett’s “Australian Medical Guide ” : “ When
a relatively large quantity of alcohol is taken, at
onetime, certain symptoms usually develop. The
first effect is often to make the person wildly ex-
cited. Hebecomes noisy and almost unmanageable.
This stage is followed by a state of unconscious-
ness. The face is generally flushed, or perhaps
somewhat of a dusky color. The pulse is usually
full, the breathing slow and slightly labored, and
the pupils of the eyes widely dilated. There will
be, also, a distinct smell of liquor in the breath.”*
After all, there are doubts whether Tommy
Burns will wrest the impresario championship
from J.O.W. This daily paper advt. explains
things :
Bijou Theatre, Melbourne.—l beg to notify the theatri-
cal public that the negotiations with Tommy Burns for a
lease of this theatre have fallen through, and conse-
quently it will be available for letting as usual.—Jons
Alfred Wilson, Proprietor.
S. Aus. Supreme Court has received an
unusual sort of present. The three Judges, Way,
Boucaut and Bundey sat as colleagues on the
Bench, unchanged, for over 20 years—lBB2 to
1903. It is a remarkable record and was com-
memorated in a fine portrait by George Webb, a
local painter. The Art Gallery would not buy ;
it is said that the president, who happened at the
time to be Chief Justice Way, did not care for the
business. So the local Bar has subscribed to buy
it, and it now hangs in the Civil Court. The pio-
ture shows the three veterans on the Bench, in
full warpaint, with the master, Buchanan, below.
Boucaut and Bundey have both retired since it
was painted.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Mr. F. A. Franklyn, who died suddenly on board the
German mail steamer Bremen at Genoa, was an officer of
the N.S.W. Works Department in years gone by, but left
the public service under probably unique circumstances.
He was a man of means, his wife being wealthy. A eon.
tract was to be let for the construction of one of the large
bridges—writer forgets which for the moment—and
Franklyn was amongst those who tendered. His tender
was recommended, and Franklyn resigned his office to
commence his work as contractor. But the Works
Department reconsidered the matter. Franklyn, having
been an engineer in the office where the plans had been
prepared, was not considered eligible for that particular
work. So he lost his job and didn’t get the contract
either.
The late George Higinbotham, Chief
Justice of Victoria, and F. M. Darley, Chief
Justice of N.S.W., were at Dungannon College
together. Higinbotham said of Darley that he
was only noted at school for his “ courtly bow and
smile.” Higinbotham became a Judge in Vic-
toria in 1880, and worked steadily up to the
Chief’s chair, which he reached in September,
1886, all the occupants between the junior
puisne (Higinbotham) and the Chief—Barry;
Molesworth and Wilberforce Stephen—having
disappeared. Molesworth resigned; the other
two died. Higinbotham died in harness on the
last day of the year 1892. His old schoolfellow
had no bench-climbing to do; he stepped right
up to the Chief’s chair.
“ Kamarooka ” muses :
Years ago when the Labor party in the Victorian Parlia-
ment mostly consisted of Arthur Trenwith and little
Dr. Billy Maloney, John Murray, the present Premier,
gloried in the style of Democrat. The Warrnambool
workers esteemed him as highly as the Tories of the
borough loathed him. The latter tried dashed hard to
empty him out, but the workers and a few odd fishermen
about the port stuck to John, and he was never
dislodged. About six years ago the Vic. Assembly was
reduced from 93 members to 68. Simultaneously a big
scope of country inhabited by well-to-do cookies and
squatters was taken away from the Hampden and
Villiers and Heytesbury electorates, and added on to
Warrnambool. And forthwith the “Radicalism ’’and
“Laborism” of John Murray underwent a change.
Things reached such a pass that it became possible for
Murray, the one-time vigorous progressive, to take office
under that reactionary calamity, Bent. True, Murray
skied his portfolio in a dramatic fashion when Bent tried
to dragoon him. But it was a flash in the pan.
His latest action in gathering the Bentites to his shirt-
front puts him as near the Joe Cook-Kidston class as
not to matter.
BEGGARS ARE CHOOSERS NOWADAYS.
In making adjustments (between the Commonwealth
and the States) the States must not be treated unfairly or
their solvency jeopardised! ” —Wade.
REMITTANOE MAN (to benefactor): “Of course
you understand that my establishment is not
to be reduced in any way, and I expect to be
kept financially sound as at present.”
References to present N.S.W. Judges
whose sons, nephews and sons-in-law practised
before them at the Bar recall the fact that N.S.W.
had once a Judge whose father regularly appeared
in Court and pleaded before him. That was
Judge Wylde, of 1814 and later. He afterwards
became Chief Justice of the Cape of Good Hope,
but left his name behind him in Sydney on a
crooked little street at Potts Point. His father,
Mr. Thomas Wylde, was a solicitor with a con-
siderable practice, and, as barristers and solicitors
were amalgamated at that time, Mr. Thomas used
to appear before the Supreme Court. Thomas
Wylde had another lawyer son who became more
eminent than the Sydney Judge. He, too, was
named Thomas, and passed to knighthood,
thence to the peerage as Lord Truro, and ranks
to-day as one of the great Lord Chancellors of
England. It is not chronicled that dad pleaded
in that son’s Court.


I
Cigarettes.
9
J
y
/ s
&
Va
U£
V
/k
%
IVORY
TIPS
The Cigarette that suits His Excellency the
Governor-General should be smoked by You 1
“ IVORY TIPS” are fitted to Vice-Regal Cigarettes, and are the latest invention for rendering
the Cigarette soft to the lips, whilst preventing the Tobacco from staining the fingers.


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have foe Peivate Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful W ater Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
laouis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
The Grave, great teacher, to a level
brings
Hero, and beggar, galley slave and
kings.
WILLIS’S BOOK, “The Life of Crick,
with Reminiscences of A. G. Taylor,” is now
definitely promised to see the light in March next.
Much interest is taken in Willis’s effort to vindi-
cate his dead friend before the bar of public
opinion. Willis knew Crick for more than 30
years, and for many a long day was his close con-
fidant, so he should be able to speak with some
certainty and authority. He promises strong
censure and extra strong denunciation of some
persons sitting in high places.
Willis pledges the book to be readable from
cover to cover ; therefore many Australians are on
the tiptoe of expectancy to secure a first issue
volume. This can be done effectually by sending
5/- direct to W. N. Willis, Randwick, Sydney, and
he will see that a first volume is posted in Aus-
tralia to South Africa, New Zealand or England.
Those who believe that Crick was badly treated
by a mob of political pigmies should order the
book of his vindication without delay.
The reminiscenses of the brilliant A. G. Taylor
should be highly interesting reading and food for
the mind of the present day generation. On the
platform, in politics, on the press, or fighting alone
his ease against the New South Wales Government,
before the Privy Council, Taylor had no equal in
his time. Willis romped and scampered over the
fields at Mudgee, robbed orchards, played marbles,
and was generally a boy mate of Taylor’s. In
after life they were associated on the press and in
Parliament together, consequently much interest
is added to the work by the inclusion of some
memoirs of Taylor’s life.
DON’T SUFFER
WITHSCIATICA
ft is a form of Neuralgia and is
Cured by the Remedy that
Cures Neuralgia.
Sciatica is neuralgia of the sciatic nerve.
Sharp, darting twinges of pain like red hot needles
in the legs from the thigh downwards. The treat-
ment should be the same as for other forms of
neuralgia.
So many severe cases of sciatica have been
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that every
sufferer is justified in giving the treatment a
thorough trial.
Sciatica, beingan inflammation of the nerve, may
arise from many causes, as exposure, pressure on
the nerve, a fall upon the thighs, or lifting heavy
weights. It was a bad wetting that brought on
sciatica in the case of Mr. Joseph W. Harrison,
a well-known painter and decorator of Cordelia
Street, St. Leonards, GUenelg, S.A. The point
to remember is that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
thoroughly cured him. Mr. Harrison made the
following statement to a reliable reporter : —
“I was engaged playing in a band contest when
it came on to rain, and I got a bad soaking.
When I got up the next day my left leg was stiff, and
in a short time sharp darting pains began to shoot
up and down my leg. My doctor told me I had
sciatica, and although I took a lot of his medicine
the pain continued. When I was walking, the
sharp shooting pain was just like a live electric
wire in my leg. It would come on so suddenly
that I often nearly dropped to the ground. The
attacks often lasted for half an hour at a time.
Sometimes I would be walking along all right
when suddenly I would be hobbling almost
doubled up with the pain. My rest was often
broken and I would rise tired and worn out.
“I did everything I could in the way of getting
medical treatment, but I continued to suffer
agony for five years. Then a friend recommended
me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I got some
at Shepherd’s, the Parade Chemist, Norwood,
where I was then living.
“The second box began to make an improve-
ment. The pain eased off and did not come on so
often. As I took the third box the complaint
gradually left me altogether, and since then I
have been completely free from sciatica.”
An Unfair Practice.
There are a few shopkeepers who try to sell
their own lines when a well-known article like Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills is asked for, and this is not
fair to the customers, as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
have a world-wide reputation, because of their
wonderful cures.
The best thing to do is to trade where substi-
tutes are not pushed. The price of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills is 2s. 9d. per box; six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if there is any trouble in getting them locally
they will be sent post paid by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, on
receipt of price.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
m
wr a
s
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Ema§culators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
NO LONGER A SUCKLING.
Australia’s development is quite secure while Great
Britain continues her present naval programme. —An
anti-navy argument.
TORY POLITICAIAN: “No, sir, I don’t see that you
require any at all. You orter he quite satis-
fied t' see y’ mother eatin’ so well.”
THE BIG B OY: “ Garn, what’s the good of that
t’ me? I’ve been weaned long ago!”
Picking-up golf balls is the latest industry
■ f the Hinglish hard-up. There are some links at
tipping Forest, on the border of London, where
the Cockney counterjumping golfer puts in some
atrociously bad play on Sundays. During the
other six days of the week the ground is go’fed
by a club whose members complained that a good
“drive” invariably resulted in the loss of the
ball. A watch was kept, and two men were dis-
covered to be lying in wait for balls. On being
seized and searched by the keepers of the Forest
reserve they admitted that on a day when busi-
ness was brisk they picked up as many as 35 balls
and sold them at Is. each to the Sunday players.
Sick headache usually results from a dis-
ordered condition of the stomach, and can be cor-
rected by taking a medium dose of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. Try them and be convinced. When
taken as soon as ‘the first indication of the attack
appears they will greatly lessen its severity.*
Some of Victoria’s fool honorariums don’t
seem to have noticed that Bent has passed out
and Murray in, and that that most experienced
political trimmer, J. M. Davies, has been replaced
by Drysdale Brown as Solicitor-General. If the
new man has any backbone or sense of the fitness
of things he will immediately ask a St. Kilda
honorarium named Jacobs or Jacoby whether he
said, as reported, that the Factories Act was only
fit to drive a man into a lunatic asylum ; and in
any case he will inquire what the J.P. meant by
dismissing an acknowledged charge of keeping a
shop open long after the legal time on Christmas
Eve. These amateur beaks are sworn to adminis-
ter the laws as Parliament sees fit to pass them ;
and if Brown allows an ordinary J.P. to throw
mud at the Parliament’s law-making, then he isn’t
what this paper expects him to be.
Even Britain’s Freetrade Government now
thinks so little of its fetich that it is apparently
always prepared to abandon the thing if ap-
proached with the right kind of argument. The
British cocoa and chocolate manufacturers used
the sterling argument lately, dropping it into the
party’s election fund, where it would do
most good. They were rewarded
with a'Protective duty on the rival
foreign-manufactured goods. The
gratifying result of which sacri-
fice of “ Freetrade principles”
is that Fry, Cadbury and the
other British firms in their line
are now manufacturing 90 per
cent, of the chocolate and cocoa
consumed in their country. To-
bacco manufactured in Britain is also pro-
tected because Wills and Co. and other
firms have argued in the proper way with the
Government. The disciples of Cobden con-
tinue to swear by their Master, but they are
always prepared to renounce him when the cock
crows the right tune.
The new tariff continues on its devastating
course. On January 29 the S. M. Herald stuffed
away in its commercial news a small paragraph to
the effect that two large English manufacturers
have got tired of trying to climb over the tariff
wall, and have decided “to lay down plants in
Sydney or Melbourne capable of turning out all
the matches, both vestas and wood, required in
the Commonwealth.” So Australians are to have
the job which hitherto the foreigner has had, and
the Australian farmer will have the job of sup-
plying the match-makers, and Australian car-
penters and masons will have the job of building
houses for them, and so on around the whole circle
of industry.
England doesn’t seem to mind the dose of
Protection which its Freetrade Government gave
it the other day in the form of an Act compelling
foreign patents to be worked in the United King-
dom. According to a recent Reuter’s message :
A volunteer organisation is now being formed in Lon-
don to secure the revocation of foreign patents, unless
they are adequately worked in Britain.
Having sampled the allegedly pestilential brew of
Protection, the Londoners find it so inspiriting
and generally excellent that they have taken to
forming volunteer bands lest a drop of it be
wasted.
Pulsford, N. S. Wales’s painful Senator,
rushed off a wire to the Australian Government
as soon as he heard of the Clan Ranald wreck, im-
ploring mercy and clemency for the remnants of
the Lascar crew who had managed to reach the
shore. Pulsford had no reason for believing any-
thing else but that the salvaged Lascars would
receiye humane treatment, but he wired just on
the strength of the Petriana myth of years ago.
It isn’t recorded what Fisher replied, or whether
he replied at all; it would, however, have been
just as fair and decent a thing for him to have
wired back, imploring the interfering and gratui-
tous Aunt Emma not to commit burglary or
bigamy.
Some time back Newtown (Sydney)
Council stepped forward in the van of a very
desirable reform by imposing a yearly tax of ss. on
hoarding-advertisements, with a view to squelch-
ing the horror. It was an eminently sane im-
post, which might have done much good ; and it
was a very angry council which, the other night,
reduced the tax to Id. per yard. The council
couldn’t help itself, and some of the things it said
while making that plain were interesting. The
Mayor remarked that since the imposition of the
ss. tax Wade’s Local Government Amendment
Act had come along and said the charge shouldn’t
be more than Id. per yard. Another councillor
observed that he had talked with several M.’sP.,
who told him they had been misled when they
agreed to the penny maximum, and didn’t know
then what was behind it. A third disgusted coun-
cillor said that everyone knew the penny rate
had been engineered by interested people, and that
one big hoarding proprietor had tried to influence
him to down the ss. proposal. And the council
made many more similar remarks, and heaved a
large, comprehensive curse at the Act which
wouldn’t allow Newtown to be clean and sightly
when it wanted to.
Once more, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has put itself between the Devil and the
deep sea. It yielded to the daily papers and
State Frighters and starved itself of revenue;
also it yielded to them and “did the thing pro-
perly ” when the American Fleet was here. Now,
of course, it is short of funds, and when the
matter of the Easter Camp in N.S.W. was raised
it doubted whether the funds would run that far.
Wherefore the S. M. Herald has hysterics again :
We are to be penalised for the unavoidable and purely
ceremonial expenses of Fleet week.... It will have become
evident even to the rank and file that nothing more is to
be expected from Mr. Fisher than from Mr. Deakin. The
folly of Defence administration is that it all seems
directed toioards destroying enthusiasm—and a dead
enthusiasm is an exceptionally hard thing to bring to
life.
Apart from the point that it is simply a question
of expense (simply a question of the Common-
wealth hanging on to much more money, and
thus doing what the Herald says it mustn’t do),
it may be pointed out that it isn’t frothy enthu-
siasm that is needed. What the case calls for is
grim determination. Enthusiasm was all very
well to make men ’list in Soudan contingents and
S’African farm-pillaging expeditions ; but for the
defence of one’s own country what is needed is
the sort of thing that makes men clench the jaw
instead of opening it to make Mafficking noises.
In the North lived a feeble old maid,
Her whole body was weak and decayed.
Though her ailments seemed chronic,
Those great Pills, Laxo-Tonic,
Soon each organ in good health arrayed.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10|d. and Is. 6d.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Victorian Premier Murray has turned the
shower on to that J. Bull shindykit which is
obviously trying to pull the strings, per cable, for
a brown-coal concession. The shindykit had
assured the susceptible Taverner—who seems to
be under the impression that his friend Bent is
still boss —that “ample capital is available to
utilise the brown coal if the Victorian Govern-
ment will use the briquettes in public offices and
schools, and as fuel for the railways if it should
prove suitable.” Asked for his opinion, Murray
coldly remarked that, if the Government agreed
to the terms asked, there would be no need to
call in a foreign shindykit. Somebody ought to
explain in London that, even though the best
hasn’t happened in Victoria, still Bent is Broke.
THE SAME OLD LOAF.
The February session of the new Victorian Parliament
is to be a short one just for political odds and ends, after
which Parliament will go into recess till June. — The
Premier.
V ICTORIA: “ Wot d’yer want to take yer coat off
fer if you wasn't going to work? ”
POLITICAL REFORMER MURRAY: “To vote our
screws, o’ course !”
That the overtime clauses of Wade’s
beggarly Minimum Wage Act are being wholly
ignored' by many large Sydney firms is now ad-
mitted by the Labor Department. The clauses
specify that, besides getting the weekly 45., young
people working overtime must be paid 6d; tea
money, and 3d. an hour or part of hour. “The
Department understands that overtime is at
present being worked in some of the city and
suburban establishments” without extra payment.
In that case, where are the detectives? Where
are Wade’s police? On the morning the anti-
gambling legislation took effect police burst into
an alleged gambling shop in a suburban street.
Why is there not similar expedition where youths
and girls are being robbed ?
A. A. Billson, Victoria's new Minister for
Education, puts the beginning of a foot on the
awful child-labor curse in the back country. In
the dark days of Bentism the Mildura fruit-
growers prevailed on the accommodating Sachse
to make special holiday arrangements for the
fruit country, so that the growers could get
plenty of cheap child-labor in the picking season.
Instead of the customary month’s holiday at
Christmas, the kiddies were given only two days
then, and a bit more later on, when, instead of
holidaying, they could have a fine time, working
from morning till night. All the growers de-
clared this was a glorious idea, and that the chil-
dren simply doted on it. The unemployed who
were cheated out of a job didn’t efijoy it quite so
much; and now Billson declares that after this
season the Education Department will not allow
itself to be used for the exploitation of the
children.
Waddell, the Treasurer whom the N.S.W.
Reform party threw out on account of his financial
incompetence, and subsequently admitted to its
own bosom because presumably he and a few
supporters had votes, has been good enough to
the no-borrowing policy to denounce it. —
To make the present generation bear the whole cost
of works that would equally benefit generations to come
was a policy that could only be endorsed by political
charlatans and financial quacks.
If the next generation ought to pay some of the
cost of works now being carried out, obviously
this generation ought to bear some of the cost of
works which it uses, but which were carried out
some time ago. Then why isn’t Waddell paying
up ? He isn’t doing so either for new works or
old works—he is just passing on the bill for both
lots to the next generation. And, in addition, he is
collaring nearly two-thirds of what he gets by
selling the lands of the State, and treating that
as revenue. In ordinary business, they wouldn’t
call a man who did that a charlatan and a quack.
The Bankruptcy Court, in fact, often uses quite a
different word.
Wade’s Deform League last general election
very nearly came to fatal disruption over the
policy of the Central Executive, which gave the
old hacks the ownership of the party nominations.
The League reckons that another “ victory ” like
it claimed last time would be fatal to Deform, so
it is diligently putting its house in order. It has
altered its rules to adopt the principle of free
selection. Then next Easter it will summon a
conference of the branches on the lines of the
P.L.L. Conference. The conference is to discuss,
among other things, the best way to copy the
Labor system of organisation. Then having imi-
tated tlie Labor party’s machinery, pirated its
methods and sneaked a couple or more of its
planks, Deform reckons on having a fair fight with
its adversary.
N.S.W. Calico Jimmyism, which used to
stand to the Churches so manfully (indeed, snuf-
fling from pulpits was a favorite pursuit of Jimmy-
ism), is being pelted with a new Church transla-
tion of a verse from Zephaniah, the Prophet.
Zephaniah lived somewhere about 630 8.C., and
the prophecies he fired at Judah are taken to
apply to the world as it now goes. One of these
prophecies (chapter i., v. 8) ran : “I will punish
the princes and the King’s children and all such
as are clothed with strange apparel.” But in
“Studies in the Scriptures” (2,210,500 edition),
now issued as school prizes to Sunday-school
children in Sydney, the Bible and Tract Society
translates the words “strange apparel” into
“imported clothing.” And Calico Jimmy is say-
ing “You, too, Brutus !”
Nothing shows more clearly the spread of
Labor ideas in Victoria than the fact that the
Port Fairy electorate—a large district where Cow
is supreme, and where butter factories and
creameries are as thick almost as pubs—returned
a Labor member by a substantial majority at the
recent Yic. election, and that against a man who
had represented the district for 14 years and was
personally popular. The thing that turns the
cocky of south-west Vic. into a hot Laborite is
the spectacle of land in his part of the country
bringing £lOO, £lO5 and £llO an acre. This is
nothing out of the way. A fortnight after the
late elections a 29-acre paddock atKillarney, which
is a hamlet in the Port Fairy electorate, brought
the huge price of £l3O per acre. The cocky thinks
of his sons, and of their chances of making homes
with land at that figure, and when the squatters
talk Anti-Sosh he uses disrespectful language and
supports the candidate who advocates a big estate-
bursting land-tax.
THE CONSECRATED UNION.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Only a union of the non-labor forces in the House can
give the country the sound, strong, progressive legisla-
tion for which it has been so long waiting.—Argus
(2/2/VD).
The palsied hand of yesterday is getting back its strength ;
The sorely-smitten Tory leagues are sitting up at length !
They’re dusting down their forces, and they’re moving
things about;
The Policy we Need is now being neatly ironed out.
There, see ’em crawling feebly on their poor old hands
and knees,
With heart-sobs in their voices, murm’ring “ Mister
Deakin, please ! ”
Their bit of ragged banner, furled in cobwebs, long and
long,
Will shortly show the way to laws progressive—yes, and
strong !
Dead strong !
Oh, see their scrambling forces now attempting to arise,
To smite the demon Socialism between its horrid eyes !
Oh, long for them we’ve waited, but the waiting’s almost
done—
They’ll soon arrange to have the ranks of Labor on the
run !
Oh, do your best with Deakin, lads—he may forgive you
yet,
And help your eager forces, now on strife and conquest
set.
Yes, pray for strength renewed, for breath to sing your
triumph-song—
You’ll wantit, for the passing of your platform, tried and
strong !
Dead strong 1
The waiting has been long and dreary (far too long, in
fact),
For these, our country-saviors, to arise once more, and
act ;
But now we see them shaking off the battle-dust that
clings,
And putting pain- balm, shrinking, on their ancient smarts
and stings, .
That they may deal with Labor—yes, and smite it hip
and thigh,
And snatch its standard, boldly, in the beauteous by-
and-bye ;
“Non-labor’s” mighty forces shall advance to right the
wrong
With stacks of legislation, staid, progressive, sound and
strong—
Dead strong !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENRY.


Melbourne.
..
. •
Pump Sole
Welt Sole
la/e
BEST
VALUE
fN
Australia,
Postage
Extra
9 D
k
9
e
N? LB. 101.
Enamel Kid
Stra |G gslo3He d
Lace Shoe.
MELBOURNE.
Fine
Shoe
Dealers
■' - C/abe -}c Meth
Start the New Year Well
Make Up Your Mind to Begin NOW to
Improve Yourself —TO EARN MORE.
We can train you, so as to enable you to greatly improve
your position, if you desire to do so.
Stott’s Correspondence Cfe
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS .
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists' Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING!- TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wherever g'race, beauty
and fashion gather to-
gether, Jewels add their
fascination to the scene.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
AH Goods delivered Free on receipt of cash with order. Money back
if we do not please you. 112 page Art Catalogue on request.
Real Jewels are the completement of real beauty. Indeed, every
lady acquires enhanced charm by the wearing of good and taste-
ful jewellery, and it is a duty she owes to herself to adorn herself
according to her position, and the canons of artistic taste, with
such beautifying objects. When such exquisite personal adorn-
ments as constitute our stock can be purchased at true value
prices, there remains no excuse for any lady denying herself the
pleasure of wearing high-class jewels.
jjjj.
a»
m
C 3640 —15-ct. Gold and Choice Pearl Olivine and Ruby
Eagle Brooch, £lO 10s.
SHi
G9B73—Pair of Massive Solid Silver Brushes, with Comb,
in case, £5.
GB49s—Unique Design ... . icthyst Trefoil
Brooch, 9-ct.. (iohi, £1 ss.
Hll97 —15-ct. Gold Pearl Set Bangle, £5 10s.
G8139—9-ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, £3 10s.
15-ct. Gold, £4 15s.
C3751—15-cl Gold Pearl Set Amethyst Bangle, £5 10s.
ILLUSTRATION ABOUT HALF SIZE.
Moonstone, with Crystal Rondels between, 455. ;
Amethyst, 555. ; Greenstone, 60s. ; Blue Agate,
635. ; Malachite, 755. ; Plain Greenstone, no
Rondels, 50s. ; Turquoise Matrix, £5 ss. and £6 10s.
These Necklets are very effective in wear, and, as we
have but one of each, we counsel early ordering.
H7693—A blaze of brilliancy. Parisian Diamond
Back Comb, drawn half size, 15s. 6d.
GlO8 —“Love’s Awakening,” Handsome, Extra
Good Silver-mounted Comb, 10s. 6d.
"
EXACT SIZE WHEN CLOSEDc
Best Silver-plated Pocket Manicure. Cuts as clean as
a whistle. To be got from us only, in this quality, 2/6.
62008 —Ebon} 7 and Silver Brushes,
two in Leather Case. The best
for wear. Two sizes, 21 s. and
255.
it
G99o4—Silver-mounted Leather
Note Book, Bs. 6d.


I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
See that teapot —it’s just an
ordinary earthenware one still
it’s as good a teapot as you
can get to make tea in.
Warm it—then measure
into it the necessary quantity
of tea—fill it with water just
to the boil —let it draw for
5 or 6 minutes—and yarn’ll be
able to pour as good a cup
of tea out of it as anybody
needs drink—this applies
especially to the No. 1 Grade
Robur—the No. 2 Grade is
jolly good tea, too.
Baira
r
sm
£
*
w
<9
&
s
£
fg
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “SILVASHEEN” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 9, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
• Before the Sydney girl had a chance to Merry
Widow her head, adjust a freshly-ironed bib,
place a new tucker in position, and project herself
across the path of Earl Stanhope, that elusive
nobleman had fled to Maoriland. He went
on the Wimmera last week. However, he returns
in a couple of months, when steps may be taken
to head him off. He is tall, young, fair, good-
looking and rich. He claims direct descent from
the great Earl of Chatham (he who had the gout
so badly); also from Stanhope, the historian, and
from one of the name who was Prime Minister of
England two centuries ago. So it is quite the
proper thing that he should have the serious
leanings that he has.
The pretty Miss Henniker Heaton, who was at
the Australia with her Parliamentary dad in the
early part of last year, was married last month.
The groom was one Algernon Berkeley Paget.
Considerable pomp and circumstance attended the
ceremony. There were three small trainbearers—
Master Peregrine Henniker Heaton, Miss
Araluen Henniker Heaton, and the Countess
Alexandra von Wengersky, and three bridesmaids
—Miss Rose Henniker Heaton, the Hon. Milli-
cent Blyth, and Miss Evelyn Douglas. Each of
these elder bridesmaids was accompanied by a
groomsman. They were Lieut.-Commander R.
Henniker Heaton, R.N., Lieut.-Commander A.
Henniker Heaton, R.N., and Mr. Herbert Hen-
niker Heaton. And the bride was given away by
Henniker Heaton, senior. So many Henniker
Heatons have not basked in so much limelight
since the family first started writing history on a
penny postage stamp.
Poor little Betty Ohls, w'ho Merry Widowed
when Carrie Moore went off to shoot lions and
megatheriums, dropped her flirtations abruptly
last week and was carried off out of her part at
Her Majesty’s to battle with appendicitis in a
Sawbone’s storage-house.
The Philharmonic burst into strenuous song in
“Elijah” last week; it was Mendelssohn’s birth-
day—the gentleman would have been 100 years
old if his compositions had not killed him. Some
energetic musical men intended plunging Sydney
into the wildness of a musical festival —a Men-
delssohn corroboree lasting a whole week.
Money-grubbers, however, discounted the glory,
and thought a procession of Mendelssohn would
scarcely open the pockets of Sydneysiders to
cornucopian width. So they compromised on the
Phil, and good old “Elijah.” Maorilander
Amy Murphy shone as a particular star in
the soprano of the affair. Oratorio is her
natural field. She had oratorioed all over
Maoriland, from Auckland to Invercargill,
at every festival in those musical islands,
before J. C. Williamson annexed her for comic
opera. That engagement ran out this year, and
Miss Murphy is returning to classical concert
work once again. Miss Murphy’s mamma, who
has chaperoned the maiden in her stagey wander-
ings, is settling now in Sydney to teach other
promising nightingales. She provided the back-
bone of daughter Amy’s successful study.
Sprigs of two old families were knotted together
at St. Anne’s, Strathfield, on February 4. Arthur
Henry Moseley, son of Captain Moseley, of Neutral
Bay, was one sprig ; Lelia Maude, daughter of
Henry Gorman, the other. The groom is a grand-
son of Solicitor Billyard, who came out in 1847 to
assist in founding a North Australian colony at
Port Curtis. Mr. Billyard was to be the Chairman
of Quarter Sessions at the new settlement. The
wreck of the vessel conveying the officials damped
the undertaking, and the settlement was aban-
doned, after which Mr. Billyard was provided
with a legal billet in Sydney. Miss Gorman
comes from a family which settled on the Nepean
in its earliest days ; and her father is a director of
many modern enterprises—including Sydney
Daily Telegraph.
Rood Tarte, son of a Grand Panjandrum among
sassiety in Fiji, is coming to collect an Australian
wife—one of the Wragge (not ragged) maidens of
sheepy acres in two States. The trousseau-
hunting lady is shivering in her shoes at the war-
like cables that have been coming lately from the
land of Fuzzy Wuzzy, where it is said that the
very numerous Ram Chunder and Ali Baba are
contemplating insurrections and other disagree-
able things.
The departing Fog boat last week carried off a
Sydney honeymoon duet—the Esmond Friends.
Mrs. Esmond Friend was the pretty Clift maiden.
The captured bachelor Geach wanders about
Sydney like a lost spirit. His jiancie has deserted
him for the cool embraces of the mountain air at
Medlow. Miss Willis is a Maorilander—a Wel-
lington girl, a pretty, grey-eyed colleen who was
in Frank Thornton’s co. for a brief season.
“ Geachy” (in the language of his pals) is out nest-
hunting. He says he’d rather float fifty Stars
than engineer another attempt at finding a suit-
able house or undertake the search for the neces-
sary frying-pan.
Anyone anxious to disperse superfluous wealth
in musical funds will find a nice little covey in
this column. Mrs. Shute is arranging a concert
in connection with the Rawson Memorial Fund,
to be held in the Town Hall shortly. Then there
is the Ella Caspers benefit. There was a roll-up
of friends at the Town Hall, one day last week,
to help the girl avail herself of the singing
scholarship she has won at the Royal Academy of
Music. A well-earned meeting had a practical
result. Dr. Stewart Mackay, Mrs. Boesen and
Mrs. Dr. Maguire spoke, collecting cards were
promptly given out, and subscriptions are being
brought in. The beginning was good, and Mr.
Southwell (at Paling’s) and Dr. Mackay are still
standing with open palms.
The E. M. Woolley Memorial Fund has made
big strides.. Locally £l2OO has been subscribed,
and a startler in the shape of a letter from a lady
in London came last week. This friend of the late
Miss Woolley desires to bequeath at her death
sufficient money to raise the fund to £2OOO. The
interest on this should be sufficient to pay for the
musical education in London of a piano girl-student
of limited means, and will go a good way to-
wards her maintenance also. The closing of the
fund is fixed for Feb. 28.
Ruth and Vera Dickerson, pianist and violinist,
join the flight of the musicians to the Fog. They
leave some time in March, and the inevitable
P.P.O. concert occurs on the 4th of that mouth.
Another Australian warbler makes a bid for a
place among the nebulous going-to-be stars. Miss
Lucy Bowes, a native of Sydney, is giving a
concert in the Town Hall on February 23. She
has been studying at the Royal Academy under
Tosti and Arthur Oswald. Before that Alpen
and Riccardi helped her to stretch her vocal chords.
Big Baird, the silver-haired, juvenile-looking
showman, has arrived again on an Australasian
rampage, with half-a-dozen schemes sizzling in
his brain. He is helping a Viennese Venus of a
Salome to float on to a dance in these parts.
Salome is the lady who has her clothes put on
mostly with a sponge, and wreaths a killing look
around her revolvings.
Manager Baird saw Annette Kellermann in
Chicago—a resplendent Annette, who dresses
with all the fervor of an Upper Four-hundred
trillionaire maiden of N’Yark, and travels with
the retinue of a maid, a Gorgon aunt and a
brother. Yet the pinnacle of success has not de-
stroyed the warin-hearted Annette. Baird it
was who gave the nymph her first engage-
ment to plunge like a nice brown water-baby
in the tanks of the then-booming Princes’
Court (Melb.). An adorably curved mermaid she
was, who spent her off-the-plank spare time
rushing round in the comfort of a red “sweater ”
and a nondescript blue skirt, with a “tarn”
hanged on her crumpled curly thatch. Annette
has been diving through ’Murka, but now and
anon is devoting her curves to dancing.
Mrs. Baird, who has returned with her 2yd. Oft.
sin. of husband, was hauled by force into suffra-
gette matters in the Land of the Umbrella and the
Fog. At one meeting—in the house of the enthu-
siastic Lady Groves—Mrs. Baird was forced into
a speech under threat of being torn limb from limb
if she refused. Being the sole Australian, she was
the only woman present who owned a vote, and
they wanted to know what it felt like. Mrs.
Baird managed to explain satisfactorily that the
Vote did not drag her from her “sphere,” and was
able to triumphantly illustrate the fact with two
chubby, well-cared-for Baby Bairds in the home
cots.
Here’s a bully chance for some enterprising
capitalist to “blew” a couple of hundred, and
knock J. C. Williamson sky-high with a bumper
ballet company :
OK AAA COLORED and Tinselled Actresses, usu-
a]jy Q(j ea., t 0 ijg c i earec i at 2s. 6d. doz.,
5 doz. for 10s.
Tinselled actresses at half-a-crown a dozen ! You
really can’t get them good for less money.
The great big Butt, who is only a filmy wraith
of a memory now among the gum leaves, brought
in her retinue a very pretty sister, Miss Hook (not
of Holland). The smaller sister had vocal aspira-
tions and a relaxed throat, so, to break up the
combination, the Rumfords brought her along
to test the sun cure. Nevertheless, though
the Australian sun worked its charms, the lady
has dropped thoughts of concerts, excepting
as to a love duet with a newly-annexed
hubby, who followed her as a souvenir of the
voyage. One Williamson was the young man —a
mate on the boat that brought the Butts hither.
He was probably engaged specially for that
voyage. His height was somewhere near 7ft., and
he could get up near enough to speak to the
Butter without a megaphone.
The Muffs, with Stanley McKay in manage-
ment, are making a juvenile dash at Romeo and
Juliet. The outburst lasts two nights, with a
change of cast to relieve the strain. Sara Collins
tells her innermost thoughts to the stars on
Thursday, and Miss Prince waits for her Romeo
from a cardboard garden on Friday. The same
Romeo (Mr. Cam Marina) answers fervently to
each.
A Society darling, Mr. Orme Darvall, is to add
his baritone prestige to the Bowes Kelly concert
on the 23rd of this month. The social glamor
round the two amateur stars is hauling in the
ducats, whatever the warble may stand for on
concert test.
Motoring in the pigsty manner continues to
have a huge vogue amongst our wayback and
prominent families. The main beneficiaries
appear to be the various suburban police-court
coffers. Dr. J. C. Windeyer paid out good red
gold last week in the Parramatta Court to avoid
the pain and embarrassment of imprisonment for
motor-cycling in Parramatta at an undue speed.
Dr. Shorter did the same (his offence was com-
mitted in a motor-car); so did Mr. J. P.
Johnson, who also affected the heavier engine of
destruction, and was handed a fine of
£lO or gaol for three months. The local motor-
scorcher is a young man mostly, yet full old enough
to know better. It is Parramatta’s tragedy that
he favors it to an unfair extent. As a result of
having to continually leap for safety out of his
way, the residents of that town are acquiring what
social students term the Parramatta face—one,
namely, which wears a chronically anxious, almost
haunted expression. Of all scorchers he of the
motor cycle is perhaps the most objectionable,
Out Turramurra way, on a recent Sunday, your
Johanna saw one of three fiends steal suddenly
up from nowhere, and wobble for a second be-
tween an old woman and a small boy; then,
having decided on the boy, all in a flash the fiend
felled him with a passing clip, and departed reel-
ingly at some 30 miles an hour. The motor-
cycle gives scant warning of its approach, is less
easily identified or described than a motor, is just
as swift of escape, and is almost as lethal.
There are always new devilries to watch out for.
If a small boy (or a large one for that matter) gets
his hands on an apple he rarely waits to produce
his silver pocket fruit-knife ; but it’s a Quilp-like
crunch, crunch, outside, inside, and round about
till there is only core left. Yet if he will insist on
doing it he’s likely nowadays to strike a flavor of
arsenate of lead ; and the remainder of his life
will be too brief to allow him to criticise the
novelty. Bug-haunted orchardists are responsible.
Filled with the lust of slaughter, they spray, and
spray; and if they and their customers are not
careful, there’ll be nothing left soon but some
clean fruit trees and several lunatic orchardists
sitting gloating over an otherwise empty world.
Baling’s gave a picnic—a most-glorified spree.
It was in honor of Mr. August Gehde, who is
shining in the glory of a jubilee. Mr. Gehde has
belonged to Paling’s for 50 years—working all the
time. He is 81 years young still, and a share-
holder in the Paling co. ; and yet he will go on
battling with the out-of-tune piano. With a piano
that groans when it should say D he can wrestle
better than any junior following in his footsteps.
The picnic took a boat, and left it to Paris House
to fix up a dandy lunch and a banquet dinner on
board, and the time that was not taken up in
absorbing roast duckling and champagne was
spent in sports at Cabarita or thereabouts. The
petticoated prize-racers always found an obliging
judge holding his arms to catch the Atlanta.
So everybody had a good time all round.
Bentley’s very best band blew all it knew both
aboard and ashore, and a delicate string orchestra
breathed a somniferous accompaniment to the
tearing of food. Mr. Marich, the genial manag-
ing director of Paling’s, spoke to the honor of Mr.
Gehde, and his lieutenant, H. N. Southwell,
helped engineer the show. Mrs. Marich and her
daughter made admirable hostesses, and helped
to receive the budding Mozarts and Carrenos that
flocked aboard.
The youngest and most beautiful of the Wil-
liamson brotherly-trio of smart lawyers removes
his eligible self from these shores for a twelve
months’ wander in furrin’ parts, and walks over
hearts to the gangway of theMooltan. Mamma and
sister go along as useful chaperones, and the Wil-
liamson abode is to be left to holland covers and
a caretaker. The gilded dawdle is to be from
Marseilles to Nice, then to Paris and London,
and back to Vienna and a few other tit-bit towns
of the Continent.
The Bogus Title gag, which has been working sad
havocin Maoriland lately, is always good, after brief
breathing space, with credulous would-be smart-
setters who love a Lady. The last one of note
was rounded up in Melbourne by the redoubtable
Janet Lady after a gorgeous spin through Sydney
and Maoriland. She took Melbourne by coaxing
methods. She became ill and was carried to a
hospital, and in broken sobs visitors were given
hints of her plight—she was Lord Blank’s niece,
and her allowance had in some way got delayed.
A squatter lady of sheepv wealth carried her off
on the white silk linings of her “broom” to the
comfort of her town house, and coddled the scion
of a noble family back to life with her tenderest
jellies. All the aristocratic and titled glory of the
State called and left enquiring cards. When the
drooping one recovered and “ got going ” among
her newly-attached visiting list, she borrowed a
fiver for a cable from at least a hundred people
in turn, until a hardy lieutenant in the Clarke
circle, who harbored suspicions, made an excursion
to Reuter’s. There were no cables on record from
the lady to either lord or hind, and the military
one braved the fire of the adventuress’ wrath in an
interview. “By gad, she called me a cad,” was
all inquisitive moaning victims could get out of
the interviewer. But the Lady disappeared. The
sleepy Tasmanian Isle also boasted an Earl, who
seemed a going concern, and who dossed at
Government House on his travels. He married a
pretty S. Australian pantomime girl, and she was
a real live Lady for quite ten minutes, until some
unkind man in blue took her lordly husband away
on charges of false pretences and bigamy. Then
the lady went weeping back to her chorus row.
Surf-bathing is evolving a new type of girl in
Australia. This new girl no more resembles her
ancestors, who swooned at the sight of danger or
blood, than the sheath-skirt resembles a crinoline
confection. At Coogee, on Sunday last, at about
5.30 p.m., a lad was drowning in the breakers.
They were big breakers, and the lad was battling
with those furthest from the beach. Without
hesitation, Miss Laurine Anderson proceeded to
the salvaging. She reached the beaten swimmer
just in time, but was herself so done up when the
Life-saving Brigadearrivedthatshe had to be towed
ashore in as inanimate a state as her charge. She
remained to all appearances dead for half-an-hour
or so, and the boy looked in a worse plight; but
ultimately both proceeded home in a more or less
sound condition. If a V.C. were available for
bravery at sea, this maiden would have a valid
claim on the decoration.
Some irate citizens rose up in their wrath, the
other day, at Perth and lodged a wild yell of com-
plaint at the Central Telephone Exchange. They
couldn’t get “on” anywhere—every line was
“engaged”—and they swore loudly and they
cursed long. Officials strode forth to inquire, and
ran the culprits to earth. There had been a big
Society dance the night before, and in the morn-
ing everygirl gummed herself to a ’phone and
yapped for hours to the other girl about dresses
and fellows. Things are desperate here. too.
I met a man the other day, pacing up and down
outside a public telephone box on a suburban
railway station. There was massacre in his eye,
and with his arms folded tightly on the upper
slope of his chest to keep his feelings from
bursting forth, he pointed to the box where four
girls were wedged tightly in, all talking at once.
“ Been in there twenty minutes !” he said. The
man had a telephone at home, but he also had
sisters. . ■
The Indian Jam whom Australians remember
as“Ranji”is to be married to a maiden of his
own race. It will cause some heart-burnings in
the Cold Land, where, since his accession to a
throne and solvency, mothers with all-white
marriageable daughters have been wont to regard
him as a matrimonial catch. There is precedent
for the wedding of English girls of rank with
nigger potentates. Eor instance, Lady Anne
Coventry, daughter of the Earl of that ilk, is the
spouse of one Duleep Singh ; and there are others.
R. E. Foster, the mighty young cricketer who hit
up the record score of 287 on the Sydney Cricket
Ground in 1903, goes with Ranji as his secretary.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“Let her not walk in the sun," was
Hamlet’s advice to Ophelia. This shows that Hamlet
knew that the sun had power to mar the beauty of
women. But, in these enlightened days, women can
afford to laug-h at the wisdom of the Prince of Denmark
even as she can snap her fingers at the sun, the "reat
enemy of the complexion. With impunity she mav’golf
and motor, hunt and frolic in the surf, knowing full well
that Yalaze, the marvellous skin food, will put to rout
every freckle, dispel sunburn, tan and sallowness and
restore clearness and whiteness to the skin. 3s’. 6d
6s. 6d., and 6d. postage. Novena Sunproof Creme pre-
vents, as Yalaze removes, freckles, tan and sunburn. It
is a positive safeguard for the skin against the action of
the sun’s rays. 2s. and 3s. 6d. All chemists, or direct
from Helena Rubinstein and Co., Yalaze Massage In-
stitute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney', 274 Collins Street
Melbourne.*
A depressing picture of the tea-lady’s life
was presented by a Labor deputation to Vic. Pre-
mier Murray the other day. The Melbourne hash
maiden, it appears, maintains her hauteur on an
income ranging from 6s. to 10s. per week. There
are those who get up to 15s. per week, but such
princesses of industry are as rare as the oyster in
the soup they serve. Out of her 10s. or less the
waitress has to pay 2s. for washing and 3s. to ss. for
her room ; and after sundry deductions for break-
ages and fines, she sometimes has quite 2s.
left over to splash up on theatres, balls, races,
motor cars and suppers at the Vienna. Where’-
fore an intensely ladylike voice arises and demands
a Wages Board ; and Premier Murray seems im-
pressed by her plaint, and the reasonableness of it.
The most important thing in the life of
the individual is health. Without it nothing is
much good. Wealth, power, and great men’s
praise are hollow things to the sick man. The
man who is thoroughly well is successful in what-
ever walk of life he may choose. He can battle.
And because the world is full of people who are
sick, and do not properly realise it, the man who
is really well becomes a leader among his fellows.
And so it is with the nations. The nation that
possesses the greatest proportion of healthy citi-
zens will be the dominant power. The Bulletin
proprietary desires to see Australia a healthy nation
and strong; and, by way of doing its little bit
toward bringing about that desirable consumma-
tion, it is issuing a special edition of the Austra-
lian Household Library, by Dr. P. E. Muskett,
an eminent Australian practitioner (usually sold
at £4 Is.) for £3 post free.*
“C.J.D.” on some North Coast (N.S.W.)
land :
“ Itan,” in a recent Bulletin, talks nonsense about the
Bonalbo-Duck Creek lands and the way they were thrown
open. There was no grab about it. The State merely
acted as any good landlord would whose estate was not
bringing in a fair return. The land in question, about
76,000 acres, had been open for original conditional pur-
chase only since June 24, 1905, at £1 per acre ; but no
“ greedy land-grabber” made any move to annex it, not-
withstanding that the locality was being constantly re-
commended by those who knew the country. On June
19 two selections were taken up : nothing else was done
till late last year, when several farmers from the Big
Scrub near Lismore, who w'ere being pinched for room,
and some South Coast and other land-hunters, applied to
the writer, asking him to ask the Lands Department to
make the area available for conditional lease as w'ell as
original conditional purchase. This was done on October
21, 1908. The Department acceded at once, and land that
had stood open for over three years as original conditional
purchase is now being taken up by a hardy yeomanry,
who will make this district (that only supported a few'
men, who looked after its herd of cattle) a prosperous
home for 1000 or 2000 people. There are already over 70
selections taken up in this district, and more will follow.
None of the men have any political influence, to the writer’s
knowledge. There is no railway line in the air within
anything like a reasonable time, unless a miracle is per-
formed, and those who have taken up this land will be
from two to four years before they reap a penny of profit
from their “ land grab. ”


fgd


“FODDY.”
The children’s pet name for Faliere’s
Phosphatine Food. They like it, and it
■ „ is good for them—the best food. It forms
bone, muscle and brain. It makes good
teeth, and is in every way the perfect
food for infants and children. Free
sample from Joubert & Joubert, 552
.Flinders Street, Melbourne; Claude
gealy & Co., 63, Pitt Street, Sydney ; or
. & J. Fowler, Ltd., Adelaide.
FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food „
IN SILK, QUALITY COUNTS MOST.
EMBROIDERY WORK on which one spends per-
haps months of leisure, requires that the very
choicest silk obtainable be used in its execution.
Otherwise the effect is spoilt by the impossibility of
catching the exact tints of Nature.
CARLSON CURRIER
SEWING and
EMBROIDERY
SILKS
are the World’s Standard—and sold in fast colors
ranging from the most delicate to the richest shades.
Let us send you a FREE copy of our Booklet, “ Art
Needlework,” giving many useful Hints on Embroid-
ery and giving beautiful reproductions of examples
worked with Carlson Currier Silks. In return all we
ask is the name of the Draper you buy from.
Leading' Stores Everywhere sell
CARLSON CURRIER SILKS.
Carlson Currier Co.,
The Block, Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
C ■ wr*\
ILJ
1 Tv'fili
Hr! I
Ks-f
f'tj
* ,1
U-J
m
if
m
fc
-Lasts for years
'&does not Kink
or burst
Thats why
we a reselling
mill ions of feet
of this
Durable Hose?
UneQualledfor
|Ouality© Price
Obtainableat
all leadingstores
but only accept
"DUNLOPBRANDS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
,Melh'3ydney, Adelaide,
j Perth,Brisbane *iL
| Christchurch, N.Z.
Wher\
I
im
Goin£
To /ollow
In
Father's
Footsteps
&, wear f
ďgf
& ft
for he s<vys
they’re Great
wear .
«.- • comfort
Obtainable
all Stores
Accept only
DUN LOP" BRAND
1 ;■
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
“The best i* the country-
side, i* faitb.**
*3*
rsold lay all Grocers in Red, Bine, and Green PacKets,
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 8, 1909.
My Dear Yarrie,
The weather perked up for the first day’s
yacht race. Boatmen, who have lots of time to
rust, mostly getting only a languid fishing-party
job, put in a vigorous and lucrative time at
Wiiliamstown and St. Kilda. “Here y’are, the
cheapest fare to manoover round and folly the
boats”—and the crowd “follied.”
The Royal Yacht Club blazed in bunting and
glory all the afternoon, and passed tea round to
the Girl who stayed behind. The two boats
cleared out in great trim, Charlie Wallace
acting as starter and Frank Heath as timekeeper.
Sayonara Robb, chirped up after his buster from a
motor-cycle, looked as fit as a fiddle at the tiller.
“Wally” Reeks, who sailed Thelma for owner
Jones, knows many volumes about floating
things. ’Twas he who designed the new
Manly boats and the Federal trawler.
One of the most cheerful sights of the whole show
was the procession of salts of the old school, who
walked the decks of the Esplanade, levelling
antiquated telescopes at the two white birds away
on the horizon, and making learned remarks to all
and sundry. The Sayonara had a sulky fit near
Brighton, and wouldn’t do as she was bid, there-
fore she lost by a skinny three-quarters of a
minute at the winning post; but that was the
only race of the three in which she misbehaved.
Amongst the crew of Sydney men over was
“Awanui” Saxton, full of enthusiasm for the
Thelma, the white-winged representative of his
Harbor.
Every day crowds flock to the Exhibition to
see the things “made in Australia,” and revel in
the combined noise of bands playing, showmen
yelling, and children crying. On every side
someone is cracking his throat demonstrating his
own particular exhibit. Cheese-making holds one
crowd firm and fast, and, near by, the Metropolitan
Gas Co. draws a crowd of women, who watch and
criticise as the lady bakes feathery cakes and
crispy scones by gas, while another lady
irons, a placard telling forth to a dis-
believing world that “ you only spend a
penny worth of gas every four hours.”
In the next few yards you get mixed up in the
toils o'f the Whitehead torpedo, which seems to
be a live thing. You can get weighed for a penny
and “try” a £lOO Beale piano for nothing. A
lecture is being delivered at the next corner in
praise of a wonderful silver liquid which will
make your bruised and battered teapot hold up
its nose with the proudest in the land. “ Here
you are—a one-and-ninepenny bottle will do three
dozen spoons and forks, with enough left over for
the cruet.”
A billiard table of Australian blackwood takes
one’s longing looks, and near by are baths with
every sort of tap and shower and spray. One
wants to lasso a man and start housekeeping at
once when one pulls up before the art furnishing
exhibit. The crowd is dense in the Inventors’
Court—eyery sort of invention, from a new bath-
heater to a pair of braces, is shown to admiring
natives.
There is quite a drought of Smart-Set girl in
Melbourne at present. Muriel Cumming and her
blooming mamma have departed Fogwards, where
some people say the rather vague fiance is wait-
ing to rush her off to the altar ; the McLeods toot
around Sydney in an arrogant scarlet motor ; the
McEvoy hope is spending a long holiday at Flin-
ders, chasing little balls in and out of obscure
holes ; whilst Mollie Atherton, the star sprinter
of the season, is nursing her jaded nerves in a
Toorak private hospital. It isn’t pleasant, this
last experience; but, after all, it must be a wel-
come spell-oh in the long and strenuous climb into
“ society.”
A gay party of several of the old nobility left
Melbourne this week with its gun and its little
bag in quest of sport and the simple life. Charlie
McEvoy, Roderick Murchison, and some of the
Staughton and Chirnside men are amongst the
number. They intend touring the Western dis-
trict for a fortnight or so to slaughter the shy
bunny and the bright-hued parrot, and, in the in-
tervals of slaying, the various houses on the route
will “party ” them. Why is it men always must
see things suddenly stop living when they go out
in search of health and simplicity, I wonder?
Philip Newbury, looking younger than ever
about the hair, let his big voice loose in the Town
Hall on Saturday night. His tenor-very-robusto
rang through to Collins-street when he let it go ;
but when he tenderly asked Mary to tell him how
to woo her, the crowd sat back and breathed freely
once more. His run of bad luck in the Cold-
shoulder Country has not frozen the Voice at all.
Pianist Lilian Delany hung a fetching red poppy
over her ear, and got a lot of work in ; and little
Leslie Harbutt, with soulful eyes, played ner-
vously. Soprano Rosina Buckmann was dramatic
in her duets with Philip. She sopranoed in leaf
green and a tragic expression.
Miss Mabel Young, one of the pretty tribe of
the “Sunnyside” Horsham Youngs, is engaged
to Mr. Tim Healey,'who is a bank inspector well
known in Melbourne. The little girl reaches
about to her Timothy’s giant elbow—that is,
when she’s wearing her Merry Widow hat and all
her dimples.
Margot, only daughter of John Gavan Duffy,
of “Villette,” St. Kilda, gives over the keeping
of her lily-white hand to lawyer Hayden Starke—
son of the late medico Hayden Starke. Starke is
one of the most distinguished among the younger
set of Melbourne lawyers. He has a lovely old
house at Kooyong ready for his bride—a house all
gables and creepers, with much vegetable furni-
ture in the garden.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson has left the private
hospital at St. Kilda, where she was laid up for
repairs for four weeks, and Surgeon O’Sullivan
has given her a certificate of “go, but be careful.”
With Mrs. J.C.W., as in the case of the G.-G.’s
eldest chick, appendicitis was the surgical charge
laid against her. On her return to the Grand,
the invalid found her suite a perfect bower of
flowers, the most beautiful of all being a basket of
roses from Mr. Williamson, who took weekly trips
from the Harbor State to see his wife.
Stella, the starry Dealtin daughter with the
scientific bent, sailed off on Thursday by the
steamer Pericles. She is going to learn more deep
things in Germany.
The camera enthusiast takes his hobby seriously,
and it was to an intensely earnest assemblage that
President Mais opened the first Exhibition of the
Victorian Photographic Affiliation on Saturday
afternoon. Photography has developed amazingly
from the days when you had your head screwed
into an infernal machine and were told to “look,
pleasant.” The fine display at Eastern Hill
shows that now, in composition, lighting, and
harmony, the art of the camera man is a thing of
considerable elevation. Men and women from all
parts of the world have sent in exhibits, but the
work of Sydney and Melbourne holds its head as
high as any. Our own Mrs. Claude MacDonald
was the only noticeable society light at the affair,
which is probably waiting to see whether the Top
Crust is going to patronise it or not.
Our Majah-General Hoad, head serang of the
Australian force, is cutting some ice in England.
King Ned stepped down from his throne the
other day, and had a yarn with him about our
Commonwealth army. Hoad grew up round about
Wangaratta (Vic.), and helped father make horse-
shoes, so he didn’t have any social influence to
push him up to where he is—and that is something
to be said for our army, aqyway. He is nowa-
days the sprucest man in the force, and owns a
lieutenant son who works for a halo in dazzling
socks and ties.
Some new Commandments have been given
unto you in the Commonwealth Gazette, and
they strike dread into the heart of choleric man.
Every time you swear into the telephone now you
must be ready to pay a£s fine. Moreover, thou
shalt not “use any unbecoming expressions, or
language of an obscene or offensive nature, or of a
character calculated to irritate any person.” Even
if the other person irritates you, you must not
irritate back; you must bottle it all up even
though you have to put copper-wire over the cork
to keep it in.
After being severely spoken to, the Lansell lad
has been set up by his millionaire mother in a
station at Serpentine, a few miles out of Bendigo.
The young man married where he felt inclined,
and, because the girl was neither dowered with
wealth nor “blue” of blood, eternal unforgive-
ness was threatened him—so difficult it is to
remember one’s own parents. The young man
obtains his own extensive pile when he is 25, some
three or four years ahead ; meanwhile, he is coax-
ing the fickle lambkin to wax and grow fat.
Following upon the outcry of the nurses at a
large public hospital for decent food, comes a
long loud wail from the men-workers at the same
institution. A hospital man’s billet deals some-
what extensively with not too-appetising “sub-
jects,” and when he goes to feed in little better
than a dungeon, and is supplied with ill-cooked,
badly-bought, and generally uneatable meat, it
isn’t any wonder that indigestion finally spells
insurrection. So after much ordinary complaint,
the men wrote to each individual member of the
committee, setting forth their grievances. At
the next Board meeting, of course, the matter was
brought up, and the secretary informed the com-
mittee that the men-workers got exactly the same
food as appeared on his own table ; at which the
committee said the matter would be thereupon
choked and buried. And the men remarked
“ Dicken,” and continue their hearty curse.
Dr. Wilson, who for many years instructed the
young in the way they should go as headmaster of
the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, sailed for
London by the Pericles on Wednesday. Wife
and daughter accompanied him. On board were
quite a number of his former pupils, one of whom,
though five years married, confessed to a certain
twinge of school-girl fear at the bottom of the
pleasure with which she approached her old
teacher.
The last German boat brought back Elizabeth,
the wandering chick of the Pinschofs, and Adele,
daughter of the Wertheims ; whereupon flags of
Austria and the Commonwealth fluttered from the
top pole of Studlev Hall, as a glad welcome-home.
Elizabeth, who was the guest of Adele, cultivated
art, vocal and otherwise, during her 12 months in
Europe, whilst Adele stored up gems, ideas, and
experiences.
Nothing could be much sillier than the belated
Teddy Bear craze. In Melbourne and Sydney
the grown-up feminine, supposed to be sane, is
much addicted to yanking the huge, ungainly toy
under her arm or across her hip, and every society
ninny tries to have a bigger Teddy than Mrs.
Am-I-In-It next door. Fashionable chiffon stores
—the owners whereof run motor cars on the pro-
fits of fads—charge a thumb-pinch of gold for
every extra inch of bear-size; it is scarcely possi-
ble to buy a stuffed bit of imitation fur for less
than a golden sovereign. Some women go so far
as dressing their hallucination in silk pants,
though a coy bow of ribbon is the usual costume.
The craze is more idiotic than -many taken up
by the blissful heathen who disguises his naked-
ness by wearing the starched collar of civilisation
on his ankle. The bear has died out in New
Yark, where it rose and raged among the petted
womenkind of bulky billionaires’ families, by
reason of some obscure political connection with
Teddy Roosevelt. In Australia it has no visible
connection with anybody, and it merely comes
here as cast-off or left-over Yankee goods. By
children, of course, “Teddy” is loved with fer-
vor —just as any woolly bear has been taken to
the arms and heart of every youngster for
generations. But a special Lunacy Act should
deal with the grown-up bear-bearer.
Legal management of gold-mines is seemingly
an uncomfortable industry for women to take up.
Miss Frances Newport has arrived at further
trouble. Last year her management of the Marvel
Loch G. M. Co. landed her in the Melbourne
Criminal Court on account of an alleged defici
ency in the cash; but though sorely-worried she got
safely out of that little difficulty. Just now she is
being worried and threatened for having neglected
to file her schedule. In fact, the assignee of Miss
Newport’s estate says he can’t get a reply to the
letters he sends her. Doubtless the lady is sorry
that she ever had anything to do with the
wretched gold-mine, and, womanlike, objects to
being pestered any more in the matter. Ihe
brutes have made her insolvent, and what more
do they want ?
Mere men, unversed in the wondrous ways of
women, are wont to laugh the jeering laugh at
the way women cannot throw a ball. The laugh
is getting weaker, and the winking eye less acro-
batic, since women have begun to shine at bowls.
Last Saturday the South Melbourne Ladies’ Club
played the Oakleighs in linen frocks on a velvety
lawn. The S.M.’s ran away easily with the highest
score; but the teams kissed and made up over
.afternoon tea, provided by the Oakleighs.
Layer, our Mendelssohn-looking musician of
the University Conservatorium, has been “foot-
ing it ” with his energetic family over the Baw
Baw mountains. They—Layer, Laveress, and
Laverines —“did ” their 57 miles without turning
a hair ; and Laver ipcre could have turned thou-
sands of hairs if he had wanted to.
As with all his pleasure-planes, man has utterly
spoiled St. Kilda beach by his love of glare and
noise. He seemed afraid lest in the swish of the
waters he might hear the echo of his lost hopes,
or in the deep blackness of the night see the
ghosts of his dead chances. So he has bought
himself dreadful screeching things to drive away
the bogies and the whangdoodles and the pumble-
chooks, and he pays other men to let him stand
on a little wooden platform and be joggled up and
down till all the memory-devils are shaken out of
him. So this one-time place of peace and large
spaces is given over to the shrieks of the merry-
go-rounders, the yelps of the “figure-eighters,”
the angry screams of rushing motor-cars, the
raucous voices of the “illusion” showman, and
the tinkling bells of the ice-cream vendors. And
like vague automata, the long mass of humanity
straggles wearily, ceaselessly, up and down, in
and out, the bright-lit length of the Esplanade,
for up here there is noise and glare, whilst down
there the black sea means solitude and memory
and fear.
Erom “Rosna, ’’ of Adelaide, which has come
unpinned and slipped down to the frigid zone :
The Queen Victoria Home for convalescent youngsters,
which caps a hill at Mt. Lofty, the fashionable summer
haunt, had a f6te on Saturday, and the Dudley lady was
captured for the opening. All the genuine silver-plated
aristocracy of the district came forth from its moated
grange, with pincushions and shaving tidies ; and having
viewed the wonderful collection, her Ex, said the neces-
sary nice things about a home which deserved them.
The scarce defenders of our country had a Military and
Ambulance shivoo on the Oval the other shivery winter
eve. (A polar bear could live quite comfortably in this
climate just now, if he had rugs enough.) The Ex-
cellencies-General came to it; yet, spite that magnet, the
stands were rather sparsely sprinkled with a throng
cloaked to the eyebrow. The band played, and the
ambulance rushed busily about. It was very exciting,
and 1 suppose it all meant something.
Madge Mclntosh and Winifred Gunn and the rest of
that company were dropped here by a passing mail-boat
the other day ; and Adelaide, which has been theatreless
for weeks, spread out gl'ad arms to gather them in. They
had several days’ spell, wherein Miss Mclntosh wandered
abroad on a shopping raid in a duck of a rose-colored
Widder hat and other nice-ish accoutrements. She’s a
great rider, and always goes first thing to hunt up a
trusty steed when she wanders this way.
The Tommy Burnses were in Adelaide nearly a week,
and mere Governor-General people weren’t in it as to the
crowds that stretched their necks in the endeavor to
catch a glimpse of them. The day they arrived the
throng was so d.ense at the station that you couldn’t have
plunged through it with a hatpin in each hand, and the
ordinary passenger needed 16 policemen and 29 porters to
assist him in wresting his luggage from the van, which is
more absurd than anything the late Mr. Euclid ever made
the remark about. The ex-champion’s motor arrived a
day or two later, having plunged overland with a fine
disregard for the perils of the way. It just came without
fuss or special preparation—which rather discounts some
of the much-advertised performances of the same sort.
The Bowing Glub went to Glenelg on Saturday', and
sported in the baths,for a few hours, to the accompani-
ment of wild west winds. The sexes decorously watched
proceedings from different sides of the enclosure, though
why the enforced division nobody seems to know.
Miss Waite, with Clara Kleinschmidt under her protect-
ive wing, sailed for the Islet by the Morea, and a large
crowd took down an embroidered hanky to the harbor
on that occasion, perchance to drop in a tear, perchance
to wave good-bye to the Voice and wish it a quick dash
up Parnassus. In spite of her brief years, the girl turned
up her dark locks before departing, and she looked better
than ever in a smart grey gown and a big hat. Probably
charming Guli Hack, who trained her warble, has had a
hand in the moulding of her fine carriage and pretty
manner. Miss Kleinschmidt is to dwell with a lady who
chaperones other musical maidens and leads them over the
Continent during vacation. So every way her luck seems
to be hard at work. When she’s the brightest star-singer
of the world—say in five or six years’ time —I’ll let you
know.
The N.S.W. Chief Justice Darleys were on the Morea,
and proceeded ashore in a stately way to call on a
Governor or two. They were escorted back to the train
by our own little Chief Justice and a few aides. The
G. J. B. Murrays went to Europe by the same boat.
Peter Dawson, the Adelaide basso in Britain’s isle, was
at latest managing Madame Liza Lehmann’s concerts at
the Crystal Hall, at which that composer’s “ Persian Gar-
den ” and “ Alice in Wonderland ” song-cycles were per-
formed with a considerable flourish. Sundry Covent
Garden and other artists were assisting, and Peter Daw-
son was the basso of the company, besides having to
count the money and do all the horrid addition sums.
Daisy Kennedy, the S. Australian fiddler-girl who was
on her way to Kaiserland in the Bremen, met the Messina
’quake half way, and had a thrilling time. The Bremen
steamed into "Messina on New Year’s Day, and found the
landscape either burning or in a state of distressing un-
tidiness. No less than 750 distracted refugees were taken
on board for Naples and Genoa, among them an American
boy, who had been travelling with his brother and had
been hunting for him among the ruins for two days. He
had to leave at last for fear of being shot down as a looter.
Another was the only survivor of a family of 20. The Aus-
tralian damsel played to them in the evening, and was
kept at it till she had fiddled her repertoire several times
over.
Yours affectionately,
TABIFFINA.


Only j Australian!
Many a warm heart born beneath the
Southern Cross would buck like a steer if
taunted with being only “half Australian!”
But it’s a fact. It’s no use for him to say when
he’s wearing imported Woollens —“ But it’s
Australian Wool!” Is it P The “World’s
Work” Magazine recently pointed out that the
European Woollen Mills use half additions—
rags, etc Ergo it is profitable to make “shoddy.”
Now Vicars’ Tweeds are not only made in
Australia of Australian Wool, but they are all
wool, pure wool, and nothing but wool, grown
in Australia, manufactured in Australia by
John Vicars & Co., and the name “Vicars”
stamped on every two yards.
If you cannot obtain Vicars’ Tweed from your
tailor, or you don’t like the patterns, drop a
post card for sample patterns to John Vicars
& Co., Marrickville, Sydney, and don’t be only
half Australian.”
Distributing Agents (Wholesale) : W. S. COOK. &. SON,
York Street, Sydney; Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
U


DIXON’S KIA-ORA Sauash
Q
l@*U
OUON« : s Wg*»
.'V'A^'fi
tHi.'^l|||
LORDIM.
(£
THE IDEAL SUMMER BEVERAGE.
KIA-ORA Lemon Squash is made from the choicest and
most carefully-selected Lemons, and is sweetened to suit
the average taste. It is an ideal hot weather beverage,
and because of the purity of the ingredients used in its
manufacture and the skilful manner in which they are
blended, it has won its way to the foremost position
amongst “Squashes.”
THE SCARCITY OF LEMONS.
Owing to the great scarcity of Lemons juices are now
ruling high. Hotel proprietors, storekeepers, and private
residents will find KIA-ORA a Lemon Squash far more
economical in use and fully equal to the beverage made
from the best Lemons.
Sold by All Hotels, Grocers and General Stores.
MANUFACTURERS
J. DIXON and CO.,
(Manufacturers of
the famous 0.T.)
HIGH STREET, PRAHRAN, VIC.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW.
APRIL 6th to APRIL 14th, 1909.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Export Butter, March 2.
Special Cheese Prizes, March 8.
HORSES - - Prizes £1420
CATTLE- - - Prizes £9OO
Sheep, Prizes £2OO, March 11. Pigs, Prizes £l6O, March 11.
Wines, March 3.
Wheat, March 9.
- MARCH 10.
- MARCH 11.
Poultry, Prizes £4OO, March 12.
Dogs, Prizes £l6O, March 15. Farm Produce, Prizes £750, March 16. Dairy Produce, Prizes
£l6O, March 16. Women’s Industries, March 17. Coachbuilding and Leatheries, March 18.
Miscellaneous, March 18. *
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
S Castlereagh Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
I
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using-
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Blades fin., fin., or |in. deep. Round, Square or Irish Point.
Sold under absolute guarantee at C/C Torrey’s Swing' Strop, 2/6.
Post Free to any part of Australia. "/ "" Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d.
SOLE AGENTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR
MCLEAN, BROS & RICO PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Buxton & Sons),
14-7-14-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods,
~ REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
OLD PEOPLE’S COMPLAINTS!
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Insomnia these
are complaints most prevalent
among old people.
Jerdan’s
“ HOME- ”
Battery
offers relief and cure for these
complaints.
It is easily handled—no
acids to spill—can be regu-
lated for a child, and is sold
under a full guarantee of
perfect working order.
Send for the Battery—if
you are not thoroughly satis-
fied we refund your money.
0
3 51
Price,
Post
Free.
Booklet on Application.
JORDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &, Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET, ROYAL C HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
THE THIRD SUBDIVISION
(8,000 Acres) of THE FAMOUS
The property of Messrs.
D. C. McCONNED & SONS
CRESSBROOK ESTATE
Said to be the pick of the Station. (40,835 Acres)
At TOOGOOLAWAH RAILWAY STATION, 79 Miles from Brisbane, Queensland,
on the Upper Brisbane River,
52 RICH DAIRY and AGRICULTURAL FARMS
(52 to 703 Acres) to be sold by Auction at
Toogoolawah, Saturday, March 6th, 1909
at 3 o’clock.
Mr JOHN FORREST, of Moreheads Ltd., one of the leading Experts, writes:-" I have no
hesitation in saying that as Dairying Country combined with Agricultural and Fattening, Cressbrook
haa no suoerior in Queensland, in fact, acre for acre, I do not know where it can be equalled.'
Mr JOHN CAMERON, M.L.A., writes: —“ During the last 3or 4 years I have inspected and
valued all the largest Freehold Estates in the Upper Brisbane River District, and I consider the
Cressbrook Estate is by far the most valuable of them all.
pfa Pickering:, the widely known judge of Dairy Stock, writes: I consider this instate
to be one of the finest freehold properties in Australia, comprising the very best agricultural, lucerne,
lamb-fattening and dairying land.”
CRESSBROOK ESTATE consists of Rich Alluvial River Lucerne Flats
Witk t a Zidm k 1 Upper 5 numerous
weeks, bores and lagoons, and access to the section for Sale is guaranteed by the Vendors, who are
causing a substantial bridge to be erected.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
Nestle'* Condensed Milk Factory,
which is on the Estate, pays s§d. to 6d. per gallon
for milk, and will take any quantity.
A Co-operative Butter Factory at Esk
(12 miles).
Railway Station on the Estate.
Established Township, with Church,
School, Bank, Public Hall, Factory, &c.
Abundant and well distributed
Rainfall, average 37.37 in. and 79J wet days per
year for 14 years.
20 YEARS TERMS
110th Deposit ;No Payment (except interest
S%) for 24 months; balance yearly.
No survey fees or residential conditions; every facility for inspection; plenty of accommodation
Free Railway Fares to Purchasers from any part of the States.
Write TO-PAY for Illustrated Plans to
ISLES, LOVE St, CO., Auctioneers, Queen Street
BRISBANE
YOD MAY NOT WANT A MOUSTACHE
but if you do, and cannot grow one, the circumstance is
an annoying one.
CAPILLARINE,
the guaranteed and proved Moustache Producer, if used
according to the simple directions, will give you a splendid
moustache in a few months. Quite undetectable in use.
Price 10/6 ,
POSTE address'7n V the’world.
CRAI6 & AITKEN, 654 ficorgc St.,Sydo«y
Established 25 Years.
CAP/LLARINE
MAKES YOU
LOOK MANLY.
fcKtlM
Fig. 514)
GOULDS
Windmill Force Pnmps
Our facilities for manufacturing
Windmill Force Pumps are unequalled.
We illustrate a most complete line in
our catalogue, together with numerous
other styles of pumps to meet every re-
quirement, either for hand or for power
use. We want those interested to
write for copy of this catalogue, stating
their requirements. We will give all
letters our prompt attention.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
Fig. 1470
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten
... la
... lOd


w
AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
SOME PRESS COMMENTS
Dr. .Philip E. Muskett’s popular books on
health and how to attain it in Australia are
well known, and they meet an important want
in a simple and common-sense way. “The
Attainment of Health, and Treatment by Diet ”
(William Brooks and Co.) is a bulky volume,
dedicated to “the greater expansion of our
food industries.” Dr. Muskett’s strictures on
the abnormal meat diet of Australia are well-
founded, and he is also right in insisting
strongly that diet is an important factor in
the prevention and cure of disease—more so
in ordinary ailments than the most up-to-date
medicine to be found in the chemist’s shop.
We eat, it seems, over two hundredweight
of meat a year each, while the hardy Japanese
is satisfied with 2|lb. Food, Dr. Muskett is
never tired of urging, should be fitted to
climate ; and unfortunately food and clothing
are two things as to which race conservatism
is most pronounced. Dr. Muskett is familiar
with the recent literature of diet, and his con-
clusions may be taken as authoritative. He
strongly recommends fruit for breakfast. For
lunch a meal is advised from which meat is
excluded, but which may include soup, vege-
tables and salad. A rather heavier meal is per-
mitted in the evening. A moderate use of
alcohol as a “digestive stimulant ” is allowed.
It should not, however, be taken at bedtime.
Dr. Muskett writes with enthusiasm on “ How
to make wine popular in Australia.” Exercise
must be considered along with diet, and great
advantages are said to reside in a carefully
considered system of “liver-pommelling.” As
to drink, Dr. Muskett is convinced that “the
most universal of all failings, in so far as the
health is concerned, is neglect to take enough
water into the system.” Much information is
given as to the advantages of drinking hot
water. It positively prevents disease when
taken hot enough and early enough in the
morning, and it is a great promoter of health.
Dr. Muskett’s general positions are set forth
in a formal manner in the opening sections of
the book, special diets are then indicated for
particular complaints, and a selection of little-
known recipes is given as a hint towards
varying the monotony of meat and tea. —
S. M. Herald, Thursday , March 26, 1908.
William Brooks and Co., publishers, of Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, and elsewhere, send me a copy of Dr. Philip E. Muskett’s
Illustrated Australian Medical Guide, an irregular half-bound
quarto, in two volumes of some 1400 pages, with 130 drawings,
mostly by D. H. Souter, a Sydney artist, many colored plates, an
internal colored mannequin—or cardboard model of a man, ex-
ternal and internal—and a private section for women, together
with colored plates. It is hardly necessary to say whom Dr.
Muskett is. First of all, he was formerly Resident Medical Officer
at Melbourne Hospital; Senior Resident Medical Officer to the
Sydney Hospital ; was lately surgeon to Sydney Hospital; and has
now a private practice in addition to being Surgeon-Superintendent
to the N.S.W. Government. Besides these things, he has written
various popular handbooks on disease and diet, which have given
him a reputation for wide knowledge of his subjects, lucidity and
brevity of treatment, and a commonsense application of scientific
theories to everyday practice. Among these works may be cited :
What to Eat in Australia (?); The Feeding and Management of
Australian Children in Health and Disease ; The Health and Diet
of Australian Children ; and so on. Such a man was not likely to
send out an incomplete or shoddy book. And he has not. The
book, it costs three guineas, is alphabetically arranged, and splen-
didly bound, illustrated and printed. It gives advice on every
disease and homely remedies therefor, beginning with asthma and
apoplexy, and proceeding through hydatids and snakebite to ulcers
and wounds.
The treatise is worth a bushel full of the ordinary Medical
Guides, mostly American, with which the country has been afore-
time flooded. Written by an Australian for Australians, it denotes
all the purely local diseases, and the suggested cures are those
easily obtainable in the country. In this country of magnificent
distances, where the settler is often from 50 to 100 miles away
from the nearest doctor, this is the book which should ornament
his mantle-shelf in close proximity to the Bible, Shakespeare, and
the Agricultural Gazette. Dr. Muskett not only states what cer-
tain pains and syrilptoms foretell, he also clearly indicates how
their causes may be removed. In what he designates the Austra-
lian Family’s Medical Chest, he furnishes a list of remedies and
describes the quantities in which they should be used. The
Doctor’s language is so clear and unmistakable that he who runs
may read, and where scientific or medical terms are used a glossary
makes them understandable. An old proverb says that at forty a
man is either his own physician or a fool; provided with Dr.
Muskett’s book any man or woman may be his or her own physi-
cian at half that age. In eulogy of the book, I can only say that I
am dismissing from my library the so-called medical books which
now grace, or disgrace, it, in order to make room for Dr. Muskett’s
Medical Guide, the best work of the kind I have ever met.
GEORGE BLACK.
The Worker, May 9, 1903.
“The Feeding and Management of Australian
Infants in Health and in Disease,” by
Philip E. Muskett, formerly Resident
Medical Officer Melbourne Hospital, etc.
Seventh edition, revised, re-written, and
considerably enlarged, 320 pp. and index.
William Brooks and Co., Ltd., Publishers,
Sydney. Price 2s. 6d.
Although it is only a few months since the
sixth edition of this work was issued the rapid
sale has exhausted the issue, and a seventh
edition was called for to satisfy the demand.
The introductory 50 pages has been largely re-
written, and the statistics and general informa-
tion upon the subject of infant mortality have
been brought well up to date. He emphasises
the fact that we have an enormous territory and
a sparse population, and while quoting many
authorities to show that the Australian Infant
is the best possible immigrant to Australia, and
that the problem of problems for Australia
is the population problem, he laments the fact
that the death-rate of infants is largely in
excess of what should be the case if proper
means were adopted to save the infant life by
proper feeding and care during its earliest years.
For such work Dr. Muskett deserves the
grateful thanks of every right-thinking man
and woman in the community. The number
of deaths caused by ignorance alone have
been simply enormous, and if Dr. Muskett
has enabled parents to learn better, to adopt
more sensible and healthful means of feeding
and caring for their children, he has done a work
of which any man might well be proud.
We commend this work to pharmacists as one
from which they can learn much regarding the
modern methods of solving the problem of in-
fant mortality, and which will help them in
dealing with minor infant ailments. Not to
supersede the medical man by any means, but
to give some poor woman a little sensible ad-
vice, or to point out to her where she has gone
wrong in the care for her child. Every phar-
macist should stock this book and have one on
his counter for lady customers to see and to
purchase. It is a book which has a ready sale
and leaves a good margin of profit.—The Aus-
tralasian Pharmaceutical Notes and News,
December 1, 1906.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
60 SHILLINGS
IN THE BUSH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MUCH SUFFEBING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
To the Manager, THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide, 2Vo Is. ... £3 3 O
The Attainment of Health ... ... ... ... ... O lO 6
The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ... O 2 6
Postage ...0 5 0
I
remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for
and post free.
which you undertake to forward the above works complete,
I am, yours etc.,
£4 1
carefully packed,
O
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name —
A d dress-


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. fid. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
H’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His'Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agrents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first of the matches to qualify for a place in
,he Australian XI. Syndicate commenced at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Friday- last. Lured by- the prospects of a
trip to England, all expenses paid, and the probability of
a swag worth £5OO or £6OO for six months’enjoyment,
the Rest of Australia team battled for its life, and
smacked up 311 before the champions managed
to get the last wicket. The top score of the
innings was Hazlitt’s 62 ; Hopkins and Bardsley were next
in greatness with 55 and 48 respectively-. Sundries, that
reliable player, was good for 18. The bowling honors rested
with O’Connor, who took six wickets for 106 runs. Trumper
and Noble opened for the XI., and the populace sat back
and said : “ Now we shall see something. Trumper will
surely let himself go.” He did. He let himself go at a
cheaper price than ever before, and was caught by Gorry
off the first ball he faced. Saunders attached the scalp
to his belt, and Ransford came out. Noble’s career was
brief but not brilliant, the captain being run out for
nine. Ransford made quite a stand, comparatively-,
making 21 before Saunders got him. Armstrong van-
ished, leaving 19 behind him, and little Sy-d Gregory
made the top score of the day- with 41 to his credit.
M’Alister notched 30, and Macartney had made 28
when he was found guilty of l.b.w. Carter put up
10, O’Connor five, Cotter 22, and Carkeek three.
Sundries, playing a good, reliable game, made 14 ; and
the XI. were all out for 202, Carkeek carrying his timber
off the stricken field. The bowling was fairly split up,
hut Barnes was easily first with three for 35. Saunders
took three for 54, Kelleway two for 49, and Simpson one
for 14.
The chances of The Rest looked rosy till play-
started on Monday, and then a collapse set in. Arm-
strong raged furiously with the ball, and got no less than
five wickets for 37 runs, getting two of them in one over.
O’Connor also did his share of the killing with three
chances of loot for 49 runs. The other two were taken by-
Cotter for 52 runs. The Rest were dismissed for 159.
The XI. came on in a cheerful mood, which was damped
somewhat by M’Alister being run out for a chicken. At
close of play- Gregory and Noble were still unmoved, and
had accumulated 95 with the aid of one sundry. The
three days’ play had y-ielded £659 Bs. 6d. The sprat is
mentioned because the XI. is keen on the pence. The
dreary business came to an end on Tuesday, when want-
ing 174 to win Noble and Gregory resumed business at
the old stand. Noble was bowled by Barnes for 125,
and Ransford took his place, and made nine. Gregory
carried his bat for 126, and with two wickets down for
269 the Australian XI. won by eight wickets.
* V * *
The Australian XI. Selection Committee added
Cotter, Carter and O’Connor to the list of the certainties
last week, so now there are only five more places to fill.
Of the nine chosen, Ransford, O’Connor, Hartigan and
Macartney are new as far as English cricket is concerned,
and it is to be hoped that the remaining five will also
represent the new blood so badly needed. These “cer-
tainties ” have chosen Frank Laver as manager and player,
but the Board of Control has not yet confirmed the choice.
The Board has the power to put its foot right through
the selection, and as the manager should be the servant
of the Board instead of the representative of the players,
it is to be hoped that the Board will put both feet through
the proposal by way of emphasis.
* * * *
Another round of Melbourne Pennant Cricket
finished on Saturday, to the furious approbation of about
four tired men and a boy. None of the disturbances were
more exciting than a blind man’s bowling tournament;
yet one, at least, had the beauty of the unexpected.
Carlton, contemplating the rout of its opponent, Colling-
wood, foolishly closed its innings at eight for 140, and
sent’Wood to the wickets, with the highly disgusting re-
sult that the Magpies made 147, thus winning by 7 runs
on the first innings. Melbourne, with the very- softest
thing on against Essendon, hit up 263 to the Dons’ 63
and five for 86, thus achieving a first-innings victory by
200 runs. Richmond, evidently hurt at the prospect of
losing its scalp to East Melbourne, became a devious
and undignified time-waster, apparently to de-
prive East of a straight-out victory. Even by the
aged and musty methods of altering the field slyly and
often, and by taking a siesta between deliveries, the
bowlers were unable to avoid a well-deserved licking by
nine wickets. Still, as East can afford to be magnanimous,
it should present each member of the Richmond team with
a stick of lolly or a penny whistle as some compensation
for defeat. St. Hilda, tortured into activity by Univer-
sity’s total of 264, responded with 195, thus losing on the
first hits by 69. P’ran, which did what Carlton did, but
with much more justification, just avoided Carlton’s nasty-
experience. Declaring closed at seven for 237, it permitted
Northcote to compile 228, thus winning by the narrow
margin of nine runs. As for Fitzroy v. North Melbourne,
the possibility of a fairly- close contest degenerated into a
sort of sleeping competition long drawn out. ’Roy won,
after a soothing exhibition, by 171 on the first innings.
* * * *
After many years, a host of enthusiasts have
decided to give a testimonial to cricketer Charlie Turner,
for his many big deeds in Australian Xl.’s. The match
will be arranged after the return of the 1909 Australian
XI. from England. .Turner, by the way, still whiles away
time with a Sydney club, and at times puts up sparkling
performances.
•*■***
“B.” : What a burden the strip of Bulli soil at
the Sydney Cricket Ground has to bear! The seven
highest aggregates ever amassed were compiled on this
spot—l9ll, 1739, 1716, 1615, 1553, 1541, 1514 ; and the
strip seems good enough to bear another batch.
* * * *
There’s a kick in the old buck yet! Playing
for a team got together by-Gov.-General Dudley-against
S.A. legislators at Adelaide on Monday, veteran George
Giffen amassed 114 runs out of a total of 200 for three
wickets in a workmanlike manner. Dudley, the other
G.-G., had scored only- eight when a beastly-fellow caught
him behind the sticks. Still, Dudley’s enthusiasm for
cricket isn’t likely to suffer by the mishap.
“XXX”: I would like to introduce my big
brother’s boot to “ B.” for his comments on Trumper and
his seat in the Australian Eleven (B. 28/l/'O9). That
Trumper is not ill is sufficient reason for his selection.
He would not disgrace any eleven in the world. Has
“B.” ever seen Trumper at his best, with Duff as a
partner, opening up the innings against the cream of the
English and inter-State bowlers? To see him knocking
the fresh bowling to pieces is a treat which has caused me
more than once to travel 200 miles. Noble, on the other
hand, goes in in the middle of an innings, when the edge
of the bowling has been dulled. “ B.” will have cause to
growl if old Gregory is chosen. This player always seems
to buck up and make a hundred or so when there is a
chance of a trip to England. But he hasn’t done any-
thing of late years in Bull’s country to warrant his
selection.
THE MOST STRIKING THING AT THE
CRICKET MATCH.
The struggle between Sayonara and Thelma for
the Sayonara Cup on Port Phillip has left the drinking
implement where it was. The first race the Thelma won,
after an exciting finish, by 45 seconds. On the Saturday,
revelling in the prevailing light breezes, Sayonara sailed
home 9min. 57sec. in front of its opponent—and the
Saturday crowds whooped accordingly. Monday’s race
was Sayonara’s by a margin of 56sec. So the Cup re-
mains for the present in the State that was Bent’s, but is
now Murray’s. On the Friday-, in a south-easterly
breeze that seemed puffy'’ and precarious, Thelma
showed fleetness and sailing qualities, but victory was
gained only through a slight but fatal error of judgment
on the Sayonara. Bounding the windward buoy for the
run home, the Sayonara, in hoisting the spinnaker, found
the stops so strong that they wouldn’t break, and, even
when the sail had been got free, the wind was too much
abeam for comfort. Though leading by nearly
a minute just prior to making the buoy, the
Victorian boat lost so much time over the trouble-
some bit of canvas that the Thelma, setting
a large jib-topsail, in case it found itself unable to carry
the spinnaker, passed the defender and gained by almost
as much time as it had previously been to the bad. On
Saturday-, however, it was all Sayonara. Getting the
weather berth and setting a better course, the Melbourne
boat led almost from gun-fire, and, meeting with no
mishap, romped home an easy winner. Say-onara’s crew
have to return thanks to the wind for easing off in the
final heat, as the two boats were plunging out through
heavy- seas to the turning buoy-. At this stage of the
race, the Victorian flyer passed Thelma, and gained a lead
of something more than a minute, from which Thelma
was only able to chip a few odd precious seconds in the
run home before the wind. The Cup stays in Victoria
for the good and sufficient reason that, in the concluding
event, their dug-out slid past the post some 56fsec.
ahead of the canoe from the State of Wade.
* * * *
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. held a race
meeting on Saturday afternoon, and the programme
originally included a Venetian night. The rendezvous
was at Gore Bay, Parramatta Kiver, but the spray flew,
and the wind howled, and the heavens wept; and after
an exciting afternoon of racing, the Venetian night was
postponed, so it was up anchor and home for dinner. The
chief interest of the day was, of course, the meeting of
those old rivals, Arthur Davies’ Fairbanks and Charles
Relph’s Invincible, in the race for boats of 17 miles
an hour and over. The other competitors were
Baby Simplex, which Mr. Crawford has tuned
up considerably, and Mr. Whatmore’s ferocious
Baby Imperial. The handicaps were given at the start,
Baby Simplex going off at 5 p.m. sharp. Six-and-a-half
minutes later Whatmore bounded away with something
between a piercing shriek and a loud howl, and vanished
in spray. One minute 15sec. later Mr. Belph’s Invincible
streaked away, a green line flashing through grey water
and dusky spray. Mr. Davies was manoeuvring, describ-
ing figure eights and true-lovers’ knots. At 5.12 he swung
on to the starting-line at full speed, and as the flag fell the
graceful cedar boat shot past, with the spray rising in
sheets from her sides about midships. Bow-wave there
was practically none. It was a splendid race. Baby Sim-
plex, well handled, came in an easy winner, and the
excitement centred on the struggle for second place be-
tween Fairbanks and Invincible. The Australian boat
was leading in sight of home, and for a moment it looked
as though the champion was going to be left behind the
second. But although Davies’ boat only averaged 23.37
miles per hour, it is certain it is capable of much higher
speed. As they dashed for the line Davies seemed to sud-
denly bound through the water, roar past the flying In-
vincible, and dash after the Bab}- Simplex, which was
crossing the winning line. As the leader finished the
race the cedar boat seemed to slow down, and ran home
second, with Invincible 30sec. behind. The running
times were Fairbanks 23.37, Invincible 20.33.
To the writer’s mind, there is little doubt that
the wonderful speed of Fairbanks is due to the superb
lines of the hull. And that, at any rate, is of good Aus-
tralian build. It is a wonderful creation, longer and
narrower than the Invincible, and so exquisitely poised
that when running at full speed there is no wave at the
bow. The water seems to rise about midships. The
difference in the weight is remarkable. Invincible, when
its flooring and seats are out, is seen to be a boat of
immense strength, laced and interlaced with stays.
Fairbanks weighs about 20001 b. ; the Invincible about
50001 b. When Relph built his Australian boat, he
had nothing to guide him in the way of how little
was required to keep a big engine afloat, so he made
his boat strong enough to go anywhere, and face any
sort of shock. The Fairbanks was designed by men who
had the experience of hundreds of similar craft to work
upon, and they did away with all the surplus weight,
putting in just the requisite si l ength to carry the
engines with perfect safety. Which makes one realise
what sort of splendid engine the Australian created when,
practically 10-horse power less, it drives about 50001 b.
weight almost as fast as the higher-powered Yankee
engines drive one 3000 lighter, which has the advantage of
the most beautifully-shaped hull ever designed by
man. Fitted with the Invincible’s engine, Fairbanks
hull would probably travel 30 miles an hour.
The Motor Boat Club has discovered an ideal
champion course in the stretch of water the boats raced
over on Saturday. With a little alteration and the drop-
ping of a flag or a buoy, the course can be made a
straight-away one, with a turn at either end only, of
nearly three miles. The boaters are greatly in love with
it, and it is doubtful if there will be much more motor
racing over the Garden Island-to-Manly course.
* * * «
Why on earth Arthur Davies calls on his
beautiful cedar flyer to stagger along under the burden
of a name like Fairbanks is a mystery, and inexplicable
in a man of his taste. The boat is a dream, a thing of
beauty, a poem in lines, and should be decorated with
some sweet-sounding native name expressing all this and
more. Fairbanks is the name of a Yankee engine, and
why an Australian should call a beautiful boat after it is
a mystery.
* * * *
Having gazed upon George Whatmore’s Baby
Imperial, the alleged hydroplane, with George perform-
ing inside of it, The Bulletin rises to say that the con-
traption is no more a hydroplane than the owner himself
—and he, since he took to private enterprise, is getting
as round as a barrel. The beautifully-moulded Fairbanks
is much more of a hydroplane than Baby Imperial. Still,
it is a mighty fast boat, and seemingly as cranky as its ,
owner is reckless, and more than that cannot be said.
Still it moves some, and, although smoking like a young
volcano at the finish of Saturday’s racing, made an
average speed of 18'94 miles per hour.
The public interest in fast motor boats is amaz-
ing. Regardless of piercing wind and driving rain on
Saturday, every headland along the course on Parramatta
River was covered with crowds, in some cases running
into hundreds, who whooped and cheered as the boats
flew past. And considering this popularity, it is a
thousand pities that the big Mort’s Dock Co. does not
build a real flyer to wipe the floor of Port Jackson with
all comers, and once more make an Australian boat
champion of Australian waters. It is whispered that
George Whatmore is working quietly to astonish the
members of the club with a new boat that will appear as
if by magic, springing from nowhere, like Minerva, full
armed and engined, to down allcomers, and put up anew
record for Australian waters. Whatmore may be an
erratic steerer, but he is enterprising.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. is promoting a chauf-
feurs’ driving competition with a prize list aggregating
£lOO (Ist prize, £5O ; 2nd, £2O ; 3rd, £lO ; and four con-
solation prizes of £5), which should appeal mightily to the
owners of cars. Drivers of hiring-out oars and taxi-cabs
are barred, and the affair is restricted to the paid drivers
of private cars. Each chauffeur who enters has to fill in
and forward to the Dunlop Rubber Co. a monthly state-
ment of mileage covered ; noting every stop for tyre sn-
fl ition, repair or replacement, duration of each stop, and
particulars of covers and tubes changed in garage.
At the end of 1909 the Dunlop Co. will award
the prizes to the drivers who have, in its
opinion, established the best records. Changing from
one car owner’s service to that of another will not dis-
qualify the chauffeur so long as the rules are observed
right through. Entry is free ; the only condition is that
the competition is limited, very naturally, to drivers
whose employers use Dunlop tyres. Briefly, the object is
to popularise the use of Dunlop tyres by giving drivers an
interest in careful driving, proper inflation of tyres,
declutching when rounding turns, proper handling of
brakes, and all the little things that work together to
prolong the life of the tyre. Which is in the interest of
the owners of cars—also in the best interests of the co.
* * * *
The Australasian Amateur Cycling Champion-
ship meeting commences in Sydney on February 24, when
the Half and Ten Mile Championships of Australasia will
be decided. The preliminary meeting on Saturday was but
poorly patronised, the cricket match at the Ground and
the motor-boat racing up the river, combined with the
beastly weather, turning the affair to a frost.
* » * *
Canadian sculler Durnan is out after the scalp
of Arnst, and a relative is in Sydney prepared to lodge
£lOO stake money and £2OO for expenses. Durnan
stipulates that the race shall be rowed in Toronto,
Canada, and is willing to concede half the gate money,
which, he says, may amount to about £2OOO.
* * * *
Ben Thoroughgood, champion sculler of Aus-
tralia and sterling good fellow, is out with a sporting
offer: “If anyone cares to collect my stake money for
the match with Pearce, pay my expenses for boats and
sculls and eight weeks’ training, and give me £l5 for loss
of time, he can take all returns, win or lose.” And to
such a state of deadness has sculling in N.S.W. sunk that,
up to time of writing, Mr. Thoroughgood has received no
offers.
* « * *
“Bill ” Beach, erstwhile champion sculler, now
sewn-up after an attack of appendicitis, looks himself
once again. Beach still takes a big interest in sculling,
and of latter years has been on hand to give advice to
athletes who have pretensions to become world’s cham-
pions.
• * * *
“The Tramp” : Sculling is not yet dead here
in Wanganui. We talk bravely of Webb’s next meeting
with Arnst, and what a glorious drunk there will be when
“ Billy ” returns champion. He is at present at Akaroa,
preparing Whelch for his race with Fogwell. ’Tis said
also that “ Father ” Tuck is backing Hagney or Pretty,
or both of them.
* * * *
Waverley (Sydney) Swimming Club had a
brutal day for its carnival at the Bronte Baths on Satur-
day. Wind, rain, and a heavy sea all combined to make
the proceedings dreary and infernally uncomfortable.
Great curling waves broke over the wall and washed the
competitors out of their course, and wind and rain chilled
them to the bone. Naturally, the spectators were few ;
but the club, with grim determination, stuck to its pro-
gramme, and carried it right through. The chief event
was the 440yds. championship of Eastern District, which
went to R. Garland, who won by something like 80
awful yards from W. Thompson.
* * * *
N.S.W. and Victorian Lawn Tennis Associa-
tions have decided to “ recognise each other’s members’
tickets”—which is only another way of killing a pastime
by the dead-head principle. It would have been far
wiser to have spent any spare cash in building up the
game and unearthing players capable of State honors.
* « * *
A mare which last week won the Camperdown
(Vic.) Cup for the second year in succession is the
daughter of a mare that won the same race in 1888 and
’B9. Exactly 20 years elapsed between the performances
of the dam and her offspring.
The discovery of Australia’s new heavyweight
champion pug last week, at Sydney Stadium, was not a
thrilling episode. When Lang and Squires faced eacii
other the most obvious fact was that each was afraid of
the other and neither was looking for trouble. Squires
made the same mistake as Tommy Burns. He held the
championship and the other fellow was after it; and
instead of letting him come after it, and do the bullock-
ing. Squires sailed in to polish off the presumptuous
aspirant. Napoleon’s idea about the best defence
does not always apply in fistic scrapping. Squires
was of a fine walnut hue, while Lang was
as white as a lady, and seemed anxious and
worried. The opening rounds showed that, although
Squires has deteriorated physically, he has gained some-
what in skill, but whether the gain counterbalanced tiie
loss is more than doubtful. Anyhow, his gain in skill
was not sufficient to cause him to be seriously regarded
as a fighter of the champion class. Never at any time, in
spite of the adulation of Melbourne scribes, was Boshter
Bill anything but a rusher of the type that is only success-
ful so long as it meets men who allow themselves to be
rushed. When Squires met one who wouldn’t, one
named Burns, now' also buried, the end began ; and it
has been going on ever since.
Barring a few fine, fast rallies, when Lang lost
his temper and waded in to do things suddenly, the fight
was a dreary hustling match. It was fought" under the
new rules, which absolutely bar in-fighting and provide
for a clean break in w'hich both men must step right back.
Many of the spectators hooted Lang for hitting Squires
while the latter was hanging on ; but as he had both
hands free he was entitled to do so, and occasionally he
got in some effective jabs during the hugs. Lang is a
much stronger man than Squires; yet the latter did
the forcing, just as he did against Burns, and
wore himself out doing it. Although he was
finally pushed (not knocked) down, Squires was not
knocked out in the proper sense of the term. It was a
case of sheer exhaustion, muscular attrition. Even then
he might have come up again but for the fact that in
falling the back of his head hit the bottom rope, and the
man’s neck was badly wrenched. In fact, the end of
Squires was pathetic—he w'as more hanged than knocked
out.
Both men missed opportunities by the score.
Squires would dance about looking for an opening for his
heavy right sw'ing, and waste much valuable steam dodg-
ing around the ring when a straight left w'ould have done
considerable damage, and all the w'hile he was signalling
as plainly as could be “ Watch my right!” And in the
end Lang would rush him, and instead of a knock-out
there would be a scuffle which always ended with Squires
catching Lang somewhere round the calves, and holding
tight. Lang would probably have done a lot of rushing
on his own account, but, like the Devil’s conscience, the
voice of past-master manager Fitzpatrick was always
whispering in his ear to let Squires knock himself to
pieces against a solid defence—and Squires did it. Fitz-
patrick told writer that he contemplates taking Lang
with him to America to put up against Kauffmann. He
will have to teach him a lot before he lets him into a
ring with any thoroughly accomplished boxer. The man
will get walloped to a jelly—unless he shows far more
skill, speed, and ability to take advantage of openings
than be showed on Tuesday night. The way those two
incompetents floundered round the ring made one wonder
if he w'as really in Australia, the teeming mother of so
many champions in the past.
* * * *
The Gaiety Hall has seen some unsavory exhi-
bitions in its time, bub the Grim-Reeder scrap of last
week easily beat any other entertainment of its kind.
Grim’s weird fighting method seemed to demoralise Reeder.
A skilled pug—such as Arthur Cripps—it only served to
amuse. Where Oripps stood off Grim’s flail-like swings
and retaliated with straight lefts and right, rips, Reeder
essayed to fight in the “ rough-up ” style. It did not suit
him. In the third round be got a terrific cross on the
neck. Forthwith he went quite mad. He charged his Dago
adversary, pushed him on to the ropes, and there held and
punched him. Grim, a scrupulously' fair fighter, seemed
paralysed. Then, in self-defence, he began to hit back,
though the disturbance was supposed to be a “ clean break ”
affair. Grim went to his corner gesticulating, and uttering
things that sounded like lurid adjectives in Coptic. In
the next round Grim drove his left into Reeder’s face and
sent its owner heavily to the boards. It was the finish of
Reeder’s self-control. With a sort of hoarse hark he
hurled himself upon his foreign acquaintance and grabbed
him round the neck. Bashing, banging, wrestling, and
cursing the two men staggered round the ring. Reeder's
glove came off. He took no notice, but continued to
punch harder than ever. The gong went, but it hadn’t
the least influence on the life-and-death struggle
that was raging. They were separated at last,
and Grim started for his corner, conversing wildly to
himself the while. Reeder caught one of his remarks,
w'ent “ fanti ” again, and charged him like a mad bull.
The Dago captured a right smash on the side of the head
that w'ould have sent a normal human being across the
Styx. It merely annoyed him. He closed with his
assailant. The two now abandoned all pretence of fair
fighting, and seemed to be trying to tear sections out of
each other. The referee abandoned the hopeless job of
trying to part them. The house rose and howled madly.
People stoushed each other casually in all directions.
Amid the wildest uproar the writer has heard at any
show’ of any sort, the" seconds of both conbatants burst
into the ring, fell on their respective charges, dragged
them to earth by main force, and there detained them.
To the stupefied amazement of every fair-minded man
present, the referee proceeded with the utmost blandness
to declare the engagement “ a draw l .” If ever a pug was
disgracefully, defeatedly fouled, Grim was. He had
either to adopt Reeder’s appalling tactics or be slain. It
is time the Gaiety was closed up. The place is horrible,
and, judging by’ the Reeder performance, the manage-
ment is worse than the place.
ANY MAN IN ANY TRAM.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
All Australia is absorbed discussing the selection of
the team to visit England. —Neivs item.
The fact that in the Northern Territory
The colored brother constantly arrives
Disturbs me not at all. My chief esc worry
Just now’s regarding Trumper’s missing drives,
And whether, as a wicket-keeper, Gorry
Or Carter is the better, when each strives.
I am quite calm anent the Asiatic :
His squadrons don’t alarm me worth two darns.
The point is —Has Vic. Trumper grown rheumatic f
Is he, on form, even as good as Barnes?
If you desire to see me get ecstatic,
Prove the reports re Vic. are ly-ing yarns.
A truce to talk of law and legislation
And strikes at Broken Hill ; it gives me pain
• And bores me utterly. Such speculation
Is futile when the feats of Hopkins, Mayne,
Bardsley et al. are stirring up the nation
And keeping its attention on the strain.
Earthquakes and shipwrecks, European troubles,
England’s dire problem with her unemployed,
These I regard as negligible bubbles
Of small talk. Speak of Ransford, who destroyed
Ma’s bowling average with “ singles,” “ doubles,”
And “ fours to leg,” and I’ll be overjoyed.
Lord Dudley, Dill, the threatened Coalition,
The theatres, the new Vic. Ministry,
Are themes beneath the ban of inhibition ;
Even Wade wails in lone obscurity.
To blither cricket is my sole ambition ;
No other talk is any good to me.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
WHO WERK ALWAYS AILING PRAISE DR.
MORSE'S INIDAN ROOT PILL fOR THEIR
SPEEDY AND PERMANENT RELIRF.
Mrs. Parker, of 243 Palmer Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, who for some years resided at Orange
and Porbes, states that for years her daughter
and herself were always ailing, martyrs to indi-
gestion and all its attendant evils, until persuaded
to take a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
which brought speedy and permanent relief.
Mrs. Parker.
(From a photo.)
“My daughter suffered
severely from biliousness
and constipation,” she
states, “and used to be a
martyr to dyspepsia until
commencing to take Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
from which she obtained so
much relief that for some
time past she has wished me
to send you a testimonial
giving you particulars of
my own experience as well.
Before taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills my
daughter and myself were
always ailing. I used to
suffer badly with my head
and indigestion, but Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills brought me permanent relief, and during
the change of life they were the only medicine
that did me any good. I continued their use, and
can assure you that I was greatly benefited, and
I now feel as well as ever I did. I use the pills
now and again just to rectify the system, and
heartily recommend this remedy to all who do
not enjoy good health.”


KUGELMANN\S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Ail"
1
FREE
SAMPLE
tent on
Receipt of
Twopehny
Stamp.
H. E.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
KUGELMANN k CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE # 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the “SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
1 29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
QUEENSLAND PINE COMPANY LIMITED
(To be Registered in South Australia under “ The Companies Act, 1892 ).
CAPITAL- - £75.000, in 75,000 Shares of £1 each.
58,500 Shares offered for Subscription at £1 per Share, payable 5/- on Application, 7/6 on Allotment,
and Balance in Calls, if required, of not more than 2/6 per Share, at intervals of not less than
16,500 t Shares! < funy ’paid, to be issued to the Vendors in part payment of the Properties and Premises.
Of the cash subscribed, £24,000, or such other sum in cash as mentioned in the Prospectus dated
December 1, 1908, of the Company, will be paid to the Vendors in part payment for the said
Properties and Premises.
Provisional Directors.
WILLIAM DEARDEN, Esq., Melbourne. BERTIE BARR SMITH, Esq., Adelaide.
Col. SPENCER BROWNE, C. 8., Brisbane.^
Directors— To be appointed at Meeting of Allotees. Bankers —THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors.
MURRAY, HAYWARD & MAGAREY, Adelaide. CHAMBERS & McNAB, Brisbane.
C. G. GORDON, Nanango, Queensland.
Secretary pro tcm—J OHN CRESSWELL, 23 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Brokers —ARTHUR J. WALKLEY, Adelaide; IRWIN &CO Adelaide ; WARD & CO. Adelaide
and Melbourne; CURRIE, BUCHANAN & CO., Brisbane; G. S. BUZACOTT, Sydney.
The Company is to be formed for the purpose of ( inter alia) acquiring and working the Business and Assets in
Queensland of Millar’s Karri and Jarrah Company (1902), Limned, comprising Sawmills at Brisbanemval
and Barker’s Creek, together with certain Freeholds and Timber Rights, and also opening up and developing
forests of Hoop and Bunya Bunya Pines, in the Yarraman Creek District, in Queensland, and catering for the ag
and increasing' demand throughout the Commonwealth for Queensland timbers. ~ ,
The above is published for information only, the whole of the Shares having been subscribed.
Write for our CATALOGUE,
mentioning THE BULLETIN
CHEAP cycle:
is a poor instrument. The constant repairs irritate
him and make him feel revengeful towards the builder.
THE B. AND B. MODEL 3 CYCLES
are built of best imported parts, fitted with first-class
tyres, and guaranteed a year for £ll. A high
quality machine at a low price.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest, Cvcle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereag’h Street, Sydney.
ƒg
THIN PEOPLE.
THERE is now no reason why every man or woman should
not acquire or regain a Perfect Figure. If you want
to add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight,
strength and beauty, send for a Free Trial Treatment of
the “ Miracula” Nerve Food and Flesh Developer.
This newly-discovered Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing
Agent and Flesh Builder. It will soon put your nerves
rjo ht tone up your digestive organs; and the alteration in you
will astonish yourself and friends. Would you like to have
perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all
scragginess ? You can easily obtain this blessing if you
write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps to pay postage
on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
fd
London Specialities Agency, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh st„ Sydney.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
Personal.
A YOUNG COUNTRY GENT, wishes to
correspond with some Young Lady between
21 and 25 with a VIEW TO MATRIMONY.
J. BLAKE,
Woodhouse, GIDLEY, N. S. Wales.
Missing Friends.
mVVO boys, named ROY and NORMAN RICHARDS,
aged respectively 9 and 19 years, left their home,
Port Augusta, in September, 1907. Probably now under
the name of Bennett, Banks, or Afford.
£3O reward will be paid to the first person giving infor-
mation leading to their recovery.
Apply C. B. RICHARDS,
Port Augusta, South Australia.
Legal Notice.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
PROBATE, DIVORCE AND
ADMIRALTY DIVISION
(DIVORCE).
TO ROBERT NOBLE BUTCHER, „
late of 59 Dee Terrace, Jarrow, in the County
of Durham (Butcher).
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
issued in this Division citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of Susan Eliza Butcher
of 59 Dee Terrace Jarrow in the County of
Durham praying for permanent maintenance. In
default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereto. And take
further notice that for the purpose aforesaid
within one month after the date of this pub-
lication an appearance must be entered at the
Divorce Registry Somerset House Strand London.
ROBERT A. PRITCHARD,
Registrar.
Isadore Goldman,
9 Southampton Street,
Bloomsbury Square,
London, W.C., England,
Agent for Niel & Crute, Sunderland, Durham,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Amusements.
MUSICAL & LITERARY SOCIETY.
FOURTH Annual FESTIVAL.
CHOIR, CHORAL, INSTRUMENTAL,
HISTRIONIC, LITERARY, and
MISCELLANEOUS COMPETITIONS.
£2OO IN PRIZE MONEY £2OO.
The Committee have much pleasure in announcing
the DONATION OF GOLD MEDALS from
MADAME MELBA (Soprano Section),
MADAME ADA CROSSLEY (Contralto or Mezzo Section),
MADAME CLARA BUTT (Ladies’ Sacred Solo Section),
MR. KENNERLEY RUMFORD (Gent.’s Sacred Solo Sec.).
£3O OPEN SCENE COMPETITIONS £3O.
ENTRIES CLOSE MARCH 6.
Schedules and Entry Forms may be obtained at W. H.
PALING & CO.’S, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or from
W. J. MANGAN, Secretary, ALBURY, N.S.W.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
will appear in the Romantic Opera,
THE DUCHESS OE DANTZTC
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
H E AT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT DRAMATIC SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
Last Two Nights of THE BREED OF THE TRESHAMS.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 13,
for a Limited Number of Nights,
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
C Lessee: Mr. FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager: Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
DECISIVE SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION Headed by the Talented Australian
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN DRAMA,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices-35., 25., Is. Cd-^Jls.
w’ren, £,lS"<££
GRAND DRAMATIC SEASON.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT. FEBRUARY 13.
The Latest Dramatic Success,
THE OLD POLKS AT HOME.
Cast headed by MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY
and CONWAY WINGFIELD.
Box Plan on view at Elvy’s. Popular Price-35., 2s. & Is.
~~ ~ HALL. SYDN E Y.
C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling s.
H - GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at ,2,30.
“Back to the Gld Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
THE LYCEUM
Sole Director
-I-TVOUT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
T sole Proprietor & Manager-MR. Harry Rick arcs.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, World’s Incomparable Juggler.
STROSS and FELLOWS, American instrumentahsts.
HONEY and CHERRY, Triple Horizontal Bar Experts.
GEOFFREY and BENSON, Comedy Aftists.
Great Success of LAWSON and NAMON.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
md PHiRm FANING FANING and FANING.
MR. CHAKLLo rA i » IfTCC! 'VT^'TTTT^ , M A TINSEL.
Mr. ANDY ROBERTS, MISS NELI ’ .f n i UV a i i *. s .
PRICES—3s.. 25., and Is. Plan at lai g_
pen* HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
O Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GRAHAM and DEN?, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Powei of the Idol.
THREE. MASCOTTES, Dance Artists.
FIVE ST. LEONS, Acrobats.
T W WINTON and McGINTY, Ventriloquists.
YEOTHA and CAPT. G. GRADE, Sharpshooters.
J W. RICKABY, Character Burlesque Comedian.
THE LATONAS, American Vaudeville Artists.
Plan at Allan's. KST PRIOES-3s, 2s fld,
|_IER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Ml Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR J C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
‘ ' PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Oast includes BERT GILBERT STELLA GASTELLE,
FANNY DANGO,J. v M. CAMPBELL, I HARRY SH ,
pnx Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual ’
K
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MR WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
in
MY PARTNER,
Specially Reconstructed by Mr. Walter Baker.
Popular Prices. plan at Allan s -
•pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND. CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices —55., 2s. 6d.,15. Plan^tAUmPs.
■■HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
I Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
fdg
PULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
w
A,
RT H’S OL-YMPI
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THEB 0 K LL .
ALT, THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
fdg
Zaw Points
G* inventors
by letter, and reliable ad-
vice free on all matters
concerning the obtaining
of Patents. Clients as-
sured of the most skilled attention in draft-
ing, engineering, and chemistry. A. J. CAL-
LINAN, Patent Attorney, Rialto, Melbourne
THE FINEST AUSTRALIAN TOY
THE JUMPING KANGAROO
Amuses Young
and Old
Strong and Durable.
Nothing to get out
of order.
'THOUSANDS of these Kan-
garoos are selling in t>»e
streets of Melbourne and Syd-
ney. Everyone is delighted
with them. You merely place
the ’roo at the top of a sloping
board and he jumps and jumps
Nine Pence
Posted.
and keeps on jumping in a very ...
quaint and life-like way, until he reaches the bottom. By
having two or more Kangaroos you can arrange quite exciting
races. Another toy of the same kind is the
Hopping Mouse, that can be made to per-
form very funny antics. The price of the
Kangaroo is NINE PENCE, posted to any
address, and the Mouse costs THREE
PENCE, posted. We will send Two Kan-
garoos and One Mouse for Is. 6d., posted, or
Four Kangaroos for 25., posted. Obtain-
able only from
The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
dfgfgd
Melbourne is suffering from a periodic
outbreak of hoodlumism, and several bashed and
otherwise damaged citizens are the result. Lately
a horde of undisciplined youths “got to a citizen
in Carlton, and painted him in shades of green
and ultramarine with their artistic hands and
feet. Then an unoffending young man at JNorth-
cote was mishandled by a gang that is notorious
for its liberal donations of mixed punishment
and fervid obscenities on fete occasions. Follow-
ing came the beginnings of a push riot at South
Melbourne, where a crowd of toughs trampled on
a constable. Lastly, Melbourne has to consider
the case of a young woman who has lost the sight
of one eye, and is in danger of losing the sight of
the other through an exploding cracker, hurled by
one of a band of wild young idiots in a railway
carriage. The Bulletin doesn’t like to be harsh,
but suggests that these offenders be arrested once
in a way. They might even Vie fined Is. 7d., or
even Is. Bd.; in default, “ the rising of the court.
That looks like persecution, but it will be a pre-
ventive.
“D. G. Macdougall ” writes on the ques-
tion of trade-marks protection :
A subject of importance to Australian manufacturers
has been opened by Dixon and 00., proprietors of the well-
known beverage “ 0.T.,” who, in the general interest, are
urging that the Government undertake the protection of
trade-marks, instead of imposing on each trade-mark
holder the sometimes great expense of defending his own j
legal rights. The suggestion is that the Federal Govern- ,
ment, which receives large sums from trades-marks r ®g*®‘
tration, should not look idly on while manufacturers fight
for the possession of rights for which they have paid.
Dixon and Co.’slaw costs last year ran into four figures,
all spent in defending their right to the registered label
of “ 0.T.,” which several envious manufacturers sought
to trade under ; and, though Dixon and Co. could stand
it, a young struggling manufacturer would probably have
been beaten through possessing insufficient capital to
fight his fraudulent competitors. In many countries
such proceedings are taken up by the Government, who
regard those who infringe trade marks as the enemies of
legitimate enterprise. Even in Australia, with its luke- ,
warm administration, the Federal authorities look upon
trade-mark infringement as so serious an offence that a
penalty of £lOO has been provided; yet no steps are
taken to assist in punishing offenders. The whole onus
is cast upon the victimised manufacturers; and, as in
the case 0f*“0.T.,” it is frequently a costly proceed-
ing. Doesn’t it seem that legitimate industry would be
fostered by the Federal Government waking up to some
part of its responsibility ?


WEDDING GIFT IDEAS
What more useful and appropriate Gift could you give than a
Handsome piece of Table Silver. Here are a few suggestions,
all of A 1 Quality a quality tbat assures life-long satisfaction.
FREE CATALOGUES.
lf you’re interested in
Watflipt; Clloplcr .Tpwpllprv
Silverplate, Leather, or Optical Goods, a post card wfll brinFyou a copy
of our Illustrated catalogue. Write to-day.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND and CALL BELL, Pure Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, richly engraved, crystal
glass bottles,
£3.
Other styles. 25/, SO/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIMEN TUBE, pure
Silver-plated, Gilt-lined,
weighted base, 6in 4/6,
&Jin 6/6, 7in 6/6, 7£in
A. SAUNDERS.
SOUVENIR EMU EGG, Hand
Carved, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Ebonised Wood Base, 9in high,
10/6
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 40/.
SHOPPING BY MAIL,
partment will serve
with the exception
No matter where you live
our Up-to-date Mail Order De-
you promptly and satisfactorily. Free carriage on all goods,
of Clocks and Chinaware, to any part of Australasia.
i ;
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
covered, Pure Silver-plated,
Screw Top,
15/6-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16 f.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD-BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, richly embossed, solid base (can be
used as a waiter),
£2/10/.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
7/6-
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
pure Silver-plated frame,
fine cut-glass bottles,
15/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
12/6, 17/0, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, gilt-lined l , handsomely fluted, on
ball feet,
£2/10/.
Other styles, £3/10/, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Amber or Ruby
Tinted Glass,
12/6
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and 0..1AD,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, rus-
tic stand, richly embossed,
£2-
Plain, 35/. Other styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
ďf
v
ill’
£4/4/-
A SAUNDERS
C 0^ E SERVICE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, com-
prising lea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, richly engraved, gilt-lmed, with covers £4/4/
Other styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/. £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £ls’ to £5O.
£4/41-
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Hand Engraved,
20/.
Other Styles, 16/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
m
Sr,
m
WM
mm
wsm
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-bottle, Pure
Silver-plated Frame, fine Cut-glass
Bottles,
257.
Other Styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
BREAD
A. SAUNDERS.
r CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated, Pearl Handle, 7in long.
6/6
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR-SIFTER, JAM SPOON, and BUTTER
KNIFE, Solid Silver, hnnd-engTavcd, Pearl handles,
30/.
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,
£2/10/.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/.
SPORTING GUP, Pure Silver-plated,
richly -embossed, gilt-lined, detachable lid,
16in high, any subject,
£3/10/-
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, to £25.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle, finest Sheffield steel blade,
8/6-
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, real Carl-
ton China Bowl, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts,
15/6
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
~4 '' I
■n
MIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIB^^^^
AFTERNOON TEA SPOON and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, richly embossed
handles, 12/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE COMBINATION and
SERVERS, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Satin-glass Lining, £Ji/IOZ-
Other styles, 80/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL and SIFTER,
Pure Silver-plated, satin fin-
ished, gilt lined,
12/6.
Cream Jug to Match, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, fine
Cut Crystal Glass,
20/.
Other Styles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Al Quality, richly embossed, hand-fluted,
„ v , £2/10/-
Other styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 Qeorge-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W,


Tk Queen of England Uses a Kodak
the Camera of Many Merits.
One of the most successful publications of recent times is ** Queen
Alexandra s Christmas Gift Book; ff —an illustrated book of unique interest*
Every photograph in it was taken by her Majesty with a Kodak, and
the pictures bear strong testimony to the efficiency of the Kodak m every
class of work.
It stands to reason that the camera that is chosen for the Queen must
have unusual merits—must be the best. And it's because the Kodak is the
Queen of Cameras that it has been used so freely by Royalty. Our interesting
Catalogue fully describes all the Kodaks. You should write for a copy.
Other splendid cameras, closely allied to the Kodak, and also manufactured
by the Eastman Co., are the Brownies —low-priced, but thoroughly reliable
Cameras.
ƒg
KODAK”
means Photography
with all the trouble
left out.
(
No. 2a Brownie Camera.
In construction this is “ almost a Kodak,” while the size
picture it takes x4J inches) affords numberless possibilities
for unique landscape compositions. When used vertically it
permits the making of excellent full-length portraits.
It is splendidly made, fitted with a Meniscus achromatic
lens of 5-inch focus and Eastman rotary shutter. It only
weighs 21 ounces, and has a capacity of 12 -| O /
exposures. The price is X Jtat /
Postage extra in N.S.W., 1/-; Inter-State, 1/8.
fgd
No. 2 Brownie Camera.
This wonderful little instrument produces a splendid
photograph even when used by children. It is simple to
operate, and, when provided with a Kodak Portrait Attach-
ment, will take a good-sized bust photograph.
It is equipped with two tinders, and covered with a fine
quality imitation leather. The pictures measure 2£ x3l
inches, and it has a capacity of six exposures. The lens is a
focus Meniscus, the shutter an ■« /
Eastman .Rotary, and the price only ||l mm
Postage extra in N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State, 1/2.
No. 1 Brownie Camera.
This little camera has proved that good photography is
not confined to grown-nps. Having been given one as a toy,
many a child has shown excellent pictures taken by the little
Brownie, and demonstrated that it can work accurately and
successfully. It is well-made, covered with fine quality imita-
tion leather, and has nickel fittings. V-shaped lines'on top
give the scope of view, the pictures measure x2£ inches,
and the complete camera weighs only 8 ounces. It has an
Eastman Rotary Shutter, a 3f-inch focus Meniscus lens, and a
capacity of six exposures. The price is
Postage extra in N.S.W., 6d.; Inter-State, Bd.
5/-
I*" ALL- KODAK SUPPLIES ARE SOLD AT ENGLISH LIST PRICES. -*g
Baker Rouse Proprietary Ltd
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
BILIOUSNESS AND ALL LIVER TROUBLES
Removed by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
i
urn
KUTNOW’S
Improved CrrcßvesccNT Carlsbad
POWDER.
Hit'sclicnsprang or Deer Leap
7?
London
41, FARRINGOON ROAD E.C.t
Brr\ TD*nr m adit
REGISTERED TRADE MARft.j J-
SOLE: PROPRIETORS :
S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
W H EN liver troubles arise from any cause take a dessert-
spoonful of Kutnow’s Powder in the morning before
breakfast. The action of this refreshing corrective is materi-
ally hastened by a cup of hot tea taken about ten minutes
after ; in twenty or thirty minutes the desired effect is attained,
and the entire system is cleansed and invigorated. Kutnow’s
Powder has been before the public for a period of over
twenty years, and is most strongly recommended by the
leading Physicians for Biliousness and every form of Liver
Trouble. It is speedy and painless in action, pleasant to
the taste, and suitable for men, women, and children.
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES
“ About three years ago I was confined to my bed for
a short time with a very acute attack of liver complaint.
I was recommended by my doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after taking two bottles
I was completely cured, and my health has been better
ever since. I have since recommended your excellent
preparation to quite a number of sufferers, who testify of
similar results.
“ (Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church, Adlington, Lancs.).’*
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUD!
The genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the
fac-simile signature, “S. KUTNOW
& CO., LD.,” and the registered
trade-mark, « HIRSCHENSPRUNG,
OR DEER LEAP,” are on the carton
and bottle. You will then
Get GENUINE
Kutnow’s Powder.


I saw Uncle Sam in Moss Vale,
A picture both hearty and hale ;
Laxo-Tonic’s his friend,
And will be to the end—
TTe never finds life growing- stale.
I ■ ::«)-TONIC PILLS, 10§d. and Is. 6d.»
How Women
Can Save.
Queensland women know
foil well that Brisbane is the
Cheapest Centre for Drapery in
the Commonwealth. Residents on
the Northern Rivers of N.S.W. are
finding it a fact, too. How much
would you save at these prices?
Ladies* Frilled NIGHTDRESSES,
well made in AJ Calico—a garment
worth four shillings —Price 2/11.
Ladies* Winter TWEED SKIRTS,
in dark shades ; these are plain
Walking Skirts of a quality worth
from 8 to 9 shillings. The Sale of
Sales Price is 2/11 each.
How women can save if they
know where to buy!
Finney, Isles
and Co., Ltd.
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND.
Micro-organisms are permitted by official
regulation in Bananaland ice-cream to the tune of
half-a-million per cubic centimetre. This regula-
tion has nearly burst up the Dago with the barrow.
No matter how patiently he counts up the organ-
isms, he never gets his tally right—in fact, he is
sometimes as much as 100,000 organisms out, and
his mind is giving way under the strain.
Guessing the weight of the fat bullock had
a new variation in a Queensland sugar district
recently. One of the public institutions, having
wearied of sending round the hat, organised a
guessing competition on the amount of sugar to
be turned out by one of the mills for the season.
The prize—a lean bullock—was won by two wharf-
lumpers, who were only 331 b. wide of the actual
output, which ran into a few thousand tons.
Among the people who celebrated the
Kaiser’s 50th birthday in Brisbane, the other
day, was Carl Heinrich Fien, of Bethania (Q.),
whose 92nd birthday happened on the same day.
As far back as 1838 he fought under Bill’s great-
grandfather, Frederic Wilhelm IV., and if he
isn’t the oldest surviving soldier who fought under
that king, the authorities who have been appealed
to don’t know where to find his senior.
Rev. G. D. Halford, who was consecrated
Bishop of Rockhampton in Brisbane the other
day, is the first Anglican bishop to be handed the
crook in Queensland. The others have always
had the business done elsewhere, mostly in Eng-
land. Although the new bishop has only lately
come from J: Bull's country, he previously had 10
years’ Queensland experience, five as head of the
first Bush Brotherhood, which had its headquar-
ters at Longreacli, and five as canon of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Rockhampton.
The Queensland Government 'recently
granted an old-age pension to James Hexton, who
is said to be the first baby boy born in Banana-
land. It was in 1832 that he first made a commo-
tion in a house which stood on the site now occu-
pied by the Brisbane Supreme Court buildings.
Hexton’s father, who was a lieutenant in the
Navy, and had fought under Nelson, was Queens-
land’s first pilot. He fell off a vessel he was navi-
gating in Moreton Bay, and a shark happened to
be waiting there at the moment for the breakfast
bell to ring.
The alleged hopelessness of attempting to
rear a white race in tropical Australia is given
another knock by Charters Towers’ vital statistics
for 1908. Taking the gold town’s population at
25,000—a high estimate —the birth rate is 34 per
1000, the death rate 10'4, and the excess of births
over deaths 23'6. Maoriland’s figures as to deaths
are the best in the world, and the gain through
excess of births is one of the best; yet Charters
Towers’ figures don’t blush when put up alongside
Maoriland’s 27'08 for births, 9'31 for deaths, and
17'77 for the excess of little pink immigrants.
“X.P.D.” : In a competition for versa-
tility, Archdeacon Campbell, of Cairns (N.Q.),
should be a likely one for a place. He is a miner-
alogist, a chemist, a geologist, a cotton-grower,
an authority on evolution, a botanist, something
of a naturalist, and an honorary labor-agent for as
many people as he can get jobs for. He manages
a company (duly registered) which manufactures
paste, grub-destrover, ointment, anti-fouling
paint and soft drinks—all invented by himself.
In his spare time he runs his parish. He is
credited with makingnothing for himself —nothing,
that is to say, that you can put in a balance-sheet,
unless it’s goodwill.
A really interesting notification in Banana-
land’s Government Gazette :
I, Johan Judaschefski (otherwise Judisdrofsky, other- •
wise Judisdroffsky, otherwise Judachefski), of Gynapie,
in the State of Queensland, butcher, do hereby jjive
notice that I have assumed and intend henceforth,
upon all occasions and at all times, to sign and use
and be called and known by the surname of “ Acheskie,”
in lieu of and in substitution for my present surname of
Judatchefski.
It doesn’t seem so very much of an improvement
after all. When a man has the misfortune to be
named Bjkwwwwxkggg, he naturally wants to
change it, but when he only varies it to
Klbkmmmmmmg, he doesn’t seem to have made
things visibly better.
Brisbane Stadium, a stunted copy of the
Sydney contraption, has had its opening. It is
said to hold 3000, but they tried to squeeze a
thousand or two more into it. The business man-
agement was painfully crude, and the fight for
tickets was tougher, if possible, than the contest;
and that was slatherumwhack. Mulatto Joe
Walcott (N.S.W.) and Arthur Scanlan (Q.) lashed
into each other for the middleweight champion-
ship and 50 sovs. Scanlan is a born fighter from
his ginger nut to his woolly calves, but Walcott
out-generalled him at all points, and led from the
jump to the 18th round, when the referee dis-
qualified the coffee-cooler for hitting in holts (this
had been done by both men in nearly every
round). Scanlan was then almost dead to the
world, but taking his gruel like a bull-pup. Even
the Scanlans, some 70 per cent, of the audience,
yelled when the referee gave his decision.
“ Flinderino ” : “ Paddy ” is the untame-
able aboriginal “ outlaw ” of the North.
Some 16 years ago the Yarrabah mission
was founded near Cairns, and a valuable
tract of coastal country, which had hitherto
been the camping-place and hunting-ground
of old Paddy and his tribe, was taken
possession of. The mission folk succeeded in
persuading most of Paddy’s tribesmen to discard
the ,nulla nulla in favor of the Scriptures, but
their numerous efforts to gather in Paddy and his
gin were in vain. The mission has flourished, and
now it has outstations and farms; but Black
Patrick, spears and boomerang in hand, and gin
at heels, still roams about, poking borak at the
black converts, and, when opportunity offers,
setting fire to the big-pfella gunyahs. A couple
of months ago, the mission people, somewhat
tired of Paddy’s tricks, captured the old warrior
and took him over to Fitzroy Island, where there
is a branch station. But Paddy quickly tired of
island life, so he secretly fashioned a canoe out of
a fallen tree. In this rough dug-out the crafty
old binghi navigated the three miles of shark-
infested Pacific Ocean that separates Fitzroy
Island from the mainland. On reaching his
native piece of beach he was at once joined by his
gin, who had been patiently waiting in the scrub.
To celebrate the re-u*)ion they made a bonfire of a
set of brand-new missionary premises.
One by one the islands off the coast north
of Mackay (Queensland) are being taken up and
stocked with sheep. Flocks are already. growing
mutton and overcoats on Percy Islands (where
the owner also goes in for coffee), Lindeman
Island, and Hamilton Island. Fresh-water
springs abound on these water-washed fragments,
and even if the springs fail the rainfall is mostly
good. Some of the islands towards Whitsunday
Passage are the happy hunting ground of boating
parties from Bowen and Mackay, asrpi noapples,
mangoes, and other tropical fruits—not forgetting
cocoanuts —can be gathered there without any
previous haggling with Antonio Peanutto, the
distinguished gentleman who has got most of the
southern fruit trade into his clutches.
About four years ago salt-making from sea
water was started near Mackay. Earthworks
were built close to the sea, and a small pumping
engine was installed. The quantity of salt made
was 600 tons at an actual cost of £1 11s. per
ton, and as the finished article realised something
like £3 a ton, there was a good profit left. On
that result a co. is being formed, whose intention
is to lay down a sizeable plant. The annual con-
sumption of salt in Queensland is 30,000 tons, and
the industry is protected in the Commonwealth
against foreign competition at the rate of £1 per
ton, while so far as southern competition goes
there is the protection of freight, anyway. The
raw material costs nothing, and will always go on
renewing itself ; and two other strenuous laborers
—the sun and wind—are not on the pay-sheet, so
practically the only cost is for pumping and
crystallising.
A CONCESSION TO ART.
ARTIST: “ Eh, my good fellow, Ell give you a shilling if you’ll sland for me.”
TIRED PERSON: “ Let me lie down an’ I’ll do it fer ninepence.”
Bowen, the Rip Van Winkle of North
Queensland, is rubbing the last of the sleep out
of its eyes, and gets ready to jump into the posi-
tion of a large exporter of edibles. During 1908
it shipped 92,999 cases of fruit and vegetables,
besides a large quantity of tomato pulp from its
pulping factory, and serious attention is now being
given to the growing of cigar leaf on the sandy
loam of the district—soil which just suits the
weed, according to the State tobacco expert. A
sawmill is also being built at Proserpine to cut
hardwood and red cedar ; and altogether the pro-
gress of “ the Cinderella of the North foretells
a bitter battle between Townsville and Bowen in
the future. Sooner or later the connection of
Bowen with the Northern railway must come,
and the later the better for Townsville.
“ Borobelle ” : The early youngster in
Queensland catches, the worm, only in this, case
the worm is a beetle if the youngster gets there
soon enough. If he doesn’t, it’s a grub—the cane
grub, which causes trouble to the sugar-grower.
In consequence of this trouble, a reward is placed
on the little beast’s body. In the sugar districts
the hunting ground is the banyan fig and other
such trees, which it infests from six till nine in
the mornings. About 150 weigh a pound,
for which the youngster receives sixpence.
Already some of the beetle-hunters have
found that a pound of beetles weighs a
pound and a half after being soaked a few hours
in water. The consequence is that most of the
beetles are now being bought by the quart. So
far Cairns’ grub bill this season has been £BOO,
and Ingham’s £5OO, and most of the coin has been
youngsters’ pocket money. On the Herbert
River an Italian, who is said to have worked
night and day, earned £2O in a week; In one
sugar district at Mackay, where over seven tons
of beetles were destroyed last year, not a single
cane grub showed up in the crops, while at Other
places only 20 or 30 miles distant, where the
beetle-catching industry had not been pushed so
vigorously, the tremendously reduced sugar out-
put showed the ravages of the pest.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 6, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Do you know that wild desire that comes over
the otherwise sane housewife at uncertain inter-
vals when, without reason, she shifts every shift-
able piece of furniture, and plants the piano where
the sofa was wont to abide, and deposits the sofa
in what before was blank space, so that the man
of the house trips lightly over it as he strolls home
in front of the milk ? Well, Premier Kidston has
caught the craze, and after a whirl round in the
motor this week he decided that Queensland
ought to shift Government House out to Yeronga,.
and plant the proposed Jubilee University where
the vice-regal bun and tea is now distributed.
The absurdity of the thing struck Brisbane in-
stantaneously. Government House grounds are
not a perch too big even for the requirements of
the very moderate quiverful of the Chelmsford
couple ; while out at the University reserve, set
aside decades ago because of its convenience to
the hospitals and the Museum, there is an un-
limited amount of fresh air and almost the
same of green tree in one of the coolest
spots in the city, so that there the University
could rear its head, and go on rearing
it for a thousand.years or so. The present official
abode would be far more suitable as a picture
gallery than anything else when it is no longer
required to house a State Excellency in.
By the way, I hear that the big Mercedes car
got £2O worth of damage on its railroad trip to
the Chelmsford summer resort; which goes to
prove that a car should stick to the road. Why,
the Overlander, with Jimmy Blair on board, went
across 3000 miles of back country without needing
any more repair than the party was able to give
it in the backyard of the bush pub.
The grand flitting to Fogland has set in. r lhe
Morans, the Slade mother and chick, Miss Alison
Morehead, the Herbert Perry dame and sister-in-
law Mabel, and Miss Amy Mills will be in the
flight. Miss Mills proposes while away to uplift
a sympathetic contralto, not to win fair renown,
but so that she may find out the best methods of
producing the many good voices in Queensland
which at present run to seed for want of proper
gardening. Some of the voyagers mean to give
the land of the timber ham a chance ; among these
is Miss Charlotte Pitts, sister of the late Mrs.
Macdonald Paterson, who leaves on a world
ramble.
I hear on the best authority that a large and
stodgy Brisbane publication is to be given a lift
through a big sale of shares. A lady of much
wealth is said to be concerned in the transaction.
On Wednesday the youngest bud of the Flower
bunch will be handed over in a haze of tulle silk
and orange blossoms to a smiling bridegroom.
In response t® a confidential invitation from the
Kidston, a few undistinguished Anti-Soshers
wandered up to the School of Arts Hall on Tues-
day evening, to form a new political league, in
which the programme of political Reaction is to
be sugared over with a layer of icing. Boiled
down, the affair was simply a gathering of the
old Philp clan, with a sprinkling of the Kidsto-
crat’s followers ; and nobody ventured on any-
thing but platitudes: It was mostly a collection,
from the mere sightseer’s point of view, of black
bonnets and straggly beards; but here and there
shone the woman who puts on her best black silk
dress and all the family jewels, and sets out to
give,the male folks a treat. It’s wonderful how
many guises Anti-Sosh can assume.
There has been an exodus from the palatial
Y.M.Q. A. during the last week or so, and gentle
inquiries go to show that the new room rules have
much to do with the melting. By these latest
laws the occupant must leave his room (and pre-
sumably his Gladstone bag) open to the inspec-
tion of the Christian committee; he must lay his
curly head on to the pillow at a prescribed hour ;
no cards may taint the sacred, holy atmosphere ;
and, of course, no pain in the middle of the night
is bad enough to justify the possession of any-
thing more spirituous than soothing syrup.
There was •.bliss in the hearts of the godly on
Tuesday nj’ptjiihg, when white-haired Parson Hal-
ford, who originated the Bush Brotherhood of the
woolly West, was exalted to be a bishop. He
suffered the laying-on-of-hands during an impres-
sive ceremony, marred only slightly by Chaplain
Batty turning an unepiscopal somersault over the
elaborately ornamented silver and ebony staff as
the procession wandered up the aisle.
In the Brisbane municipal tumult which raged
with only limited vigor on Friday, Alderman
Thomas Wilson emerged wrapped about in the
ermine robe and gold collar of office. The newly-
chosen is something of a sporting good-fellow, who
doesn’t want to reform the world merely by
making it a place to get out of at any price. His
better half, a Victorian native, bids fair to fill her
part of the contract with considerable success;
for there is a hospitable strain in the family which
has been missing during most recent municipal
years. At the present time a sick laddie is causing
anxiety in the household, but the unceasing care
he is receiving should speedily pull him through.
The Brisbane Club “did it handsome” by
its lady friends, not forgetting its wives and
daughters, on Friday evening, when the Govern-
ment barge Lucinda was requisitioned for a run
down the river. Once past the unsavory Queen’s
Wharf, the rest was easy and pleasant, for the
moon was full and the breezes fresh. Music and
a heap of indigestible but tempting things were
served by the black-capped waitresses from Rowe’s
Cafe. Mr. and Mrs. J. Reid did the hand-shaking,
the president only coming aboard at the last
moment.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“Via” : Tentatively, and till a better
turns up, The Bulletin calls the present reigning
combination in Queensland “the Phidston”
(Philp and Kidston). The men in the forefront
are Kidston and Denham. What’s wrong, then,
with “ Kidden ” ? It just expresses their policy,
anyhow.
“Quan”: The Queensland Lands De-
partment has imported from Liverpool (England)
two automatic water finders. The instruments,
which can be carried slung over the shoulder like
a camera, cost £5O each, and the men who sell
them say they can sniff moisture even if it is
500 ft. underground. The finder, which is some-
what like a compass, stands on a small tripod.
The needle points to the magnetic north, and is
affected by the electrical currents which flow
between the atmosphere and the earth, and which
are alleged to be strongest in the neighborhood of
underground streams, the extra strength being
due to the water being (it is claimed) charged
with a certain amount of electricity. It is said
that these electrical currents are more active on
fine, clear, calm days than on wet, dull, or
windy ones, and also have specially active hours—
from 8 to 12 in the forenoon, and from 2 to 5
in the afternoon—evidently after meals. The
finder doesn’t work well under trees or close to
iron buildings, and is no good for telling whether
the milk has been to the tap. Also Weary
Walter will be disgusted with it when he is
told that it can’t distinguish between water and
beer. '
Brisbane Daily Mail, which somersaulted
in one night of storm and stress from ultra-Toryism
to alleged Democracy, has gradually drifted back
until it is the old Wail again. In the way of fur-
nishing it with an easy excuse, the Phidston coali-
tion was a perfect godsend. Its change in the first
place was like the change which takes place in the
religious belief of Slant Hi. The dole of rice
is the convincing factor in his case. And a rice
Democrat is very much like a rice Christian. In
trying to convince Eat that it is definitely on his
side, the Wail can’t now be too strenuous; to
show how completely it has renounced its former
errors it has just broken out into warm advocacy
of the repeal of the Income-tax in toto. It thinks
that it is unfair for a small percentage of
people to pay because they have the mis-
fortune to receive £lOOO a year and more.
It doesn’t propose yet that the poor, bur-
dened, harassed wretches should get a State bonus;
but if it can’t in any other way convince the Fat
party that it’s now the Real Thing, the double-
somersaulter seems quite capable of proposing
even that.


QUEENSLAND’S MARKETS.
Looking at the map printed on this page, the
reader will find some of the future markets for
the products of the State.
Of the Island groups to the North and North-
West, Java alone in the Netherlands-India
group has 30,000,000 people.
In the Philippines there are more teeming
millions.
(In Manila, when Miss Roosevelt visited the
colony in 1905, at the official banquet, the whole
menu was furnished by the Queensland Govern-
ment, and consisted of products of the Northern
State.)
Farther north is China, the Malay States, and
India, all of lohich, in time, will become cus-
tomers of Queensland. Most of them are now.
Queensland of To-day: the Queen
State of the Commonwealth.
No. VI.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
THE ATTRACTION OF NATURAL BEAUTY.
Most people would willingly concede that after
the questions already treated—viz., (1) possi-
bilities of wealth and independence, (2) social
conditions, and (3) soil ahd climate, the next which
is likely to make an appeal to the man who has
that healthy discontent and ambition which go to
make the successful etnighmt is that of the
natural beauty of the country. From this view-
point Queensland stands second to none of the
other Australian States, and, in its own peculiar
features, land and sea scapes,
mountains and plateaux,
second to none in the world.
To Millet, the great French
painter, no landscape in the
world was so fine as a harvest
field, with the golden sheaves
in stook. To his exquisite
sense of color and effect was
added a sense of the creative
power of the toiler in the
fields, and a sympathy with
the peasant. Constable and
Fred Walker had something
of the same sympathy with
the dusks and sunsets which
Bring the stall to the o’er-labofed
steer,
and see the “ploughman home-
ward plod his weary way,” on
English landscapes, “ where
smiling cultivation cheers.”
Our own John Longstaff loves
to paint the great Australian
forest giants, under stress of
the elemental danger of a
bush fire ; and Lister Lister and Arthur Streeton
depict our yellow beaches, backed by harsh rocks,
fringed with fern and bracken, and giant bush
apple, red gum, and turpentine lifting their lofty
arms heavenwards.
Millet, Constable and George Morland would
have delighted in the harvest landscapes of
Queensland, where the rich sunshine is more
gorgeous than in England or France, where the
fields are wider—as miles are to acres in Europe—
landscapes where the lustrous wheat and the
tasselled corn have a backing of tropical fruits and
trees —the graceful bananas, the poncianas,
flamboyants and cocoanut palms, with strange
scents from flower and tree. From the southern
States of Australia and from Maoriland the
winter tourist routes are opening out in Queens-
land. For the Northern Giant has unique
advantages. Not only has it the most lovely
winter season in the world, but the coastal voyage
is through waters which are to all intents and
purposes lake waters; and the traveller coasts
north secure from storms behind the shelter of the
coral shield of the Great Barrier Reef, which
stretches from the Swain Reefs, near Broad-
sound, right up past the northernmost spike
of the continent, which juts out like a wedge
dividing the Coral Sea from the Gulf of Car-
pentaria.
The whole of the eastern coast of Queensland
bears the imprint of the voyage of the great naviga-
tor, Captain Cook. Such names as Repulse Bay,
Whitsunday Island, Cape Bowling Green, Up-
start Bay, Trinity Bay, Cape Tribulation, Weary
Bay, Endeavor River, Cape Flattery, Cape Direc-
tion, all suggest incidents of the coasting voyage
in the small ship Endeavor-—a voyage of which
we think with amazed admiration to-day, and the
consequences of which were epoch-making
to Britain and to the world. This winter
voyage inside the Barrier Reef is a perpetual joy.
For several days the lake-like picturesqueness of
the island-studded passages and narrow passes re-
minds the tourist of the famed Inland Sea of
Japan. But, picturesque as the latter is, it can-
not “ hold a candle ” to the passage up the Queens-
land coast. On the one side the creamy surge of
the ocean on the reef, and an occasional coral atoll
with palm trees, and perhaps a beacon light, show
where the great coral wall is built—-the work of
myriads of tiny insects—the wall which means so
much to Australia, as it keeps back more than the
fury of the sea. It affords a shield against
possible predatory raids from the North-East by
squadrons sent out from hostile nations which
have planted colonies in the island groups of the
Pacific over against Queensland.
All along this coast the . smooth water laves a
shore adorned with curved white and yellow
beaches. To the west the sunshine floods down
upon lovely color effects of green and gold on the
islands and mainland, seen across the spaces of
QUEENSLAND AND ITS ISLAND NEIGHBORS.
the smooth emerald seas. Peaked mountains,
rising to great heights and covered with forests,
stand like giant sentinels, and break the glories
of the sunsets with their dark shadows. Near the
beaches the palms and plantains wave in the
drowsy monsoonal breezes. In its own way, there
is nothing in the world to surpass this scenery.
Behind thebeaches, and in sounds, bays and reaches,
seen afar from the deck of the ship, the smoke of
populous settlements rises ; and the tourist knows
that there are camps of civilisation and entrepots
of commerce, drawing the wealth from the great
“ back country ” —as yet but hardly scratched—-
for transportation to the ends of the earth. In
PULLENS VINEYARD, ENOGGERA (Q,)—COMPARES WITH SOUTHERN
ITALY OR SPAIN.
all'these coastal towns there is much business
with cattle and sheep. Rockhampton and Towns-
ville, as well as Brisbane, have their huge meat
works where the cattle trucked from the great
plains and tablelands of the interior are converted
into frozen sides of splendid meat, which goes
north, south, east and west. In these great
works, also, the canned meat trade is carried on,
with superb machinery and appliances, turning
out tinned ox and sheeps’ tongues, brisket beef,
soups and other delicacies which are eaten by wild
tribesmen in Siberia, timber-getters on the Amur
River, adventurous Englishmen in the Malay
States, rich
Chinamen in
Java. Sumatra,
Borneo and
Celebes, and
which often
furnish the
wherewithal
for picnic par-
ti e s from
Vladi vos took
to Hobart
Town and from
Simla to Perth.
But it is not
these great
meat - freezing
and canning
works that are
in question
here. T hey
will be dealt
with in their
proper place.
It is the natur-
al beauty of
this part of
the continent.
The usual
winter object-
ive of the
Southern tour-
ististheCairns
district, for
there he
reaches the
starting point
for a region of
scenic beauty
which has at-
tracted visi-
tors from the
ends of the
earth, and has
inspired many
poetic descrip-
tions. T h e
liners which
run to the
North - West
routes, such
as the Japanese Nippon Yusen Kaisha, the
Burns-Philp, the China Navigation, the Eastern
and Australian, and the new Dutch lines, rarely
call at the coastal ports. They pass in stately
procession through the barred-in lake, touching
nowhere between Brisbane and Thursday Island.
The tourist, therefore, must embark on one of the
fine coastal steamers which travel from Melbourne
to Cooktown, and, perhaps, even as far round as
the Gulf of Carpentaria. But as many of these
fine tourist boats are twice, and even three times,
as big as some of the long-journey steamers, and
are splendidly fitted and catered, he will not
suffer any hardship in taking the coastal boats,
and he will have the advantage of peeping in at
the towns which are the terminals of the great
Queensland railway systems, whose lines run in-
land to tap the productive country of the West
and bring the remotest settler into touch with the
ships and the world’s markets. He will also have
an opportunity of noting how the whole coast is
fringed with settlement at regular intervals. The
smoke of the homestead or the hamlet cheers him
right along the route. There the pioneers look
out from their hills, and know that they are in the
track of the world’s commerce. The white veran-
dah, covered with creepers ; the galvanised iron
roof, painted with sun-resisting paint ; the house,
embowered in palms and flamboyants, betoken
comfort and prosperity. They are the growth of
a few years ; the evidence of the stdut heart and
the willing hands of the sturdy pioneeer, who can
now sit on his verandah and watch the passing ships
in the day, or mark their brilliant lights and flag
fringed decks at night. His daughters flutter tiny
handkerchiefs to the answering signals of the
BARRON FALLS, NEAR CAIRNS (Q,).
passengers on
the ship. They
probably have
travelled as
travel and re-
finement fol-
low the suc-
cessful exer-
tions of the
earlier genera-
tion ; and they
wave frqm
their secure re-
treat, in com-
fort, prosperi-
ty and peace,
at the shuttles
of civilisation
which are
swiftly moving
up and down
the sea before
their home-
steads. And
what they
have done can
be done again,
with far great-
er facilities
and advan-
tages to the
settler of to-
day.
This cheerful
sightcontinues
right up to the
extreme north
of the con-
tinent ;and,in
the Albany
Pass, near
Thursday Is-
-land, the
homestead of
the Jardines
looks out from
its hill at the
passing ships
making for
Torres Straits;
and from the
verandah the dwellers in that lovely home-
stead may look on the decks of the passing
ships, hardly a biscuit-throw away. Here, the
day over, elegantly-dressed and bejewelled tourist
ladies and gentlemen in dinner suits sit out
and listen to music in the tropic night.
These'fortunate ones have escaped the raw
winters of the more inhospitable South,
with their harsh frosts, and blasts from the
Southern Ocean coming straight from the icebergs
of the Antarctic regions. From the various points,
such as Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, and
Cairns, railways run into districts which delight
the traveller with foliage such as Java,- Banda,
Amboyna and the Spice Islands cannot excel.
From Brisbane the tourist can travel by traip
and view the pastoral and agricultural beauties qf
the Darling Downs. Before reaching
regions he has to ascend the main range to Too-
woomba. Here the railway runs around the edge
of a cup formed by the hills, through wild, weir'a
forests and smiling valleys studded with villages
and towns, stretched out beneath the windows of
his railway carriage. In this stretch of country
there is something which recalls to the traveller's
mind the scenery in the Austrian Alps towards
the Semmering Pass. In these Queensland forests
you find the choicest of Australian timbers, the
straight and graceful turpentine, the hard-
woods—blackbutt, ironbark and stringy bark ;
bloodvvood, myall, sandalwood, wild apple ;
and then the softwoods—cedar, beach, and pine,
and all through this country the streams sparkle
in the sunshine, feeding fine rivers. Beyond the
range the city of Toowoomba, on plains 2000 ft.
above the sea level, is the centre of a rich district,
which pours in its produce to the wealthy
markets of Brisbane—timber, fruit, fodder, bread-
stuffs, etc. Toowoomba is in the centre of a typi-
cally beautiful Australian landscape; long, low
mountains in the distance rising out of level
plains ; and on these plains all the primary indus-
tries are in full swing—small farming, mixed
farming, dairying, fruit-growing, wine-growing,
pastoral pursuits—sheep, cattle and horse raising.
The tourist whoflesires a bird’s eye view of all the
fat industries wflch Queensland is capable of sup-
porting can get it at Toowoomba and on the
beautiful Darling Downs country; and he can
gauge the productiveness of the whole State as
easily as he can gauge the capacity of Italy by the
view of the magnificent plains of Lombardy seen
from a spur of the Alps.
From Rockhampton, with its fine adjacent bay
and the mangrove-lined banks of the Fitzrov
River taking the wash of the steamer on the way
up to the town, he has another vista of fine
country. And more, here the tourist can visit
the great Mount Morgan mine,
one of the richest gold de-
posits in the world —a deposit
which has puzzled the geolo-
gists, and is like no other for-
mation in the world. One of
the richest gold mines ! —that
is well known ; but it is not
so well known' that it is one
of the richest copper mines,
for its gold and copper are in
the same matrix. Coming
back from Mount Morgan to
Rockhampton, the traveller
can make another journey to
see the beautiful pastoral
plains and lagoons of the
Gracemere estate, home of the
Archers, the pioneers of this
district ; and at no great dis-
tance there is the Yeppoon
Sugar Plantation. A railway
runs west to the very centre
of Queensland at Longreach ;
and another connects with
Brisbane via Gladstone, Bun-
daberg and Maryborough
(sugar centres), and Gym-
pie, with its rich mines,
which have produced up to
the end of 1906 a total of
2,311,077 ounces, worth approximately £9,244,308.
The tourist from the south of Australia usually
takes all these things for granted, and his winter
objective would be Cairns or Thursday Island.
But, again, when he reaches Townsville, he is
within a few hours’ ride of the fabulously-rich
Charters Towers goldfield, with the Day Dawn,
Brilliant Central, Brilliant Extended, and Queen
mines, Mills’ Day Dawn United, etc., all world-
famous mines. Out from Cairns there are also
mines—the prosperous and enterprising Chillagoe
Company has its mines equipped with the
very latest plant, including as part of that plant a
railway of its own 90 miles long, and another
in course of construction 70 miles long. At
Cairns the visitor has a glorious stretch of country
before him, full of scenic wonders—rivers, gorges,
mountain passes, forests, cataracts—every variety
of scenery to delight the eye. Or appeal to
the imagination. Within a few hours’ ride
of Cairns, after disembarkation from the
steamer from the South, ip a fast train, replete
with every comfort, there are the Barron Falls,
where the water leaps over a rocky escarp-
ment, and tears its way over the jagged rocks into
the river, nearly a thousand feet below. This
trip to the Falls district brings the tourist into the
very heart of the tropical scenery and vegetation
of the North. The railway journey itself is a
most fascinating experience ; and here, again, one
is reminded of some parts of the Carnic Alps,
which the traveller crosses when passing from
Venice to Vienna. It was through those passes
that the great Napoleon chased the Austrians
from Italy, and then, ignorant of Moreau’s vic-
tories, concluded a peace at Leoben —a peace
which humiliated Austria and established Buona-
parte’s ascendancy in France and in Europe.
Let us hope that the mountain passes back of
Cairns will never know the beat of the conqueror’s
drum or the blast of his war bugle.
It is not the mere culmination of the river’s
plunge which makes this journey interesting.
Men who have been in every part of the world
in search of scenery have proclaimed the whole of
this country uniquely interesting and fascinating.
As the train begins the rise after leaving Cairns
the sea stretches out away in the distance, and the
traveller sees the splendid foliage of the tropical
vegetation, so luxuriant, so brightly colored, so
varied, so trellised with vines and creepers, so
etched with the tracery of ferns and all the signs
of the jungle growth, including the orchid and the
staghorn fern. Space will not permit me to pur-
sue the description further, but beyond the
country already described there are other splen-
did cataracts, such as the Tully Falls. Then
there are the Chillagoe Caves, and the blue lakes
which lie cupped in the craters of extinct vol-
canoes. And again there is the same luxuriant
production from the soil side by side with the
mining industry ; and coffee and bananas, sugar-
cane and pineapples are all cultivated with suc-
cess. In this district, too, is the germ of future
national wealth, in the Kamerunga Tropical Ex-
perimental Farm, in which experiments are made
with rubber, cinnamon, tea and coffee, with a
view to supplying the present and the future
settler with plants, and with advice and instruc-
tion in the way to build a fortune for himself and
to increase the aggregate wealth and stability of
the State of Queensland.
H. C. Blackwell : Thanks for photos, which will
appear in due course.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agbnts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 Collins"street, Melbourne.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable Aidefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without resmction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
jjank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Bauking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
PAIR INTEREST.
BAST TERMS.
WE
$
1?
$5-
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
uxr.s.’w.
n)ORt de piete 0. I. C®-» Dt<*-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
rHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Eaq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
fgd
& Soho,
a. a.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
ďfg
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES,
t x 28 inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor *
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. If
ACKLE
SH NG
Every
p Requisite
WRITES
d FOR .
■ RICE-Lio i
J.OCOTT.364BOURKE St, Melbourne
Trout
Terch
\Cod
/Sea
Bream
SUpplng.
N ord
D eutscher
lyloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||euj lea land.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2,000,000
£500,000
£504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London „ From £57 ... £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fdg
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
February 20.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
AFRIC, SUEVIO, and PERSIO to follow.
FARES — Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about S
fdgd
CRUISES. \
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
* the important features being:—
(а) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(б) Low AND FIXED rate of Interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
( e ) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; Interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
* situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
■' ,v ; ‘
•,• • * *
si
m
*' • ** v '
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 860 Central, 300 City.
ni
G
EORGE
St. Hilda.,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New
South Wales,when stewed, form an
exquisite Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD,
served either hot or cold. Most popular
with Adults and the Youthful alike.
TEDDY BEAR’S PICNIC.
ďf
The Greatest Instrumental
Success since Hiawatha.
Played by all the Leading
Bands.
The Hit of Jack and Jill
Pantomime.
Piano Solo, 1/6; posted, 1/7.
AI I AM’Q COLLINS STREET,
ftLLftn O, MELBOURNE.
gdf
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prop. W. J. Pif,rce.
Something' every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE, 'v
ADELAIDE,
POET PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Pilbarra, February 16.
S.S. Grantala, February 27.
S.S. Bullarra (from Fre-
mantle to N. -West Ports),
March 12.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Feb. 13.
S.S. Yongala, February 20.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FABT PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOjS’G
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 13.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, February 20.
MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth, I
Hopetoun, and all I
other W.A. ports.) J
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, February 20.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
GABO, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 13.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 20.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electrio Tram)
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL. MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
. . The " CRYSTAL" . .
PARLOUR LAMP
A TACK WILL HOLD IT ON THE WALL.
ffT Just as Useful for the Table.
fa*
EACH
H
2 FOR
3/
POST FREE
HAVE YOU GOT ONE IN YOUR HOME?
' You ought to.
Look at this beautiful and most popular
lamp on the market. It is unnecessary for us
to dilate on its numerous advantages. Tou can see
them for yourself. You can use it on ihe Table, or by
a simple single movement, instantly turn it into a
Wall or Parlour Lamp by swinging back the ingeni-
ously made Stand, which catches on to a screw or tack
on the wall. When lit it gives a most beautiful,
soft, clear, white light. It can be lighted
without any trouble, and when lit will burn all night.
Its harmonizing effect makes it the ideal lamp for the
hall, or passage or stairway, or even the verandah.
It is appreciated by all who see it I
The " Crystal” Parlour Lamp is posi-
tively odourless. It does not smoke. Ii is, therefore,
most valuable for the sick chamber, where its soft
light has a desirable soothing effect upon the
patient.
Recommended by all the leading physicians l
The “ Crystal” Lamp is of very handsome
appearance: an ornament by night or day. Highly
finished in Polished Nickel. We have fixed the price
extra low, so that all of our friends may have one.
Don’t delay in sending. , .
The price for the present is Only Is 9d each,
post free anywhere; or a pair lor
88. post free.
A. J. SMITH ffit CO.,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.


Whole Body Raw with Eczema-
Life was Intolerable—‘Was Even
Incased in Plaster—Discharged
from Hospitals as Hopeless.
SUFFERED 14 YEARS
CURED BY CUTICURA
"Prom the age of three months until
fifteen years old, my son Owen’s life
ƒdg
was made intoler-
able by eczema in
its worst form. He
was all right until
a red rash broke
out on his fore-
head, but we were
not alarmed at first.
Very soon, however,
the rash began to
spread over his head
and shoulders, and
it caused him great
discomfort. I took
him to a doctor and tried half a dozen
other treatments, all with the same
result: no improvement at all. The
disease gradually spread until nearly
every part of his body was quite raw.
We had to strap him down in bed, for
he used to tear himself dreadfully in
his sleep. The agony he went through
is quite beyond words. No one thought
we would rear him. The regimental
doctor, a very clever man, pronounced
the case hopeless; at least, he said the
? n j was that he might, if he
lived long enough, outgrow it to some
extent. We had him in hospitals four
times and he was pronounced one of
the worst cases, if not the worst, ever
admitted. From each he was dis-
charged as incurable; in fact he got
worse under the successive treatments.
At one hospital they incased him in
plaster, and this seemed to aggravate
the soreness terribly. He looked so
badly that no one liked to go near him
and his life was a burden to him. We
kept trying remedy after remedy, but
we had got almost past hoping for a
cure. Six months ago we purchased
a set of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and
Resolvent Pills and persevered with
them. The result was truly marvelous
and to-day he is perfectly cured, his skin
not haying a blemish on it anywhere.
Mrs. Lily Hedge, 51, Vaughan Road,
Coldharbour Lane, Camblewell Green,
Eng., Jan. 12, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Depots. London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue
dela Patx; Australia, R. Towns <k Co., Sydney:
So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Capetown, etc.; U.S.A ’
Potter Drue & Chem. Corp„ Sole Props., Boston.
• THE
STEINWAY
PIANO.
IN the history of the Piano
it will be found that
STEINWAY leadership
has continued without a break
up to the present day. The
STEIN WAY is easily recog-
nised from all others by the
beauty of its tone, and artistic
construction.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co* Ltd*,
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
The summer has arrived—there is no doubt of it
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using only
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. After
a day s motoring, golf, or shopping, “ 4711 ” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and give you that peculiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
fd
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boot,
22 6
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong' sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/6.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
fdg
FOR
FAT
WOMEN
exercise is
good, but a Sydney physician who has investi-
gated says “ that without any doubt the
most successful, harmless, pleasant, and
certain method, as well as the cheapest, is
“FATCURE.”
It reduces weight in many cases by
over five pounds a week, and when re-
duced the condition does not come on
again. The cure is permanent.
The method is perfect, its results are
marvellous, its clientele tremendous. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars. Write or call at once.
No ill after-effects result from the use of
Fatcure.” Can be taken with absolute
secrecy.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY. [3O
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SDTTON'S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATCN7-J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS,
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
[ 20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
, bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
i against infectious diseases.
Sold by dll Chemists and Stores,
iMade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
Translated French Hovels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd
G. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Crana, Monte Carlo.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St, Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND STEEL FOR EVERY
fd
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
POMEROY
Liquid Powder
Tones down any undue redness and
renders flushing of the face less notice-
able. Is a great protection to the com-
plexion especially when motoring, yacht-
ing, golfing, etc. Made in five shades :
Flesh Pink, Pale Pink, Rachel, Pale
Rachel and White,
Sold by all Chemists and Stores; or
direct from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old
Bond Street, London, England.
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for:
JERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
Create a Cool
Current of Air
When you think how much pleasanter
a room can be made by using an
Electric Pan, it’s surprising how you
have put off the purchase so long.
The Edison Battery Fan Motor is
particularly serviceable, tor it can be
suspended where most desirable, and
is small and compact.
Almost noiseless in operation, it yet
creates a splendid current of air, and
quickty cools the most heated room.
For such apartments—b edro o m s,
diningrooms, or anywhere else —where
coolness is desirable, an Edison Motor
is the ideal and economical form.
Send for our descriptive booklet.
You’ll find it very useful.
with an Edison
Battery Fan Motor.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
ďf
ƒdgdfg
QIVEN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O/A the Bunch
” post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [8
Business, Robbery, etc.
Sussex-street, Sydney, whence filters the egg
of commerce from the country producer to the suburban
consumer, is in the throes of civil war. According to the
wonderful ways of egg-and-cheesedom, the grower cannot
sell direct to the suburban housewife ; he can’t even sell
direct to the suburban grocer. His egg must first go
to the middle-man—the Sussex-street “merchant.”
Lately, however, there has grown up another middle-
man. He is the broker. The way he brokes is by uttering
blandishments in the suburban shopkeeper’s ear, so that
his orders will go to some particular merchant. Conse-
quently four persons instead of three batten on the profit
of one half-dozen of eggs. The broker’s excuse for his ex-
istence is that he is a specialist in the value of dairy
produce, and prevents the suburban grocer paying higher
than he need for the things he gets from the big merchant.
The merchants think this a dashed rotten reason as
rotten as some of their eg-g-s ; and as they pay the broker-
age, they have formed a combine and have struck the
broker byrefusing- to deal with any firm that employs him.
The grocers who hire the broker but don’t pay him any-
thing look upon him with a kindly eye, and with their sup-
port the brokers are combining to beat the merchants. So
ther£ it is, and soon, if the merchant won’t sell to the
grocer because he employs a broker and the grocer won’t
buy except through a broker, the suburban customer will
do a perish for want of supplies. If the producer could
by a well-thought-out scheme of co-operation, sell direct
to the customer, Sussex-street, with its merchants
brokers and bad smells, would fade out.
* * * *
throws a sidelight on what the papers
call the monetary stringency ”of Maoriland .-—There
is general dissatisfaction in Maoriland because farmers
cannot get money to develop their holdings. None to
get, you suggest ? Not so. The money available now is
limited, and the applications for loans granted compared
with those applied for are very small. It is the Fat Man’s
innings. He is now offering his thousands of acres as
security for sums leaving plenty of margin. He is a
substantial man. He interviews the head of the monev-
lending institution. He is favorably received. He is
important. The application may be entertained, as pro-
babiy funds may permit of this one loan. The Fat Man
gets his loan money, and pays it into his solicitor’s bank-
ing account. “Money to lend,” says the legal man.
bmall fanner comes along to renew mortgage. He cannot
renew with the Government lending departments— they
have no money. He sees this “ money-to-lender.” He
must have the money. “Would 10 per cent, eet it?”
“No” “Would m?” “Yes.” He borrows from the
rat Man because he cannot get it elsewhere. The Fat
Man got it for anything from 4J to 6 per cent.
* * * <
“iL”: The memory of the old importing habit
lingers in odd places. Even the strongly-Protec-
tionist Age still prints the heading “Import Markets.”
At one time all the articles quoted under this caption
were imported ; but the other day I had a run through
the Age list, and I found the following Australian-made
goods .-—Sugar (all Australian), which had quite a lomr
paragraph to itself; corn-flour (Queensland), sauce
(Melbourne), raisins and currants (nearly all Mildura)
lemon and orange peel (all Australian), starch (mostly
Melbourne), oatmeal (all Victorian), jams and jellies (all
Australian), preserved fruit (ditto), preserved meat
(ditto), preserved sheeps’ tongues (Australian and from
Maoriland), hops (Australian), condensed milk (largely
Australian), arrowroot (partly Queensland), brooms
(mostly Victorian) figs, in boxes (partly Mildura); soap
(nearly all Australian, except a few fancy lines) and
candles (mostly Victorian). So I boldly request the
Syme Brothers to change their heading to “ Australian
and Import Market.” As for the Argus, it will probably
retain the heading so long as a single box of foreign goods
is dragged ashore at Port Melbourne.
* * *
“Agricola ” : “ Whom the gods wish to destroy
they first make mad.” Thanks be to the gods, the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. has gone far in the way that leads to
destruction. But the madness of the C.S.R. is as
compared to the rage of Victorian storekeepers Some
weeks ago the Fairymead Co. notified its customers that
it could not guarantee to fill all orders for some time
owing to a rush of business. Scenting a rise in prices
storekeepers rushed in orders to the C.S.R. Co. The
three-ton-a-month man rose to the 10-ton level, and so
on. In reply came a calm communication to the effect
that the usual three tons had been forwarded. The
remaining seven tons would be forwarded on the'under-
standing that the price charged would be at the following
month’s rate for the first three tons, and for the next
three tons the subsequent month’s rate, and so on. The
co., it was mentioned, had no desire to encourage specu-
lation in sugar. Good old philanthropic and considerate
C.S.R. ! Please allow me to assume a recumbent position
while its honorable foot reposes on my stomach. Also
Hooray for Private Enterprise 1 See how this co’
encourages it in others !
• * * *
Evidence given on oath in a recent American
investigation showed that a Yankee Trust dumps starch
into the United Kingdom to the average extent of
£250,000 a year; wherefore the British starch-maldng
industry is in a shockingly limp condition, and is
liable to utterly collapse at any moment—it is only kept
going at all by slowly starving the starch-workers. The
Yankee Trust made a similar attempt to capture the
French and German markets ; but France and Germany
don’t like to see their workers starved, so they built up a
protective tariff wall. And this was the result: in 1907
only £234 worth of the Vankee Trust’s starch got into
Germany, and none at all into France.
* * * #
The “ tied-house ” curse is alleged to be crawl-
ing into the sugar business in parts of Queensland. A
while ago the mills used to boss the situation ; but now-
adays the planters are mostly a bit more independent,
and it has got on to the nerves of some of the mill-bosses.
Therefore the mill-bosses, having piled up a “nice dry
bit ” in most cases, are picking up every farm that comes
into the market and putting in men who bind themselves
down to send their stuff to no mill but that of the
mill-boss. Fat almost venerates the “ law of supply and
demand,” and looks on competition as “ the soul of
trade,” but he puts the blessed soul under lock and key
as soon as it threatens to stop tuppence or so flowing into
his own pocket.
THE BARGAIN SALE
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
° f ou !l leadi . n fr drapers advertise bargain sales
in this issue.—Press item.
Now these are the days of the harvest of rags,
And the Janes and Susans and Marys and Megs,
And the crookedest antediluvian hags,
With the daintiest creatures that walk upon legs
Are all strangely assorted together ;
kroni the schoolgirls that giggle and push in the crowd
To the splendid aristocrat haughty and proud,
From the pale little seamstress reluctant and cowed
To the glorious beer-maid triumphant and loud,
To-day they’re all birds of a feather.
They shove and they push, and they wrangle and fight,
They elbow and jostle to left and to right
To get to the counters for touch and for sight
Of the bargains outspread for their special delight,
All imported direct from the makers ;
For the rag-man’s arrangements are skilfully made,
He has advertised largely, has waited and prayed,
And o erwhelmed in the tumult, but still undismayed,
He scoops in the dollars that should have been paid
To grocers and butchers and bakers.
And the poorest of shoddy is sold by the mile
To deck Mary in lustre and Susan in style,
And the damsel, triumphant, goes out with a smile
With the rags that she won by her push and her guile
Done up in a wealth of brown paper ;
And when the sale’s done, and the shelves are all bare,
With only the flavor of Jane in the air,
Behold the reward of his toil and his care,
And a pious thanksgiving enriches the prayer
Of the godly and circumspect draper.
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.


i
I WHAT IS CATARRH?
jCATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
7 throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
f
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fro#, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, is.
Stnd Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS H
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
fgd
McLEAN’S SPECIAL GUN, £6 10s. J - &
“ PREMIER” D.8.8.L.', Oross-Bolt, 30in. Twist Barrels, Left
Choke, Right Cylinder, Engine-turned Rib, Solid Strikers,
Bar Looks, Half Pistol Hand, Snap Fore-end, 12 Gauge,
£6 103. Write for our new Gun and Ammunition Catalogue.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGQ PTY. LTD.,
(Under direction of Thomas Luxton & Sons),
147-149 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Materials.
ƒgdfdg
SEND FOR THE PLDM RAZOR
and you’ll find, on comparison, that there isn’t any razor that will
approach the PLTJM for all-round satisfaction. A keen cutter and
close shaver, guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
Price 10/0. Post Free Anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig; & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. King:’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WHAT SO TASTY AS
BROOKE’S “LEMOS?”
You can drink it at any time. In hot weather-
in cold weather—it is always a welcome drink.
It has a flavor so exclusive —so superior to other
drinks—that anyone who will try it will never
discard it. BROOKE’S SWEETENED LEMON
SQUASH stands first on the list of all
Australian beverages for purity and goodness.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzies, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE. XJ.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the niost
vicious
do*; (or
manjwith
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post free anywhere for 3/-
g
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
Areal startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is Absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something- in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
fd
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting- pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed i n
perfect working
order, throwing
a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 2/9,
or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
for re-charging
lamp //-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
si/
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d> from “The
Bulletin. ” Office
V
SWM//M
rer
-n
p«^
if
are
you
thirsty
v
**
try
*r
glass
50
of
0
JUICE.
“ MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink,
MADE IN TWO KINDS—
Unsweetened, i.*.. Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened —Lime Jute* CcrdiaL
RUPTURE
/Mioen QV r I C/'TDIPITV r Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
CUKfcP PI CLCV/I mi/I I I. j s a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Varicocele Can Be Cured!
THE CAUSE OF MORE WRECKS THAN ANY OTHER DISEASE.
IT CAN BE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Thousands of men have Varicocele and are ignorant of the harm which may result. They only know that something is
draining the vim and ambition from their bodies and brains, and know of no reason to account for it.. This terrible
affliction is the most treacherous, silent and certain in its work of all known ailments. It comes on without apparent cause,
and never ceases in its destructive influence until it robs a man of all his vitality and leaves him a physical and mental wreck.
ig
VA
as
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
for the cure of Varicocele and its concurrent or attending weaknesses. Applied exter-
nally or internally drugs usually prove either ineffectual or injurious. There are many
ways of treating it, but none is so sure of success as properly-applied Electricity. We
have devoted twenty years to the study of Electricity for the cure of this and kindred
ailments, and have cured 5000 cases of Varicocele. We have cured cases of thirty years
standing' where the patients had exhausted all other known treatments without relief,
and who'came to us in a state of complete debility. DR. MeLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT and electric suspensory —our method —has cured after the
knife, injection, ligation and every other known means had failed. We have cured
physicians, lawyers, ministers, merchants and laborers. We use a method of our
own ; one which is the result of vast experience during the past twenty years. ■ We have
an electric body battery which can be worn comfortably while the patient sleeps at
night, and which gives a powerful yet soothing current that is always under control.
It pours its vitalizing energy into the body for six to eight hours every night in a
manner which dissolves the congestion, assists the circulation, gives contraction to
relaxed cords and restores strength. If you are tired of useless drugging and have spent
your time and money without benefits, write to-day. We have made over 50,000
people strong and vigorous, and they never tire of praising our wonderful remedy.
It is a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality, Stomach,
Kidney and Liver Trouble®, Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago, and when used with our
newly-patented electro-plastic truss, is a certain cure for Rupture. ... It is easy to use; no sting,
burn or shock ; put it on when you go to bed, and you get up in the morning feeling like a two-year-old
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have special attachments for men.
They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up. Beware of cheap imitations.
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write us, and our
specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All
communications ars treated with strict confidence. For private
address, address: M. E. B. Co.
THEi MCLAUGHLIN CO
Dep. 10, Castiereagb and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R, CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Castlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
O


ing’s Norton I
CARTRIDGES
In Miniature Rifle Range Shooting
you’ll have no fouled rifles or cartridge
troubles if you use these cartridges.
They are sold by all Ammu-
nition vendors—long and
shoft Rifle and hollow point
Sporting bullets—either with
black or smokeless powder.
i BRITISH MAZE
Agents
COLONIAL
Ammunition
co.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
neat
and
STRONG
TO
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
* No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098, Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
A
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iPgr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A.. F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
La tiles' Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
WT- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TATES, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINC3 MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
0
m
%
d>
5S
3
S
%
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
67>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
CONUNDRUM:
DAILI
Who is the most
SensibleWomaa?
Nosensible and up-to-date Woman will use any other
but the “Dalli” Box Iron. No Gas, no Fire, no
Smell. Hot in a few minutes and remains hot. No
changes of irons. Self-heating with smokeless Fuel.
Can be used anywhere without interruption, even
out of doors, doing double the work in half the time.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
AM
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously."
— Lancet.
VV r COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
DON’T LOOK OLD
DARKEN
YOUR
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, i/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/,
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS I
wiessrs. Sayers, Al port Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
HBAKNES
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
ar ® SUbJ f ct t-olas on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comfortmv i n lrritation
i? ‘ h f ]‘ r °? 1 and S'™? Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic no? Consump-
J M° P i, Cons , um PV° n lsn ?‘ kn . ow “ where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly Sated wUh ttfis
“ure is US<i Wl * h ° Ut teken at the beginning, a dose or two is genially suffitiem, and a complete
Smal Ohem’ist e vS r°‘ d by ° hemiStS and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. a HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
A
J
Food.
In the preparation of Benger s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere. <
One G. J. Bruce recently supplied the
S. M. Herald with an interesting letter on “Our
White Australia.” Some extracts follow:
Port Darwin is almost entirely in the hands of Chinese,
with a few Japanese, Malays, Indians, and other Asiatics
helping them to run the business of the place,
and a handful of aborigines doing the dirty little
odd jobs for them. It is a pity that that foul-
smelling, unsightly array of Chinese tin shanties which
make up the main street of Palmerston, Port Darwin,
could not be transplanted for a day into Macquarie-street.
Why, Little Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, and Wexford-
street, Sydney, are delightful avenues compared to it.
True, there are a few European shops and offices, in the
side streets mostly, but the visitor can easily overlook
these. Port Darwin is a lovely spot, one of Nature’s finest
creations spoilt by the heathen.
Now that we have the Labor party at the Federal helm,
will the Government explain to the white workers of Aus-
tralia why an almost incredible incident like this is
allowed in “White Australia”? Up till quite recently
the men employed in the Government bond were white
men. Recently these white men lost their billets, and
the work to-day is being done by Chinese coolies. While
white men loaf about Palmerston looking for work, the
Government bond and wharf employees are Chinese
coolies. The truth is the work is let by tender, and the
lowest tenderer gets it. The Chinese coolie lives almost
on a sniff of rice ; the white man cannot. The man,
therefore, who employs the Chinese undercuts the
tenderer who offers white men, and the Government
accepts the alien hirer’s price. It is surely time we had a
“white labor” clause in Government and municipal
contracts. Why, it is a matter of local notoriety that
to-day white Australians in Port Darwin have to
call themselves Ah Bell, Ah Brown, Ah Sin, or Ah
Chump to get a chance of a living. This, too, in our
“ White Australia.” Coming along to the next port of
call, Thursday Island, the visitor gets a further shock.
In this lovely Arcadia of the North the Japanese are top
dogs, with the Chinese, Javanese, Malays, Indians, Eura-
sians, and a variety of colored breeds almost entirely
blotting out the whites. Here one looks in vain for the
white Australian in business. One walks along the
streets of this Australian town to find its shops stocked
with Chinese and Japanese goods, and the sellers nearly
all Asiatics.
The visitor remembers seeing the cargoes being dis-
charged at Port Darwin and here, and noted the pack-
ages came mostly from the United States or Germany, if
not from China or Japan. Climbing up the hill at Thurs-
day Island, a collection of white Australians is found at
last, the Permanent Artillery in the fort, guarding the
Asiatic traders below !
The steamer calls at Cairns next, and one finds hordes
of Indian Sikhs working in the canefield for Chinese cane-
growers.
A vigorous correspondent like that is a cheering
person to meet.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
C/>e LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
WINCHESTER
Just landed 1906 Model Rifle, Improved; handles *22 short,
long or long Rifle Cartridges, mixed or separately,
POSTAGE—2/3, N.S.W. ; 4/2, Inter-State—EXTRA.
£2.
Extra
Send for Illustrated Sports and
Fishing Catalogues FREE.
ICAN’T
B
BEAT
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street, Newcastle .
Branches: Church Street, Parramatta; 197 Oxford Street, Sydney;
113 King Street, Newtown; 273 Darling Street, Balmain.
fdgfgd
fdg
AULDJOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. .Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
fdg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, . illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds oi young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. Frf.nch
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss. .
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. DSP - Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street^ Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
<►
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf,’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Grand Pipes
Rest Pipes
DelighteulPipes
Thais what
Jf.
w-
CUARftNTt^'
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable fromallTobacconisfs
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAH UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
|| “Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all" who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., OPP.0 PP . C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volupie, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Biitisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street,^Sydney.
fgd
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on haying NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. D. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet ,
Is. 4d. (stamps) to make 5 gallons spray. •
ASTHMACURE
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemuts.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


Summer Skin Troubles
Sunburn, Heat-Swellings, Nettle-rash, Pimples, Blotches,
Freckles—Zam-Buk Balm Soothes and Cures.
& f
At every season of the year mystic changes
take place in our bodies which leave us
peculiarly liable to certain diseases of the skin.
The heat and glare of the Summer sun is
particularly trying, and the pleasure of many
a holiday is marred by the itching, burning
irritation of the skin which heat, change of air,
and change of water produce. The reason is
that the skin is unduly tender in Summer owing
to the increased strain which excessive perspira=
tion imposes upon the pores, the relaxed condition
of the tissues, and the deposits of irritating
acids often left by the perspiration.
Zam=Buk is Nature’s real antidote for such
troubles, be they heat=swellings, nettle=rash,
freckles, pimples, blotches, or pruritis—that un=
sightly rash which so frequently attacks one
after bathing, especially in sea water. It is
impossible to get relief from or=
dinary ointments, lotions, or
cosmetics, because they are so
largely composed of fatty and
mineral substances which only
tend to aggravate skin trouble.
Zam-Buk Balm, on the other hand, is prepared solely from the
essences of just those wonderful medicinal plants which Nature has
provided for the protection of the human skin, and by a unique
scientific process of blending, Zam-Buk is so constituted that when
applied to the skin it becomes Nature’s ally in the work of dispelling disease
and restoring the skin to perfect health.
Soothing, Cooling, Healing.
So pure that it suits even a baby’s delicate skin, and so powerful
that it expels disease from its strongest refuge, the frame of old age,
Zam-Buk is the world’s greatest healing balm for all injured, diseased,
irritated and inflamed conditions of the skin and tissue. Keep a pot
handy for sunburn, tan, sore feet, smarting patches, and all Summer Skin
troubles. Sold by
all chemists and
stores at Is. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per
pot ; 3/6 contains
nearly four times
the Is. 6d.
6
4
RUB
IT
■lt
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty Hy your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe sKin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Song of Australia’s Defence.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HEAR ye a song,
Halting, discordantly strung, perchance
Yet heavy with burden of circumstance,
Of sloth and a slothful Wrong.
Children, how long, in this warm wide isle,
Taking your glutted ease
Stretched on your cliffs, shall ye drowse and
smile
Over your wardless seas ?
Hear ye the tale of an unfought fight,
Of the red days spawned from the days that are,
Of bloodied shoals and an unborn night,
Of the hiving Mongol and Muscovite,
And a southern Trafalgar !
Drowse !—an ye must —
Dreaming of these and of such as these,
Since haply, rousing to symphonies
Deep in the stirring dust
That hath mantled your heart’s harp overlong,
May revel its strings among
The wraith of some harsh hot-hearted song
Your Yiking fathers sung ;
Till your wan face wake, and your leaden eyes,
To a naked sea and a fortless shore,
To empty barrack and stark sea-rise,
Where only the seagull floats and flies
And the wind whines evermore.
Children, no lack
Have ye of thews and of strong swift feet
Hence from these sea-skirts saltly-sweet
Out to the Farthest-Back :
Singers, God wot, and enow of song
Have ye, divinely writ,
Long as your dear land’s length is long,
Wide as the breadth of it :
Children, what lets that your furnace glow,
And the slid stones scrape while the dockwalls
rise,
And the whipped piles thud ?—lt were safer so ;
Ye have heard of a Horse in the long ago,
Of a town and a night-surprise.
Mothers of men
Such as are these —of a straight-limbed breed,
Deep-lunged and comely and good at need—
Thank the good gods again
For the gift of those that your love shall give
To the land ; for your pain hath made
Strength that the land may fight and live,
Stones for her barricade.
Grey-beard and bent, ye shall count your all
Well-squandered, sires of soldier sons,
That your knees bend not to an alien thrall,
Or a shadow lie on the seaward wall
And the rust on the seaward guns.
Brown as the leaves
That in dreary England autumns dress
Her trees ; as our own leaves numberless
(That the sweet-flaked sunlight weaves
To a green-gold web) shall your legions be ;
As a sea-dyke trebly-stoned,
Solidly square to the stamping sea,
Brasured and bastioned.
They shall watch from the Northern river-reach
To the little island that lies a-swing
By the crooning Straits—at the rifle-breech
Each thumb, and the leaning ear of each
Up the salt wind listening.
Day-tide and night,
Children, fresh-fashioning new for old,
Let the hot steel hiss in the cannon-mould,
And the ringing hammers smite
On the climbing walls of your fighting ships ;
That so, when some fierce dawn break
In flame on your sea-turned eyes and lips,
And the stripped decks shock and shake
To the throb of the sullen thrashing guns
And the screaming of shells and of shattered men,
Through scathe shall ye nathless, 0 faithful
ones,
By grace and the might of your stalwart sons,
Win peace to your gates again.
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
Mrs. Carter.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
DOWN in the township the foetid air
lay thick. The sunset was red and hot,
with a spit of rain in it; and the little
knots of men round the bars and at the street
corners cursed the buzzing mosquitoes and kicked
the edge of the unmade footpath lazily, and
slouched out of the bars and in as each new-
comer clattered up from the plain to strike the rim
of civilisation again.
Round Henry’s pub the men and the talk were
thickest. For Henry was a sport to the nuggety
core of his heart, and the township held its yearly
races on the morrow. Westbury sat on the side
of Henry’s horse-trough, and listened and watched.
But he took no part in the chaff and the quarrels.
He had laid his bets an hour back, and he had
stood off drink that he might keep a clear head
and a steady seat for the Welter and the Dunga-
mine Cup at the next mid-day.
A little brown man galloped down the street
full tilt. He swerved over to the group by the
bar, reined up in the dust, and tumbled off with
a rollicking welcome which included the mangy
cur on the doorstep and Westbury, sullen and
silent on the trough.
Then he came across swiftly, grinning at West-
bury as his tired mare thrust her muzzle deep in
the water.
“I’ve ridden fifty miles since noon,” he said ;
“ and by , I’m drier than the sand itself.
Come an’ have a wet, Westbury.”
“No, thanks,” said Westbury.
He stood still, watching Carter go in on the full
tide of the rush. Then he shrugged his shoulders
and walked down the street swiftly, with the lines
about his mouth twitching. He was a big, broad-
built man with loose shoulders and a queer way of
swinging his left arm. It had been broken once
in a steeplechase and mended by rough up-country
surgery, and the ache was still in it at times.
But it was not the ache in his arm that hurt him
now, as he turned the street-corner and climbed
the long slope to the hill of coolibah and brigalow
that overlooked the sea and the plain.
The sea lay out on his left—grey, patched with
dull red by the sunset. It moaned a little, turn-
ing with a slow wash on the long stretch of sand
where the mangroves waded. The plain was
broad on his right, with the little township of
sheet-iron and unplaned wood, and flaring shoddy
built pubs, and the straggling fences of prickly-
pear, and the long, straight roads running out
into the eternal sand. On the far edge of the
plain the sun glowed like a drink-reddened eye ;
and the hot, harsh wind, coining to Westbury
across the distance, reminded him of the breath
of a drink-sodden man—just such a breath as
Carter’s had been when Westbury knew him two
years back. And, if men spoke anything of truth,
it was likely to be worse now.
He drew in his breath sharply. Then he
breasted the hill and saw the woman who stood
on the crest of it. He had not come to meet her.
He had not met her since undeserved scandal had
scorched him two years ago and he had gone away
from the township, saying nothing. When time
and luck righted him he came back. And he
found her Carter’s wife.
This had stung to the very core of the man.
For he had loved her well, and trust in her had
helped him to win through his shame, and had
brought him back. It was three weeks since he
came back to the old pineapple plantation and
the stench of the stale man-handled land and the
trodden dust of the township. But he had kept
away from Carter’s house, set back among
the prickly-pear and the tall aloes and the
Moreton Bay figs, and he had said a steady “ No”
to all Carter’s boisterous invitations to “ Come
along up and have a pipe and a peg. Annie will
give us some music.” For too keenly Westbury
remembered Annie’s music in the days when she
had sung for him only.
He hesitated, looking on her where she stood
with her back turned and the flare of red light
striking out her young, slim figure sharp and
dark before it. All about her the coarse, blady
grass bent and swept as the wind blew it this way
and that, and the gaunt arms of the coolibahs and
one wizened bloodwood seemed stretching to her
and creaking their stiff joints in the effort.
Then Westbury took the corner of his lip
between his teeth, as a man takes the string of
his hat when a gale is coming, and went forward
through the grass and the low scrub.
She heard the rustle of his feet and turned
quickly. Then she caught her hands together in
the sudden, unconscious way that Westbury re-
membered so well. And she looked at him ; but
she did not speak, and in her eyes was a new
something of mixed fright and appeal and tears
which made Westbury’s heart jump and quiver.
“I didn’t know you were here,” he said, and
her woman’s quickness read the strain in his voice.
“ I—you know I didn’t follow you.”
“I know,” she said. “Yes—-I know. But
I—l think I’m glad you came. I have so wanted
to speak to you since I knew you were back. l—
l—if I could tell you ”
The trembling of her lips stopped her words.
Her whole body was trembling. Two years of
marriage with Carter had not made her anything
but the wistful, sweet-faced girl whom Westbury
had loved. But face and voice told more than
the man cared to see.
“I am glad too,” he said, gravely. “I have
wanted to see you. I have wanted to ask you if
you were happy with him. I have no right to ask
you, of course. But I could get along better if I
knew that you were happy.”
The tears were suddenly big in her blue eyes,
and she drew her lips in as if with a stab of pain.
“Nevermind that,” she said, hurriedly. “It
—it doesn’t matter to you now, you know.”
“ Doesn’t matter ! ” said Westbury. He looked
at her closely, and his half-laugh was grim.
“Doesn’t matter ! You know that it matters to
me more than anything else on earth or in Heaven.
But you needn’t tell me. You are not happy.
D’ you think I can’t see that? You are not, and
I knew you couldn’t be. Annie, Annie! What
did you do it for ? ”
The ring in liis voice brought the tears running
down her cheeks.
“I—l don’t know,” she said, “"iou had gone
away .... and he was, rich .... and a girl must
marry someone. And you had gone away.”
“ Ah,” said Westbury, sharply, and his heavy
brows came down. “And you couldn’t wait?
Why couldn’t you w’ait for me, Annie ? ”
“I—l —oh, Lance, I wish I had. I wish I
had ! ”
Westbury moved quickly, catching her hands.
“Annie,” he said, and his voice was changed,
“do you mean that? Do you mean it? If I
thought you did I’d say to you what I said long
ago : ‘ Annie, my little love, come to me, for I
love you better than anything else God has
made ! ’ ”
Beyond the ridge of the plain the red sun
dropped, and in the sudden pallor of the world
her face was deadly white. For a moment
neither spoke, and the feet of the free wind
running in the grass and the brigalow made the
only sound on the hill-top. Then she said,
brokenly :
“Please, don’t. Oh, Lance, please don’t.
You’ve got to be good and kind and brave forme,
just as you used to be. Please, Lance. You
know I never found it easy to —to stand up by
myself. I never could. I shouldn’t have mar-
ried if I had. But—but you were always stronger
than I was, Lance.”
He let go her hands/slowly, and the hot flood
of passion was beaten back in him.
“My poor little Annie,” he said, tenderly, “ I
knew all that, dear. I knew that you were
always one to be cared for and protected. And I
would have done it if you had waited. Darling,
didn’t you know I’d come back to you ? ”
“ How could Ibe sure ? People said ”
Westbury’s dark face reddened with the surge
of blood to it.
“You didn’t believe what they said, did you?
You didn’t think I was a thief and a liar ? Annie,
you didn’t think that ? Tell me ! ”
She shrank as the quick, hard words hit her,
and a few drops of rain fell on her bare head from
the sullen heat of the sky.
“Don’t be angry, Lance,” she cried, piteously.
“I’m not very brave or very wise, you know.
And they all said it. And you never sent me any
message . . . and you never wrote.”
He looked at her strangely. It was the look of
a straight-lived, clear-headed man trying to mea-
sure the many twists of a woman’s brain.
“You didn’t need that, did you?” he asked.
“ I never thought it was necessary. If you loved
me, you would have believed ; if you didn’t, it
was best for you to find it out. I couldn’t ask you
to marry me with that cloud on me. But I thought
if you loved me you’d wait.”
“I did love you. I—l love. . . oh, Lance,
don’t say any more. Don’t say anything more.
I—l can’t bear it.”
“My poor little girl. I should have understood
better, I suppose. A man doesn’t always guess
how a woman thinks. But—if you hadn’t mar-
ried Carter, my darling ! Oh, if you hadn’t mar-
ried a man like that ! ”
Partly she understood. Mentally and physi-
cally and morally Carter stood on a lower plane
than Westbury, and Westbury knew it.
“I—l tried to forget you,” she said. “I
thought if I married him I might forget you.
And he has plenty of money. He means to take
(Continued on next ‘page.)


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
“Every Picture
tells a, Story.**
itrni
(I'ltl
I UU
=FP=
P
\
(
The Way to be Well is to
Keep the Kidneys Well.
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And little wonder.
A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much
stronger constitution than is given to most women—or men either for the
matter of that. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And
they let their needs be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for
help. The cry of the sick kidneys.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys; they are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s
Pills cure every ill o£ the kidneys and bladder, from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s disease. Bead the following testimony:—
SYDNEY WOMEN CURED.
The
Genuine
DOAN'S
effected
-
these
Lasting
Cures—
“A Word
to the
Wise is
Enough/'
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says:—“l can strongly recom-
mend . Doan s Backache Kidney Bills for curing
pains in the small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it was difficult
to move about at all. I blame sitting too close at
work for causing the trouble. The pills effected a
permanent cure, for there is no sign of the ail-
ment now.”
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement four
years later The above is quite true, and time
has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
not only cure, but cure permanently. There
would be less suffering in the world if people only
knew the value of this remedy.”
CITY*
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Commonwealth Street
Sydney, saysl used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills for aches and pains, in the limbs, which I
fancied were caused by kidney trouble. The pains
had troubled me for years, defying all treatment.
1f ? lfc v r e ry. difficult to get up and down stairs
and fits of giddiness which often came over
me made it more distressing. Sometimes I
wouffi be laid up Soon after I started using
Doan s Pills relief came, and when I had taken
six boxes the aches and pains and giddiness had
disappeared.”
Three years later Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes I
am still quite well; none of the distressing
symptoms mentioned above have ever returned ”
HUNTER STREET.
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter Street, Sydney, says :
For three years I suffered with kidney de-
v/\ e WOrSfc s y m P tom was a constant
backache, which got worse whenever I stooped
L reme , d !f s for this complaint, but got
no ease. I am glad to say that I got a cure at
Thev D ° an i S 3 5rS ka 2^ e Kldne y Pil£ cured me.
are splendid pills, and have made a great
difference m my health.” s
Nine years later, Mrs. Mullins says:— “The
above statement is true, every word, and
l can now add the important fact that my
cure has lasted. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Buis deserve praise, and I will always recom-
Get
Doan's
Backache
Kidney Pills.
Price 2/9
a box
(6 boxes 15/3)
Foster-
McClellan Co,,
76 Pitt Street,
Sydney*
me away from Australia some day. And lie—he
does C;u . e for ri) m his own way Lance And
there are some girls who-who seem to be made
tlley don’t marrv for love
to stand hv f ° r 0t f l ' thln^ a - 1 wasn't ever meant
to stand by myself or to look after myself Lance
You know that I couldn’t do it. I cfflnV’
thar W ew - l( l° well he knew - And he knew
Jnmierfeff 6 sh ®, was not s ° made, she had
spodecl his life and her own. He stood very still
do /“ on , the soft "kin and the slim/round
throat and the droop of the red, delicate lips
r ' ll “drops were pattering more thickly,
from the grass and the dusty scrub and the
heated plain the breath of damp earth and dewy
eayes and strong bush-smells came up in great
broad rushes of scent. All the world was suddenly
sweetened and full of promise, and a couple df
magpies m the coolibahs began to sing uproari-
ously with joy. But for the man and the vvoman
there was no sweetness, no future of promise.
wet TU s h er skirts, shaking them from the
", - T 1 hen she came a step nearer
wiH r'rVi 1 ” 1 . horae >’’.she said. “Don’t come
with me. This is good-bye, Lance. I—l don’t
want to see you very often, you know. I’m not
always as brave as I am to-day.”
l eft him ’ dartin & down the slope with
the free, certain step of her girlhood, and West-
W unmoving in the rain and watched her.
“T’li c mi V ? l J na T rute t 0 sta y here,” he said.
111 sell out when I can, and go. I can’t do her
I V y i h’ oo ’’ an h wdl do both of us harm, very
likely. But that fellow is cruel to her. How can
1 go away and leave him to be cruel to her? And
how can I help it, if I stay ? ”
ram tu ™d to a torrent suddenly, as
Sonieorl ! ; , h;w upset a trough overhead.
Westbury went back to Henry’s, and changed
his clothes, and came out on the balcony above
the roaring bar, where the stench of spirits and
hot air rose up, blocking out the smell of the rain.
Feet tramped up the stair to the parlor; and
Westbury heard Carter’s noisy bellow, and his
coarse jests, and the familiarity of the men about
him, and his skin burnt to hear. A man lounged
out °n tbe balcony and spoke to him.
I hat Carter is handin’ out trouble for himself
to-morrow, said the man. “Talcin’ bets an’
hedgin , an takin up again an’ liquorin’ up all
«!dn g i th f 6llne u - It 1 S a dead cert, that he has a
he is ” fore he S done W1 ’ his {fames. Silly fool
Through the open windows Westbury saw
Carters common round face, flushed with drink
hishew™ 61111 ’ a,ld an unholy desire twitched at
K Carter had a spill-a bad spill-he rode like
mad when he was half-drunk, and then But
then Carter came out and slapped him on the
shoulder. He was short-breathed and his veins
were purple, and Westbury wondered much how
his courage would hold over the stiff course on the
morrow.
* * * *
Westbury’s hand was steady m the morning,
and his eyes and his skin were clear as he came
out to the course, marked in the new-cleared
bush land by scarlet fluttering flags. He looked
S r ra i l ?| l^'Va 7 • 0r arfcer - Carter was rolling
slightly in his walk ; his talk was boisterous and
his face red, and a man near Westbury muttered
something about “Dutch courage.” Westbury
heard, and his lips set hard. The Dungamine
Cup was not a flat, as it should have been. It was
two miles on a steeplechase course, and the going
would be greasy as banana-peels in that moist
red clay with the sun on it.
The salt freshness of the wind blew in from the
sea, and Garter and Carter’s wife passed West-
ury, unseeing, on the way to the saddling pad-
llroc. i i Westbury leaned over the fence and
a died the woman pat Carter’s mare and stroke
ie soft muzzle, and he heard Carter’s rollicking
voice among his fellows.
“Stand clear, old girl, while I mount. But
Wish me luck first, Annie. Wish me luck, dear.”
The man loved her in his own domineering
&*»?»’ even as she had said. But it maddened
, i estbury to know it, and his nails cut deep into
the fence-rail as he saw her shrink from the grin-
ning races of stablemen and riders and pals of
Garter s. Then she looked up, and her eyes met
w" u m? ame them which was new to
W estbury. I here was something of desperation
in it, and her voice had an edge.
y ou luck,” she said distinctly, with her
look holding Westbury’s. “I wish you good luck
an “ —the thing you want most.”
Carter laughed, swinging up to the saddle,
lhats right, old girl,” he shouted. “So-
long.”
He wheeled out to the course, and the soft clay
padded noisily under the hoofs when he came
down before the stand in the preliminary. West-
bury passed Annie as he went to his own stall.
±sut he did not look at her, and she ran up the
steps of the stand, shivering’.
I can t help it,’ she said under her panting
breath. ‘ I can’t help it. He knows, and I can’t
nelp it. Oh, why did he ever go away? . . . and
why did he come back again ?”
The sun was broad and hot over the earth. Pale
sky and vivid sea and grey-green of scrub and
yellowish-red of the track were all washed in with
bold crude colors, such as a child might dab on
with a brush. In a great fig-tree at the stand
corner a. crow was cawing incessantly, and back
in the brigalow half-a-dozen jackasses were laugh-
ing. I here was shouting and murmur of sound
down on the track, and the steady wash of the sea
beat below it all, with an insistence that tortured
her.
Some men she knew came up the rickety steps,
seeking shelter from the sun under the stretched
canvas. She shook herself free as from a spell,
and talked and laughed as she ought to do. But
the inmost heart of her was remembering the
fierce unbidden desire that had come to her when
Westbury’s eyes met hers over the fence, and
remembering also the answer that flashed up in
his.
The babble of talk round her shut off suddenly,
ohe half-rose y then sat down again. The race
before this and the race before again had com-
manded the same silence from the paddock, and
the rails and the flaunting booths below. But
the woman on the stand did not heed the noise or
the silence. She was watching the scarlet jacket
and the black as the horses shifted and drew out,
and clumped together again like marbles rolled
down a slate. There was no fear in her; scarcely
any interest. It was just a day, as every other
day was going to be a day. Just something to be
gone through and forgotten. She shut her eyes,
bringing Westbury’s face before her as it had
been m the long ago, when there was no sin in
this remembering.
A sudden roar went up, so uniform that it
seemed to come from one throat instead of from
hundreds. The rickety stand shook and quivered
as men jumped to their feet, and women screamed,
and heavy boots pelted down the steps. Some-
one. was standing in front of her, stammering
with nervous eyes that blinked on her.
“It’s all right,” he said, hurriedly. “It’s all
right, Mrs. Garter. Only a spill. Bound to be
spills to-day. Don’t look. It’s all right, I tell
you.”
She knew the man well, but his name had gone
from her. There was no name in her heart but
Westbury’s, and she must not speak that. She
stood up, laying a steady hand on the man’s arm.
“Who is hurt?” she asked. “Who is killed?
Tell me.”
“No one ! No one, I ’sure you ! Half-a-dozen
down over the big brush. Just a spill, you know.
Don’t look. They are—they are bringing one or
two in. Winded, you know ! Just winded, Mrs.
Carter.”
Then a little emotional woman flung herself on
the woman standing straightly, and held her fast,
and sobbed.
“Oh, you poor darling,” she cried. “But you
mustn’t be frightened. There’snobody hurt. There
isn’t anything to be frightened of. Oh, you poor
dear; how dreadful for you ! ”
Annie’s eyes passed her dumbly to the man
behind. She could not speak, because Westbury’s
name only was on her lips. The man was growl-
ing his anger at the little woman. He plucked
her aside, and faced Annie.
“Your husband is down, Mrs. Carter,” he said.
“And Larry Maclean, and Westbury, and young
Haldon, and one or two more. I don’t know that
anyone is badly hurt, and there’s such a crowd
round that I can’t find out a thing yet. But I’ll
go down and see what I can do.”
“Let me go to him,” said Annie, and the pro-
noun was meant for Westbury.
“No! No! Better not. They have them in
the weighing-in room, and I don’t know but
I’ll come for you if you are needed, Mrs. Carter.”
She heard him run down the steps, and other
men and other women came round her with pity
and cheer. It was all words that did not mean
anything at all. For she was not thinking of her
husband.
After a time the man came back. He had a
strange, awed look, as of one who had been with
death. But his lips were smiling.
“It’s all right, Mrs. Carter,” he said. “Your
husband got off with a bit of a shaking, and he’ll
be right as rain in a little while. You have got a
great deal to be thankful for.”
“Yes,” she said, vaguely. Then the words
would come. “ Mr. Westbury ? ” she asked.
The man’s voice dropped. He lifted his hat
with an awkward little air of reverence.
“Neck broken, poor chap,” he said. “Must
have died instantly. The only man dead or likely
to die. But Carter came off luckiest. You have
a great deal to be thankful for, Mrs. Carter.”
, T he , u , s^e laughed—a queer, short laugh that
chilled the man.
“ Yes,” she said. “ I have a very great deal
to be thankful for.”
G. B. LANGASTER.
Rams.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
808 called at the pub at two o’clock on
Christmas Eve. Over a drink he told me
that he was going to Yantabulla next day
to look at some rams. He suggested that I should
accompany him, and as a bribe he said the Yanta-
bulla races occurred on Boxing Day. I agreed,
and we determined to start immediately for ftinga-
doon, his place, about three miles distant. We
had a drink or two, and from one cause or another
were delayed until tea-time. We were unani-
mous, however, about starting after tea. So we
did—we started at midnight. We agreed to get
up early next morning, as we had 70 miles to go.
Christmas is a great time at Ringadoon. AH
the men on the station and the male visitors staj'
at Bob’s place, and all the ladies at Jim’s, about
200yds. away.
We rose early on Christmas morning, and each
had his own work to do. Bob’s and mine was
greasing our buggy. Before beginning, we went
over to say “ Good-morning ”to the ladies. The
drink was kept at Jim’s place. We had some
beer, and then got to work. When the first wheel
was greased, Bob searched his pockets and said,
“ I’ve left my pipe over at Jim’s.” So we went
over for the pipe, and had some more beer. We
returned to graft, and when the second wheel was
disposed of, Bob said he must have his smoke, but
had forgotten his tobacco. So we went to Jim’s.
When the third wheel was fixed up, Bob re-
membered that his knife was at Jim’s and he
couldn’t cut his tobacco without it. The horses
were ready as the last wheel was finished, and we
all went over to Jim’s to say good-bye to the
ladies before starting for Yantabulla.
Then we started on our journey and took some
refreshments with us. On the way Bob let me
know that, although there was only one pub at the
place, we would be comfortable, as he had written
to have a room reserved for us.
Arrived at Yantabulla, we were very popular,
and the hand was nearly shaken off Bob. He said
“ Come on, boys,” and walked into the bar. They
had reserved a room for us all right, but they had
reserved it for six others as well.
Next day racing began. Bob was appointed
judge. He was also punter-in-chief, and the
books didn’t do as well as they expected. The
day after there was more racing, and Bob was
still judge. At night he was M.C. at the ball.
The third day he was umpire at the cricket
match. But still there was something wanting.
Bob was a J.P., and the miserable people were
perversely law-abiding. So they bribed -(with
three beers and a shilling) an assassin to murder
me.
Bob and I were returning from a walk, and
were within 100yds. of the pub, when we were
attacked by a villain with an axe. Bob acted
with great promptitude. He took to his heels,
yelling “Murder,” and left me to grapple with
the desperado. His screams attracted the atten-
tion of the entire police force (two men), who
were hiding behind a bush. When the ruffian
was overcome, handcuffed, and lodged in the lock-
up, we celebrated my marvellous escape for the
rest of the evening.
Next day, after more celebration, Bob was re-
quested to sit in judgment on the would-be homi-
cide. He did; and after exhaustive evidence
sentenced him to 10 years’ solitary confinement
with hard labor and 500 lashes. The authorities
must have remitted part of the punishment, for
that night I observed the culprit clear out from
the bar by the back way when he saw Bob and
me approaching.
When we got home, Bob remembered that he
hadn’t looked at the rams.
O.


“ Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
ďf
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer's Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(TME ORIGINAL and ONLY 'GENUINE)
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, GROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA ,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
] COPAIBA.
,Cures the- rarne
diseases -without
inconvenience
? V in f ,
48 hours. im
Each Capsule bears the name §3&
Y. J. Daley’s ‘ f At Dawn and Dusk, ” a
eollectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Wearne 8 Breakspear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to evert home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
among wnom are
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
asts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardware
Deal®**,
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St,; F. FI. Paulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pafctinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. (
Australian Drug Co., O'Connell St.; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoflnuu" & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &00. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
ON OUR NEW SELI
[, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Beelethst Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES'
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask vour chemist for. its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
■ ■ .
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name,
(ft*
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
gdfgd
FREE
CARDEN SEEDS
MONEY
WANTED
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE. TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d,
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail atiy present you may select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
S FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, NSW
Familiar Quotations
pregnant with meaning are being handed down from one generation to
another. Many examples might be quoted, and their applicability to the
subject of health noted. For example, “Forewarned is forearmed.”
Directly symptoms of a disordered Stomach appear, that is “ the warning,”
and all the “arming” that is necessary is a box of Beecham’s Pills.
“A stitch in time saves nine.” Beecham’s Pills will quickly arrest any
disposition to Stomach, Liver, or Kidney trouble.
“Worth a Guinea a Box”
This is another familiar quotation but applying specially to BEECHAM’S
Pills. These enjoy a popularity that can be claimed by no other
preparation: and the last named expression has become proverbial
because thousands of people all over the world have benefitted by the
use of the medicine to which it refers. For really buoyant health —free-
dom from ache or pain—a system attuned alike to work or pleasure—take
Beechams Pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price l!l\ (56 pills ) & 2/9- (168 pills).
'
m
1
WIND POWER
is the cheapest and most abundant,
and cfin now be turned to good account —
not the political candidate’s, that’s worth-
less —by means of a good windmill,
The “Steel
which has a Mg' sail area.
A Bearing on EACH side of the
Wind wheel, which latter can be supplied
in all sizes up to 100 feet in diameter.
The “Steel Wings” Windmill will
pump water in any quantity from any
depth, drive a dynamo for electric light,
or work any kind of machinery.
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO. LTD.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
build Mills as above at moderate prices,
and supply all kinds of Pumps, Galvanised
Troughing and Piping. .
Ask Dept. C for quotations for Power Outfits.
The Bulletin
f POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The. Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. ,V. Ten. Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay. '
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Fonvarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
IS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring' this business
V to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6. m
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock, ‘
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale trice .. ..£0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
ny address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP
PRICE* 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
men
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
•will be sent FREE to all men suffering- from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, of anywhere outside'Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
FREE
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages.
Lectures on
Itiyen soti
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting; up-to-date, and- reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical' institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. No similar book has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent fctates
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage. , , . __
Consultations may he made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D. f
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House,”
151 E/izabeth-st
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


The Sole of Comfort.
fd
illustrate here a new idea that
will add much to the comfort of
pedestrians. It’s a Rubber Sole Pro-
tector that is easily screwed on over
the leather sole, and which wears
wonderfully well.
Not only do these protectors con-
siderably increase the life of your
boots, but they give such a delightful
spring to the step that walking
becomes a pleasure.
The price is 2/- a pair, and, after a
trial, you will become very enthusiastic
about them.
We also Stock Rubber Heels, details
of which are given in our Catalogue.
Send for a free copy.
Co. Ltd.
‘ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVE YOUR FUEL
by using
m
THE DEAN
TUBE CLEANER.
Sole Agent, T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
genuine bauta.
TRADu
£
t n
m
o
o
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is:
Packet of Ten, lOd.
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt f Steam or Motor Driven . For Mining Purposes ,
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDSID6E & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Specialities: FERRANTI, LI! D„ SYDNEY.
mm pfi! A A HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE : E. S. <& A , Bank Chambers , George Street .
M£T£ "»- SWITCH 6EAR, Hijh and Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders. Send us your Inquiries.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
Cloth binding, posted free, 6s,
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER. CO., 214 George Street, Sydney*
COLORED POST CARDS,
By HARRY J. WESTON,
“ WEEKLY WORRIES/’ set of six, posted free, 6d.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 2t4 George Street, Sydney.
mam
'V '
A-?*
For Every Possible Service.
Large Stocks carried .
Write for Catalogue and Prices .
fgdfg
Boiler Feed Pumps.
Tank or Light Service Pumps.
Duplex and Triplex Pumps.
Combined Boiler and Pump.
Beit Driven Pumps.
m,:
■ /XV
■ft*
at s
- -/ '• ': ' - :
74 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
vm
Selling Agents : SMITH & COOKE, Melbourne ; PHILIP FRA&KEL, Brisbane ; McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Perth.
THE PELTON WATER WHEEL
FOR ALL KINDS OF MINING PLANTS
anH ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION.
The Pelton Ball-Bearing Hydraulic Giant
A Great Improvement over the Old Style.
LARGELY USED IN MALAY PENINSULA. Write us for Particulars.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne.
mm
