

M
DhSTILLERS
TO
By Appointment
H.M.The King.
WHISKY.
107 Kent
Mining' anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, HOLDERS ano GENERAL IRQN.MQNGKKY.
Street:, Sydney,
—rou—
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Reqtiisites
NEW ano SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
SOLE AGENTS FOR
The “ Ruston”
Suction Gas Plant.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne,
HOBART.
1 111 ™ aiW 1
jjadleys flrient fiotel.
mmm
*4)89
LEATHER
BE LTI NG
EVrRV BELT GUARANTEE D.
J.C.Ludowici 4 Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Take it back.
have
must
HUTTON
S
Fine-Apple Brand
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
After the rain
How sweetly the birds
Warble and strain
Like beautiful words!
Honey Kisses
Are the world’s perennial
blisses.
aft f
u ft* mf.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
make It a
point of never being: out of anything:. Wo keep largo stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
279
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
is the Queen of all Cocoas
lArom^tremjtht'Puri^
MALI HOID makes a cool
*°° f » " well as one which
waterproof and prac-
tjcally indestructible.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For a moderate outlay
you can secure a roof
that will be proof against
all troubles.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
A3NCIAS 'J.33HJ.S AAld
‘anvNoaoww v -o
The Hercules” Refrigerating; Machine.
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence.
Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makebs—
SEND EOK CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Also largest makers i» Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
EUDOK SPA water
HELIDON SPA should be taken with
food as a Table Water.
•s*UO J?v
oo v Nmoo
The Bulletin
V 01.30.— No. 1517.]
[Thursday, March 11, 1909.
“Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
Jones India : Its Life and Thought, 12s 6d, postage 9d
Grew s General Physics, elementary, 14s 6d, postage 9d.
Law’s Alloys and their Application, 15s, postage Is.
Smith’s Suction Gas Plants, 6s, postage Bd.
Goodrich and Stanley, Accurate Tool Work, 10s 6d, post 9d
Keidenrich, Reinforced Concrete, las, postage 9d.
Pollard, The British Empire, 6s. postage Sd.
Warden F., Baronet’s Wife, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
RUSSELL, C. E., LAWLESS WEALTH, the origin of some
great American Fortunes, 3s 6d, postage 6cL
Stone’s Studies in the American Race Problem 7 S fid
postage 8s 3d. Lockes, W. J., Septimus 3 S fid n fid
Wallace s Study of Ore Deposits for the Practical Miner
15s, p. Is. Rita s House called Hurrish, 3s 6d p fid’
SM,p£,«f M F,lloW ' "* h<,r »«&«.•
“■ •*» «•
NORAH CONOUGH, cloth Ss (id, paper 2s fid, postage 6d
A new Australian Story by W. G. Henderson.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
baeterioidally as is creosote.”
VB
G»
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
p. A Lobe ©f one
, ef the Lungs.
a Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps, fj
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY,.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Begent Street, Lon/den.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
Whistler
THE authorised Life of James McNeill
Whistler, by his friends, E. R. and
J. Pennell (Heinemann, 2 vols.), is-
a worthy tribute to one of the greatest
of modern painters. The book is sump-
tuous and complete, illustrated, though
not in color, with reproductions of prac-
tically every picture of importance
painted during the artist’s long life.
Herein we find pictured, not the insou-
ciant butterfly of legend, but a man alert,
malicious, mettlesome, egoistic, witty,
yet sincerely devoted to his art, astonish-
ingly industrious, a deliberate poseur in
everything save his painting. His life was
a long struggle of genius against the
official stupidity of the person in
authority, and into that struggle Whistler
sprang with a verve, a delight, and a laugh.
In him, as Meredith said, “ the springs ”
were “ prompt for the challenge ” ; and
his long cane found work to do in more
than one fantastic fracas. Nothing that
reflected on his art he let pass ; no butter-
fly was too trivial for him not to break on
the quickly spinning wheel of his wit. The
biographers have, indeed, a well-buttressed
theory that Whistler’s innumerable and
apparently trivial letters to the press
were written with malice prepense .- “to
make history”—history according to
Whistler. But there is no doubt that
Whistler delighted in the job of making
his own history. And such witty history
it is!
From the first Whistler was laughed at
by the critics of the day ; never ignored,
but noticed—usually with a gibe. Of his
struggle for recognition perhaps the most
telling fact is that for 20 years after the
first exhibition of his portraits of his
mother and of Carlyle, the artist was
unable to find for them a purchaser.
Then Glasgow collared the “ Carlyle,”
and the French Government took the
“Mother” for the Luxembourg. He
was an indefatigable worker. We read
of sittings extending over three years, of
whole portraits ruthlessly scraped out
when apparently on the point of comple-
tion, of heads painted for three weeks
and then scraped out. This was Du
Maurier’s “ Idle Apprentice ” of his
Trilby. Yet he was always getting re-
jected by the Academy, he was never
elected a R.A., but he would have valued
the official recognition immeasurably.
Born in the United States/ and sent
by his parents to West Point as the de-
scendant of a race of soldiers, Whistler
did not graduate, owing to a slight differ-
ence of opinion between himself and the
Professor of Chemistry. “ Had silicon
been a gas,” Whistler afterwards said, “ I
would have been a major-general.
The professor would not agree with me
that silicon was a gas, but declared it was
a metal—and as we could come to no
agreement on the matter, it was sug-
gested^—all in the most courteous and
correct West Point way—that perhaps I
had better leave the academy.”
Whistler thereupon called on the Secre-
tary of War, representing that the ques-
tion of silicon was not of vital import-
ance, and suggested that he should be
reinstated at West Point, in which case,
as far as he was concerned, silicon should
remain a metal. But he was not re-
instated, and took a position in the Coast
Survey Department, where he did nothing
except learn to etch. Pennell says that
Whistler was a consummate etcher tech-
nically before he left the Coast Survey.
He was 21 when he resigned to study
art. So we find him in the Latin Quar-
ter, the nucleus of a host of astonishing
legends. We hear of him, stranded on a
walking tour, drawing portraits at fairs
for five sorts apiece.
Followed London, the Japanese influ-
ence, his Thames etchings, his nocturnes
and symphonies, his Venetian etchings
and pastels, his great portraits, his novel
method of hanging pictures, his long
guerilla warfare with the critics, his won-
derful breakfasts, his bailiffs, his tilt wit
It u.skin, his Gentle Art, his foreign honor
and always his pose, his malicious wi
He is the ideal subject for a biography.
We hear of Whistler’s sudden friend
ship for Oscar Wilde, when the two wi
went everywhere together in Hondo
Society —twin stars. The friendshi
ended as suddenly when Whistler di
covered that Wilde’s knowledge of Ar
was shallow, and that Wilde was borrow
ing too freely of Whistler’s wit. Th
break came with Wilde’s remark afte
one of Whistler’s sallies, “ I wish I ha
said that, Whistler.” “You will, Oscar
you will ! So ended, too, his friendshi
with Swinburne. “ Lost a confrere ) but
then, I have gained an acquaintance—
one Algernon Swinburne.”
Of “ the one perfect mural decoration
of modern times,” as Pennell calls it, th
celebrated Peacock Room, we are tolc
the full and astonishing story.
The room was in Leyland’s home a
Prince s Gate. His original agreemen
with Whistler sanctioned only the re
touching of the leather ; but, once
started, the artist could not restrain his
enthusiasm, and proceeded to decorate
the whole room in an elaborate anc
gorgeous scheme of blue on gold in pea
cocks feathers. As soon as the room
was nearly finished, Whistler had recep-
tions and press views in Leyland’s house,
to which the owner was not invited.
And Whistler asked two thousand
guineas for his months of work. This
was twice the price settled on, and Ley-
land sent Whistler but was. pre-
pared to pay the two thousand guineas if
Whistler would leave the house. Whist-
ler refused, preferring to make Leyland a
gift of the decoration rather than not finish
the panel of the peacocks. Leyland, how-
ever, appreciated the art, and kept the
work intact, admiring it ungrudgingly.
Naturally, since Whistler himself has
written the account of his case against
that over-rated critic Ruskin, the story, as
told by the Pennells, contains nothing new
that is not dull. After the trial, in which
Whistler was awarded the famous farthing
damages—he did not wear it on his
watch-chain, because he did not wear a
watch-ehain—Whistler wrote to his
solicitor suggesting that, to save him
from bankruptcy, a subscription should
be got up by his supporters, adding:
“ -Amd in the event of a subscription, I
would willingly contribute my own mite.”
For the artist, the biographers explain in
detail Whistler’s unique methods of etch-
ing and preparing his palette, his famous
“ secret ” of painting, and his methods of
work and of instruction to his students.
On direct art criticism, the Pennells do
not venture often, yet, as a specimen,
these passages may be quoted :
Whistler was the first to paint the night.
.. . The long nights of observation on the
nyer (Thames) were followed by long days
of experiment in the studio. In the end, he
gave up even making notes of subjects and
effects. It was impossible for him to choose
and mix his colors at night, and he was com-
pelled to trust to his memory, which he culti-
vated. . . . But, after all, looking at colors
and their arrangement at night, retaining
the memory of them until the next morning
when lie put them down, was simply paint-
mg from Nature, the only difference being a
longer interval between observation and
execution. . . .
. Now everyone can see these things, and
night is like a Whistler, for Whistler made
people look at his pictures, until it has be-
come impossible to look at Nature at ni<dit
without remembering the Nocturnes. °
He was the first to show pictures
sparsely on quiet-toned walls. The
artistic arrangement of picture exhibi-
tions—seen, alas, only in one of our rival
local exhibitions—was due entirely to
him.
The rise in his prices is worth record
ing. “The Falling Rocket,” which
worried Ruskin, was at its first exhibi-
tion priced by the artist at two hundred
guineas. It was subsequently sold for
four times that amount. “ The Prin-
cesse du Pays de la Porcelaine ” was sold
first for one hundred guineas. Its last
sale was for five thousand guineas. “The
Blue Wave” multiplied from to
“ The Little White Girl ” rose
from to and the present
owner recently refused for it.
The “ Irvine ” sold and a “ Seal-
Skin Coat” was recently sold for
His “At the Piano,” rejected by the
Salon, was aceepted by the London
Academy, and sold for Whistler
asking the purchaser to fix the price.
When last sold it fetched After
the exhibition of that picture the artist
was always noticed, never ignored,
usually laughed at. The “idle appren-
tice ” of Du Maurier’s Trilby suddenly
developed an immense industry. In his
“Wapping” the slightly opened bodice
of a girl seemed to his friends fatal to its
acceptance by the Academy. Whistler
insisted that, if it were rejected on that
account, he would open the bodice more
and more every year until he was elected
and hung it himself.
But behind all his deliberate persiflage,
Whistler was sincere in his devotion to
his art. He was always experimenting,
always working. But, according to his
biographers, the progress of the artist
was deflected by marriage. Whistler
wedded was a different, and it is almost
hinted, artistically worse Whistler.
if/
The course of his life was entirely
changed by his marriage. Not that Mrs.
Whistler was indifferent to his art or
stood in its way. She was sympathetic,
helpful, interested, and intelligent.
But—“ He worked consciously with
her critical eye on him ” :
It cannot be denied that for him the period
of great schemes and their successful com-
pletion came to an end with his marriage.
Although in later years he produced pictures
exquisite in their accomplishment, we look
in vain for large canvases like “The Mother”
and “Carlyle,” the “Sarasate” and “Lady
Meux.” ... An artist must be able
to devote himself without interruption
to his great schemes, or else must
have a very different temperament from
VY histler’s. ... It is true that his work
never deteriorated, that, as he said himself,
he brought it ever nearer to the perfection
which alone could satisfy him. He never
produced anything finer than “ The Master
femith and “The Little Bose of Lyme
Regis,” painted, towards the end of his
married life, or the series of children’s heads
of his last years. But these were planned
on a smaller scale and required less continuity
of effort than the large full-lengths and the
decorative designs he longed to execute.
The cherished mystery of his famous
white lock of hair, carefully cherished by
Whistler all his later life, one of his
many personal advertisements, is not
cleared up by his biographers. It was
sometimes mistaken for a floating feather,
and Whistler delighted to paint himself
with it.
Of the Whistler stories only a few,
naturally, are new. Whistler took care
in his lifetime that the world should not
forget them. Some are worth recalling :
There is his answer to the canny Glasgow
deputation who wished a reduction of his
price, one thousand guineas, for the
“ Carlyle ” —on the Scotch grouxid that
the figure was not even life-size.
“But, you know, few men are life-
size.” He had amplified this idea before :
No man alive is life-size except the recruit
who is being measured as he enters the regi-
ment, and then the only man who sees him
life-size is the sergeant who measures him,
and all that he sees of him is the end of his
nose; when he is able to see his toes, the
man ceases L'v be life-size.
And here is a practical joke in Venice.
(His era was the era of practical jokes) :
Whistler, leaning out of his window, dis-
covered a bowl of goldfish far below on the
window-ledge of his landlady, against whom
he had an old grudge, let down a fishing-line,
caught the goldfish, fried them, dropped
them back into the bowl, and watched the
return of their owner, who thought that her
fish had been fried by the heat of the sun.
Which is a poor escapade to remember
of so great a man. But, like everything
else in Whistler’s life and art, this, too,
was doubtlessly done “ you know—
charmingly.”
Verses by Henley.
Between the dusk of a summer night
And the dawn of a summer day,
We caught at a mood as it passed in flight,
And we bade it stoop and stay.
And what with the dawn of night began
With the dusk of day was done ;
For that is the way of woman and man,
When a hazard has made them one.
Arc upon arc, from shade to shine,
The World went thundering free;
And what was his errand but hers and mine—
The lords of him, I and she ?
0, it’s die we must, but it’s live we can,
And the marvel of earth and sun
Is all for the joy of woman and man
And the longing that makes them one.
There was no kiss that day ?
No intimate Yea and Nay,
No sweets in hand, no tender, lingering touch ?
None of those desperate, exquisite caresses,
So instant—o, so brief ! —and yet so much,
The thought of the swiftest lifts and blesses?
Nor any of those great royal words,
Those sovran privacies of speech,
Frank as the call of April birds,
That, whispered, live a life of gold
Among the heart’s still sainted memories,
And irk, and thrill, and ravish, and beseech,
Even when the dream of dreams in death’s a-cold
No, there was none of these,
Dear one, and yet——
O, eyes on eyes ! 0, voices breaking still,
For all the watchful will,
Into a kinder kindness than seemed due
From you to me, and me to you !
And that hot-eyed, close-throated, blind regret
Of woman and man baulked and debarred the
blue! —
No kiss—no kiss that day ?
Nay, rather, though we seemed to wear the rue,
►Sweet friend, 'how many, and how goodly—say 1
In Shoreham River, hurrying down
To the live sea,
By working, marrying, breeding Shoreham Town,
Breaking the sunset’s wistful and solemn dream,
An old, black rotter of a boat,
Past service to the laboring, tumbling flote.
Lay stranded in mid-stream ;
With a horrid list, a frightening lapse from the
line,
That made me think of legs and a broken spine.
Soon, all-too soon,
Ungainly and forlorn to lie ; ' A
Full in the eye
Of the cynical, discomfortable moon
That, as I looked, stared from the fading sky,
A clown’s fiice flour’d for work. And, by-aud-bye,
Ihe wide-winged sunset wanned and waned ;
’lhe lean night-wind crept westward, chilling and
sighing;
The poor old hulk remained,
Stuck helpless in mid ebb. And 1 knew' why—-
Why, as 1 looked, my heart felt crying.
I or, as I looked, the good green earth seemed
dying—
Dying or dead;
And, as I looked on the old boat, I said :
‘ ‘ Dear God, it's 1! ”
Silence, loneliness, darkness—
These, and of these my fill,
While God in the rush of the Maytime
Without is working His will.
Without are the wind and the wall-flowers
The leaves and the nests and the rain,
And in all of them God is making
His beautiful purpose plain.
But I wait in a horror of strangeness—
A tool on His workshop floor.
Worn to the butt, and banished
His hand for evermore. /
From, “ Hawthorn and Lavender ” (David Nutt).
. —+ ,
Constable deserves a word of praise for
the admirable series of shilling books this
publisher is producing. His “ Religions,
Ancient and Modern ” series already embraces
19 brands of religion, ranging from The
Religion of Ancient Palestine to Shinto and
Magic and Fetishism. He also produces a
series of _ monographs on Immortality,
among which is William James’s Human
Immortality. (William is the Pragmatist
professor, brother of Henry, the novelist.)
“Philosophies, Ancient and Modern” is
another interesting shilling series, of which
Stoicism is an example. If there are any
philosophers indigenous to Australia, they
are advised to get this series. Each volume
in each series is written by an acknowledged
authority on his subject.
Anatole I ranee, in The Red Lily, has this
defence of the oldest feminine profession :
Prostitutes are nearer God than honest women;
they have lost all vainglory ; they have been shorn
of pride. They are unadorned by those empty
nothings, th© mutron s boast. They possess
humility, that is the corner-stone of the heavenly
house of virtue. After a brief repentance they
will be first in the Kingdom of Heaven ; for com-
mitted without malice and without joy, their sins
are their own atonement. Their vices in that
they are sorrows have the merit of all suffering.
Slaves to the brutality of passion, these women
have denied themselves pleasure. Thus they re-
semble men who have become celibate that they
may enter the Kingdom of God. Like us, thev
are sinners, but by their shame they atone for
their sins : suffering purifies like fire. Therefore,
the first prayer they address to Him, God will
hear. He has prepared for them a throne on the
right hand of the Father. In the Kingdom of
God, the queen and the empress will be happy to
sit at the feet of the women of the street.


jL
mm
M
No. 835.
Engraved
17/6, 19/-,
-9ct. Gold Bracelet, Plain or
flat or Half-Round, 15/-
, 22/6, 24/-, 26/-, 28/-, 32/6.’
No. 834.—Set. CoSd Milanese Bracelet, Set with Turquoise
and Pearls, 50/-, 60/-, 63/-, 72/6 ;
Ditto, without Stones, 45/-, 48/-, 55/-, 60/- 65/-.
B
JO. 833. -Set. Gold Bracelet, Pearl Set, with Garne&
Sapphire, or Amethyst Centre, 35/-
No. 837.-9 et. Gold Bracelet, Set with Pearls, Amethyst
Centre, 34/6.
No. 871.
No. 872.
Ladies 13ct Cold Cress Ring's, set with 3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds, 37/6, 45/-, 63/-, 75/-, $4/- ;
itco, set with 3 Diamonds and 2 Sapphires or Rubies,
45/-, 63/-, 75/-, 84/-, 105/-
Pattern IS.
Pattern F.
9ct. Gold Keepers, Various Designs, 12/6, 14/-, 16/6.
15ot. Gold Keepers, Various Designs, 16/6, 17/6, 18/6 20/’*
22/6, 25/-, 30/- ' ’ /lJ
18ot. Gold Keepers, Various Designs, 18/6, 20/- 21/- 22'6
25/-, 28/6, 30/-, 32/3, 35/-, 40/-
No. 888. —Single Stone Dia-
mond Ringr, £5, £7/7/-,
£3/35/-, £lO, £ll/15/-,
£l7/10/-, £25 to £SS.
No. 865. —Ladies’ 5-Stone
Diamond Rings, 42/-, 50/-,
63/-, 75/-, 34/-, 90/-, 105/-
120/-, 147/-, to £45 each.
No. 83S 9ct. Gold Half-Round Engraved Buckle
Bracelets, 25/8, 29/-, 34/-
9ct. Gold Flat Engraved Buckle Bracelets, 20/-
23/6, 29/-, 34/-
No. 839.—3 ct. Cold Amethyst Set Bracelet, 30/-
njj.
No '3Kul,fefor G Sal F ,r nCy Ed P bracelet, set with
6 -uubies or Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds, 3t/3.
High-Grade Jewellery at
Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices
We are Manufacturing Jewellers and Universal Providers, and our
enormous trade with every part of the Commonwealth enables us to
sell in larger quantities than any other Store; our system of Spot
Cash Trading affords us the pick of the best markets, and the
unique combination enables us to offer absolutely
TOP QUALITY AT BOTTOM PRICE.
No. 850.— 9 ct. Gold Brooch, with 3 Pearls,
3 Rubies, or 3 Sapphires, 15/6
No. 849. —15 ct. Gold Brooch, with Brilliant,
2 Kubies or Sapphires, 32/6 ; 9ct., 17/6
No. 372.— 9 ct. Gold Fancy Bar Brooch,
Circle set with 3 Pearls and 1 Baby, 6/6.
No. 61x.— 15ct. Gold Brooch, set 1 Brilliant,
1 Bub\' or Sapphire, 42/=
No. 847 x Cold Brooch,
“Mizpab,” 10/6
-Sot. uold Brooch, “Best
Wishes,” 12/6
DAINTY
PEARL
PENDANTS
The Pendants illus-
trated are typical
of many others
offered at Anthony
Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices.
No. 2198.—ibct. Cold Pearl-
set Pendant, with Amethyst,
Garnet or Greenstone Cen tre,
£2/17/6, £3/3/-
No. 219S—.oet. Cold Pearl-
set Pendant, Aniethv-t or
Garnet Centre, with Pearl or
Coral Drop, £l/14/-
No. 216b—
-15ct. Gold
Pearl-set
Pendant,
Amethyst
Cem re,
£2/18/6.
Many other designs are shown in our Illustrated Price List
of Presents to Suit Every Purse. Send for a Copy, posted
free on application, and let us demonstrate the Marvellous
Economy there is in Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 832a. —9ct. Cold Bamboo Bracelet, 47/6 :
Smaller Sizes, 37/6, 35/=, 30/=, 25/=, 23/6.
No. 29x. —9ct. Cole! 3rooch
(Wishbone). 5/-
No. Ss4.— 9ct. Gold Broooh, with Rubv and
Sapphire, or Pearl and Sapphire, 9/6
©
'
No. 844x.— 15ct. Gold Brooch, set with
either Ruby or Sapphire, or 2 Rubies and
Pearl, or 2 Sapphires and Pearl, 22/6.
No. 387.—9 ct. Gold Wishbone Brooch,
with Spray, set 1 Ruby, 4/6.
No. 838. —9ct. Gold Brooch,with Ruby
or Sapphire, 10/6
v 7
No. 53x.—9ct. Cold Brooch, set 1 Sap-
phire or Ruby, 4 Real Pearls, 10/9.
ISi
No. 832.— 9 ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, 30/-
No. 811.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies,
or Sapphires and Pearls, 32/6.
No. 842.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Imitation Ruby in
Centre with 7 Pearls either side, as illustrated, 27/6.
No. 843.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, with Safety Chain, Set with
11 Garnets, Topaz or Amethysts, and 20 Pearls, 50/-
Gentlemen’s Gold and
Silver Alberts.
Our assortment is most extensive, the prices almost as
various. The illustrations represent popular designs of
Alberts, which are available in both Gold and Silver, in the
patterns shown, at the prices quoted in the following list
Silver Alberts, Single Chain .. .. 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
Silver Alberts, Double Chain .. 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/-
Gold Alberts, Double Chain, 9ct., 65/-, 70/- 75/- 80/-
84/-, 90/-, 105/-
Cold Alberts, Double Chain, loot., 105/-, 125/- 135/- 147/.
160/-, 185/-, 200/-, 250/-,’280/-’
The difference in price indicates the difference
in weight and workmanship.
Pattern No, 7.
Pattern No. 1( .
No. 844.— 9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Set with Pearl- ami Rubies,
Sapphires and Pearls, or All Sapphires or Rubies, 42/-
No. 84a. —Child’s sot. uoid turb Bracelet, 10/'
No. 846.— 9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies or
Sapphires and Pearls, 42/-
15ct. Ditto, from 84/-
No. 847.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, with Safety Chain, with 3
Imitation Rubies, Artistically Mounted, 27/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AND OTHER
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON S Co. Ltd.,
Sydney's Leading Skin Salesmen .
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
STDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXFESTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPEK,”
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
One Thousand
Ways to Get Rich,
Money-Making for the
Multitude.
Though it contains
Hundreds of'Secrets
that are worth
Pounds,
the Price is only
1/6, Post Free 1/9
WHY REMAIN
POOR?
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pastes, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Becitf.r, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/8. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His O.wn Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, 1/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
{WAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the finders (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2--
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/0.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
H
WINCHESTER
.22 CALIBER CARTRIDGES
Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges both Black
and Smokeless powder are unequalled for
accuracy and uniformity in shooting. The
Smokeless powder cartridges are loaded with
Winchester Greaseless Bullets which makes
them clean to handle and prevents the powder
from losing its strength. Try them next time.
Ask for Winchester make—the Red W Brand.
SOLD BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MFETITIOKT.
WINES 3V Best 0/ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
f H 1
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
(n m
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
■SSw
<r
M
&
CORSETS
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approyal, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
It any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane. MELBOURNE,
n „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
’j. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
IKIB
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
Ji-
ll
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
AN OLD RESIDENT’S
TESTIMONY.
After Effects of Rheumatic Fever Cured.
*‘l have been living at No. 18 Arthur-street,
Balmain, for the past thirteen years,” said Mrs,
Jane Toovey, to our reporter, “and anybody in
that neighborhood could tell you what a wreck I
was three years after I settled there. It was
rheumatic fever that was the cause of it, and
when I tell you that for four months I was suffer,
ing from that dreadful complaint, you can form
an idea what a bad effect it had on my consti-
tution generally,”
“No doubt your internal organs were greatly
upset ? ” .
“ Fearfully so ; my liver- and kidneys being in a
very bad state, and I was so low and weak that I
could scarcely crawl about. But as well as being
so feeble, I had pains of the most excruciating
character to put up with, particularly in my head,
which was never free from them. And there was
an intensity about those pains which was enough
to destroy one’s reason—an incessant ache, ache,
ache, that took so much out of me that I hadn’t
the power left to do even the lightest of work.
What made matters worse, too, was not being able
to sleep, for several nights in succession passed,
and I would find myself awake all the time. Need-
less to say, that this helped to wear me out more
and more, and the pitiful part of it all was that
the medicines I had taken, in the hope of acquir-
ing relief from my burden of suffering, were quite
ineffective. I could have left them alone, for all
the good they did me. Giddy turns came on fre-
quently, and it was quite a common thing for me
to be feeling all right one moment and the next to
be in a dead faint. A strange sensation would
steal itself over me, and I’d gradually find myself
losing self control, and I would know no more till
the faintnegs passed, and consciousness was re-
gained. Oh ! I used to dread these attacks, for I
felt sure I would one day pass away in that man-
ner. And talk about being nervous! I was some-
thing terrible, any sounds oausing me to start, and
I would tremble excessively. Besides this I
was excitable in the extreme, and so fret-
ful that the least thing would upset me for
hours. What worried me to no small extent was
the way my heart used to behave. It would start
beating so violently. as to suggest the possibility
of jumping out of its place, and then die right
away, as if going to stop, to be followed by those
nasty fainting feelings that I dreaded so much.
And so my miserable life continued until I chanced
to get into touch with Clements Tonic, which I,
can truthfully speak of as the best I have ever
taken in all my experience.”
“ More effective than the doctors ? ”
“Infinitely, as nothing but Clements Tonic re-
leased me from the awful depression of spirits I
labored under, and the head pains that I had en-
dured so long, It was splendid, too, for making me
eat, which was something new, as my appetite had
been non-existent for months. I had also been
feeling severe pains across the small of my back,
about my shoulders and chest, too ; but with the
advent of Clements Tonic I gained ease rapidly,
and soon was free from all my old torments. And
when my nights became more peaceful, and the
heart troubles began to disappear, I was relieved
of a load of oare that I was glad to get rid of.
But what caused most surprise was the way I
threw off my nervousness. It was marvellous,
for not long before, I was always shaking, and
timorous in mind, and would not stay in the house
alone for all the tea in China, and after using
several bottles of Clements Tonic I was as right
as the bank. Not only had I gained in these
respects, but I was acquiring strength daily, and
soon felt as well as ever, with not an ailment left
unconquered.”
“ Well, if you have no objection to seeing your
experience in print, we will make use of them ? ”
“ Nothing gives me greater pleasure than to tell
folks what a wonderful medicine Clements Tonic
is, so you are at liberty to publish all I’ve said, in
any form you think best. I know that Clements
Tonic cured me when I was very weak and ill,
and I know it can do same for others, so do
what you like with my recommendation.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION,
I, JANE TOOVEY, of 18 Arthur Street, Balmain,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this sixteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eighty
before me,
6] T. D. GLASSCOCK, J.P,


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
HM
mMB
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If yon don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
yon will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
friends all about it.
Mger's
%air Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Si Co., Lowell, Mass., U S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if uot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
G oven try Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Elm Brakes, variable gears
and alliates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in tha ■world. We guarantee Bate delivery.
AfITIUF ACCMTQ ? anted in each strict.
HU lIVC HuE.nl IO Large proto easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our * uecial ojfcr on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CQ a , Dept. 280 Liverpool »
CEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
Pure, Wholesome
and Beneficial.
Agents—Harrison Atwood, Sydney.
THE OLD
LINES
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
where formerly themirror
reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
“Flesh-Food ” adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight by five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or call for
Free Trial Sample and Free Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT* 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereasii St.,
SYDNEY
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
-nr%
DID YOU EVER STOP TO THINK-
Have you ever considered what trouble may arise from a
neglected Cough or Cold ? Beware of the “Hacking Cough,”
the “Slight Cold,” the “Trivial Hoarseness”—these are Natures
warnings that something is amiss with your respiratory system —
You require a soothing and healing remedy.
Bonnincton’s Irish Moss.
is an old friend and a tried medicine for Colds.
There is no preparation which will eradicate a troublesome Cough so
quickly and effectively. Insist upon having the genuine article—you will
get this if you say distinctly
I mm “RONNINGTON’S”
IN USE 45 YEARS.
EVERY BOTTLE
CONTAINS A GORE!
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It codtains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
l
}
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in ,
selling E-iorlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confuston arises when you order Horlick’S, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Horlick’S as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough, Bucks, England-
LCOCKS
EL
Best" • rteJ/ Certfi/p' -6QO-
- • Ib-D&/* - •
ALCOCK&C9
PET
LTD
Elizabeth 5 t Melb
49 George 5 T -Jyfe-
Goulds
Cistern and Pitcher Spout Pumps
Fig. 205
meet the demand for a low-priced
substantial pump for use over shallow
wells, cisterns or drive wells. They
are neat in design, light in weight,
strong and serviceable. We manu-
facture a large and complete line of
pump standards and cylinders, and
solicit correspondence with those inter-
ested. Let us send you our catalogue.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
Fig. 1165
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Street’s End.
The nmnsioned way is broad and fair,
And made for dainty feet;
A scent of roses in the air
Makes all the evening sweet.
And up and down the ladies stray
With silks and feathers fine ;
The bee halts there at end of day
To sip the rose’s wine.
Tall lilies, each a flaming torch,
Burn through the golden hours;
And, wreathing balcony and porch,
Yine-tresses blush with flowers.
At times, when planets light their fires,
And night is lord of all,
Like some gold bird behind her wires,
A girl grows musical.
From snowy throat and coral mouth
Her winged notes, pulsing, rise ;
The highway wending north and south
In charmed amazement lies.
From that high street of mansioned state,
Rose-gardened and vine-tressed,
All poor and mean and desolate
A byway journeys west.
No roses blow, no lifted song
Of radiant singers bless
That faded street; but all along
Is utter shabbiness.
The walls and fences gape and bend,
The windows stare unglazed ;
And yet, walk there at evening’s end,
And you shall stand amazed.
For, while the highway—vine and flower —
Grows dark at end of day,
A golden glow, a glory-hour,
Uplifts the shabby way.
The mean roofs grow a royal red,
The tarnished gables shine ;
On house and cot and stall and shed
Rich sunset spills its wine.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Coastwise.
To the greasy scum of the Yarra,
To the churn of the half-speed screw,
To the leer of the wharf-side loafers,
To the handkerchief wave—adieu !
To the crawl through the “ dead-slow ” reaches,
To the squeeze past the mud-punt fleet,
To the wash that she makes in the channel,
To the inward-bound that we meet.
To the breeze as we round the lightship,
To the suburbs that stretch out wide,
To the one meal eaten in comfort,
To the thought, “ Will it blow, outside ? ”
To the shimmering haze o’er Queenscliffe
To the lighthouse that crowns the view,
To the guns that peep o’er the sandbag,
To our last even keel—adieu !
For the tower’s a-line with the obelisk;
She’s feeling the rise and the dip;
She’s into the eddying tide-race.
Ahoy ! —she’s a-dance on the Rip.
Then she lifts to the league-long ground swell,
She sidles down in the trough.
Ahoy ! —for the wake and the log-line !
Heave ho ! —how she’s churning the froth !
Look up at the crimson sunset!
Look out o’er the lead-hued lea !
Good-bye to the gulls as they leave us—
Look out! It is night on the sea.
VICTORIA.
DAEDALUS.
Love and Sheep.
George Bernard Batt decided to acquire himself a
wife;
Some odd years over fifty he had lived the single
life.
He wasn’t quite a Croesus, and he wasn’t quite a
swell,
But his sheep upon the turnips were doing fairly
well.
She was slim, and plain, and forty—forty-three to
be exact
Was the age she had attained to—l am speaking
of a fact.
He wasn’t an Adonis, and she wasn’t quite a belle,
But the sheep upon the turnips were doing really
well.
He came unto his bridal mounted on his ancient
steed ;
The prad was not Bucephalus, nor was it quite a
weed.
His clothes were in their autumn like the leaves
that round him fell,
But the sheep upon the turnips were doing really
well.
The two were duly mated, and the sight was good
to-see,
Tho’ they had but little rapture, yet they had
affinity ;
For this they had in common, which it makes me
glad to tell,
That the sheep upon the turnips were doing extra
well.
And in this tired old world of ours, where youths
still dote on maids,
And prate eternal constancy while roaming
flowery glades,
If asked to back my fancy, I’d eschew the fairy
dell,
And hie me to the turnips where the sheep are
doing well.
MAOKILAND.
R. J. IRVING.


aSHiaftMcs
/
O
O
S
/
B-W
A
*0
C
i/L U^v
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of worKing out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crach
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms*
243 COLLINS ST.
a ctt> uru’s
The Cococr of Country
Jp'' makes life \
all plain sail in g
As a recuperative after physical or
mental strain, Cadbury’s Cocoa has no equal.
Its delicious flavour makes it unquestionably
the most palatable food-beverage, while its
nourishing and sustaining properties build up the
whole system to the highest degree of efficiency and
power. Made in the beautiful Garden Village of
Bournville, England.
Ride only
BROOKS
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
B. EROOKS X- Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
i alitc
MARQUE
DEPOSEE
“RATITE”
IS USED
by Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube / 3 Tubes, 10/- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANE,
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Co. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
PALMOS CAMERAS
in all the usual sizes.
Made of
Light Metal.
Fitted with
ZEISS
OBJECTIVES
LB
and Focal
Plane Shuttei
Illustrated Price List c7B Post Free on Application.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL OEALERS IN OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS AND FROM:
CARL ZEISS,
JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH —
29, Margaret Street,
Regent Street,
London, England.
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
THE
■
m
■
m
Ski
w
- ;
fiyjf
*sa
*■ >
Cl
wm
%m
hW-of4
mm
■
%-mrx.
'im»
m
'.• -Tv>l ■< vJEka* M a | • • i.'t
~ v ‘'%sfev? wm&m '~ v
v * r»
* a < , ' y
m
Wit
»»
f
i
Pllllg
m?mw" , '
MbHi
From all points of
view—economy,
utility, and cli=
matic the flat
roof is the best
roof, and the best
flat roof is the
RUBEROID
REINFORCED
BUILT-UP
FLAT ROOF.
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1517.
THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1909.
Piticu Gd
PLAYING BLONDIN.
Mr. G. H. Reid says that, as Australia isn’t likely to be invaded for 10 years, it is waste of money to start an Australian navy at once.
The Clown on the Wire: “Heigh! Heigh! What are you pulling away the net for? I’ve got 10 yards to go yet, and a lot of
things may happen in 10 yards.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tint Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tine Bullktin posted
regularly to yog. every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclicod, Managing Director.
Iloir to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the. Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It. is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ref used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Oirrrespondeuce ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bullktin
■desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amato urn in. I thick mill, white.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bullktin original humorous
<or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
•any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under tvhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
•applying to MS.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver..-— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Ilong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
A gen ts’ Special Notice.
Tiib Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x lUin.,
will be fonoarded on application. Larger sizes can be
-supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1909.
THE FEDERAL CITY; INCLUDING AN
EXTRACT FROM THE “SYDNEY
TELEGRAPH” OF DECEMBER 10, 1920.
A dozen or so years back, George Reid was
Premier of N. IS.W. Politically lie was a dolt—
likewise an ass. His inability to go straight in
public life amounted to genius or a disease. In
liis own words, he wanted “to be top dog,” and
his desire that way was something beyond the
world’s average. He was the sort of politician
who would put sixpenn’orth of cheap brown var-
nish over the Great White Throne merely for the
sake of saying that he did it. Furthermore, he
was always touching the paint to see if it was dry
—which it wasn’t. He was a man who couldn’t
leave well alone. Therefore it came to pass that,
apparently out of a desire to exhibit his own
immense consequence, George Reid, about a
dozen years ago, was instrumental in the
doing of two things which had an important
bearing upon the present Federal situation.
When the N.S.W. Parliament, at the dis-
reputable instigation of Jawbone Neild and
with the connivance of Premier Reid aforesaid,
broke faith with the other States and turned dog
on its own honor by passing that celebrated Act
which nullified the people’s acceptance of the
original Constitution, Reid obtained, as the price
of shame and disgrace, two notable “concessions.”
In the original Constitution the Braddon Clause
(or Blot), which provided that three-fourths of
the tariff revenue was to be allotted to the State
Governments, was as fixed as any other Clause ;
that is to say, it could only be shifted by a Con-
stitutional amendment, and that could only be
arrived at with the assent of a majority of the
voters who went to the poll, and a majority of the
States. George Reid got this provision so
altered that, after 1910, the Australian Par-
liament can keep for its own use every
penny of the tariff revenue without any
reference at all to the people. That was one of
the amendments which George Reid managed to
bring about. And, as the second amendment, he
secured the Federal capital for N.S.W. —the said
capital to be 100 miles or any greater distance
from Sydney. And George Reid was a proud
and mentally bloated man when he had done
these things. He had shown his own little parish-
pump importance by getting the Federal Consti-
tution altered off his own little bat, despite the
fact that it had been carefully drawn up by the
people’s elected representatives, and had been
accepted by the people in every State, including
N.S.W., where it had been put to the vote. For
the moment Reid was top dog—possibly a
disreputable yellow dog, not worth 6d., but the
top or roof animal all the same.
* * * *
In those days the sycophantic alleged Free-
trade press of Sydney had a tendency to pro-
miscuously applaud George Reid, the alleged
Freetrader, for all his doings. Consequently, it
considerably applauded the alleged “concessions”
which he secured. To-day the same press plainly
regards the first “ concession ” as a curse, though
the habit of crawling to George Reid is so strong
within it that, even while denouncing the thing
itself, it never openly denounces the self-important
political bungler who brought the thing to pass.
George Reid turned the country upside-down
and nearly wrecked the prospects of union in
order to secure an arrangement whereby, after
1910, the Commonwealth can keep for its own use
every penny of the Customs and Excise revenues
and leave the State Governments to scratch for a
living by immense direct taxation, and for this
the RsiD-ite papers mostly denounce the Com-
monwealth instead of anathematising their
own tin god —the fat meddler who couldn’t
leave things alone. The second “concession”
they don’t regard as a curse yet; but that is to
come. If Reid and his servile papers have their
way, the realisation that it is a curse will almost
certainly arrive. For on the transaction there is
the blight of dishonesty and fraud and lying and
selfishness and faith-breaking—the blight of the
man who couldn’t keep straight, the man who was
a hoodoo, and whose crookedness had upon it the
baleful eye of Heaven, turning his deeds to naught
and his vast stomach to derision.
v • « »
Therefore The Bulletin looks forward with the
eye of prophecy, and, assuming that the Yassberra
Federal capital, with its port at Jervis Bay (87
miles from Sydney), really comes to pass, it hereby
prints in ad vance the Sydney Telegraph’s lead-
ing article of 10th December, 1920 :
The present situation as regards the Federal capital is
so grievous an outrage upon the rights and interests of
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL AND ITS PORT.
The double line represents the Federal railway from the Federal capital to the Federal port at
Jervis Bay.
The space between the dotted line and the Victorian border represents the section of N.S.W.
which sends its trade to Jervis Bay instead of to Sydney.
It also represents the area whose members , both State and Federal, naturally vote with the
Jervis Bay interest and against the Sydney interest.
When it first published this diagram in 1907, the Daily Telegraph warned Sydney that
thesethings would happen.
New South Wales as to fully justify the secession of this
State from the Commonwealth. And if the State were
still united, secession would almost certainly come to
pass. Unfortunately’, by'reason of the establishment of
the Federal capital within its borders unanimity is a thing
of the past. More than 20 y’ears ago, when it was first
proposed that the metropolis of Australia should be
placed in New South Wales, the Daily Telegraph, as its
readers will remember, entered a very strong protest.
It pointed out that the idea was a conspiracy
on the part of our jealous neighbors, especially
Victoria and South Australia, to create at the very
door of Sydney a Federal city which would compete
with, and might ultimately overshadow, the State capital,
and drain it of its population and vitality ; and to estab-
lish at Jervis Bay a Federal port which would compete
with Port Jackson and steal away'its commerce. In our
efforts to save Sydney’ from the ruin that was being thrust
upon it, we prepared and printed a diagram showing the
vast area of the State which would be drained by the new
railway and the new port—a diagram which we have a
melancholy satisfaction in reproducing now. That great
and enlightened Freetrade statesman, Mr. Bruce Smith,
agreed with the Daily Telegraph in maintaining that the
political centre of Australia should be on practically’
neutral ground—for preference, on some such place as the
Katherine River in the Northern Territory’, where
it would have to create a trade and find a population
of its own, instead of being a vampire which ravenously’
sucked the blood of the once great and prosperous city of
Sydney. Unfortunately', through the machinations of
Sir George Turner, of Victoria, and the late Mr. King-
ston, of South Australia (it is an unpleasant thing to
speak evil of the dead, but in this case the wickedness
was so flagrant that evil must be spoken), supported by a
venal and sordid Sydney weekly whose name we will not
pollute our pen by mentioning, it was provided in the
Constitution that the capital must be in this State. This
being inevitable, the Daily Telegraph endeavored to
minimise the evil by' urging the establishment of the
Federal city beside the Snowy River on the Monaro
Tableland, where it might develop on independent lines
and not become a mere parasite on the State capital. The
series of impassioned articles which we published on this
subject are still remembered, and the fact that our then
editor was drowned in the Snowy River while collecting
information in support of our views adds a note of
personal regret to a national calamity.
* * * *
Unfortunately our warnings were unheeded. We do
not actually assert that Victorian and South Australian
gold was lavishly employed to suborn the press and
Parliament of New South Wales, but we fearlessly and
unflinchingly’ declare that the movements of gold from
those States to New South Wales about that time, as
shown by the trade statistics, were eminently’suspicious ;
and the conduct of a certain Sydney illustrated weekly
(whose name we will still not pollute our pen by specify-
ing) was highly suspicious, and its demands for a Federal
capital at what it vulgarly called “Yassberra” were
difficult to explain upon any honorable basis. The
Federal capital was located near Yass with a Federal
port at Jervis Bay. The latter part of the arrange-
ment, as we pointed out at the time, was wholly illegal.
The proviso in the Federal Constitution that the capital
must be at least 100 miles from Sydney could only
be interpreted in any sense of fair play, as meaning that
the whole of the Federal territory must be that distance
from Sydney’. In this outrageous breach of the Federal
bargain the nefarious influences of our Southern neigh-
bors were again manifest. Once more, we regret to say,
our warnings were unheeded.
* * * *
In those days the public was assured that the Federal
city would never be more than a large country town, and
the right-of-way for a railway to Jervis Bay seemed a
small matter, while the scrap of beach conceded to the
Commonwealth at that lonesome harbor appeared a thing
of infinitesimal importance. Bub the scrap of beach
afforded space for half-a-dozen wharves, and the Federal
railway intercepted Sydney-bound trade at Yass and
carried it to these wharves at specially low rates. With
all the taxpayers of Australia to draw upon, the Federal
railway was in a position to compete recklessly until a
business was built up. When it was attempted, by a
system of differential rates, to retain the Southern trade
for Sydney, a newly-established inter state Commission
and a servile High Court prohibited these rates. After
that the commercial downfall of Sydney was rapid. The
traffic which formerly came Sydney-wards along the lines
from Adelaide, Melbourne, Albury, Corowa, Finlay, Hay,
Cooma, Gundagai, Tumut—in fact, all the export trade
of the most fertile and populous section of New South
Wales—sought a cheap and convenient outlet at
Jervis Bay. The fact that there was not suffi-
cient room for it mattered nothing. The districts
south of Jervis Bay, as well as those immediately north of
it, had lost their New South Wales sympathies and be-
come mere slaves of the Federal authority. They still
sent representatives to the State Parliament at Sydney,
but their interests lay with the new port 87 miles to the
southward. By the votes of these southern representa-
tives New South Wales was compelled to grant to the
Commonwealth enlarged railway' concessions and the
entire ownership of Jervis Bay. The High Court was
vainly invoked to compel the removal of the Federal city
to a greater distance, the 100-miles limit making it
clearly illegal that one end of the Federal territory’
should be only 87 miles from our fair city. In
giving its decision the Court doubtless endeavored to be
impartial, but none the less the influences of Victorian
prejudice and feeling were very clearly’ marked. The
attempts of Sydney and northern New South Wales to
secede from the southern part of the State, and thus get
clear of the Federal capital octopus, were equally futile.
These things are now matters of history.
* * * *
The position is bad to-day, but it threatens to grow
worse. The Federal capital near Yass grows daily in im-
portance, and a Federal seaport city has arisen on Jervis
Bay which threatens to rival Sydney in wealth and im-
portance. It grows while Sydney declines. Grass
accumulates on Circular Quay. Meanwhile Melbourne,
which has no Federal city and port alongside to feed on
it, as Prometheus fed on the vulture, increases daily
in wealth and arrogance. There is no green cow-feed in
the streets of the perfidious southern capital. Over and
over again did the Daily Telegraph warn the people of
New South Wales that it was a suicidal policy to estab-
lish, at Sydney’s very door, a rival city, railway, and
port, which must be largely under Victorian and South
Australian control, and which would be pampered and
fostered by the money of all the taxpayers of Australia
and Tasmania. V e have now the melancholy satisfac-
tion of sitting amid the ruins, like Marius among the
ddbris of Carthage, and knowing that our prognostications
have been justified. There is a purer gratification in
knowing that some of our principal opponents have met
with the fate which their treachery deserved. Mr. G. H.
Retd, who was largely instrumental in placing the Federal
city where it must needs eat up our State capital, has
sunk into the obscurity which we always declared would
be the natural result of his political iniquities. Mr. W.
M. Hughes, at one time Attorney-General in a Labor
Ministry, followed Mr. Reid in this matter of the capital,
and he also met with his reward. The waterside workers
of Sydney are to a great extent unemployed through the
removal of trade to Jervis Bay. They have suffered from
increasing destitution for many years, and as far back as
the general election of 1913 they pursued their perfidious
representative with road metal, and drove him out of the
electorate. On that memorable'occasion he received one
vote only. We will not be so uncharitable as to say that
it was his own.
* * * . .V, *
The above is not necessarily a serious ex-
aggeration. There is a curse on George Reid’s
political jobs, and his whole, public career is an
evidence that it pays best to go straight. Already
the bitterest of current political grievances is that
Reid, the meddler and muddler, insisted that
New South Wales must not be allowed to federate
unless an agreement was fixed up whereby the
Commonwealth, after next year, need not return
to the States even 2d. per annum of the Customs
and Excise revenue. That was a fair example of
the fat man’s incapacity, and so far as it is con-
cerned his foolishness has already found him out.
The mere fact that the Federal capital arrange-
ment was also Reid’s doing is a fair and reason-
able guarantee that in that matter also Reid’s
foolishness will find him out. The old Foreign-
trader’s capacity for being found out passes all
understanding.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Certain Small People Eing a Bell.
Various State Premiers and other State Minis-
ters met in Hobart last week; and, Commonwealth
Prime Minister Fisher having a few days to
spare, he, too, ran across to the holiday place.
These “ conferences’’occur every now and then;
and the State Ministers have got into a habit of
ringing the bell and calling the Commonwealth
Prime Minister or Treasurer in, and asking him
whether he has decided to behave better in the
future. At least three Treasurers of Australia
have in that way put forward schemes for
settling what is known as the financial problem,
and three times the State Premiers have rejected
the proposals. Presumably they reckon to go
along until some day some incompetent or trai-
torous Commonwealth Prime Minister will give
away or sell the Commonwealth’s right*, where-
upon the State Premiers will jump at the chance,
and the thing will be “ settled ” at last. Prime
Minister Fisher, however, didn’t call the con-
ference together, didn’t suggest that it should be
held, and didn’t name the day for meeting. Yet,
because he turned up by invitation, but was not
prepared to unfold still another scheme, the
State Frights papers are jumping upon him
with all their tremendous tonnage. If he
hasn’t got a scheme, they say, he ought
to have one. George Turner had one, so did
Bigjohn Forrest, so did Lyne. It is true that
they might just as well not have had schemes;
but that isn’t held to excuse Fisher for not
having one. When the State Premiers ring the
b -11 he ought to come in and lay the usual offering
at their feet. They don’t seem to quite realise
that the Commonwealth has got a scheme already
—in the Constitution. For 10 years the States
had to receive three-fourths of the Customs duties;
it was assumed that, after 10 years, the Com-
monwealth would probably want all the
Customs duties it could collect, and so it was
given power to take them without a
word of reference to the States. Further,
if it wants to take over the State debts it can do
that too without a word of reference to the States.
It isn’t the Commonwealth, then, that wants a
“ scheme ” ; it is the States, and to throw bricks
at Fisher for not having one ready when the
Conference rings the bell is both an impertinence
and a complete failure to realise the position.
-<>
Australia’s Humorous Anti-Defence Party.
One of the humors of Federal politics these days
is Australia's Anti-Defence Party. It is ob-
trusively loyal to “the Throne and Person,”
wildly enthusiastic on behalf of the Flag (the
British, and not the Australian, be it understood),
and in a constant ferment of dread lest local
ignorance or malice may do something derogatory
to the dignity of the same. It has two mouth-
pieces—on the military side, Jawbone Neild; on
the naval, Willy Kelly. Two characteristics
distinguish these thinkers from their fellow men :
(1) A large, dogmatic intolerance of any opinion
on Defence other than that which is voiced by the
Daily Telegraph; (2) a chronic tendency to
ascribe such opinions (a) to congenital imbecility,
(b) to a malignant desire to rum Australia, or (c)
to “ disloyalty a vague phrase which in-
cludes lack of reverence for the personal
character of Ed. VII., the holding of Home Rule
views (“ Fenianism ”), and the habit of voting
Labor ( * ‘Anarchy ”) at the Federal or State elections.
Neild is by way of being a sort of soldier. Twelve
years ago he raised a corps of volunteers, and
secured the appointment of himself as its “Major
Commanding.” At the time his action occasioned
mild surprise. Then the explanation of it dawned
on the public mind. The late Queen Victoria s
Diamond Jubilee celebrations were at hand.
Neild has ever possessed the harmless, yet per-
fectly foolish, passion for glad clothes that goes
with the sort of whiskers he affects. He marched
through London in 1897 in a self-invented uniform
whose weird gorgeousness is still the talk of a
hundred mess-rooms. This was the most active ser-
vice either Neild or his uniform ever saw. They
did not go to the Boer or any other war. And
now Neild has retired from the profession of
bloodshed, without ever having seen an ounce
of vital fluid spilled; and he has taken to
posing as an expert in matters pertaining
to warfare. Briefly expressed, his views on the
military questions of the day are as follows:
(1) The principle of universal service is “in-
famous.” No true Briton would advocate or
endure such a wrong. It “militates against the
freedom of the subject.” It “strikes at the root
of every virtue that has made England what she
is.” (2) The aspiration for universal service is
insane. No thinking soldier of experience would
entertain it for a moment. Neild’s remarks at
Randwiclc, the other day, are typical. Consider
them :
I regret that there is abroad a curse of ignorance in
defence matters. Universal service not only strikes at
the Briton’s inalienable right of personal freedom ; it is
also foolish. It is thought by some persons who publicly
twaddle about defence that all that is necessary is to give
a man a rifle and teach him howto use it. They are
wrong.
Willy Kelly specialises in naval matters. His
claim to speak as an authority in this regard
is not so clear as is that of his volunteer-
colonel friend to dogmatise on military topics.
It is understood that he mainly relies for a repu-
tation for knowledgableness in marine affairs on
the tw'in facts (1) that he has travelled to England
and back 14 times on different mailships; (2)
that he is a vice-president of a motor-boat club.
He holds, with terrific firmness, that the idea of
a “ mosquito fleet ” for Australia is the dream of
a maniac. He argues that such a fleet, not being
as big as the Jap and other fleets/would be quite
useless. And he is against the construction of a
fleet approximating in size to that of Japan, on
the score that it would be expensive. In a word,
he reckons that Australia is doomed, or there-
abouts, if it looks further than the “Protector”
class of war-vessel for purposes of self-defence.
He apparently considers that anyone who doesn’t
think as he thinks is a “traitor to the Mother-
land.” In contrast with the sentiments of parade-
warrior Neild regarding Universal Land Service,
the views of men like Field-Marshal Roberts,
General Grenfell (who has served in every big
British scrap from the Kaffir war of 1878 to the
last Egyptian trouble), Lord Lovat (who saw all
the service there was to be seen in the recent
South African business), and scores of other
genuine fighting-men, make diverting reading.
Roberts, in his great speech in the House of
Lords (24/11/’08), said bluntly that England was
not safe from invasion. He pointed out the pos-
sibility of the British fleet being overwhelmed or
evaded. And out of the depth of his experience
he suggested, as the only safeguard, Universal
Service —the scheme Woollahra’s sham-fight
Colonel denounces as “ ignorance ” and
“twaddle.” Roberts and others of his sort are
still calling for Universal Service. War-experts
who are not soldiers (for example, Lord Esher,


Chairman of the War Office Reconstruction Com-
mittee, 1904) are doing the same. But ever in the
wilderness that adjoins the Centennial Park
parade-ground a voice—the voice of Netld —is
heard vowing that it is all wrongful foolishness and
rot. Willy Kelly’s argumentative position on
the Blue Water resembles that of Neild on land.
Yet Admiral Poore went out of his way to say, the
other day, in Melbourne that
What he would like to see 'was a flotilla manned entirely
by Australians, exercised all round the coast line- in a
squadron. (Applause.) That flotilla would, in time of
war, be of most excellent assistance* to the Imperial
forces.
The cable stated (27/2/’O9) that Lord Ellkn-
bouough (a naval man who saw sea-service in the
Chinese War, and commanded with distinction in
the Ashanti War) had expressed his pleasure at
the fact that
Australia had beg'un on right lines by providing- de-
stroyers that would be in readiness on the spot in case of
emergency.
On the same day the cable also noted that
The Admiralty viewed with satisfaction the efforts that
the colonies were making towards establishing a fleet for
their own protection.
There is some magnificent comedy to be got out
of the spectacle of Willy Kelly and Jawbone
Neild ranging themselves against the entire edu-
cated and expert opinion of the British Empire
regarding defence problems. There is no evidence
that either of them is capable, at a pinch, of
rebuffing a posse of irritated Babu law-students
from anywhere ; and that is one reason why the joy
of hearing them set some of the world’s most
practised battlers in the right strategical path is
so splendid a thing of merriment.
Unrest in the N.S.W. Deform Party.
There are indications that the Wade party is
disintegrating. Concerning a suburban supporter
of it the Star dropped this hint (4/3/’O9)
Mr. Varney Parkes, the member for Canterbury, by
his speeches in Parliament last session, demonstrated
that, at the best, he is but a lukewarm supporter of the
Wade Government. On several occasions since the House
went into recess the rumor has gained currency that Mr.
Parses was endeavoring to form a party in the House
composed of dissatisfied followers of the Government.
The Bathurst National Advocate had the fol-
lowing to say in the same connection (l/3/’O9)
On the threatened split in the Wade party, which in-
volves the question of a graduated land-tax, our repre-
sentative, Mr. John Miller, adopts his characteristic
attitude of sitting on the fence. Mr. Miller does not
know. He cannot say. The time is not “ripe.”
David Storey, of Rand wick—a typical city re-
presentative—makes no secret of his impatience
with the present Administration. And there are
others, everywhere. It is in the country districts
that the Wade party is most unpopular.
Bathurst is a case in point. It has rich lands all
round it, and one of the finest climates on earth.
But its population and business are shrivelling
year by year, owing to land monopoly. Half-a-
dozen men and their sheep occupy an area that
should be carrying a. human population of ten or
twenty thousand. The Socialistic State education
system spreads political as well as other light.
Folks to whom the big landowners were accus-
tomed to look with confidence at election times
are nowadays rejecting their cause with con-
tumely. The more intelligent of the business men
realise that Wade’s talk of “equitable resump-
tion ’ as a means of unlocking the land is pure bluff.
The feeble Opposition in the State House certainly
doesn’t fill the discontents with enthusiasm ; but,
by bailing up the local WADE-ite member, and
demanding that he shall declare himself in favor
of the Federal candidate for the district who
favors a graduated land-tax, and by promising, in
default, to vote anti-WADE at next State elections,
they at least achieve something. And this course
they are taking in all directions. There is a big
section in N.S. W. that is determined either to have
the assistance of Wade and his Parliamentary
followers in obtaining what the latter have
damned as “land confiscation” and “robbery,”
or to fling the party into the outer darkness. In
the cities. Deform is likewise in a bad way. The
new Police Offences Act irritates where it doesn't
arouse ribald laughter. Its most useful achieve-
ments —the scotching of the noisy young bogus
drunk, the additional protection of decent
women from insult, and so forth—could have
been arrived at by police regulations. Along
more ambitious lines it has produced chaos.
There is a general feeling, too, that the
anti-gaming measure, which reckons that gambling
is a sin anywhere but at Randwick, Rosehill and
the big social clubs, is hypocrisy of a rank
brand. The Industrial Disputes Act is no more
favored by the employers than by the men. Last
week’s State loan fiasco, and Waddell’s painfully
feeble efforts to show that it constituted in reality
something in the nature of a triumph for N.S.W.
credit, touched the pro-borrowing Deformer (a
frequent type of Deformer) on his rawest spot.
And, finally, in the city there is the widespread
feeling of certainty that Wade proposes to
desert politics within 12 months and seize
the post of State Chief Justice. There is
nothing so demoralising to a cause as the spread
of a conviction amongst its adherents that its
leader means shortly to desert it—not owing to
age or physical infirmity, but with the object of
“ bettering himself.” It is an admission from the
person who should know best that the cause isn’t
worth sticking to. If Labor in N.S.W. had a
leader with views, energy and some constructive
ability, it would come into its kingdom right
away. However, it hasn’t. McGowen —weak,
maladroit, and a State-Frighter—is almost the last
man in the country to seize the opportunity that
offers. The tragic probability, therefore, is that
Wade will nominate his successor to the Premier-
ship, even as he nominated his locum tenens to
the Chief-Justiceship, and will succeed for the
sheer lack of a capable opponent to say him nay.
Murray’s First Session.
The just-closed session of Victoria’s Parliament
was swift and effective when compared with the
noisy comedies of the blathersome Bent. Start-
ing actual work on Feb. 9, by the 2Gth it had put
through 28 measures, including two Supply Bills,
five concerning loans and loan moneys, three for
railway- construction, and six private or semi-
private measures. The most surprising feature
was the way in which the Big Landlords, despite
moans and croakings from the Argus, gulped
down such “disruptive and hastily-devised
measures ” as the Increase of Teachers’Salaries,
i le ,*!f* :or ' es Act Amendment, and the Saturday
Half-Holiday Bills. Thelastmeasurecompelsevery
metropolitan shopkeeper tocloseatlp.m.on Satur-
days, excepting chemists, eating-house-keepers,
fruit sellers, book and paper sellers, florists, bike
repairers, barbers, butchers and bakers; and it
will inevitably capsize quite a lot of existing
arrangements on May 1, when it takes effect.
Yet the Landlords swallowed not only the Bill
'rn ” ri Ut . one °. r , two Labor amendments,
lhey likewise assimilated the Factories Act
Amending Bill, which,- among other things,
makes it illegal to employ a boy under 14 or a girl
under 15 in a factory, even though the infant
have twenty school certificates; and also makes it
illegal for shopkeepers, excepting chemists,
to accept a premium for an apprentice.
It may be that the Fats have mislaid their punch,
or again it may simply be that they want to show
their pleasure at the change from Bknt to
Murray —which, on the whole, is a hard thing to
say about Murray. Of the 30 Bills introduced,
only two —the Gold Buyers Amendment, and a
private bill to give the Agricultural Society pos-
session of a right-of-way—were pushed aside.
Notwithstanding all this, the session, except in
the disastrous matter of loans and the like, lias
been comparatively barren, for the reason that the
greater part of the toil consisted in putting
patches over holes, and tacking strips that had
worked loose, and generally going over jobs
that ought to have been better done at first.
The big questions that await settlement in
Victoria still remain to be dealt with. The
biggest question Murray did deal with—that of
borrowing or not borrowing—he answered
badly ; and the next session will show how he pro-
poses to shape with regard to land monopoly. So
far the prospects lire not cheerful—which was
probably why the House of Landlords intimated
its pleasure to have Murray as Premier, and its
willingness to join him in. throwing a sop to the
State by passing legislation which doesn’t strike
at Fat’s vitals.
+
In the Straits.
[For- The Bulletin.]
It was not an uncommon experience to lose all lights in
the Straits during squalls.— Statement at the inquiry
into the Penguin wreck.
Oh, this is the song of the steamer-men who steam
in the narrow seas,
Where the rocks are many and waters boil at the
lash of the South-East breeze ;
Day and night with their living freight of sea-siclt
folk below,
Afloat on the narrow verge of death, the steamers
come and go ;
Through fog and current, by rock and reef, the
ships must nose their way,
Be it storm or fine, or dark or shine, to stern
Poneke Bay.
Inky darkness and scourging wind, and never a
light to view,
You must lay your course and take it blind, and
your luck may pull you through ;
Though where you are to a mile or so no living soul
can tell—
Your only show is to let her go, though you drive
her straight to Hell.
Then a sea-sick public will rave and howl at the
terrible man you are
As if a ship on the black Straits trip could be
worked like a tramway car.
And night by night with their living freight of
trustful folk below,
Afloat on the narrow verge of death the steamers
come and go;
Through fog and current, by rock and reef, the
ships must find their way ;
They must lay their course and take it blind to
grim Poneke Bay,
For where they are to a mile or two no living
soul can tell;
Their only show is to let her go, to Wellington
wharf or Hell.
MAORILAND. D.M.W.
♦
The A.N. A. and Native Industries.
The A.N. A. Exhibition in Melbourne, which
came to a feeble end the other Saturday, was
somewhat of a travesty of the original purpose of
these annual shows. A display of Australian
natural products and manufactures at the Exhi-
bition Building was mooted a few years ago by
some Melbourne firms interested in the forward-
ing of Australian industries and the removal of
the Stinking Fish prejudice that checks their
advance. In the first place, the Vic. Cham-
ber of Manufactures was invited to organise
an Exhibition, but the committee merely
approved of the suggestion without attempting to
adopt it in a practical way. Finally, the
A.N. A., having some little knowledge of the
showman business, undertook to manage a trial
exhibition of Australian goods if the exhibitors
would pay a liberal rent for their space and put
up an attractive display. If the experiment
proved a financial success, the exhibitors were to
get the space-charge refunded. It was a success.
Subsequent exhibitions, more imposing than the
first, were run on the same patriotically-business-
like lines. The principal exhibitors were, in a
sense, working together for a general effect rather
than for individual profit. At first it was ruled that
nothingcould be sold onthepremisessave whatwas
actually manufactured there. Interesting working
exhibits were provided by manufacturers who are
not retailers of their goods. Nobody was looking
for a profit save the A.N. A. committee. Unfortu-
nately the management corrupted these lofty
ideals by relaxing the conditions as to the retail-
ing of goods, and issuing “selling rights” to
anyone who would pay a percentage tax on the
takings. Also the management presently strove
to distract public attention from the stalls in favor
of incidental entertainments, foolishly supposed
to be a stronger “draw” than the exhibition
proper. And as all these trumpery sideshows were
arranged in the concert hall at the back or in the
quadrangle outside of the building, the people who
went to the trouble of fixing up exhibits in the
galleries began to perceive that the management
that grabbed the gate-money was practically
working against them all the time by inviting the
public to the sideshows on the ground floor, or in
the open. Moreover, the A.N. A., whilst scooping
the pool (even the contract to refund space rents
to the exhibitors was more or less departed from,
it seems), neglected to keep the building properly
clean. There wasn’t a sufficient expenditure of
money in sweeping, and caretaking, and police
attendance. In short, the A.N.A. didn’t give a
quid pro quo to the manufacturers who provided
the exhibition. After their experience of last year
a number of them —a majority, in fact—came
to the conclusion that the thing had been
done to death, and it would be better to let
a year or two elapse before attempting a restora-
tion of the Exhibition of Australian Industries to
its original honors and dignities. But the A.N. A.
nobbled the accommodating Bent, and got him to
promise a grant of some £l2OO for the equipment
of several large, uninteresting stalls where various
Government departments were vaguely repre-
sented by photographs, jams, frozen sucking pigs,
and other things. Thus when the original pro-
moters of this excellent annual demonstration had
either withdrawn their support altogether or re-
duced it to a formal recognition, the awful Bent
waddled in with his bribe or subsidy, or whatever
it was, to the A.N.A. This enabled the manage-
ment to issue a loud advertisement concerning
Government Exhibits. And then with the idea of
saving the situation the committee reduced the en-
trance money to “sixpence—children half-price,”
and invited theyoungsters to rollupand see balloon
ascents and parachute descents, and amateur box-
ing and wrestling competitions, and other kinds
of show utterly at variance with the sentiment of
an exhibition for the advancement of Australian
industries. The effect of specially inviting the
patronage of rowdy small boys at 3d. a head was
disastrous, as any old showman could have told
the A.N.A. beforehand. Besides, there was no
exhibition to speak of as compared with the dis-
plays in previous years, and the Australian visitor
was likely to leave with a smaller rather than a
larger idea of what his country was capable of
doing. Certainly the man who visited succes-
sive shows must have left the last with the
conviction that the country was getting no
forrarder with its industries. After the first
week, the average attendance therefore
diminished, and the A.N.A. probably made
a loss on the business. Which, however, is a
small matter compared with the loss of prestige
which the Exhibition of Manufactures has sus-
tained through the bad business tactics of the
grasping management.
“Serve it Right” v. “It Did its Darnedest.”
Another warning note from a man in England
who knows almost as much about Empire defence
as even Corporal (or is it Brigadier ?) Neild does :
A few weeks ago Lord Roberts made his appeal to the
British people through the Lords, pleading with them for
universal service. It is only the peroration to his whole
life and thought.
In to-day’s Standard, which may ,be taken as ultra-
imperialistic and even Jingo, there is a column of cable
relating to the European crisis, in which Germany and
Austria are side by side, with a huge fleet and a potential
army of 3,000,000 fighting men.
The poverty and distress in London alone are heart-
breaking. (There are quite 20 lines of print on this
point.) Meantime winter is coming on, and the grim jest
about “General Fevrier,” now 54 years old, is quite
iikely to be rejuvenated for further use.
If a naval war comes (and come it may), there will be a
of a smash here. The poor—those who live on free
soup and parish relief—would begin to die like flies in less
than a month. It would not be long before the lower
middle class, who buy the doubtful sausage and the over-
pungent kipper, thejd. of tea, and the lovely eight-penny
margarine (2oz. for Id.), would be taking their place at the
soup-kitchen door.
The fact that a very large part of the oversea trade is
in the hands of gentlemen called Ellermann and Woer-
MA'NN and the Deutsche-Ost-Afrika Gesellschaft, does not
make one very optimistic concerning a strenuous en-
deavor on their part to play an heroic r6le in feeding
England in the face of a hostile fleet.
No, the whole naval strength of Britain would be en-
gaged in trying to keep the trade routes open.
Australia would (probably) be saved later on.
Therefore, as Euclid would say, Australia ought to
begin to put its house in order. When future nations
read the History of the Twentieth Century, let us hope
that they will not say of Australia, “ Served it right! ” A
more pleasing verdict over the national corpse (if it must
be a corpse) would be —“ It did its darnedest.”
Recollect that there are three ways in which to view
the question, and they are these
1. Is Australia in immediate fear of oppression by a
stronger power? If so, then let it prepare at once.
2. Is there a nation, near to it, not now hostile or
powerful, but which may at any moment become hostile?
(It needn’t be powerful to crush Australia. Any child
can kill a mouse.) If so (as before).
3. Is it possible, even if not probable, that in the future
some nation may arise and seek our scalp? If so (as
before again).
Of these questions, it is not necessary that either (1) or
(2) be answered in the affirmative. For it is difficult to
get any answer but an affirmative to (3), if the history of
the world for the last 4000 or 2000 or 1000 or even 25
years be studied.
In the Big Squatters’ Country.
“K.”: Just a few miles south of the Colae-
Terang (Vie.) railway, and within an easy day’s
ride of the big- sheep-stations on the Western
Plains, there is the Otway and Heytesbury forest.
This forest is very mountainous, and has the
worst roads imaginable. Yet, all over it, there
are settlers battling to make homes for their
families. At Chapel Creek, a few miles south of
Cobden, they wanted to put up a church. So it
was built in parts at Geelong, and portion of it
was actually taken to its destination on pack-
horses. Speaking in Terang a day or two ago,
the missionary from the district said :
The people down there had not much accommodation.
If they needed five rooms they generally put up tw0....
He would never forget a ride he had. They had first to
cross the creek, and then climb a hillside, slipping every
step or so, for it was raining heavily ; and then they had to
zig-zag down the other side. It took an hour" and 40
minutes to go those four miles. When they reached
Chapel Creek he found how the members of the farmer’s
family lie was to stay with came. The “bush buggy”
was there ; thej' could not bring it across the creek. On
week-days it was used to take cream to the nearest
factory. It was a sledge, and on it was lashed a kerosene
case ; and on the kerosene case sat the farmer’s wife.
(Laughter.) A big draught-horse was drawing the
sledge ; a boy was driving it, and the daughter was walk-
ing ahead, carrying a candle in a bottle to show the way.
He, on horseback, followed them all—(laughter)—and as
he watched the farmer’s wife on the kerosene case, with
a little baby in her arms, trying to shelter it from the
wet, how he wished that he could paint that picture !
I know that awful country well, and there is no-
thing to laugh at in the missionary’s story. The
sting of it all lies in the fact that, even if he works
from daylight till dark, the farmer can’t make a
fair living. He can’t, as will be noticed, afford
that first of bush necessities, a decent lantern.
And yet, as I have said, only a matter of 30 miles
north of the scene of this tragedy there are
over 1,000,000 acres of land fit for farms, clear of
all timber, well-drained, with the best of roads—
but it is in the hands of the big squatters. The
selector cannot touch this land, though it is stand-
ing ready for the plough. He has, instead, to
dive into the bush-clad mountains where there
is nothing but a wilderness of saplings and
undergrowth; where the land, even when
cleared, is only worth a trifle ; and where the
poor little bit of prod uce that he raises lias to be
dragged over the worst roads in Victoria before it
gets to market. The broad fertile plains, with
their lovely metalled roads—used only by the
squatter’s motor —stand idle, while the struggling
forest selector, a few miles away, drags his wife to
church on a sledge, and his daughter pilots the
way with a candle in a bottle. Some of him lives
in country too rough and hilly even for the sledge ;
and then he has to pack his cream out on horse-
back. Surely the people will get sefise at last,
and use an axe on the big squatter, if nothing else
will shift him.
♦
The Commonwealth Government has decided to
do something definite with regard to the High
Commissionership early next session. The man
for the most important job has not yet been
absolutely chosen; but the Fisher Government
turns its eyes fondly to Chief Justice Griffith,
who, it is said, wants to get off the High Court
Bench. Probably there isn’t any other office
in which Samuel Griffith could quite so well
serve the Commonwealth as he does in the one
he now fills; and it is extremely doubtful
if there is another man offering who could
fill that office with the same success. From
that point of view the retirement'of this supremely
able man would be a national misfortune. Yet,
assuming that he is resolved to go from the High
Court, it will be Australia’s good fortune if it can
secure him for the Oommissionership. He may
lack some of the “human” qualities which it
might be desirable for the ideal High Commis-
sioner to have; yet if he will undertake the work,
it is quite certain that he will perform it, not only
with much ability, but also with zeal—unless he
proposes to be quite different from the man who'
has done so much for the prestige of the High
Court. Yet such is his value in the Court that,,
looking at the matter from a national point of
view, every reasonable effort should be made to l
retain his services there. He would make a goodi
High Commissioner; he makes something more'
than a good Chief Justice.
+
For the last few years the submarine cable has:
been lying faithfully and with comparatively few
interruptions; but “wireless” has been in vented,,
and nowit looks as if a very few years more will see'
thecableaback number. Fromthebreezysummitoff
the tight-laced Eiffel Tower in Paris, Marconi the'
other day shot a message right across the Atlantic'
to Glace Bay, in Nova Scotia, a distance of 2670'
miles. Within seven years the range of the wire-
less instruments has bounded up from 200 to nearly
3000 miles—an annual increase of 328 miles..
Putting aside the question of further im-
provements, the present Eiffel Tower installa-
tion, if erected at Singapore, could do the work
of the last section of the Australian cable..
It is when you come to consider things like these
that the “permanent and reproductive” under-
takings in which Australia has sunk the bulk of
its borrowed money don’t look quite as “per-
manent ”as they might. The ancient boss of the'
Queensland railways came back from a world-tour
the other day to remark that even the modern)
railway system is in danger from the monorail..
But Australia goes on placidly as if there weren’t;
such a thing as an inventor in the world, and only
in very rare cases does it lay a cent by to pay off’
the debt on the work which the inventor willl
probably knock clean out long before either rust;
or white ant could do it.
+
The mysterious and fatal heeling over of the lost
wheat ship Clan Ranald off the S.A. coast has
been accounted for by an Adelaide Sherlock
Holmes. He writes to one of the local papers
that the disaster was due to the smaller wheat
bags forced on the farmers by the Australian
Government. Here is a bright gem of his logic
and wisdom :
These bags, in order to be made to hold their supposed
capacity, have to be rammed until they more resemble
straw bolsters or roly-poly puddings than wheat sacks,
and the shape has certainly a disintegrating effect on
cargo or stacks.
One or two things bump against this theory. If
a cargo of anything is properly stowed and par-
titioned off, it will not shift except in rare cir-
cumstances ; and certainly it won’t shift in the
smooth waters of an almost land-locked gulf.
Further, ships which carry wheat in bulk quite'
frequently get to port safely. If the reduction in.
the size of bags is so deadly, it ought to be a lot;
more deadly to carry wheat when the bags are.
abolished altogether and each single grain is av
polished bag all in itself. Further, there isn’t any
law to compel the farmers to ram wheat into bags;
until thejr are like bolsters; and, anyway, the;
man hasn’t yet been found who could ram the'
new bags tighter than the old, murderous things;
used to be rammed. The Adelaide Sherlock;
Holmes says, rounding off his curse against the
small sack :
Other things being equal, the larger the surface of the
wheat bag proportionate to weight, the greater will b®
the coherence of a cargo or stack, and the less the likeli-
hood of a sudden shift.
The Bulletin hasn’t put the tape over the old
ana the new wheat “ bolsters ” ; but there seems
to be something wrong with Sherlock’s measure-
ments. A cube 3ft. x 3ft. x 3ft. will contain 27
cubic ft., or 324 ft. for 12 cubes ; and the outer
surface of each will be 36 sq. ft., or 432 sq. ft. for
the 12 cubes. But it would only take five 4ft.
cubes to make 320 cub. ft.; and those five cubes
would only have a total surface measurement of
320 sq. ft. From that it looks as though the
smaller the contents of the bag “thelarger the
surface of the bag proportionate to weight ” ; in
which case the whole blessed argument of the
Adelaide barraeker for the murderous big bag
explodes with a loud report, blown up by its own
rottenness.
+
M. P. Durack (who is understood either to be or
to have been heavily interested in cattle in the
nor’-west of Westralia) gives his opinion of the
treatment of Black Brother in those parts
Re the letter (B. 25/2/’O9) on “ The Treatment of Black
Brother in the Far Nor’-West,” from a correspondent
claiming to have 20 years’ experience of North Australia..
I hold no brief for West Kimberley, nor am I resident in,
that district; but Ido not like to see such unjustifiable -
remarks circulated, nor such a community so ungener-
ously rnaligned. I claim to know something about the-
conditions that exist in North Australia, having lived!
there consecutively for the last 23 years, and having,
occasion to travel annually over large areas of that terri-
tory. I am afraid that too often a personal desire to.
exhibit a little splenetic rancor is responsible for the.-
development of a hybridised humanitarianism.
If the 20-year-resident correspondent is so exercised ini
his devotion for this “suffering humanity,” why is he
loth to publish his name in justification of such a' noble
cause? I do not wish to go into all the statements he
makes, but cannot allow the reference to the blacks’
“absence of revengeful feelings” to go unchallenged.
With his experience of over 20 years he must be aware
that one native alone was responsible for the lives of no
less than five or six men, besides wounding others ; and
there have been several other murders by natives of this
part.
Again, about the Commission of Inquiry and its so-
called “ ghastly farce.” I would like to ask where was
the necessity of supplying the man with the fast horse to
do the quickest trip on record to warn the police Of Dr.
Roth’s intended visit, seeing that Dr. Roth never visited'
the outlying districts, and only prosecuted his inquiry on
arrival by boat at the coastal ports, whence most or all
of his information was drawn, and that principally from
gentlemen who, bearing none of the burden, but’with a
capacity for libation more than equalled by their desire
for veracity, offered themselves as willing witnesses?
Again, as to the imprisonment of the male population
being responsible for starvation—if any—amongst the
females : My experience of native customs has evidenced
that the females are the providers, and are accountable
to their lords for almost all the food supply ; and I know
of instances where the native has attached to himself as
many as three or four wives, and woe betide her whose
“coloman” is not well filled on her return to camp!
The noble lord, when inclination directs, hunts for the
sport that it affords, but anything that falls to his spear
is a mere incidental part of the bag.
4.
The British Government is making a desperate
effort these days to regenerate Ireland, and the
effort is so heroic that it is a pity it seems doomed
to failure. On the face of things, it might be sup- .
posed that Ireland wants two things for its regen-
eration : (1) A heavy graduated land-tax, with a.
very small exemption to force the breaking-up of
the big estates into small freehold farms, and to .
keep them broken up ; (2) a high protective tariff
against all the world, England and Scotland in-
cluded, in order to start the country’s industries -


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
Cinematograph Films.
250,000 feet of Films for HIRE.
NEW SUBJECTS arriving EVERY WEEK.
Instruments and all Accessories Stocked.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 356 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Whether the Premiers’ Conference achieves
anything worth while chiefly depends upon the
presence thereat of the Spirit of Wisdom. Ant
as the scholarly brand of Whisky—D.C.JLi. to
wit —is the Spirit of Wisdom, the influence thereol
should be the chief factor of success. With
D.C.L. presiding, Moderation and Harmony must
prevail.*
afresh. Almost every industry in Ireland was
prohibited at one time or another on the ground
that it “interfered with English trade”; Irish
shipping, Irish woollen manufacture, Irish trade
with any place save England, the sale in England
of Irish meat, Irish tobacco culture —these were
only a few of the hundred businesses that villain-
ous English Governments declared that Ireland
must not practise. So Ireland started theFreetrade
period with practically no industries save agricul-
ture, and as manufactures never grow up under
Freetrade it remains an agricultural country to
this day. Then Freetrade ruined agriculture, and
Ireland became a wretched depopulated land,
mostly owned by great absentee landlords and
chiefly used for grazing. England is troubled in
its conscience these days about the 700 years of
brutish oppression to which it has subjected Ire-
land. But .it can’t decide to give Irish in-
dustries a chance to grow up again under a
Protectionist tariff—which, to be effective,
would have to include, for many years,
Protection against England and Scotland.
Nor will it do anything rough to the great,
rack-renting absentee landlords, for “the
rights of property must be respected.” So
£180,000,000 of borrowed money is being spent to
buy up the big estates at their full rack-rented
market value, and in many cases with 12 per cent,
added. And as the tenant can’t buy the land at
the exorbitant price which the landlord is to get
for it, the loss has to be made good out of taxa-
tion. Apparently there is no provision to prevent
the big estates accumulating again ; in fact, it is
. all a horrible mixture of an uneasy desire to repair
a wrong, a desire not to do anything reck-
less or radical, and a desire not to interfere in
any way with “the rights of property.” And these
things are not compatible.
«.
Ip proof were needed of the extreme unsuitability
of C. G. Wade for such a position as the N.S.W.
Chief Justiceship, it may be found in his conduct
in connection with Captain Hansen’s recent
appeal to the Governor (who in this instance was
the Governor’s adviser Wade) for a rehearing of
the Dunmore collision case. Hansen based his
appeal on that section of the Navigation Act
(1901) which says :
The Governor may. . . order the ease to be reheard
by a Court of Marine'lnquiry . . . and shall do so
(a) If new and important evidence which could not be
produced at the Inquiry has been discovered ;
(b) If, for any reason there has, in the opinion of the
Governor, been ground for suspecting that a miscarriage
of justice has occurred.
If ever the legal adviser of a Governor had fair
ground for suspecting that a miscarriage of justice
had occurred, Wade had in this case. The
Coroner’s inquiry absolutely exonerated Hansen.
It elicited that the alleged fact on which the
Marine Court found against Hansen (viz., that
no lookout was kept on the Dunmore forecastle)
was incorrect. In touching, for the Governor’s en-
lightenment, on the allegation on which the
Marine Court found against Hansen, Wade is
driven by sheer weight of evidence to admit that
the President was wrong in saying that “it was
not certain that the mate was on the lookout ” at
the time of the mishap. Both the naval men and
the Dunmore crew swore at the inquest that he was.
Wade buttresses the Marine Court’s finding by ad-
vancing the new theory that Hansen couldn’t have
been keeping a proper look-out on the bridge. His
only reason for holding this view is that the acci-
dent occurred. In Wade’s opinion, if Hansen
had seen the launch coming he should have
changed his course and speed. But the Law,
which is above both Wade and Hansen, says
that the master who changes his course and speed
in the position Hansen was in is guilty of the
gravest offence. Not till things are absolutely
desperate is he justified in assuming that the on-
coming vessel intends to break the regulations.
Wade supplied the Governor with one other
argument against Hansen being granted a re-
hearing of his case
It would be almost impossible and most unwise to re-
view' the findings of the Court, more especially when that
tribunal has had the advantage of seeing and hearing
the ivitnesses in the flesh before it.
Which applies to every appeal case there ever has
been, and is too insane for discussion. The word-
ing of the Navigation Act makes it not optional
merely, but mandatory, for the Governor to
grant a rehearing if there is a suspicion that
injustice has been done. This is a case where the
majority of the N.S.W. Bar, a big section of the
press, 95 per cent, of seafaring men, and a pro-
portion even of naval men are not merely sus-
picious, but certain, that an innocent man has
.been sacrificed. If Wade can’t conceive that
there is the faintest possibility of wrong having
been done here, he is going to be a tragedy on the
Bench.
Throwing insults at Australian Prime Minister
Fisher for not having a “scheme” ready to sub-
mit to the State insects at their Conference in
Hobart, the State Frights papers exclaim, in
effect: “ But, after all, what can. you expect
from a man and a Government that are only in
office on sufferance !” It is true that Fisher
represents a minority in the House ; but in what
better position are the majority of the State in-
sects? If Fisher can’t be expected to talk
for the Commonwealth, it is presumption for the
insects to buzz on behalf of the States.
Wade might remember that he has fora colleague
at the Conference, Waddell, whom a year or two
ago his party helped to throw out on the ground
that he was a reckless and dangerous financier
and a bungler generally. They have patched up
a temporary alliance ; but there is less in common
between them than there is between, say, Fisher
and Lyne. Murray, of Victoria, represents a
hotch-potch. Kidston, of Queensland, is in
power by the grace of his old ad versary Philp.
The Westralian Government is a mere collection
of floating particles—which looks like a hor-
ribly bad joke, but is a mere plain state-
ment of fact. The South Australian Government
represents a coalition which is in great danger of
being disrupted any day. Under the circum-
stances Fisher’s position is, anyhow, as good as
that of any of these States’representatives; yet
no gibes and insults are thrown at them. All
that are available are handed out violently to
Fisher because he happens to be two apparently-
objectionable things at once —a Laborite and the
chief spokesman for Australia.
♦
Premier Kidston, of Queensland, talking in
Hobart, says that Federation is vefy valuable ;
but the States are equally important. How, he
asks, could a Federation be expected to under-
stand or deal with a State like Queensland, which
has conditions and problems so unlike the con-
ditions and problems of Victoria or Tasmania?
Kidston might also inquire how a Parliament,
elected mainly by the south of Queensland,
and sitting in Brisbane, can be expected to
deal satisfactorily with a State which stretches
from Cape York to the N. S. Wales border.
The Commonwealth has, at any rate, shown
as much knowledge of the North as the Parlia-
ment in Brisbane has ever done ; and if it were
put to a vote of the people who are up there, the
North would almost for a certainty prefer to be
governed by the Commonwealth rather than by
the Parliament which sits in Brisbane. No in-
crease of State power is at all likely to simplify
the subdivision of Queensland ; on the other
hand, the extension of the Commonwealth power,
until absolute unification was accomplished,
would inevitably result in the scientific parcelling
out of what is now an unwieldy State, made up of
largely-conflicting interests, and governed from
one corner of it. Thus unification, or the extension
of the Federal power, provides the simplest and
most perfect solution of the very problem which
confronts Kidston. It can effect a perfect cure,
while the maintenance of State rights, involving
the maintenance of existing State boundaries,
must tend to perpetuate the existing absurdities
and wrongs and hardships.
One would have thought that long acquaintance
with political life and its casual procedure would
have left the High Court Judges with little sym-
pathy and liking for the pseudo-dignity expressed
by the horse’s tail, the rabbit’s fur, the tipstaff,
the court marshal, etc. ; nevertheless the other
day in Melbourne the four senior Judges actually
found themselves unable to discover the way
from their rooms to the Court without some
official to escort them. The marshal, who is
really an usher, was away, and the deputy-mar-
shal, who is really a messenger, was getting his
hair cut or something, so for 15 minutes the
Judges waited in their rooms, and the lawyers
waited in their gowns, and the parties waited in
their impatience, and apparently all parties might
have gone on waiting in their various ways had
not the registrar, guessing what was the matter,
disguised himself in a gown and escorted their
Honors to the seats of justice. Whereupon the
Chief Justice remarked that he and his brethren
had been put to much annoyance by being kept
waiting through the absence of the necessary
marshal-escort, and he hoped it would never
occur again. What will happen if it does occur
again the Chief didn’t say ; but, lest it should be
something very terrible, the Federal Government
might manage to provide an emergency boy with
a wand or a bell to step before their dignities. In
the next room, Justice Higgins, doing quite as
onerous and valuable work, managed to walk to
his bench unannounced, and, attired in everyday
clothes, he felt capable of carrying on the pro-
ceedings without the assistance of even a common
or uniformed John. And somehow nobody seemed
to notice that there was any lack of dignity about
the Court.
♦
The London School Board has adopted compul-
sory education for children up to the age of 15,
and the half-time system from 15 to 18. And
now Capital gurgles its indignation through the
cables, and asks what it is going to do if its
touzled-headed office-boy is dragged away from
his broom and duster and forced to learn sums
and encouraged to practise using his brains. But
those who have had experience of the back-stairs
of commerce will enthusiastically approve of a law
which will give the unlicked office waif a chance to
accumulate a little knowledge before he is thrown
on a hard world. Most office boys grow up to be
clerks, and, as a general thing, the earlier an office
boy starts his career the worse clerk he is later on.
The small, immature lad who sits fooling with a
pen and an ink-bottle in a small back office whilst
waiting to tell callers that Mr. Bodgers is out,
has been dragged from his school just when he
was beginning to soak in a little knowledge. The
commercial experience for which he sacrifices his
education generally amounts to sweeping lan-
guidly round a small office with a bald broom,
thumping a worn desk with a feather duster, and
sitting down to scribble his initials over a blotting
pad for eight solid hours. Occasionally he scuffles
with neighboring office-children on the staircase,
or cheeks the lift attendant. Now and then there
may be a message or a letter to be copied. But
the bulk of his time is passed in brain-spoiling
idleness. If he happens to get into a big, busy
establishment, he is not so very much better off.
for, instead of loafing, he has to lick stamps till
his tongue feels like a strip of brown paper, or he is
called on to rush with letters to the post. The
rush and the frequent yells of the numerous
bosses certainly turn him out a smarter youth than
the unfortunate who squanders his young life in
the little importer’s or “agent’s” back office;
but, for all his veneer of smartness, he is only a
half-baked schoolboy, and the loss of a last few
years of schooling becomes painfully apparent
later on when be is given responsible work. The
bright boy usually rises superior to the handicap
of imperfect education ; but, as the majority of
boys merely glow and don’t scintillate, their early
training with J. Bodger, Indenter of Tin-Pot
Novelties, or Drive, Sweatem & Co., General
Merchants, remains as a permanent blight on
their careers.
Australia’s defences ! Defence Minister
Pearce told an Adelaide meeting last week that
one State (it is not difficult to guess which) still
proudly enumerates in its list of effective war
material the arrangement for making cannon balls
red hot, used at the siege of Gibraltar in 1782 !
And Greid is still piping—“ Why hurry?”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Havana.”
Theatre Royal “ The Duke s Motto.
Criterion “Fedora.”
T IVOU Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
( “For the Term of His Natural
Palace q Ljf e ” (Picture Drama).
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
I “ For the Term of His Natural
King’s J- Life .”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
“The Duke’s Motto,” the new Sydney
Theatre Royal production, is a French costume
melodrama. That is to say, it is the most
exuberant sort of dramatic untruth. The French-
man, unless he is witnessing the interpretation of
a'classic play by a classic company, asks nothing
more than to be wildly excited, or wildly amused.
The blood plays that appeal to him have no more
relation to life than have the incredible Nou-
or Palais Royal farces, which draw such
good houses always. The English-speaking races
have, of course, in a general sense, the same tastes.
But they don’t go nearly as far as the French.
They will accept neither such broad comedy nor
such incredible gallantry and fighting talent.
When the British hero of melodrama is arrested
by half-a-dozen policemen for a crime of which he
is innocent, he struggles perfunctorily for a
while, and then accompanies the Law resignedly
to gaol. The Gaul in the same circumstances
routs his assailants utterly, and goes free. The
British hero is an indifferent plotter. His machi-
nations are defeated, during the first four acts,
with pathetic ease. It is through no astuteness
on his part that his multitudinous wrongs are
righted in the end ; but owing to the idiocy of his
enemies. His Gallic prototype has the subtlety
of a Machiavelli, the infallible judgment of an
expert poker-player, the unnatural luck of a
gambler who habitually wears three aces up his
s ] eeve . To get a line as to the weird unreality of
“ The Duke’s Motto,” it is interesting to consider
its story as a modern happening—a not unfair
test, since social intercourse was, in the essentials,
the same in the highly-civilised days of Louis
XIII. as it is in this century ; and flagrantly
illegal conduct, though slightly safer then in one
way, by reason of the absence of telegraphs, tele-
phones”and trains, was in another way far more
dangerous than in these ultra-humanitarian times.
.* » » *
In this modern version of our own,
then, Tommy Burns —owner of the deadliest
punch from Cape Howe to the Leeuwin—has,
early in his career, saved the life of a year-old
baby. To do this he has had to meet and defeat
single-handed and at once nine of Australia’s least
incompetent heavyweights. The infant is a
female of gentle birth—the offspring of an assassi-
nated Macquarie-street doctor. Tommy brings
her up to be a perfect lady. When the curtain
rises on the play proper she is 19 years old and
holds the position of barmaid in one of the best
“stands ” in the city. A prominent local solicitor,
of infamous character, has been searching unavail-
ingly for her ever since her disappearance.
He is married to her mother. He slew
the lady’s first husband in order to win
her ; and is now after that portion of the
family property which is vested in the daughter.
His managing clerk is his accomplice in all things.
To them comes Peter Felix. He hankers to try
conclusions with Tommy ; but the latter spurns
him as a back number. Much annoyed, Felix
sides with the solicitor. He indicates a girl of
lowly origin and says that she is the missing
heiress. With fatuous trust the solicitor and his
employee believe him. Also he vows that he will
“do for ” Tommy. A while later Tommy gives
the misguided black the battle he has been
clamoring for, “outs” him badly, forcibly re-
sumes his clothes, and impersonates him in the
presence of the solicitor. The latter suspects
nothing. Act 111. shows a ball at Federal
Government House. Tommy is there, still dis-
guised as Peter Felix, an invitation in the latter’s
name having been procured for him by the solici-
tor. In attendance on him are Les O’Donnell
and Pat O’Keefe. His position is a delicate one.
As Tommy Burns he has promised the Governor-
General that he will, at 12 p.m. sharp, publicly dis-
close the name of the murdered medico’s assassin,
and produce the long-lost child. As Peter Felix he
has assured the solicitor that he will deliver a
lethal stroke to Tommy Burns, and identify his
employer’s moneyed step-daughter. While the
revelry is at its height, the missing maiden enters
arm-in-arm with O’Keefe and O’Donnell. The
managing-clerk recognises her. His minions
hustle her guardians (the dancers are considerate
enough to turn their backs while this unpleasantry
is in progress), drag her away, and leave another
young woman in her place. Not till the substi-
tute raises her mask, and jeers, do the duped
fighting-men realise what has occurred. Tommy
appears suddenly (as himself), hurls defiance at
the company from the top of a flight of limelight-
flooded steps, and departs hastily to resume the
garb of the still-unconscious Felix. All agree that
Government House has not known a livelier
evening in years. The last act takes place
in the solicitor’s house at Darling Point.
Tommy is there as Peter Felix. The lawyer
has agreed that he shall marry his step-daughter,
and take her away (minus her property) for ever.
A priest enters and performs a marriage ceremony
as brief as it is original. All have signed the
register but Tommy. Amid a dead hush, he is
seen to inscribe, not the name Peter Felix, but
Noah Brusso ! With a yell the solicitor’s bravos
tear off their coats. Through an adjacent door
surge O’Keefe and O’Donnell. A willing and
general “go” seems imminent. But just here
the Governor-General enters. He hearkens to
Tommy’s story, and without so much as passing
the obvious rebuke that a lot of needless worry
would have been averted if he had only had the
sense to tell it in the first act, directs that the
erring attorney shall be dealt with. A ring is
formed, and within two minutes or less this dis-
grace to an honorable profession is down and out,
and the play is over.
■* * * *
Julius Knight, as Lagardere, the best and
brainiest fighter of the continent he inhabits, is in
his element. It is indeed inspiring to see him
dash on to the stage in the prologue, scatter the
inferior peace-disturbers, who are whiling away
an idle hour ill-treating a child, and stand, a
superb figure with arms crossed and flashing eyes,
the calcium beating on his heaving bosom. None
but an actor could do it. Louis de Gonzague,
whom we have modernised into a Sydney legal
practitioner, is in the hands of Harry Plimmer, a
right dastardly medievalist; still wickeder is
Peyrolles (Reynolds Denniston), the managing
clerk of our little fable. HCsop, the seeker after,
and ultimate finder of, Trouble—he whose awful
costume and appearance Lagardere assumes—is
well played by Rupert Julian. Cocardasse
(Eardley Turner) and Passepoil (Leslie Victor)
are genuinely humorous. Miss Beatrice Day, as
the wronged Princess-Mother, has a fine air of
chastened dignity ; and Blanche (Miss Guildford
Quin) and Flora (Miss Elsie Wilson) are charming
in their several ways.
** * *
“The Dairymaids” skip off the stage of
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Friday night; so
Marjorie hasn’t much longer to sit by the country
stile. On Saturday the Royal Comics devote all
their vocal strength, agility, and beauty to the
job of interpreting the new musical play,
“ Havana,” the melody of which has been supplied
by Leslie Stuart, composer of the sparkling
“Elorodora.” “ Havana ”is to be the last pro-
duction of the present season ; but, as J. 0. Wil-
liamson may have followed the ancient precedent
of keeping the best wine till the last, the public
needn’t worry about final performances for some
time to come. The thing to ponder over now is,
whether it will be possible to elbow in amongst
the first-nighters, and drink the melodious cham-
pagne as it fizzes its first delicious fizz.
** * *
By the time this nibful of ink meets the
public eye the Humphrey-Titheradge-Kolker co.
will be on the water and heading for Sydney.
The mummer trinity and following arrive here on
the 16th, and their after moments are known only
to the Williamsonian mind. Titheradge is still
in a hospital in Auckland, which fact reminds
the writer that a duo, and not a trinity, comes
hitherward.
*# * *
“Jim the Penman” forges no more at
Sydney Criterion after next Friday night. On
the Saturday, “Fedora” will be revived.
Harcourt Beatty plays Louis Ipanoff, and Miss
Madge Mclntosh is to be Fedora.
** * *
Sydney Palace was vacated on Tuesday,
March 9, by Meynell and Gunn’s “Old Folks at
Home ” Co. The Sydney Muffs now have posses-
sion, and are engaged giving Shakspeare a leg-up.
On March 10 and 11 “The Merchant of Venice”
is to be aired ; March 12 and 13 (matinee) are de-
voted to “As You Like It ” ; for the evenings of
the 13th and the 15th “Romeo and Juliet” are to
coo ; finally, on Tuesday, 16th, acts from all three
plays will be given, and Shakspeare’s ghost is ex-
pected to romp delightedly round the premises.
After that Macrnahon and Carroll will bring along
a new film of “ The Term of His Natural Life.”
These ghosts of our dead past are intensely popu-
lar. Curious how people like to gloat over the
misdeeds of their ancestors.
Sydney Tivoli just now is running a parti-
cularly good programme; but the extra shilling
demanded by the management as a booking fee
induces painful reflections of bygone weeks when
the show was less than it might have been.
Madame Desiree, the new illusionist, is a finished
craftswoman with a winsome stage presence ; she
does'her tricks smartly, and says sweet things as
she does them. G. W. Hunter, the other new-
comer, strikes one as being a conscientious come-
dian who requires a little spontaneity. Tom
Woottwell is excellent as the plausible slum
gossip who greets the other haybags with a leer
and a nod, and makes a half-hearted attempt to
conceal the battered beer-jug under her apron.
“Halloa, Old Dear!” is the English comic
song at its best. The two Bells, whose stage work
has helped to tone down the local serio an octave
or two, have a joyously original prance, the title
of which appears to be “ Rain-in-the-Eace,” and
to refer to a thirsty Red Indian. Geoffrey and
Benson rattle through a bright comedy sketch ;
the Scottish Meisters make haggis melody ; the
Donnellys dance; and ventriloquist J. W. Win-
ton stands patiently while the irritable M'Ginty
family argue with him. A belated word of praise
is due to Miss Nellie Maunsell for the way she
manages her rich contralto in a sweet appeal to
“Dry Those Tears” ; even the impatient gods
forbear to shufile while she is singing. Cinque-
valli, of course, stands in the midst of the enter-
tainment like the good gum-tree ; and the way lie
lets the cannon-ball fall on his head makes one
think he must have some of that reliable timber in
bis composition.
** * *
Miss Ruby Michael, a new soprano, will
give her first concert in the Y.M.C. A. Hall, Syd-
ney, on Thursday afternoon, March 18, when she
will'have the assistance of Miss Stella Kingsbury
and Mr. Cyril Monk. Nicholson’s have charge of
the booking.
** * *
At the King’s (Melb.) a moderately inco-
herent dramatisation of “For the Term of His
Natural Life,” described as “Alfred Dampier’s
version,” came to pass on Saturday. There have
been two or three versions subsequent to the one
that George Leitch produced in the long ago with
Titheradge as the hero. The most amusing of
them was Dan Barry’s drama, in which Gabbett
used to munch his recollections of the tender
little bits of undercut he bad carved from bis
deceased colleague, the Moocher, and “the
Crow ” was wont to state deliriously how Gabbett
aforesaid had licked the blood from the Moocher’s
heart after dissecting his carcase. The present
drama is not conspicuously strong in
gastronomic details, although it introduces
the droll old incident of Gabbett phasing
other members of the company with an
axe in the interests of the Commissariat Depart-
ment. Most of the limelight streams upon the
figure of the Rev. Mr. North, the low-spirited
dipsomaniac who holds up a forbidding hand when
a convict is about to be flogged. Walter Bauer
plays the Rev. Mr. North. On about 19 different
occasions during the feast of horrors, he takes off
his evangelical hat and calls the limelight to wit-
ness that justice will be done as sure as there s a
God in Heaven—or words to that effect. Baker s
deep-rooted tendency to lift his lid in a crisis
appears to be breaking out in new buds. He
raises his hat to a noble sentiment even befoie ne


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
G. pOWARD POPE, Manager.
has uttered it. One of these nights, when the
wind has gone suddenly round to the south,
Walter Baker will catch cold in the head as the
result of uncovering his fevered brow.
* » » •
Miss Frances Ross impersonates the
youthful Sylvia Vickers, and what time Good
Mr. Dawes is building a coracle to convey herself
and mamma back to Sydney, the appearance of
Sylvia is quite in keeping with the pantomime
season. The castaways are living in a great state
of inconvenience ; nevertheless Sylvia looks like a
fairy queen. Her low-cut robe is “empired ”in
the mode affected by immortals, and a wealth of
red-gold hair hangs down her back. The one
thing she wants to complete the illusion is a stick
with a star at the end of it. Whilst the
fairylike lady is writing “Good Mr. Dawes”
in the sand, one feels that she ought
to be shaping the letters with a silver
wand. Subsequently Sylvia marries Captain
Frere, and is clothed like a fashion-plate.
Edmund Duggan’s presentment of Maurice Frere
is a plump, bustling little drum-major sort of man,
terribly brutal on duty, but probably a genial per-
son when you get him in a brewery. For the
rest, there are Bert Bailey practising the mild
inanities of the Rev. Mr. Meekin, Miss Kate Gair
in the abbreviated character of Sarah Purfoy,
Hilliard Vox (very hoarse, but otherwise very
satisfactory) as John Rex, and Vivian Edwards,
who gives a manly, unaffected performance of
Rufus Dawes. An ill-used convict bemoaning his
fate is not a grateful character to play, but
Edwards makes it almost interesting. Miss
Maggie Knight, as Mrs. Vickers, gets
wiped out by Gabbett in the second act
in order that the shock of the occurrence
may deprive Sylvia of her memory ; otherwise
there is no reason why she should be slaughtered,
whereas Gabbett deserves the most violent death
that could happen him. There isn’t a hint of
reality about the alleged man-eater. In the per-
son of Edwin Campbell he is a mummer of the
deepest dye, is Gabbett. He obtrudes his taste in
cannibalism on the notice of the gallery, and
punctuates his roars of fiendishness with a pain-
fully artificial chuckle. Gabbett and the scenery
are the most highly over-colored features of this
blood and convict show.
XX * X
The two pantos, are just now putting in
their 12th week. At Her Majesty’s the patriotic
song, which starts with a Rule Britannic reminis-
cence of the “ Marseillaise ” and breaks off into
assorted fragments of many other melodies, is
still being hurled at full houses by Bert Gilbert.
At the Royal a Chinese conjuring act has been
introduced by Cromwell and Brett.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
CHUNG LING FISH,
Sorcerer.
IRVING SAYLES,
Burnt Cork Specialist.
Amateur stage performances are not sent
us for our sins, as some people think. They are
intended by Providence to teach us to think less
unkindly of professional actors in ordinary. The
average mummers of either sex have no more
special aptitude for theatrical business than the
average carpenter has for carpentering, or the
average lady cook has for cookery. Everybody is
stage-struck at one time or other, but the most
intelligent people—with a fair percentage of ex-
ceptions—recover rapidly from the effects of the
blow and devote their dramatic instinct to some
other field of industry than “The Profeshun.”
Therefore “ The Profeshun” is populated mainly
by people who take parts which they can’t act,
but who have been trained to avoid ridicule, and
who never shine save in the light of comparison
with their purely amateur imitators. The fore-
going remarks are by way of prelude to a sorrow-
ful mention of “ Sweet Lavender,” performed for
one consecutive night at Melbourne Princess’s in
aid of the local Women’s Hospital. There are only
11 characters in Pinero’s pretty little comedy, and
barring Dick Phenyl, the eccentric, boozy barris-
ter, who is everybody’s friend but his own, they
are easy types to present amateurishly. Yet the
performance as a whole was absurdly inefficient.
Two members of the co. —Mrs. Maurice Dudley,
as Ruth Rolt, and Arthur Coppin, as the elderly
banker from Barnchester—looked and talked their
parts suitably. Also in Mrs. Dudley’s perform-
ance there was a leaven of histrionic ability to
correct her melodramatic manner. Miss Florence
Matthews played the name part—which is set in
a very minor key—more naturally than she looked
it. Miss Queenie Sloman, though not ungrace-
ful or unintelligent in her attempt, reduced the
charming character of Minnie Gilfillian to a feeble
suggestion of the truth. As much might be said
for the young man who pretended to be Horace
Bream, the pertinacious Yankee lover. What
might be said about the other men will never be
uttered in these columns.
** * X
The Bulletin was going to press when
Melba made her reappearance at Melbourne Town
Hall on Tuesday night, consequently the charm
of her dramatic singing in the Mad Scene from
“ Hamlet,” and of her well-renowned warble of
Handel’s “Sweet Bird,” with Lemmone playing
the flute meanwhile, must be taken for granted in
this column. The second Melba concert falls due
on Saturday.
Chung Ling Soo, the artistic stranger who
conceals his native tongue behind a veil of silence
and stands on one leg
with singular compo-
sure, has confirmed the
good in> pression he
made at the outset of
his Rickards engage-
ment. As a conjurer
Chung is equally deft
and picturesque. He
has a pretty taste in
mechanical miracle-
working, and a particu-
lar talent for producing
solid facts from seem-
ingly empty spaces.
His work with the steel
rings, linking or unlink-
ing them imperceptibly,
is an object lesson on
how to do it for those
who know how it is
done. And his large,
spectacular illusions,
wherein his wee wife
slays the heroine, are
novel in idea and not too
long in the execution.
Melbourne is talking of
Chung Ling Soo. Apart
from the magician, the
brightest “ turns ” at
the Opera House are
Cissie Curlette, the
“Yea, verily!” lady,
and Graham and Dent,
whose latest comedy is
full of action and
variety.
People are continu-
ing to tumble with un-
mitigated finesse into
Tait’s Pictures, at Mel-
bourne Glaciarium. On
Saturday a gentleman
fell skilfully and often
on a parcel of eggs:
and a person, career-
ing madly after a
horse, hurled him-
self over every
obstruction in sight.
Also there were
shown in “ The
Smugglers” some
highly-flavored sen-
sationalism and sud-
TOM DAWSON TELLS
OF HOME AND MOTHER
(Melbourne Opera House).
den death, and, in “ A Mediterranean Tragedy,”
the murderous passion of a lady scorned.
** * *
And the Bijou has broken out into pic-
tures. Under the direction of Frank Kolta, the
pretty little theatre reopened with a biograph
show on Saturday, and 10,000 ft. of film were
reeled off to the satisfaction of an audience that
left no seats to spare.
X* X *
Frank and Jen Latona have had a big
reception at Adelaide Tivoli. Their American
“ back-talk ” is only ordinary, but their music is
great, and the lady has just that magnetic touch
in rendering a mischievous song that turns
merely complimentary applause into a rapturous
row. The Wheelers show that there is life even
yet in trick cycling, and with Los Atans make
the programme very various. Riccardo and
Smith (who have just gone) belong to a tribe sup-
posed to be extinct; they deem it necessary to
sing a mouthful of doggerel about the beauty
of Nature before doing a really clever
bit of unison athletic work. “We love to wander
in the springtime” (tip, tap, tippetty-tap) “by
the side of the babbling stream” (back somer-
sault). Fanny Powers, who has had to drop the
infant-phenomenon pose at last, has something of
the dainty grace, the out-of-place-in-these-sur-
roundings-and-yet-I’m-not-putting-on-an-atom-of-
. side air that used to distinguish Cecilia Loftus in
her best days. At the Royal, Darrell’s old melo-
drama, “When London Sleeps,” has, at cheap
prices, unexpectedly had a real boom. Also ran :
The All Blacks, West’s Pictures, the Agricul-
tural. Show, a women’s “Defence League” meet-
ing, the Methodist Conference, and other fun-
without-vulgarity attractions.
The captain of every ship that comes
down from China boils on his own bridge at the
thought that, concealed somewhere beneath his
feet, heathens, smothered in coal dust, are making
free use of his ship to reach Australia. His days
are embittered by the reflection that a Chow,
worth 2d. or less, whom he doesn’t know, and
wouldn’t touch with an oar, may cost him
£100; and the same thought fills the dark hours
with nightmares. The Melbourne Customs people
lately received an interesting note from Hong-
kong regarding the steamer Orange Branch;
so, when that vessel steamed into Port
Phillip last Saturday night, the Customs
launch romped down the Bay to meet her.
With the dawn a band of searchers boarded the
big ship to reap the expected harvest of Chow.
But it so happened that the Chow had already
been discovered and emptied out in Japan, and
all a thankful chief-officer had to show was the
breathless chamber of horrors next the vessel’s
iron skin, in which, for three weeks, 13 Sins had
been concealed. They had existed by nibbling
raw rice and potatoes, sucking condensed milk,
and living generally in the same way as very
degraded rats. In order to reach this country,
Bruce Smith’s friend seems ready to travel any-
where except in the ship’s furnaces ; and there is
no dead certainty that an undetected variety of
asbestos Chow isn’t already pouring into the
country in that heated manner.
“The Australian Household Medical Library,”
consisting of four volumes (“Medical Guide,” 2 vols. :
“Attainment of Health,” 1 vol. ; and “ The Feeding and
Management of Australian Infants,” 1 vol.), will be
mailed post free to any address in Australia on receipt of
60s. These works have been published by The Bulletin
00. to supply a reliable medical guide to people who are
not within easy reach of a doctor. When originally
published “The Medical Guide” alone was sold at
£3 35., “The Attainment of Health” at 10s. 6d., and
“ The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ”
represented a humble half-dollar, all of which
with ss. added for postage, made the total cost £4 Is.
Good medical works are, in the nature of things, expen-
sive, but the present price of £3 represents a cut of 25 per
cent, on what was originally the market value of the
works, and it has been effected solely with a view to
making these useful books available to as many as pos-
sible of the people who live in our sparsely-settled dis-
tricts, where a good reliable medical guide is almost a
necessity of life. All the volumes have been brought up
to date.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ 10-2-4 ” : Stage history is a queerly inaccurate thing.
“ The Duke’s Motto ” depends for most of its interest on
duelling. Henri de Lagardere, the hero—“ the best blade
from here to the world’s end”—fights duels either single-
handed or in company in every act. He finishes the play
by slaying in mortal combat Louis de Gonzague, a noble-
man of importance, in the presence, and with the full
consent, of Louis XIII. of France. Louis XIII., as played
by Winter Hall, is 30 if he is a minute. The best
authorities agree that the original was born in 1601. It is
a fair thing, then, to place the action of the play in the
neighborhood of 1630. Now this was a time when duelling
was a more discredited and dangerous pastime in
France than it had .ever been before, or has ever
been since. Cardinal Richelieu hated the practice even
as Canon Boyce hates alcoholic drink. Louis XIII. felt
the same way on the subject. In 1626 the King, at the
suggestion of Richelieu, published an edict whereby any-
one who killed his man in a duel was liable to be sum-
marily hanged. If he fought at all his property was
seized and he was banished. Duelling stopped as though
it had been dynamited. The offering of an insult in a
public place was construed into a desire to provoke a
duel, and the insulter was at once haled before a justice
and mulcted in huge sums. A year after the edict a
member of the immensely powerful Montmorenci family
considered that he was strong enough to defy the King,
the Cardinal, and the law ; and he fought a duel in
Paris with fatal results to his adversary. Both he and
his second were beheaded. At long .intervals during
the reign of Louis XIII. a nobleman, greatly daring,
engaged another a: Voutrance. In each case the victor
was executed, and the vanquished, if alive, was driven
out of the country in a destitute state. Where both com-
batants died, their remains were treated with derision.
The idea of Louis XIII. personally urging on two of his
subjects to a duel to the death, and standing by to watch
the performance (which amazing picture is being pre-
sented nightly at Sydney Theatre Royal just now), is too
insane for words. Duelling was a popular sport in the
previous reign, and it revived again after Richelieu’s
death under Louis Quatorze. In the period with whioh
“The Duke’s Motto ” deals it was in a state of suspended
animation so absolute as to be undistinguishable from
death.
“Melb.”: This week’s obituary includes tiny George
Johnson, one of Lyster’s choristers almost throughout.
In the early part he was always discernible by his Dun-
dreary whiskers, or weepers, but removed them as his
artistic spirit grew. He managed to finish up in his villa
of Florestein, Toorak, named after his favorite char-
acter, the silly Count in “The Bohemian Girl.” It is
satisfactory co find such a pro. with a villa. Almost
unique, indeed. George, through a knack of teaching,
was more lucky than his chorister-pals of yore, such as
Benham, of the pom-pom, Ingmire, W. Johnson, Ben Levi-
son, Morrison, and so forth. Possibly even Beaumont envied
him. During Musgrove’s opera season, in English, at the
Princess’s, the time-honored Johnson was visible, black-
leaded in his old place. But, however he might get
behind fur on his face, you would know George’s legs any-
where. Johnson had a pretty little tenor voice, and with
more presence might have aspired higher. He was a
thorough musician, and felt he had put in his time to
some puroose as he surveyed the glorious catalogue of
Lyster’s productions, the whole range of grand opera,
with such specialties as “ The Huguenots,” “Don Gio-
vanni,” “Sicilian Vespers,” “La Juive,” “Lohengrin,”
“ Le Prophete,” “ Aida,” “ L’Africaine,” “ lone,” etc.
In the course of a Victorian theatrical divorce suit,
Chief Justice Madden jumped down lawyer Hotchin’s
throat for saying actresses should not marry. “Non-
sense !” cried John the Aptist. “There are among
actors many happy marriages.” Anyhow, Mr. Hotchin
had small consideration for lawyers in saying what he
did, seeing that there have been seven theatrical divorces
in five months. If actresses didn’t marry some lawyers
couldn’t afford to.
The Argus reports: “Mr. Meynell, of the firm of
Clarke, Wren, Meynell and Gunn, who has just returned
from England, has secured a number of new plays, in-
cluding three pantomimes.” Have C., M., G. and W.
come to the conclusion that Australia has an insatiable,
all-the-year-round appetite for pantomime, or are they
stocking pantomimes for a rise? Three pantomimes for
Australia at one fell swoop looks like a Rockefeller scheme
to corner the market.
‘ ‘ Patron ” : The practice of raising prices for a specially
good vaudeville show wouldn’t hurt the public so much
if the management lowered the prices when the pro-
gramme had less sparkle than usual. It is only reason-
able to assume that when an experienced manager isn’t
getting sparkle he isn’t paying for it; but, nine times out
of ten, the public goes on methodically pouring out its
good three shillings for about Is. 9d. worth of amusement.
Because it is patient and makes no violent outcry, the
management goes on raking in its three pieces of silver ;
it never relents and hands back half, neither does it dis-
tribute printed apologies at the door, nor issue secret in-
structions to the being in the box-office to warn people
not to go in because the show’s inferior. Instead, the
gentle, sheepish mob is charged extra when the salaries-
list becomes a little fatter than usual. I can imagine a
vaudeville management becoming immensely popular by
refraining from charging extra as soon as the show
started to be a real entertainment.
“ Adelaide ” : When the Viennese Venus came this way,
Augustus and I decided that it was necessary for us to
see that she wasn’t tampering with the fragile morals of
Adelaide. The show opened on a Saturday morning,
and we were there bright and early. So were just three
other people. The place is the old World’s Tour, and
one sits in the old railway carriage, but it has mercifully
abandoned its old joggle. The live of us congregated
modestly against the back wall. Other citizens straggled
in, took pews halfway up, and waited in a dead silence as
if in church. At last two single items fraternised, and
moved up to the front pew. Instantly there was a rush,
everybody went for the best view possible, and the cur-
tain rose, 20 minutes late. Is this the same fraulein
lately criticised in The Bulletin as appearing in Mel-
bourne? If so, she has quickly learned not to smile and
not to wobble. In fact, after the first pose (Venus of
Milo), someone in the pew behind wondered if she
were really alive. Augustus leaned back and ex-
plained how he knew that she was, also at
what fairly-advanced figure her age might be reckoned,
with other items of interest. He is a most competent
critic, and the management had courteously opposed no
obstacle, except a little gold painc, to his expert exami-
nation. The lady from Vienna is not at all the girl-sewn-
in-pink-fleshings of the old Living Pictures. If she is
prosecuted for anything, it will not be for obtaining
money by false pretences. She gave us two Venuses with
muslin, and four without, and four more original studies,
quite without, and in 20 minutes the room was clear and
ready for another audience. I calculate that she must
have collected quite £lOO from lovers of Nature during
the week. As we came out we passed a respectable
middle-aged lady in the ante-room, busy with needle-
work—a chaperon, presumably. “No ladies in the
audience,” I said. “No,” said Augustus; “they have
the Hercules in Victoria Square.”
May Yohe, of whom Australia gets little news nowa-
days, seems to have done a good deal to lately liven up
the s.s. Asia what time she was journeying to Manila,
where the cheerful lady went to play an engagement at
the Orpheuin. Her chaperon was a 17-year-old boy in
affluent circumstances, who presumably carries her
famous ermine coat over his arm as she trots him around.
That is, if she still possesses the ermine coat. A Bulletin
correspondent mentioned that one of May’s lady com-
panions threw the priceless garment overboard before
they reached Manila ; but the correspondent forgot to
say whether it was recovered from the water or was ulti-
mately eaten by a shark anxious to get hold of the trim-
mings of a Judge.
“Lorenz”: In the matter of G. B. Shaw and Ju.
Knight, it behoves “D.” to read the plays ag'ain.
Knight’s cynical mouth-twisting would be quite wasted
while playing “ the chocolate-cream soldier.” The Swiss
adventurer isn’t a portentous poseur, with a perpetually-
distorted frontispiece and an acrid snarl, but an even-
tempered, fresh-faced, cheerful young man, who has
learned by experience that the formulas of sentiment and
romance are about as useful in real life as sea-boots to a
surf bather. He carries his worldly wisdom easily and
uses it dexterously. He’s very clever and amusing,
but not picturesque. Knight would make a better
Sergius. No! “The Devil’s Disciple” is the Shaw
play for J.K. It has fine situations, some infernally
clever dialogue, and a wicked “cynical” hero, who, at
heart, is really a “noble” hero. What more could
Julius desire? Shaw’s “Candida,” a great play, might
well be essayed by the Knight co., though Margaret
Anglin and her fellows would have been better suited.
How well she would have realised the wonderfully sane
and amiable “ Candy ” ! Kolker would have done good
work as the burly rhetorical parson, who imagines him-
self a wonderfully strong man, until knocked from his
perch by the semi-hysterical young poet. Young
Titheradge might possibly have done well as the weak-
nervedyet stout-hearted Marchbanks.
“ Melb.”: In the beginning West with his pictures
thought he did remarkably well, backed up by the Bres-
cians, in coming about once a year to the little Athenaium.
Then the firms of Best and Baker and J. and N. Tait dis-
covered that the Athenaeum was good enough for all the
time. They filled every vacant night, with two matinees
every week, pulling this establishment out Of the financial
slough. West then cast an eye to Wirth’s Olympia
as being good enough to try for six weeks or so
between Wirth’s Circus times. So he experimented. It
caught on. lam prepared to believe that his first twelve
months there was the best ever known here for any enter-
tainment kept up all the time. Wirth turned himself out of
his own specially-built Olympia, and showed in a tent ad-
joining. The hardship now is that Tommy Bent's concession
to his staunch ally, Mrs. Grundy, barred West’s Sunday
shows, in which bis rivals, the Taits, at the Glaciarium, are
exultant, both afternoon and evening—next best day to
Saturday. Moving from the Athenaeum to the monster
Glaciarium, a stone’s throw from Olympia, and as big,
the Taits began slow, but mounted up. Now both shows
slice the fattest of bacon. Meanwhile Pathe Freres, of
gay Paree, were observant. Their agent has just visited
this city. Their show is established at the Bijou. Well,
undeniably these biographers afford great public instruc-
tion. There are Sunday night attractions at half a dozen
other very large places, Cyclorama, Hippodrome, etc.
At the latest revival of “Peter Pan,” which is now a
hardy annual in London, it was noticed that Barrie has
dealt with the old objection to Peter, Wendy and Co.
being helpless captives on the pirate ship, seeing that in
Act I. they had all learned to fly. Captain Hook’s first
question now is : “Are the children a(J chained up, so
that they cannot fly away ? ” Pauline Chase, in the name-
part, is generally considered not so good as Nina Bouci-
cault used to * be, simply because Pauline is more
girlishly charming. As The BuliXtin’s dramatic critic in
Adelaide once remarked of Miss Brune :
“ Than her no heroine could be sweeter;
But Pete was a Boy—and she isn’t Peter ! ”
It is almost incredible—but it is true—that “ The
Merry Widow” has never been played in Paris yet. It is
to be seen there about Easter. It has been running con-
tinuously at Daly’s Theatre, London, for over a year and
a half ; yet one evening this January it beat all its
previous records in the matter of gross takings for a
night.
“ Busk ” : The Edinburgh Review for January, just to
hand, has the best critique extant on Irving. It starts
from a statement by Irving to Miss Terry, in one of his
very few candid moments, when she pierced the cloud in
which he enveloped himself. Says he, “ I don’t know
what the public sees in me. I can neither talk nor walk.
My face is inexpressive, my eyes are small, and my voice
is bad.” All which Ellen endorses and expands, before
she winds up with her triumphant admiration. “Yes,”
says she. “No miracle would ever make him an elocu-
tionist. He was dreadfully slow, which impaired his
Benedick, making it inferior to Kelly’s. His strut offended.
He would habitually stand with one leg rigid, and the
other ungracefully bent. When I first acted with him,
in 1869, I could not rate him highly. The right concep-
tion was struggling, but he could not express it. He
only got half my salary. It seemed impossible to bend
his personality to his mind. At last it conquered—that
unquenchable will.” So the Edinburgh Review goes on
to show Irving’s merit. The workings of a mind are
bared. Here was his magnetism. This built up his
subtle Richard 111., until he entirely failed at the com-
bat, where an inferior actor might relieve all. Where his
physical resources were called into play it was only
hysteria. Bateman said, “ You can never act a Burgo-
master.” Just so; Irving’s Mathias was not a Burgo-
master at all, merely a phantasmagoria. The'compara-
tively ineffective Coquelin and Got showed the real Burgo-
master.
“ Harrison O.” : The inevitable has transpired. A play
of G. B. Pshaw’s has been transformed into a comic
opera —“ Arms and the Man.” The writer of the opera is
Oscar Strauss, and the title has been altered to “Der
Tapfere Soldat ”(“ The Brave Soldier ”). It is at present
being performed in Berlin—or, at least, was when the
gradual mail left a few weeks ago.
“S.T.S.”: Mark Hambourg joins the great army of
men who have had wild experiences in Australia. To the
London Musical Herald inquiry as to the “strongest
musical impression ” received by prominent people during
the past year, he (instead of naming Elgar’s Symphony,
like most of the others) sends this unbelievable anecdote :
“ During my Australian tour, recently completed, at a
certain town I had to play with an orchestra whose first
violin insisted on coming in whenever he liked, at times
quite spoiling my own efforts. At last I lost patience,
and, leaning toward him, inquired whether he could not
restrain his enthusiasm. ‘What do you mean?’ he
retorted, in a loud voice. ‘ I put up the money for the
orchestra, so I suppose I can play as I like, can’t I?”’
On the face of it one would judge it to be a lie ; yet
something must have happened somewhere to suggest it,
Can any Bulletin reader throw light on the incident ?
TO A MIME OF ACTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Knight fits the character as easily as he has slipped
into those of half-a-dozen similar roles. He is all life and
movement, his sword ever ready, and, when drawn, skil-
fully wielded.
Mr. Julius Knight had still all the buoyancy, resource-
ful confidence, and aplomb of the great swordsman ever
ready to the moment with “ I am here ! ”
To Lagardere (Mr. Knight) come Gonzaque’s ruffians,
and for five minutes as grim and as desperate a stage
battle as can be imagined is waged in semi-darkness.—
Daily press.
What are your'habits off the Royal stage ?
That is a problem, Julius,
That haunts me all the time I watch you rage
Thereon, and howl and fight and cuss.
I cannot think that, like a normal man,
You hurry, when you leave the play,
And board the ferry-boat that throws a span
’Twixt Sydney Cove and Mosman’s Bay.
Rather I picture you at twelve o’clock
Intent on deeds of high emprise,
Inscrutable, firm as a granite rock,
Skilful and calm, and, oh, so wise !
Clad in a cloak and rapier, you pace,
Methinks, the silent city pave,
Instinct with old-world chivalry and grace,
A sight to cause the “ gods ” to rave.
What’s that? Hark! Hist! From out yon sombre bank
A sharp cry stabs the air.
Crime is in train : a second’s pause to thank
Your lucky stars—and you are there !
Hand over hand you scale the grey old walls,
A stout-barred window quakes before
Your batterings, next loudly crashing falls,
And you’re within, and after gore.
I need not recapitulate the way
You, in the guise of conquering Mars,
Keep a whole horde of ruffians at bay,
And save Maria Anne, who chars.
You do it to perfection every night,
’Twixt 8 and 12 o’clock p.m.
It must be second-nature now to fight—
A tendency you cannot stem.
One who in working moments leads your Life
Romantic, simply can’t become,
In leisure moments, dull, averse to strife—
All that is harmless and humdrum.
N.S.W.
D.


• T'
ADJUST^
for
Stout Womfcji
For Stout Figures.
The ADJUSTO Corset.
This Corset is specially designed by the Royal
Worcester Corset Co., and is universally recognised
as the ideal Corset for stout figures.
It can be instantly adjusted smaller or larger
as required, and not one detail for comfort, style
or durability has been overlooked in its construc-
tion. It supports the abdomen, reduces the hips,
and moulds superfluous flesh into symmetrical lines.
Double Boned throughout.
Sizes 21 to 36 inches.
PRICE 18/0.
We have a very large stock of Royal Worcester
Corsets, which includes models for every figure.
Prices from 4/11.
All Corsets sent carriage paid throughout the
Commonwealth.
A booklet entitled “The Beauty of Form, and
How to Attain It,” which thoroughly deals with the
possibilities of the Corset, and contains many
helpful Corset hints, Post Free on request.
David Jones Ltd.
SYDNEY.
HOLLINGDALE U KESSELL,
m
Sffl
Solid 9c:t. Gold, 10/(1 .
Sterling Silver, b/ti. ’
ISct. Gold, choice Five
Diamond liing, £'s/5/-;
with Diamonds and
Sapphires or Rubies,
£ 3/10/-
Watchmakers Jewellers Opticians,
98 King' Street, SYDNEY.
Noted for Excellent Quality at Economic Prices.
ill
tm
Richly engraved, solid Gold Bangle, £2/10/-
smaller, 30/-, 40/-
We carefully repair Jewellery and Watches at most
moderate prices.
Illustrated Catalogue will be posted free to your
address upon request.
sa
Special quality
Lady’s Gold Keyless
Lever Watch, solid
Gold Case, richly
chased, fully
jewelled, £5.
Cheaper grades, £3
and £4.
18ct. Gold, All-Dia-
mond Marquise
Ring, £lO/10/-
Larger size, £l5.
SOCIETY
PLAYING THE GAME.
As long as we are at peace with our neighbors and they
choose to respect a mere notice that trespassers will not
be allowed on this vacant land, all is well; but we can
scarcely calculate happy state of things lasting
for ever. Great Britain’s alliances in the East ensure its
present existence, but meanwhile the effect of those
treaties is to help forward the development of Asiatic
power.
JAPAN: “ Now then, John, you and the kiddie
get along with your cricket. I want all the
time I can get just now.”
Chauffeurs, whom Sydney pedestrians are
coming to look on as natural enemies, are, after
all, it seems, old offenders against public and pri-
vate harmony. Chauffeurs were the scamps,
scoundrels, and highwaymen of a century ago.
Scott, in his “Life of Napoleon,” vol. 4, page
326, describes bands of ruffians, “called chauf-
feurs,” who infested the streets of Paris in 1802,
and became so daring that a special Court had to
be organised to deal out summary punishment.
The shilling sweep seems to be rising
superior to Wade’s Gaming Act, and tickets up to
five figures high have been seen in Sydney. One
Moving Picture show charges Is. admission, and
all ticket-holders have a chance in a consultation
at the week end. Seemingly the Law cannot
interfere ; anyhow, it doesn’t. The promoters, as
a set-off against running their sweeps unhindered,
have the expense of the picture show. But against
that there is practically no limit to the profits.
The number of tickets sold cannot be checked by
the subscribers, and all pretence to running the
sweep on a horse race is dropped. The prizes are
just awarded to the winners, who, as far as the
public can tell, may be dummies or friends of the
promoters. So the last state of the sweep business
is worse than the first, and the failure of the Law
is a distressful circumstance.
If you want to get emphatic, views about
the color question, go to the white man who has to
bump against the discolored person in his own
country, and who knows what sort the discolored
person is when he feels he has the power. For
instance, The Bulletin gets this vehement note
from Perak, Federated Malay States :
I’ve just read your account of the Burns-Johnson fight,
and if Burns is going to train again for another fight with
Johnson I’ll give £lO towards his exes. Meantime I’ll
speak to a few more Australians, Maorilanders, and whites
here, and they’ll all come up, I reckon. Get a white man
to beat that nigger—it’s important. We’ll do our little
bit this side.
If Spruce Myth had lived for two years or so in
Perak, The Bulletin believes he would be almost
ready to throw his silk hat into the corner, and
go into training himself, in a vain effort to knock
some of the truculence out of the black champion.
* * * *
The White Star liner Republic stood at
£300,000 on the co.’s books the minute before the
Florida rammed her; next moment she wasn’t
worth more than the odd 00,000’s. While tho
underwriters may have to bear this loss, or
most of it, heavy claims start to pour in on the
co. itself from the 400 passengers. These included
millionaires by the half-dozen, who lost every-
thing but their pyjamas and their reputation for
driving a hard bargain. Add loss of trade,
freights, etc., to the amount, and the total is
enough to make the co. turn blue. All that it can
do by way of evening things up is to seize the
Florida, worth about £40,000. The British mari-
time law limits claims of this sort to £8 per ton
register of the colliding vessel. There is one case
on record in which a large and expensive tramp
steamer was vitally “holed ” and sunk by a blunt-
nosed craft, not much bigger than a fishing smack.
The tramp owners received in “compensation ” a
cheque for under £lOOO. A movement is on foot
to make international maritime law uniform, and
when that comes off this British rule will have to
go. But all the international law in the world
won’t preserve the quarter-of-a-million greyhound
from being fatally injured by the small vessel of
some small firm, whose total assets would hardly
pay the big thing’s laundry bill.
“ Hassan” : One often hears comparisons
upon the superior dressing affected by the Mel-
bourne girls over that of their Sydney sisters.
These comparisons are perfectly just. But the
reason of the difference has probably escaped
notice. Sydney is a fine place to
spend money in better ways.
When a Sydney girl has finished
her day’s toil, she takes a cruise
round the Harbor or out to Bondi
or Manly. Not infrequently have
I seen her paying for her “ bloke ”
too. When she doesn’t go with
her “ bloke,” she goes with two
or three of her shop or factory
friends, and they take rides on
the merry-go-rounds, or propel
themselves about the roller-rinks.
On Saturday the damsel has an
afternoon on one of the beaches,
and on Sunday she goes to a
picnic. So there isn’t much left
to spend on pretty clothes. There
are no outdoor resorts within
cooee of Melbourne. To find a
satisfactory place for a “gipsy
tea ” one has to travel about 10
miles, which doesn’t leave much
time for the tea. Picnicking is too
much trouble in Melbourne, and
the bvish is too far off, and what there is of it is
fenced in with large notices warning trespassers
away. So the shop and factory girls spend their
money on ribbons and laces, and fascinate their
boys on Prince’s Bridge, or in the Gardens, or
on the Yarra Bank opposite the Morgue.
* * * *
The Australasian Woman’s Association in
Melbourne wants cigarette cards put down by
law, because little boys imperil their immortal
souls by gambling for them. Evidently the good
women have been too busy knitting socks to
notice that the little boys gamble also with
buttons, pencils, pins, matchbox lids, stamps,
tops, alleys, cherry-bobs—in fact, any old thing
that an able-bodied youth can hump round in a
bag or a pocket. You simply can’t put down
everything an Australian boy will gamble with.
What the Australasian women really ought to do
is to invent a new kind of boy—it would be a much
easier job.
NEEDLESS REPETITION.
“ You here again, Charley! I thought I told
you yesterday not to call again.”
“ Dear me, Gladys, you don't need to tell me
not to call every time I call, do you?”
The N.S.W. Full Court considered a
curious case last week. A lad of 1.0 sued by bis
next friend (his father) to recover £lOOO compensa-
tion for injuries sustained by him in a collision
between a steamer and a punt. But it, appeared
that the negligence of the infant’s parent had con-
tributed to the disaster. The defendant set up
that the child had, therefore, no claim on him.
To this the child demurred. Acting-C. J. Simp-
son, m giving judgment on the demurrer for the
plaintiff, got rid of some sensible remarks. He
referred to the insane old days when a passenger
in an omnibus was held a guilty party if the
driver guided his vehicle on to the footpath, and
when a traveller by sea was identified with
the master of the ship so that he couldn’t recover
if the latter got drunk and ran the vessel ashore
and spoiled the innocent voyager’s wardrobe. If
a steamship passenger was no longer bound by
the negligence of the captain over whom he (the
passenger) had no control, Justice Simpson
wanted to know why a child of 10 should be
bound by the negligence of its father, over whom
it had not the slightest control either. But Jus-
tices Cohen and Pring agreed that the doctrine of
“identification” applied in this case, wherefore
there was a majority judgment for the defendant
on the demurrer, and the child got no damages.
It is a rough position for the frequent Australian
kid who ventures out with dad and mum.
Kid can’t prevent dad drinking if the inclination
and the beer are there ; it can’t guide his shaking
hand on the tiller or the reins ; in fact, it can’t do
any single thing, without risking a stunning welt
over the head, to avert danger. It is as help-
less and irresponsible a thing as the kelliek
or the horse’s bag of feed. Yet when the probable
smash occurs, and its parent assists in getting
it spilled into some injurious spot and maimed,
the Law allows it no redress whatever. If that
isn’t fool-law, it is hard to say what is.
A change is coming over the
unregenerate youth that spends
its holidays camping in the ti-tree
shade of the Melbourne beaches.
Formerly it conducted itself saris
“side” and ceremony, and was,
to put it as accurately as pos-
sible, chastely pagan in its
frivolity. Then it garbed itself
in “old clo’es,” ennui, and sun-
burn, lazed in the bright sunshine,
talked glorious piffle, or disported
itself with stockingette nymphs
in the languorous swell of a corn-
flower sea. Then, indeed, it cooked
its own food, surfeited itself with
abominably-fried chops and saus-
ages, fought duels a outrance- with
many a stew or felonious-looking
pudding, yet was happy, since
these spasms of weird gastronomy
were but part of a gay decrepi-
tude. Now, however, that fes-
tive, careless and cheerfully dis-
reputable youth seems to have
changed—to have grown as sedate
and thoughtful as a philosophic
owl. True, it may enjoy itself
just as heartily—but it seems
more ceremonious. It is getting
its photos into Paunch, evidence
indisputable of increased prestige !
Poor old Paunch, just as ever
pellucid as a rivulet of porridge,
has been picturing groups and
groups of it, so utterly correct in
its carefully-creased flannels, so
terribly severe in its proper! y-
buttoned blazers, so universal in
the match of its ties and creamy
sweaters, that the appearance of
dirt on the right white boot of
one of them has the unspeakable-
ness of a blasphemous jest at
a sewing bee. Further, Paunch
has even photo’d one or two of its
tented interiors, and printed the
results. One is shown, a canvas
apartment, so complete with table,
piano, lamps, epergnes, flowers,
pictures, and festoons of art
muslin, that the absence of a
Scripture text seems like an insult to the Deity.
However, it all shows that the former careless
revellers of many a seaside camp are acquiring an
unparalleled “tone ” and a lamentable decadence.
Rabbi Cohen, of Sydney, rose in dignified
protest against the campaign of the new society
which is going to squander a lot of more or less
valuable time in endeavoring to separate the Aus-
tralian Jew from his religion, and to drag him
into the arena wherein the rest of the sects are stun-
ning each other with gilt-edged Bibles. The
Hebrew is unique, inasmuch as he stands aside
from the foolish sectarian row that is always
going on ; he seems to have no.taste nowadays for
the umbrella and hymn-book fighting that goes on
over the proper interpretation of the gospels and
the intentions of the Almighty. It may be this
very indifference to their stupid squabbles that
drives the holy busy bodies to try and argue him
away from his peaceable creed and on to the
religious battlefield. Rabbi Cohen, speaking as
the religious representative of a business-like race,
makes a pertinent inquiry and a few severe re-
marks about the sort of Christianity the creed-
peddlers are seeking to force on his people : —■
, Save for one consideration, it would be ample response
to this local attack upon our historic position to point
out that tlie warring sects, around us would be
judicious to agree first among themselves as to what
Christianity precisely consists in, before seeking to pro-
mote it among another body of people that have all the
time a very clear notion of their own Faith. And when
our neighbors shall have finally come to this eminently
desirable internal and domestic agreement, they may
still discover close by them quite enough merely nominal
Christians who make no effort to live the Christian life,
to absorb all their missionary energy in fields that have
more claim on their endeavors than we who do not at all
profess to consider ourselves Christians.
And, having thus calmly and dispassionately
stated his position, the older and more experi-
enced Jew turns and goes his way, content with a
creed that allows him to believe that the other
fellow has just as good a chance of salvation as
himself so long as he doesn’t spit on the footpath
and otherwise misbehave himself.
One of the last, and most sensible, acts of
Premier Murray before the session closed in Vic-
toria was the remission of the solitary confine-
ment ordered the negro convict King for his mur-
derous assault on a Pentridge warder. King is
doing what is practically a life sentence; and, as
medical examination showed that he “possesses
a small, weak brain, and is a degenerate,” Murray
concluded that neither the prisoner’s behavior
nor his mental and physical condition would be
improved by solitary confinement. Later on
there are hopes that it may occur to Murray
to apply the same reasoning to other
subjects of the silent cell system. King
isn’t the only weak-brained degenerate in Pent-
ridge, by any means—the place swarms with
them—and it is doubtful if solitary confinement
ever yet benefited any prisoners of this type.
The only sensible plan is to put them to hard but
useful and payable toil, and to instil it into them
that the harder and steadier they work the sooner
they will be free. Even that plan might not turn
out as expected; but it hasn’t been tried so far,
and it is time it was given a chance instead of the
brain-destroying “solitary,” and the lash and the
gallows.
THE ADAMLESS EDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Science Progress, Mr. Leonard Doncaster writes an
essay on animal parthenogenesis. According to his show-
ing, many grades of animal life live in “ Adamless Edens.”
Several species of animals, both insects and Crustacea, are
known in which no male is ever found.
O come to the Adamless Eden and taste of the joys that
are there—
The twaddle that twaddles for ever 'and tangles itself in
its hair ;
The Eves that are swarming in dozens, with wisdom
eternal begirt,
Who’ve bade good-bye to all folly, and never get down to
a flirt.
Away in the Adamless Eden ’tis daintily proper and
sweet,
And no one who sins ever peaches—“ She tempted, and
so I did eat ” ;
And no one’s adorned with a dimple, and no one performs
with a fan,
And no one in sweet trepidation looks under the bed
“ for a man.”
The Serpent who lived in old Eden has gone with his ter-
rible trail,
And left not a vestige of danger for Her who is dainty and
frail;
And lately a virgin so foolish was smothered to death in
a sack,
Because she averred there were moments wherein she
could “ wish he were back.”
There is not a youth in this Eden who yearneth to win
and to woo ;
There is not a stripling in Eden who sallies to bill and to
coo ;
And no-one is flighty and feline, and no-one confesses to
Ma;
And no one’s bewildered and bothered about the consent
of her Pa.
And Life in the Adamless Eden, it flows in a passionless
stream.
And Peace covers all as a garment, and lies on their souls
as a dream ;
And powder and puffs have evanished, and vanished have
flounces and frill,
And no one can trip out a-shopping, and no one can curse
at the hill.
And huge are the gates of this Eden, and fashioned of
manifold brass,
And seraphs with swords that are flaming forbid you at
peril to pass ;
For myriads of Adams (you’d fancy) beleaguer this Eden
about—
Ali, no ! The tivin seraphs are guarding the girlies ivho
want to get out!
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
A STAR IN THE MIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is this we behold
Here in the mire—-
Precious as virgin gold,
Fiercer than fire ?
It is no star come down
From the lit sky,
Jewel from kingly crown
Dazzling the eye.
Nay, ’tis the word we gave,
Careless of gain,
When we might help or save
Some soul in pain.
Sudden it flames afar
Out from the mire,
Brighter than fallen star,
Fiercer than fire.
N. S.W.
RODERIC.


No! No! No! No!
This word is used four times by Prof.
W. Hodgson Ellis, Official Analyst to the
Canadian Government, in reporting the
result of his analyses of Sunlight Soap.
“No unsaponified fat”; that means no
waste.
“No free alkali” ; that means no damage
to clothes or hands.
“No loading mixture ”; that means every
atom is pure soap.
“No adulteration whatever ”; that means
pure ingredients.
-Try Sunlight Soap, and you will see
Prof. Ellis is right. He should know.
LUMBAGO.
That stabbing pain in the small of the back, which
accompanies every movement of the body, has its cure in
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment, Obtainable every,
where, price Is, 6d. and 3s.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
76
Full Value in Pyjamas
Without exaggeration these are the
cheapest pyjamas ever offered. They are
not of old-fashioned cloths or designs,
but in materials of bright yet neat stripes,
have the turn-down collars with round
points—are cut on popular lines, very
roomy and comfortable. The materials
are warm and suitable for winter, and
the value is nothing short of surprising.
The proof awaits you. You will get
every satisfaction in ordering by post.
PRICE, 10/6 a pair;
Gel. extra, posted.
PEAPES S C 0„ LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-511 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ S.T.S.” is reminiscent: —
I wane to disagree with “ Johannes ” and “A.W.D.”
both (B. 25/2/’O9). Anyone who suggests that Oscar
Wilde conducted a “pestilential magazine” when at
Oxford goes dead against the emphatic statement of
R. H. Sherard —his firm friend while he was at his best,
and after —that Wilde was a man so singularly delicate
and reticent in speech that even the ordinary smoking-
room story could not be ventured on in his presence.
The question is not one for open discussion, but I find no
difficulty in believing Sherard.
Nor is it likely that such a magazine could flourish at
Oxford. “A.W.D.” remembers a certain Pearl that was
“circulated fairly extensively ”in his time. But that
was a London publication. In every casual collection of
several thousand men there will always be a certain
number of subscribers to a Pink ’Un or a Dead Bird.
And that reminds me. I wonderifMr. J. T. Bell, who has
since risen to great eminence in Queensland, remembers
my objecting, at the big Union Club at Cambridge, to some
proposed new rule of debate. I pointed out that, by
taking it literally, an unf air-minded debater could press an
unfair advantage. My bon. friend was annoyed. He
thought such a thing ought not to be suggested as pos-
sible in an assembly of English gentlemen. To which I
mildly retorted that he himself, as secretary to that
assembly of English gentlemen, had just been compelled
to chain the nail-scissors in the lavatory to the wall, so
many pairs having mysteriously disappeared of late !
Yes, in a large crowd there will always be a few of all kinds,
but (to go back to where we started) nob enough wrong
’uns in any British university to make the local produc-
tion of anything “ pestilential ” at all worth while.
» * * *
The sausage is usually the comic element
of the meal, but last week in Melbourne it nearly
butted into the tragic side of the business.
Gilligan had gone to work, taking for his lunch
some German-sausage sandwiches. Between 11
and 12 o’clock “ the missus ” gave the cat a part
of the sausage Gilligan had not taken with him,
and the cat immediately had a fit and died.
Gilligan’s wife rushed to get the train to warn
Gilligan, but missed it; then she made for the
police station, and asked the sergeant to
do something. Murphy rose to the occasion,
and finding that the husband was working at
Preston, telephoned the local police station,
which promptly dispatched a cyclist to stop Gil-
ligan from eating the sausage. It was a close
thing. Gilligan had just selected a shady spot,
and was in the act of opening the parcel, when
the cyclist dashed up and barked at him. Gilligan
looked, but went on unfolding the parcel; and
the breathless cyclist jumped off the bike and
made a wild grab at the lunch. Gilligan was
taken unawares, but he came up game as his name,
and was wading in to recover the lost prog, when
the cyclist recovered the power of speech and ex-
plained. When the parcel was opened the sausage
wore a distinct smile ; but it was the smile of the
disappointed would-be tragedian.
MIXED MEASUREMENT.
BARCOO : “Say, Mister, if this is wot yer call a
67-8 yer better let’s try a 910-11.”
A reverend, by name Green, arose at the
Methodist Conference held recently in Sydney,
and made the interesting observation that, to be
a Methodist minister, one has to be as much of a
business man as a commercial traveller is. In re-
stricting the criticism to his own denomination
the Rev. Green showed himself to be a cautious
man; yet it might, with perfect justice, be said
of most other sects. The modern church leans
much too heavily on the inferior entertainment in
the usually-adjoining school hall; balance-sheets
of bazaars, concerts, and garden fetes elbow the
prayers for those in peril on the Stock Exchange,
and the appeal for rain ascends to Heaven mixed
up with some severely secular figures regarding
the amount of tarts consumed at the picnic in aid
of the Distressed Cannibals’ Handkerchief Fund.
One of the reasons why the cheerful Sabbath
avoider stays at home and does the garden is that
the House of God is becoming so commercial that
to attend is like going back to the office for the
seventh morning in the week. So far as The
Bulletin remembers, Christ was never a commer-
cial traveller.
The decision of N.S.W. Wesleyans to
affiliate a college to Sydney University closes a
controversy that has been going on intermittently
for over half-a-century. Governor Fitzroy had
no sooner signed the grants for University build-
ings than the denominations started the struggle
for associated colleges. C.E., R.C., and Presby-
terian pushed energetically ; but the Wesleyans,
being more stiff-necked than they are now, held
back, unable to satisfy themselves that State
aid accorded with their religious principles. The
aid consisted of a grant of land and
£1 from the Government for every £1 subscribed
by private individuals up to £20,000, and £5OO a
year as salary for the principal. Fitzroy tried to
urge and even bounce the Wesleyans into accept-
ance, but, notwithstanding that the other
churches jeered at them, the sect declined the
unholy alliance. Fitzroy actually set apart a
plot of land, hoping they would relent, but as
they remained obdurate the Crown later on re-
sumed it and passed it over as a site for Prince
Alfred Hospital.
Sydney’s Hyde Park is about to be docked
of a couple of strips to enable Elizabeth and
Liverpool streets to carry their growing traffic.
There is a rather feeble outcry about it; the fact
is that most of even those who want to see the
parks preserved don’t see what else can be done
within a reasonable space of time ; and, anyway,
they are prepared to give up for streets what they
would give up for nothing else. Politicians of the
past lived upon the inviolability of Hyde Park,
and the proposal to run Park-street through
the middle of it threatened to create a revolu-
tion ; yet when the Government set surveyors to
work, the curses presently melted off into blessings.
If the park be not encroached upon now, Liver-
pool-street will, in a very few years, be a public
death-trap. When Hyde Park was allotted to
the public “ for all time,” as Macquarie expressed
it, that potentate didn’t foresee the traffic of the
present, or, if he did, he no doubt judged that
underground or overhead reliefs would be pro-
vided. But, in any case, he marked out the
big area to provide “ a field of exercise
for the troops” ; and troops don’t use it now.
The real trouble is that the railway station is at
one end of the city, wherefore the streets have to
carry a wholly unnecessary amount of tram and
other traffic ; and that circumstance is driving the
authorities to peck here and there alike at parks
and private property in order to accommodate the
unnecessary traffic.
* * « «
A startling suggestion was casually
dropped while a Sydney Divorce Court case was
dragging itself through a
considerable quantity of
mire the other day. It
has been found quite use-
less for the Judge to
hint to women—often
“society” women —to
leave the court when ex-
ceptionally “ painful ”
evidence is being ex-
tracted. They simply in-
sist on their legal right.
A police magistrate could
fire them out of his shop,
but unless the Judge sits
in camera he can do
nothing but hint, and
frown, and snuffle, and
mutter “Well, well!”
The suggestion dropped,
apparently accidentally,
was that, though the
women must be allowed
in if they insist, still
there is nothing to stop
a Judge from ruling that
those who do enter and
retain seats during cer-
tain hearings shall be
obliged to write their
names in a register kept
for the purpose. But it
wasn’t apparently con-
sidered whether the
Judge has the right to
order boiling in oil or
anything else in the way
of light punishment for
Mrs. Fitzmorency, sup-
posing she insists on
signing herself Ruth
Pomeroy, or anything
else that suggests itself
to her at the moment.
Still the mere thought
that she would have to
sign something might do
some good.
The good Anglicans of Geelong (Vic.), who
are still in the throes of the Gnash controversy,
have sustained another short jolt. The other dav
the Railway Commissioners discovered that they
wanted more space on which to handle the wheat
and other traffic, and, casting their eyes round,
observed St. Paul’s church and the adjacent par-
sonage standing just where they wanted to lay a
siding or two ; so, as the law allows, they resumed
the parsonage and the land beneath it, and noti-
fied the church authorities that they would pay
compensation in due course, and that, if the figure
didn’t suit, they would be pleased to go to arbi-
tration. Of course, all this is quite regular and
proper, but the church people have left off clawing
one another to assure the Commissioners that the
proximity of the trains will be an abomination, so
they want the Commissioners to take the sacred
edifice as well. But these gentlemen say they
have no use for a Church ; and there the matter
hangs at present.
They are still scattering their little seeds
of kindness at Christ Church, Geelong (Vic.).
On a recent Sunday afternoon the proceedings
were brightened by the appearance of a “ bobby,”
brought into the Sunday-school to “eject” a
harmless man teacher, who apparently isn’t ap-
proved of by the clerical party that happens to be
top-dog for the moment. The meek teacher
refused to be ejected, however ; whereupon the
Law declined to dabble in the fray. The harmless
disciple produced a permit to “ hold forth ” in the
vestry, and to the quietude of that sanctuary the
flock of girls constituting his class fled with him ;
and peace, of a sort, was regained.
* * * m
For months past Adelaide hasn’t been
able to supply the demand for houses, despite
vigorous building operations, jerry and otherwise.
A last desperate resource has been hit upon by
ope homeless wanderer, who wailed as follows in
an advertisement on March 3 :
rrEN SHILLINGS Reward offered for anyone letting
-*- Advertiser know of 3 or 4-roomed house to let.
Apply “ Order,” this office.
At the last meeting of the Unley City Council—
Unley is a suburb two miles or so from Adelaide—
permission was asked to erect a tent pending the
construction of a stone and mortar edifice. The
applicant, in support of his plea to be allowed to
put up the combustible stuff, alleged that he had
tried in every possible way to get accommodation,
and, “ having failed, determined to build for him-
self and set the landlords at defiance.” The influx
of population to the city is generally said to be
due to the exceedingly good seasons of the past
few years, and the rush of old farmers to get out
while they could find buyers at fancy prices ; and
the Outback storekeeper, egg-dealer, etc., has fol-
lowed the lead of his friend the cocky.
An extraordinary claim for £460 was
brought against a Chow herbalist at Ballarat
County Court last week. The plaintiff, a gullible
grazier, made out that the unskilful treatment of
the Chow “doctor” had compelled him to visit a
white medical practitioner to get cured ; therefore
he claimed the amount of his travelling expenses
incurred by visits to the Mongolian, plus the cost
of his subsequent treatment by the white doctor,
plus also £250 compensation for “two years’loss
of time and the suffering endured as the result of
defendant’s negligence and breach of contract.”
The breach of contract was in the defendant’s
having undertaken to cure the patient with certain
herbal mixtures and gigantic pills that had seem-
ingly made no difference to the man who swal-
lowed them. The jury granted one shilling
damages for the breach of contract, and found
that the grazier had no other cause for complaint,
as the Chow doctor’s prescriptions had done
neither harm nor good to him. The Law couldn’t
reasonably be expected to take any other view of
the matter. For the Law sees what a shocking
thing it would be if, having been awarded £lO
damages in a lower Court, and then had the ver-
dict set aside (with Costs) in a higher Court, a
disgusted litigant were encouraged to “go for”
the lower Court to recover damages for loss of
time, wrong prescriptions, and the cost of the
subsequent treatment.
THE LAST LOVE AND THE FIRST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You laughed, and said she jilted you—
The girl you loved and thought so true ;
That it was years before we met,
And Last Love pays the First Love’s debt.
Within our castles built in Spain
Some fragments of the dream remain.
I feel my fingers, ringed with blue,
Some touches of her hands renew.
To-morrow I shall be your bride,
But your First Love will stand beside ;
Her great grey eyes will glow between,
Beguiling you to Might-Have-Been.
THURSDAY ISLAND.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.
LEILA
[Fok The Bulletin.]
Tempters sought to dazzle her
With the lure of gold;
Leila’s faith was homelier ,
And her creed was old.
ZEI LA’S arms are rudely red ;
Leila’s washing clothes ;
Leila’s man sprawls on the bed
Snoring through his nose.
Leila seems to rub and scrub
Seven days a week,
Brooding o’er the laundry-tub ;
Leila’s man’s a sneak.
Leila’s fate is commonplace;
Leila, wonder-led,
Through the workshop came apace
To the bridal-bed.
She had spaniel eyes and hair
Red as autumn leaves;
Smooth as cream her bosoms were,
And her mouth as Eve’s.
Leila’s love was Sunday-love;
Sunday afternoons
Leila’s kisses tasted of
Shrimps and macaroons.
Leila, wedded to a clod,
Never knew her icorth
Fitted her to mate a god,
Were there gods on earth.
Leila now has quite a lot
O’ little mouths to fill.
Leila’s man’s a lazy sot;
Sots are hard to kill.
Leila, wet with steam and suds,
Broods o'er springtime dreams,
Faded ere the lusty buds
Burst with summer beams.
Leila’s mouth is whitely thin,
Leila’s eyes are red;
Leila never thought of sin,
Yet her soul is dead.
Leila’s man looks pretty mean,
Snoring through his nose;
Leila’s babes are plump and clean ;
Leila's washing clothes.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
(made in England.)
beat all comers at tha
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastner & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO : Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK— Winding- Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made onjy by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia
Written I'.e-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Feb., ’02.. £96,714 Bp.c. = £60,000 £25,000 £1,036,213
Aug.,’o2.. 93,931 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
Feb., ’03.. 109,649 8 „ „ 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug.,’o3.. 126,330 10 „„ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., ’04.. 112,182 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Aug.,’o4.. 115,830 10 „„ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., ’05.. 100,374 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
Aug.,’os.. 100,767 10 „,, 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., ’06.. 100,879 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
Aug.,’o6.. 152,251 14 ~,,105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb., ’07.. 227,904 14 „ „ 105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Aug.,’o7.. 146,560 14 ~,,105,000 10,000 1,235,870
Feb., ’OB.. 145,188 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,266,058
Aug.,’oB.. 136,386 14 ~,,105,000 10,000 1,287,444
The reports of this bank have to wander backwards and
forwards over the earth before Australia sees them ; con-
sequently, those now available bring history dowm no
later than seven months ago. Thus one balance is com-
pleted before the detailed results of its predecessor are put
into the hands of shareholders and others in these parts.
However, there is usually no keen eagerness about the
reports. For a few weeks before the last one was issued
in London there was some little talk about an increased
dividend ; and the report was looked for on that account.
But the talk turned out to have been either merely
loose language or the ingenious effort of some
market bull. The dividend is already 14 per cent.
Possibly the London directors don’t know Aus-
tralian feeling well enough to realise that very
high dividends will most likely stir up trouble for
such concerns. Knowing that in the old days this bank
paid as much as 36 per cent., though that was over 50
years ago, the directors are probably quite prepared to
chance the legislative consequences of big' dividends
again if the co. can earn them. The favorite modern
Australian plan for dodging the tall dividend which
shrieks attention to itself is to increase the capital, and
pay 10 or 12 per cent, on the new capital as well as the
old ; and, though the effect is the same in one respect,
that plan at any' rate offers more protection to the
depositors when the concern is a bank. With the Union
the shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) total
£2,787,444. The total liabilities are £21,370,529. Thus there
is £7 14s. of public money in the business for every £1 be-
longing to the shareholders; and, according to Austra-
lian banking standards, when a bank is favored with £7
of the public’s money for every £1 of the shareholders’, it
is time to get in some more capital. If this bank has any
idea, therefore, of increasing its dividend, it would seem
to be wiser to do it through an increase of capital.
In the half-year the principal movements were
as follows:
Aug., 1907. Aug., 1908.
Notes .. .. £514,431 £431,945 Dec. £82,486
Bills, etc 1,666,605 1,700,750 Inc. 34,145
Deposits .. .. 19,153,423 19,237,834 Inc. 84,411
Liquid Assets .. 9,437,391 8,619,497 Dec. 817,894
Advances.. .. 14,125,971 15,058,830 Inc. 932,859
Premises, etc. .. 611,967 584,646 Dec. 27,321
There was thus an increase of advances to the extent of
nearly a million, mostly provided out of the liquid re-
serves. The latter, however, still represent just over 40
per cent, of the total amount owing to the public. The
bigger total of advances is no doubt due to two rather
contrary causes—(l) the continued movement on to the
land at what The Bulletin regards as, in general, excess-
ively high prices ; and (2) the turn of the tide of pros-
perity in certain industries, mining especially, which has
meant a call for more assistance. Only the future can
show whether banks have not given too much assistance
to land purchasers at recent prices. There is unquestion-
ably a risk in much of the business that has been done.
That this particular bank has large internal reserves is
suggested by the very' small amount at which the
Premises account stands. Some of these premises, it
must be remembered, are fair revenue-producing assets.
Partly on account of this low valuation, the shareholders’
funds show profits at the rate of £lO 4s. 6d. per cent, per
annum. The amount shown in the table as written off is
applied to the further reduction of the Premises account.
At. August, 1898, the Australian Premises account, by the
way, stood at £601,936 ; notwithstanding large additions
during the past 10 years, the item stands now at only
£463,668.
* * * *
The Equitable Building and Investment Co.,
of Wellington, M.L. :
To Re- Re-
Dac., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1902.. £6979 10 per cent. =£sooo £1979 £31,632
1903 .. 7502 10 „ ~ 5000 2502 34,134
1904 .. 7208 10 „ „ 5000 2208 36,342
Assets written up .. 2750 39,092
1905 .. 7601 10 per cent. = 5000 2601 41,693
1906 .. 7906 10 „ ~ 5000 2906 44,599
1907 .. 8398 10 „ „ 5000 3398 47,997
Premises written up .. 1000 48,997
1908 .. 7943 10 per cent. = 5000 2943 51,940
This co. has a paid capital of £50,000, which it is now
proposed to increase “ by the creation of additional capital
of £50,000, divided into 5000 shares of £lO each, such
shares to be issued as ordinary shares.” The present
shares number 10,000, on which £5 each has been paid,
leaving £5 unpaid. It doesn’t matter much whether new
shares are issued or whether some of that £5 is called up ;
the important thing is to get more capital in somehow.
This shows why:—
Deposits, Advances,
etc. etc. Reserves.
1902 .. £262,156 £338,029 £31,632
1907 .. 264,855 351,921 47,997
1908 .. 239,827 337,463 51,940
Practically everything is out in advances or premises.
The latter stand at £lO,OOO, including the £lOOO by which
this item has been written up during the year. The
liquid assets amount to only £7048. Against that the
deposits amount to £238,168. The law which allows of
that sort of thing is courting disaster. Even assuming
that all the deposits are fixed, great difficulty might easily
be felt in realising enough assets on a falling and weak
market to meet the engagements. This co. may be all
right; there are certainly good names connected with it.
But a law which allows a building and investment co. to
take deposits to the extent of five times its capital, and
which also allows it to hold in liquid assets no more than
about sixpence in the £ of its liabilities, is permitting
very great risks. Of the new shares only 2000 are to be
issued at once ; they are to be offered to present share-
holders in the proportion of one to five.
*■***
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ent Society (Adelaide)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct, 1903.. £355 4£ p.c. = £4lO £654
Apl., 1904.. 429 4|- „ „ 414 £l5 669
Oct, 1904.. 401 4J ~ „ 367 34 703
Apl., 1905.. 349 4J „ „ 331 18 721
Oct, 1905.. 285 4J „ 309 697
Apl., 1906.. 300 ih „ „ 317 680
Oct., 1906.. 318 44 „ 333 665
Apl., 1907.. 333 4J „ „ 352 646
Oct., 1907.. 316 4i „ ~ 335 627
Apl., 1908.. 313 4 ~ ~ 308 5 632
Oct, 1908.. 322 4 „ „ 326 628
This little society is handicapped : Adelaide is too well-
served by the State Bank and the Savings Bank, neither
of which is out after profits. Hence the S. Australian
who wants help to get a home of his own can be accom-
modated on terms which make the competition of the
private concern a very cheerless business. Besides, this
society is nowadays so small—and it is 38 years old too.
The capital (including profit credited to shareholders) is
£18,198 ; five years ago it was £19,828. Total advances
are £16,793 ; five years ago they amounted to £19,768.
The reserves are small; but it is something in the
society’s favor that it works entirely on its own money,
so that the reserves don’t have to protect borrowed
money as well as the shareholders’ own funds. The
return is very moderate, and the prospects are not at all
brilliant; but the risks are moderate also.
* * *■ *
The Equitable Building Society (Launceston,
Tas.): —
Divi- Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. dends. Reserves, serves.
1901 .. £3Bll £3282 £529 £13,062
1902 .. 3630 3342 288 13,356
1903 .. 3674 3363 311 13,667
1904 .. 3650 3270 380 14,047
1905 .. 3264 2946 318 14,365
1906 .. 2774 2445 329 14,694
1907 .. 2431 2155 276 14,970
1908 .. 2541 2257 284 15,254
The chief items of the balance-sheet are as follows :
1901. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Capital .. £50,883 £39,633 £44,404 £44,490
Deposits .. 83,677 63,135 59,044 58,777
Mortgages .. 140,453 111,809 111,975 109,332
There appears to be some difficulty in placing advances ;
the mortgages, at any rate, show a shrinkage. This is
evidently not because the deposits have fallen off ; from
the fact that other assets have increased it looks rather
as though the deposits have been reduced because there
is no satisfactory outlet for the money—the result,
no doubt, of the general want of progressiveness
in Tasmania, where there are far too many
big landlords for the good of the island. A
curious item appears among the assets —“ Launceston
municipal council, deposit, with interest, £2518.” Does
the Launceston municipal council, then, accept money
on deposit ? It might be a very good idea—provided, for
instance, it ran a municipal pawnshop ; but, as there
isn’t a municipal pawnshop in Launceston, what is the
money used for ? And how much is the council allowed
to accept on deposit? The Tasmanian building society
itself is kept on safe lines by the law ; it may not borrow
more than two-thirds of its mortgages ; that is to say,
the depositor must be protected by shareholders’ capital
against a slump to the extent of at least 6s. Bd. in the £.
In the case of this particular society, the depositor is
protected to the extent of over 10s. in the £, since
capital and reserves amount to slightly more than the
liabilities.
* * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Writ- To Re-
ten duce De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit, licit.
June, 1903.. £344 sp.c.= £437 £14,676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5„ „ 437 14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profits.
Dec., 1904.. 120 Nil £l2O 14,682
June, 1905.. 465 sp.c.= £437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 14,701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil 15,341
Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,838
June, 1907.. 670 sp.c.= £437 £lO9 124 14,714'
Dec., 1907.. 632 5„ „ 437 109 86 14,628
June, 1908.. 725 5„ „ 437 109 179 14,449
Dec., 1908.. 1156 5,, ~ 437 109 610 13,839
The published figures of this co. have been for many years
largely fictitious. “ Goodwill, lease, etc.,” was, so far as
could be ascertained, wholly a paper item : that is to say,
it was not represented by anything that you could
measure with either a pint pot or a foot rule, or weigh by
avoirdupois or apothecaries’ tables. While, however, the
directors declined to write down the assets, the market did
so, and for years the shares stood at about 25., or £3500 for
the lot. (The paid capital is £17,500 in 35,000 shares paid
to 10s.) Latterly things have looked up considerably ;
and the Board, having got a new 20-years lease, now
intends to write down goodwill, lease, etc., from £15,000
to £7OOO. This will fill up some of the hole, but there
will still be a good deal of paper among the assets. Also,
as a condition of the new lease, the co. has to spend
about £5OOO in improvements; so that, though the
revenue may be improved, it will take £l6B a year,
invested at 4 per cent., to accumulate £5OOO in the 20
years, in order to repay the shareholders for the present
expenditure on the ground landlord’s property. How
this £5OOO is to be raised The Bulletin doesn’t know ; on
December 31 the cash and liquid assets, less liabilities and
provision for dividend, amounted to £1212 ; and there
was also £730 worth of stock.
« * * *
Baulina Co-operative Produce Co. (N.S.W.):
Sup- Writ-
pliers’ ten Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves.
1903.. £1503 5 p.c. = £l3l £428 £437 £1156
1904.. 827 5 „ „ 148 229 465 1141
1905.. 1549 7J „ ~ 242 425 547 1476
1906 .. 1269 5 „ „ 163 258 531 1793
1907.. 913 5 „ „ 170 810 1726
1908.. 1814 5 „ „ 189 216 598 2537
No bonus is paid this year to butter suppliers ; the £216 is
distributed to shareholder-contributors in the pork de-
partment, at the rate of £d. per lb. When, however, a
co-operative co. like this doesn’t pay a bonus, it may
simply mean that the suppliers have got full value as
they have gone along. The export business was profitable
during the year—there was a balance of £454 in
the first half and £132 in the second half-year. But it is
a speculative business ; and the £3OO of an export reserve
fund (included among the reserves) doesn’t look any too
substantial. The past half-year’s profits were badly cut
into by bad debts ; no less than £657 was written off on
that account. This, of course, is charged direct to profit
and loss, and is not included among the writings-off
shown above. The co.’s liabilities total £6071 ; on the
other side, stock and sundry debtors total £6635, so the
position looks all right. And the amount written off to
cover depreciation looks adequate.
*** » »
The prospectus of Sargents Ltd. has been issued
in Sydney and Melbourne. The co.—hitherto private—
has for some years carried on a successful catering busi-
ness in Sydney, and is now extending to Melbourne.
There is practically no doubt whatever about the flota-
tion ; yet it was a prospectus of the class against
which the investing public ought to rise in rebellion. The
new co. is in 100,000 shares; 50,000 go to the old co., 30,000
are offered to the public, and 20,000 are held in reserve. Be-
sides the 50,000 shares the old co. takes £lO,OOO in cash
and over £BOOO of accumulated profits. Beyond that and
some figures relating to the turnover and the recent
profit thereon—only two years are covered by this state-
ment—the prospectus contains no figures at all. There
is no statement concerning the liabilities, or the assets,
or what the latter consist of. For all that the pros-
pectus tells, the new co. may be taking over £50,000 of
debt. The public that is content with prospectuses of
that character deserves to lose its money. As a matter
of fact, The Bulletin understands that the position is
approximately as follows:
Sundry creditors £10,559
To go to old co. 18,000
Total £28,559
Including cash (£4058) and real property (£1340), the
substantial assets appear to be about £34,000. Then-
Substantial assets £34,000
To be subscribed 30,000
Total £64,000
Less creditors 28,559
Balance £35,441
The paid capital of the new co. is to be represented by
80,000 £1 shares. Therefore there is £BO,OOO less £35,441,
or approximately £45,000, not represented by substantial
assets—in other words, there is apparently a paper or
goodwill item of that amount, which is rather more than
half of the total capital of the co. The size of the good-
will item is a matter, of course, for serious consideration ;
but it is rather the matter of the inadequate particulars
furnished in prospectuses which needs the attention of
investors.
* » * *
A director of the North Coast Co-op. Co.
(N.S. W.) writes re the quarrel between that co. and the
Coastal Farmers’ Co-op. Society, referred to here re-
cently. The Coastal Farmers, instead of distributing
all its bonus in cash, decided to distribute some of it in
shares. Says this director When the bonus shares
were offered, the directors of the N. C. Co-op. Co. unani-
mously decided to refuse them, feeling keenly the insult
after making an agreement with the C.F.S. for a cash
bonus return. So, regarding the reference to ‘ a big sec-
tion desiring to bail up the C.F.S. and demanding cash,’
I think you will admit their right to do so. In January,
1907, a conference was held at Byron Bay, between the
N. O. Co., as a producer, and the Coastal Farmers and the
Berrima Co., as sellers. An agreement was arrived at
that both cos. should endeavor to sell our butter
at a certain rate, returning- in cash the difference
between the commission charged (4 per cent.) and the
actual cost. The Berrima Co. does so ; the C.F.S. broke
faith, and tried to coerce us into taking bonus shares.”
The Bulletin doesn’t know' whether the distributing cos.
were foolish enough to undertake to pay back to the pro-
ducing cos. all the commissions received in excess of
actual cost. If they did, and thus made no provision for
bad debts and other reserves, they ought to be ashamed
of themselves. If, as is more likely, they made no such
agreement, but simply undertook to distribute cash
bonuses, after making fair provision for reserves, etc.,
then the Coastal Farmers’ concern recently did more even
than it need have done. It might have put the profits to
reserve ; instead, it proposed to issue shares, so that the
North Coast Co. and others wrnuld draw interest (in the
shape of dividends) on the amount. The Bulletin
isn’t, however, interested to any extent in the row' be-
tween the two cos. What it is considerably interested in
is the continual struggle of co-operators to squeeze out
big bonuses, thus weakening the reserves, impoverishing
the co-operative concerns, and threatening their solvency
and the good name of the co-operative movement.
• * • *
The coal trade at Newcastle has gone to pieces
rapidly; and those papers and people who were recently
struck with amazement at the extortion of miners who
earned as much as 16s. or 17s. a day now have a chance to
see the other side of the picture. Here is the number of
days the principal mines worked in the past fort-
night:—Seapit, Ebbw Vale, and Young Wallsend, 11
days each; Dudley, Wallsend, pit and tunnel, 10
days; Shortland, 9J days; Lambtnn, Lambton B, Bur-
wood, and Aberdare Extended, 8 days; Pelaw-Main,
Pacific, Newcastle, A and B Pits, and Ellermore Vale, 7
days; Hebburn, 6£ days ; Hetton, 6 days ; Seaham, Sea-
ham No. 2, Abermain, Neath, and Marylands, 6 days ;
Aberdare, 51 days; Northumberland, 5 days; Hed-
don Greta, 4£ days; Duckenfield and Northern Ex-
tended, 4 days; Rhondda, 3f days; Back Creek,
3£ days; Co-operative, East Greta, and Stanford
Merthyr, 2 days; Waratah If days; w'hile West Walls-
end, Killingworth, Burwood Extended, South Greta-,
and Lymington did not wofk during the fortnight.
The Miners’ Federation officers have got their hands
full of trouble. As usual, when trade slumps badly,
there are dozens of disputes. In most cases the mines
show such very little profit just now that they won’t give
way on the points that are always cropping up ; and
many of the men don’t realise that the owners would
almost as soon close down as not. The Federation officers
are, therefore, going round trying to get the men to re-
cognise that the position has changed during the past 12
months, and that they must shape their policy accord-
ingly.
* * * -ii-
Matters still have a very awkward look at
Broken Hill. The B. H. Prop.’s Arbitration case isn’t
concluded yet ; and as the local labor organisations are,
at the best, likely to have a large number of out-of-works
on their hands, it might have been thought that they
would be satisfied with their present and prospective
swag of trouble. So long as the other mines were at
work, the matter of providing for the men on strike at
the B. H. Prop., or for those who will not be able to get
back, was, though onerous, nevertheless fairly simple ; a
levy of ss. per week filled the. bill. Taking that view of
the matter, the managers of the other mines thought
they were fairly safe from trouble. But they are not;
for the union men have begun to give notice all round
that, unless the handful of non-unionists employed either
join the unions or are dismissed, the whole of the union-
ists will knock off. The trouble seems to be most acute
at the Sulphide Corporation’s Central mine. Now it is
the B. H. Prop.’s turn to look cheerful. Its trouble has
been that the other mines have been mopping up some of
the best of its men ; but if there is a general strike, then
all the cos. will, so to speak, start off scratch when work
is resumed.
« * * *
The Zinc Corporation continues to gropp its
way out of the dark problem of how to get the ziiic and
the other metals from the millions of tons .oftailings”
that lie alongside the Broken Hill mines. For last month
the estimated income from all sources was £17,992 ; the
working expenditure was £7863. Adding on the amount
spent on construction as a set-off to the heavy wear and
tear, the total outgoings were £10,490. This would
leave a profit of £7502. Out of that, however, the
tailings have to be paid for. The quantity treated during
the month was 17,020 tons, which can be averaged (deli-
vered) at ss. =£4255. This would leave £3247 for man-
agement expenses, interest, and profits. Actually the
profit ought to be more than this, because spelter is
taken in the calculations at £2O a ton, whereas the aver-
age for the year to the end of February was £2l 7s. 9d. ;
and the market has been steadily though slowly improv-
ing. There is still a heavy loss of metals ; but better
things are being done as the process (oil-acid flotation) is
developed.
* * * *
Broken Hill South Blocks is doing excellent
mill work, getting an extraction -of 80‘6 per cent, of its
lead and 70'7 per cent, of its silver last month,,
which can be set up as the best results so far
achieved in mill concentration at Broken Hill. The North
last half-year got out 74"9 per cent, of the lead and 54'7
per cent, of the silver ; and that was considered some-
thing extra. Very different are the results from
Block 10 and the B. H. Prop., which have got down
to the deep levels, where the ore is harder and the
crushing has to be finer, and the losses of metal
are consequently much heavier. But the South Blocks
ore is very poor in silver—so poor, in fact, that, if this ore
were as difficult to treat as either the Block 10 or Junction
North stuff, the co. would have no earthly'hope at present
metal prices.
* ic * *
Queen Bee, Oobar (N.S.W.), with a market
value down tojabout £lO,OOO, is producing £35,000 worth
of copper a year. Last half-year the output was 310£ tons
of blister, which realised on the average £55 ss. (£17,155).
Total costs amounted to £56 ss. Id., so there was a loss
of about £1 per ton. Including 1234 tons of ore that had
been left on the surface, Queen Bee treated 5077 tons ; so
the extraction was slightly over 6 per cent. So much ore
accumulated on the surface invalidates any' calculation of
costs. Yet it is clear that the co. cannot afford to work
under existing conditions. No. 5 is the deepest level, and
this is out 300 ft. on fairly good ore. It started to improve
at the 170 ft. mark ; so the deeper the levels the more
blank country they will have to drive through, following
the pitch of the ore-body to the north. A parallel forma-
tion to No. 5 holds out very fair promise.
Lobb’s Hole (N.S. W.) is making one more bid
to get out of its trouble. On Dec. 31 it owed Horton and
Freeman (the men who introduced it to the public) £3200,
and there was also an overdraft of £2977 (also, it is under-
stood, guaranteed by them). In the expectation that
something better would be found at No. 2 level, they
have financed the co. for some months; now', however,
the directors have made the first of a few calls, on the
distinct understanding that the money goes into the
mine, in the search for the rich stone that was found in
the level 80ft. above. The price at which the co. was
floated was excessive ; but as the shareholders won’t get
anything if the co. is wound up, they will probably come
along with the calls all right. The prospects were not
worth 10s. per share, but they are, anyhow, worth
eighteenpence in calls.
* * * *
H. C. Bellinger is the new metallurgist of the
Great Cobar (N.S.W.), and American papers that have
followed him out tell something about him. Says one—
“ Attracted by the offer of a salary said to be consider-
ably higher than that paid the President of the United
States, Mr. H. C. Bellinger, a world-famous metallurgist
and intimate friend and former associate of Mr. F.
Augustus Heinze, the Butte mining magnate, has just
accepted the position of metallurgical director of the
Great Oobar Mining Company in Australia. In recent
years Mr. Bellinger has made his home at Salt Lake City.
With the members of his family he sailed for the
Antipodes on the steamer Makura.” It goes on to say
that Bellinger “has planned and built many smelters in
the United States and Canada. The list includes the
reduction plants at Trail and Crofton, B. C. ; Northport,
Wash., now the Le Roi smelter ; and the smelter of the
Montana Ore Purchasing Company at Butte, Mont. With
Mr. James Breen, now of Salt Lake, he built and owned
the Northport plant. He sold his interest in the Crofton
smelter on Vancouver Island to the Britannia Copper
Syndicate.” Even assuming that Mr. Bellinger is the size
of man represented, he won’t be any too big if he is to
make a success of Great Cobar under present conditions.
• * * •
A bit of a shindy was raised in Kalgoorlie last
month over the private sale of the North Boulder leases
to a local syndicate for £5OO. Letters were published
hinting at some of the officials being in collusion with
the purchasers, and calling the co. various kinds of an
idiot for letting the property go so cheaply. Then word
was passed round that as much as £lOOO had been offered
for £lO syndicate shares, and for some days the new
owners strutted about with the air of persons whose for-
tunes were made, and whose ability for getting the best
of a bargain amounted to genius. Now the formation of
a new co. to work the property is mooted, which affords
another instance of remarkable generosity on the part of
people who want to share a “good thing" with others.
The local paper says that the London Board which parted
with the property will look rather foolish if it proves a
success; but those who subscribe for shares on the
strength of all the recent tall talk will look more foolish
still if they find later on that they have drawn a blank.
They may even then ask themselves whether some of the
sinister whispers about collusion, swindle, etc., were not
encouraged by people who wanted to push shares off on
to the public.
* » * *
Brown Hill Extended Co. (W.A.) keeps itself
nowadays by selling water to neighbors and collecting
royalties from tributors. 8., M. and Co.’s recent report
on the prospects of the mine can’t be very flattering, as
the Oroya-Brown Hill, for whom the report was made,
doesn’t seem very eager to rush it at the price of £15,000
put upon it. The Extended still has £9OOO or there-
abouts left out of its savings, and it is now thinking about
following in the footsteps of other concerns which are
putting the money they made in the West into a hole in
the ground elsewhere.
Premier Newton Moore and the other Wes-
tralian politicians who are busy encouraging a borrowing
boom, and have signified their intention of laying hold of
all the money they can raise, and of also reducing the ’
sinking fund payments, might seriously consider this ten-
dency of Westralian mining cos. to put their savings into
mines elsewhere. The Westralian politicians, as a rule,
profess to believe that the country is still teeming with
gold mines ; yet these cos. don’t seem able to find them.
Other mines may be found ; but, as far as one can see at
present, the gold output is going to tail off. In other
words, the politicians propose to borrow heavily to escape
taxation while the gold output is still large and while
prosperity still rules ; and later on the repayments wil]
have to.be made by a generation which probably won’t
have any gold production to speak of. This is not merely
greasing the fat pig. It is worse than that—it is making
the lean pig sweat out what little fat he has in order to
repay the borrowed grease.
• * * *
Some years ago, when it was fashionable at
Kalgoorlie to get rich borehole results, a diamond drill
operating from the No. 12 plat in the South Kalgurli was
reported to have cut a wide body of rich ore at 1500 ft.
The market soared for a time ; but, as borehole develop-
ments in general, and this one in particular, suddenly
began to be viewed with suspicion, prices soon tumbled
again. Now the crosscut is within about 80ft. of where
the development was alleged to have occurred, and six
weeks’ work should settle the question of values. In the
meantime, a little gambling is being indulged in on the
result.
* * * *
H. E. Vail, who successively bossed the Lake
View Consols and Lancefield for 8., M. and Co., and then
went to London, has returned to Kalgoorlie to run the
Hannans Star and other doubtful ventures for James
Bros. There has been a lot of grumbling in the West
over this firm doing so much of its management from
London, and no doubt Vail has been sent out in
consequence.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated (W.A.) has been
taken over by the new co. promoted by Lionel Robinson
and others, and the exploitation of the property under
new management is expected to be started at any time.
The chief point of interest for shareholders in the old co.
is that they will receive one paid up share in the new co.
for each two shares now held.
* * * *
The Flag Gold and Copper Co. (W.A.) has
issued another of its linger-and-die financial statements.
As usual, the profit and loss account is so framed as to
make it difficult to get at the real result of the half-year’s
operations; but one thing is certain—it isn’t as repre-
sented. One farce is the writing of 10 per cent, off the
total cost of mine development instead of the full amount
expended during the half-year. As a result of rigging up
the statement in this way, a profit of £4lO is shown. This
surplus is arrived at after wiping off the debit balance of
£751 brought forward from the previous half-year and
deducting £479 as a proportion of development, and £264
for plant depreciation. But if the total amount expended
in development for the half-year had been charged up,
the account would have told a different tale. Since the
inception of the co. £8654 has been put up by share-
holders and £14',000 has been dug out of the mine. Yet
when the half-year closed there was a bank overdraft of
£l9Bl, and “ghosts” were haunting the co.’s premises
with bills for £1235 in their fists. True, property, plant
and development stand in the books for about £13,000,
, and there are several small assets lying loose about the
place ; but if the bailiff blew in to-morrow and held an
auction in a week’s time, it is doubtful if enough would
; be realised to pay the co.’s debts.
* « * *
Coolgardie Redemption (W.A.) is again on its
uppers. The Board still talks about the undoubted value
of the mine, etc., but somehow the cash always melts
awav, and money is continually being begged to pay
1 “ pressing current liabilities,” or settle up with someone
or other. It is now proposed to pan out some more re-
' served shares; but, in view of past performances, the
public is more likely to sniff than to snavel. Boiled
down, the position is simply this. The present crowd
has lost a bit of money in the venture, and, not being
: keen on finding any more cash, it wants another crowd
to step forward and put up some more cash, out of which
neither lot is likely to derive any benefit.
* * * *
Gw alia South (W.A.) has had another measur-
: ing- up of developed and partially-developed ore, and now
L estimates the “ actual ” reserves at 30,410 tons of 62/6 ore
and the “ probable ” reserves at 4000 tons of 58/6 ore.
■ The gross value of the gold contents is some £lO,OOO less
; than the previous half-year’s figures, but no account has
• been taken of the ore in sight below No. 5 level, which, if
included, would, according to the mine authorities, have
i made the present estimate much more attractive.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Specially constituted
to ad as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Economical and
Efficient Management.
Absolute Security.
2, 4> 6 Spring Street,
■Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL, ORE, WHEAT,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co,
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building; MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs m concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbbstos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
*■* . * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * » *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
/ difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4jft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* [1
* * « *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria,*
“ Fibro-Oement ” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining' and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and 00., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
* « * •
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9/’OB,
referring to The Oolonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Limited, writes : —“ One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne Office is still growing, and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
•k * * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbbstos Non-Oond ucting Compositi on
saves 30 per cent, to AO per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Premantle, W.A. Sole depOt for Best Yorkshire
“ Parnley ’’ Iron.*
* «. * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Roekbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
■*•***
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
■ft * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
m * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’. Guide.*
■* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberu and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * *
Power users seeking to cut down working
expenses should consider the claims of the Ruston Suc-
tion Gas Plant. The Producer and Engine form together
a complete system, no steam boiler being required and
working on the high compression principle, regularity in
running and the greatest economy is ensured. When
compared with other forms of power it works out consid-
erably cheaper than electricity, steam oil, or the ordinary
gas engine, the running cost being only Id. for 10 8.-H.P.
per hour. Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Syd-
ney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, will give full par-
ticulars to those interested.*
LOHMANN <St COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing- Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne ;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers bf Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4.
Great Fingall Co. (W.A.) has started to pay
at tendon to its West Fingall area. Some years ago this
part of the property was reckoned to have a lode which
at depth would junction with the Fingall main ore shoot,
but' nothing has been heard of this theory for some time.
Now the co. is working the area mentioned to see whether
it will change the co.’s present rotten luck.
• * * *
More cheerful accounts are being given about
the Ida H. (W.A.). At the 7th level 4jft. of 19dwt. ore
lias been opened up for 300 ft., while that width and value
have been maintained in a winze put down a further
110 ft. The No. 8 level has also started well, the first 20ft.
or so of driving furnishing ounce ore. The Board and
management are now putting their heads together, with
a view of cutting down costs. Partly on account of the
long distance the shoot has pitched away’from the shaft,
and partly’ on account of a worn-out plant, the costs
almost eat up the receipts. It is thought that a new
main shaft and a 10-head mill will meet the case ; but as
these additions will cost about £16,000, and as the co.
hasn’t that much in hand, it will e ther have to go in for
a bit of self-denial, or stir up shareholders for more cash.
Something will have to be done, or shareholders are likely
to wait in vain for dividends while the present system of
work lasts.
* * * *
Darlington Simpson, the ex-Westralian who has
had so much trouble over the Peak Hill (W.A.), sought
sanctuary in the London Bankruptcy Court the other
day. For 15 years Simpson has lived on the business of
forming and financing companies, and he attributes his
present condition to having either become guarantor or
borrowed money for them.
* * * *
Once more J. Bull is warned to be careful of the
Lady Miller (W.A.). This Norseman property was once
(■vvned by’ the Lady Mary Co., which finally threw it out
of doors with a curse. Then the Hampton Plains, Ltd.,
gave it a trial, with heavy out-of-pocket results. Now an
at tempt is being made to float it in London as a “ good
thing.” A mine with some gold in it may be better than
one with no gold at all; on the other hand, it is usually
easier to humbug people into buying a show which has
some metal on view. And the Lady Miller belongs to the
latter class. It is one of the humbugs.
Boulder No. 1 Co.’s Magnet property (W.A.)
isn't getting on as well as expected. Water is now ham-
pering operations at depth, and a falling-off in the value
of the ore is playing up with returns. The co.’s original
hopes about the mine may be realised in time, but at pre-
sent the outlook is not nearly so bright as was suggested
by the bald figures and estimates put before shareholders
at the last meeting.
Charters Towers, like Humpty Dumpty, finds
it difficult to get up again. There was rather too much
theory at the bottom of the excitement some time ago,
and the bright idea that the Day Dawn was going to
'spread for a square mile or so beneath the Brilliant has
f .lien flat. Brilliant Block is down 1570 ft. from the sur-
f ice and nearly 500 ft. below’the Brilliant formation, and
hasn’t found even the hanging-wall reef of the Day Dawn
yet. There are people who are -looking very hard at the
poor little formation of diorite which No. 7 level (N. B.
Freeholds) is following, and now turn their hopes to the
Brilliant Blocks picking up the same reef as the
Brilliant Deeps recently found at 2413 ft. vertical.
This crushed well lately, and is assumed to be the
Brilliant because of its strike and dip. The latest fit of
depression on the Towers is mainly due to the barren
ground which No. 7 level on the Day Dawn has been
passing through at about 824 ft. from Mills’ United
boundary. On the other hand, there is a good deal to
hope for in the development of the small reef bearing
north-east and south-west, which was cut in the shaft
378 ft. below the Brilliant formation. The crosscut
between the R.B.F. shaft and No. 7 level will also pro-
b ibly provide a discovery, because a reef split away to
the north-east from No. 7, some distance back along the
level. Although the nature of these diorite formations is ’
not too trustworthy’, there should be a chance of a
development in driving’ this crosscut.
* * * *
The East Mexican shaft at Charters Towers is
being un watered with a view to continuing the drive on 1
the 810 ft. formation which was tried many years since
with negative results. The arrangement for driving two
crosscuts at No. 5 level seems to have either fallen
through or been hung up for the present. Mills’ United
has already had a crosscut into footwall country ; but in
a locality and formation noted for rapid and sometimes
unexpected changes, there certainly may be a rich spot as
yet undiscovered in the Mexican lease. The deepest level
(No. 6) seems to be on the very edge of a payable shoot of
stone, but the East Mexican has no means of extending No.
6 along the boundary, because the ground is inaccessible
from the East Mexican shaft, and can only be worked by
the help of Mills’ United. , It is rather remarkable that
shares in Bonnie Dundee, which lately cleaned up a
crushing of 322 tons for an average of over £6 per ton,
should have been selling at about the same price as Mexi-
cans. Bonnies are inclined to harden on the strength of
an improvement in the top level which is following the
Queen Central boundary. No. 2 has proved a good level,
but the two lower levels have not turned out well as y’et.
An improvement in the winze below No. 4 would be the
best indication of permanency.
■*■ ■*■ "* "*
MacGregor, Cloncurry (Q.), includes a number
of leases, the most important being the MacGregor and
Wallaroo. These mines are situated about 70 miles from
Cloncurry and about 30 miles from the Mt. Elliott rail-
way. Hitherto prospecting at the 220 ft. level of the
MacGregor and the 10,0 ft. level of the Wallaroo has given
poor results; but latterly both mines have improved
with regard to metal contents in the ore and smelting
quality. All that can be said about such a sudden and
important improvement is that such changes can be
viewed from both ends, and if poor and refractory ore
just as suddenly makes its appearance again, nobody
need be surprised. Anyhow, it will take large quantities
of fairly high-grade ore to be payable in a district where
wood and water are scarce, and coke and other require-
ments are expensive ; and the necessary supplies of ore
of that quality are not in view yet.
* * * *
The Mount Cannindah (Q.) is, it seems, not
stone dead, in spite of appearances. At a meeting of
shareholders, held in Brisbane last week, it was explained
that there was still a spark of life left. New directors
were therefore elected with a view of fanning the spark.
The new blood on the Board consists of ex-Speaker
Cowley, Corrie, and Taylor, who replace John Leahy,
Fawcett (of Bewick-Moreing), and Gibb. Nothing can be
done, however, until the market improves and the Boyne
Valley Railway is finished, and it may even be necessary
to find some ore that is a little more profitable than the
present reserves. Just to keep up interest until then,
there is talk of the application of an oil flotation process
to the proposition. This is presumably the Elmore pro-
cess, which sometimes does good work, and sometimes
doesn’t. Whether Cannindah could stand the working
costs is doubtful.
While the O.K. and the Hirsches are having
their fearfully expensive battle in the Queensland law
courts, some other N.Q. companies have chosen arbitra-
tion as a cheaper method of settling disputes. One case
has just been settled in favor of the Chillagoe Co., with
w'hich Weinert’s Silver Lead Mine fell out over payment
for ore. The matter was submitted to the O.K. secretary
and one of the directors of the same co., probably as an
object lesson of how things should be done. These two,
perhaps to show that methods of arbitration were use-
less, failed to agree ; but the referee promptly settled the
matter by awarding the Chillagoe Co. about £3OO. More
arbitration is spoken of between the management and
miners at Stannary Hills, w’here labor troubles have been
upsetting things for some time past. In this connection
a quaint thing appears in an appeal to the N.Q. miners.
Thus : “As we are compelled to strike, we must strike to
some purpose. In order to vindicate our right to com-
bine, in order to convince quasi-Czar Nicholas, would-be-
Kaiser Moffat, and their servile janissaries, that despotic
ukase and arbitrary fiat in the industrial affairs of
a free community are only incantations of im-
potence, w’e must carry the fight to the enemies
camp and turn their own guns against them.” And
to think, after that, they are only going to arbitrate 1
Seriously, why will good, honest, straight, mostly-sen-
sible fellows use this hifalutin lang’uage? Why don’t they
put their case in a few plain words—just ordinary, plain,
bread-and-butter words —instead of attempting to. use
nolysyllables which sound tremendous but mean nothing ?
* * * *
Mt. Morgan hasn’t recovered from the crash of
12,000 tons of copper.ore on to the frail timber that stood
in the way. There are, however, very few mines that
could have sustained such a disaster in the confident
manner Mt. Morgan has done. Last month’s return of
copper and gold is valued at £56,000 ; the normal output
is 60 per cent, more than that. The output of copper
was 357 tons, or 88 tons more than the previous month.
With another furnace in commission, a greatly improved
return seems probable this month. For the half-year
ending Nov., 1908, the profit averaged about £21,000
per month ; so, under present conditions, the co. will do
very well indeed if it continues its dividend of £50,000
per quarter. The average quality of the ore treated
during the last three months shows a shrinkage, and ex-
penses have been on a higher scale. The gold return
comes chiefly from oxidised ore, worth between 3dwt.
and 4dwt. (barely payable), and mundic ore worth 9dwt.
Some of the latter is finding its way to the copper fur-
naces, because it contains a good deal of copper. At the
mundic works the copper is leached out with dilute sul-
phuric acid, after the ore has been roasted. When more
fluxes are available probably a much larger proportion of
mundic ore will be smelted.
* * * *
A wisp of comfort for the shareholders in the
Mitchell River gbld and antimony mine (N.Q.). A week
or two ago a Bulletin writer expressed a doubt whether
the MacArthur patent process had ever been tried on a
commercial basis. MacArthur’s representative at Cairns
(G. P. Dempster), who is or wag a director of the Mitchell
River co., .writes to say, however, that “ for some time
past my principals, Messrs. J. S. MacArthur and Co., have
had a plant of the same capacity as that at Mitchell River
working’very successfully in England on imported gold-
antimony ores.”
* * * •*
“ Inquisitive 'Some of the' shareholders of
the Roma Mineral Oil Co., since reading The Bulletin
paragraph about the Standard Oil Co., have been wonder-
ing what is the real cause of the frequent delays in the
Roma Co.’s work. It took six weeks to put out the fire.
Weeks of intermittent strenuousness follow.. Now the
latest runs: “The drill lost in the mineral oil bore oyer
three weeks'ago has not yet been recovered.” Everything
may, of course, be-all right, but shareholders not on the
spot chafe at the loss of time.
* * * »
The of the Tommy Burns, the new
and much-boomed North Queensland tin show which
looks very much like a fizzle, explains that the lode is
“ dipping very flat into the hill,” which may account for
the shaft showing nothing worth talking about in the
bottom. ! So the shaft is to be discontinued, and a hole
put down in the southern end of the open cut to see if
there is any better luck in that quarter. There is a grain
of hope in the theory, but it isn’t a large grain ; for lodes
-tin-lodes especially— which “dip very flat” are liable
to be cut off before they go far.
* » * *
“J.L.W.”: The paragraphist (B. 25/2/’O9) who
seeks to convince himself that the plan of the Lord Nel-
son North (Vic.) workings means nothing, should work
overtime to get a knowledgeable understanding of the
position. In the Nelson mine 1930 is the bottom level.
The westerly underlay carries the lode a few feet below’
that point into the Nelson North. The. North has only
one level (at present), 2085 ft. ; and over that to the boun-
dary of the Nelson there is,approximately 30,000 tons of
stone. Whether it is all of the value of the 475 tons
crushed the battery alone will tell. The question
whether the bottom level is payable would, as the par
points out, be a costly thing to prove, inasmuch as such
level is, according to a close calculation of temperature,
something like 2° 27' above Hades. Meantime it is pro-
posed to work the downward continuation of the reef,
per usual shaft and crosscut; and as most mines
are worked this way, there is no reason why
it should prove violently expensive in the case
of the North. The North may or may not repeat the
history of the Nelson ; but the fact remains that dow’n to
400 ft. the Nelson was a rich mine ; between that and
800 ft. it w'as barely payable, and at times absolutely un-
payable ; from 800 ft. to 1700 ft. over half a million tons
we're crushed for some 250,0000 z. gold, resulting in divi-
dends of £254,000. From 1700 ft. to 1930 ft. there is an
apparently impoverished zone. The nature of the enclos-
ing country has a big influence on the deposition of gold,
causing good and bad situations, and the indications
point to the North being in one of the former.
“Fairplay”: An inquiry will yet have to be
made (and the sooner it is made the better) as to whether
the attempt to establish the industry at Lithgow is giving
the Australian iron and steel business a fair chance.
Apart from coal, w’hich can be got in many other places,
Lithgow only provides poor raw material —so poor that it
is now admitted that it must be mixed with a considerable
quantity of imported stuff. That stuff has to be dragged
up to the mountains; and then the whole lot has
to be dragged dowm again, for there is, of course,
no local market at all. Were the works on the
coast they would have the pick of the finest iron-ore
deposits in Australia, and the coal supply would be no
dearer. Of these iron deposits four are most conspicuous :
Blythe River (Tas.), Iron Knob (S. Aus.), Iron Island
(Q.), and the remarkable deposits lately found at Yampi
Sound (W.A.). The last, which were taken up by the
Australian Prospecting Association of Charters Towers —
the concern which supplies iron flux to Mt. Morgan from
Iron Island —have big possibilities ; though distance may
possibly stand in the way. The Yampi Sound ore, accord-
ing to the Westralian Acting-Government Geologist,
goes from 64 to 67 per cent, iron; “silica and
sulphur are low”; and as to phosphorus, “it is well
under the limit for a good Bessemer ore.” The Lithgow
district was fixed on for iron-production before the big f
waterside deposits were discovered, and before the huge
coal seams alongside the ocean on the South Coast were
opened up ; and the chances are that in carrying on
there we are merely, so to speak, following a crooked
track because a wandering calf made it in the first place
before anyone was on hand to cut a straight path.
"** * *
“K.” : Wild Cat (B. 18/2/’O9) takes the Koroit
Butter Factory (Vic.) too seriously. The co. pays a
dividend, as is mentioned, of 10 per cent., and it takes no
(or very little) thought of the morrow, as regards writing
down its buildings and plant. “Profit,’ however, so far
as these co-operative factories is concerned, only means
what is left after the directors have distributed the pro-
ceeds of the butter sales to the suppliers. These
suppliers are the principal shareholders, so that giving
them a big dividend means only giving them small
monthly milk-payments, or cutting off the bottom of the
blanket to sew it on the top. The “ profits” thus vary
according to the smartness of the directors at making the
monthly payments square with the butter sales. For ex-
ample, Oolac factory, the biggest of the lot, shows the
following erratic succession of “ profits ” :
Dec., 31, 1906.. £360 I June, 30, 1908.. £2551
June, 30, 1907.. 1213 Dec., 31, 1908.. 793
Dec., 31, 1907.. 1792 |
Glancing at this in an offhand way, the co. would seem
to have had shocking experiences in the first and last in-
stances. But, on the contrary, it has had one long, un-
interrupted run of success. Where shares are held by
“dry,” dr non-supplying, shareholders, there is often a
complaint that the dividend is treated in too off-hand a
manner ; but in every Western District factory the “dry”
shareholder is in such a minority that he is never taken
any notice of. If he doesn’t like the situation he can
easily sell his shares to a farmer who is a supplier. In
fact, some factories openly squeeze the “dry” shareholder
out. As regards provision for depreciation, nearly all the
factories are in the same boat. They pay for renewals
and replacements out of earnings, and pay for a. new
(additional) creamery by issuing fresh shares. When the
factory gets too old to repair, they build a fresh one on a
bank overdraft, and gradually work it off. Grasmere (a
few miles from Koroit) lately built a new factory, and it
is plodding along under an overdraft of £2195. So long
as his “ test” doesn’t get unreasonably low, the farmer-
shareholder-director doesn’t trouble about “high
finance ”; and the district is so rich and the butter
market so consistently good that he has muddled through
all right so far.
Remarkable strides are being made in the use
of suction-gas plants. Leplastrier and Go. lately placed
an order for a IUO-brake h.p. “ National plant for Vicars
woollen mills at Marrickville ; the firm has had one
suction-gas plant at work and wants more of the same
sort. Ludowici’s tannery is also having a big plant in-
stalled. Reports from manufacturers, mining cos., and
others all express the opinion that suction-gas is now the
cheapest power in the world with coal, coke or charcoal.
The need of simplifying legal procedure was
shown in a recent lawsuit brought in Equity. A bank in
Buenos Ayres issued a draft of £350 to a female client
coming this way, payable by the Bank of Australasia in
Sydney. The client died on the voyage, and was buried
at sea in her clothes, and the draft was in the. clothes
that were put in D. Jones’s locker. The administratrix
of the estate had then to proceed in Equity to recover
the money, and had to engage a solicitor, who had to brief
a barrister to argue the case. The “ ’Asia ” did not dispute
the facts, but it also had to engage a solicitor, and the
solicitor had to “ instruct” a person in a horsehair wig to
appear for the “ defence.” The case was not argued ; the
bank was formally ordered to pay out the money, all costs
of solicitors, barristers, etc., to come out of the bank
draft. Law vers must live (there seems to be some pre-
judice against boiling them in oil, or otherwise painlessly
getting rid of them), but in a case like this it ought not to
be necessary to hire a whole flock of them.
* * * *
A young man has pleaded guilty to an astonish-
ingly easy-looking fraud committed on the N.S.W. Govt.
Savings Bank, away back in last October. He was a
junior ledger-keeper, at the oppressive salary of £9O a
year. Part of his duty was the issuing of new pass-books
for old ; and in one of them he noticed that Thompson, of
Narromine, had £5OO to his credit. So, wanting £5OO
badly, he filled up an order for £5OO, and asked the
ledger-keeper if it was correct. The ledger-keeper looked
up Thompson’s account, saw he had £5OO, and signed the
order as O.K. The young man then posted the order to
Summer Hill, presented the pass-book (which, of course,
he held), and received the money without turning a hair.
Only when Thompson asked for his £5OO did the Bank find
out that something had gone wrong with the works ; and
presumably if Thompson of Narromine hadn’t wanted his
money, the Bank would still have been in blissful igno-
rance that anything had happened to Thompson’s £5OO.
A swindle was nipped in the bud in one of the
big wheat-consigning centres of the State of the Murray-
Watters early this season. Amidst the inpourings to the
shipping hub it was noticed that the freight bills sent
with certain trucks did not tally with the contents of the
vehicles. In some instances there were from five to 20
bags of wheat short. Instead of complaining openly,
like gentlemen, the firm to whom the consignments were
being sent for shipment quietly set detectives to
work. A few days’ investigation showed this The
bags were counted by a railway official, who signed
the waybill. The truck was then shunted on to a siding
to be picked up by the next goods Crain. Whenever
there was the slightest delay in moving the loaded truck,
the consignor put his men on to throw’ off a number of
the bags, slinging them amongst the other bags awaiting
consignment. There is not going to be any prosecution
this time. And the dishonest consignor—a wheat-buyer
—has been so unnerved at the discovery of his little lay
that it is unlikely there will be any cause for a prosecution
in the future.
* * * *
A Bulletin man has a vision :
The victorious fruit-hawkers of Melbourne city, push-
ing: their hand-carts in the central thoroughfares at their
own sweet will, supply food for reflection as well as for
refreshment. What time the Gaud Mayor and councillors
waged war with these alfresco traders on behalf of Vested
Interests, the public in general seemed carelessly content
to think that Vested Interests had a grievance ; and even
during the present summer, when fruit off the barrow
has found its way into the daily life of Collins-street, so
to speak, many people classify the hawkers as Dagoes,
and protest against their presence. Yet the extension of
the hawking system into every department of commerce
has its virtues. In every line of trade the purchasing
public is working for both the middleman and his
landlord. The more prosperous the middleman,
the greater the rent exacted by his landlord.
The fatter the landlord the more likely he is
to be an absentee, spending his unearned increment
abroad. At the popular corner shops of the busiest
streets the price of the goods offered for sale is subject
to the baleful influence of the extortioner who draws the
rent. The influence is specially strong if the goods hap-
pen to be Beer. Now, the fruit-hawker pays no rent,
and therein he’s a bright example and a splendid sugges-
tion. Why do we all impoverish ourselves by paying
extravagant prices for the necessaries and luxuries of
life, in order to assist the conservative shopkeeper in
greasing his fatted landlord when we might more econo-
mically and otherwise conveniently purchase the same
things from one or other in a long array of furiously
competing truck pushers? From rainproof-covered bar-
rows men might buy their boots (sitting upon the kerb-
stone to try them on), their hats, their hosiery, and all
that on them is. Women, presumably, must continue to
pass laborious days in prowling among Bargain Sales in
buildings where the shadow of the landlord lengthens
with each renewal of the lease ; but for men the rentless
handcart should pervade the city streets, and the tailor
should be a peripatetic person offering elegant sac-suits
to measure at prices in which the landlord has no say.
4
“ Briner ” is discursive :
With Our Navy below the horizon, I take up Bean’s
Cruise in the English warship Powerful, Sydney to Auck-
land. For this kind of thing I doubt whether Kipling or
Bullen excels most. Kip. has the genius, Bull, the know-
ledge. Bean is sharp on their keels. He points out that
if you rule a line on the map from Sydney to Norfolk
Island it runs about half-way between the high square-
shaped Howe Island and the saw-tooth of Ball’s Pyramid.
Yet they are only 13 miles apart. There are 120 white
men on Howe Island. The precipitous part is 2850 ft.
high. Bean describes Norfolk Island and straightens out
all about the Bounty. I never met anyone who had the
facts eorrectlv. Perpend, then. The Mutiny occurred
on April 28, 1789, near Samoa. Bligh’s party reached
Timor on June 14. The Bounty . returned to Tahiti.
The mutineers who stayed there were captured
by the English Government. Nine mutineers, with
12 Tahiti women and seven Tahiti men, took the
Bounty to Pitcairn and broke her up. The Tahiti men
killed all the whites except Adams, and a middy who died.
The Tahiti women killed all the Tahiti men. The Bounty
arrived at Pitcairn in 1790, but no discovery was made till
1814. The population in 1800 was only 25, viz., Adams
with five women and 19 children. In 1804 the total
reached 35. In 1814 there were 40 ; that was when the
crowd was discovered. In 1830 the number reached 87.
In 1856 there were nearly 200—far too many for Pitcairn ;
consequently they were shifted to Norfolk Island. Now
there are over 800. At one point in the ocean the Power-
ful spoke with Sydney, Noumea, Maoriland and Fiji. The
system on the American fleet is not Marconi’s, but
Stone’s. The masts need not be so high. Among etc.,
etc. I note that the Powerful has 48 boilers. The faster
she goes the more she uses. Only 18 were used on this
trip.


701-
Sac Suits
for
501-
This offer is for a limited period
only—it is an opportunity which
YOU cannot afford to ignore.
“ TAILORED BY TAILORS ”
throughout in hest style from finest
AUSTRALIAN and BRITISH
fabrics.
WRITE NOW for Patterns and
Easy Self-Measurement Forms,
sent everywhere, Post Free.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
When your stomach’s all wrong-, so are you ;
When your bowels will not act you feel “ blue.
There’s a safe cure for this,
Turning niis’ry to bliss—
Take a Pill Laxo-Tonic or two.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, 10£d. and Is. 6d.*
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has proved
itself times out of number to be an absolutely safe
and reliable remedy. Analysis has proved that it
contains no narcotics, and experience has proved
its unfailing efficacy in coughs, colds croup, influ-
enza, and even in warding off pneumonia.
Doesn’t your commonsense prompt you to pur-
chase a bottle now and keep it in the house for
cases of emergency ? If it doesn’t it should.*
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address—Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
EDUCATION BY POST,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘ ‘ Marloo ”: On the northern rivers
(N.S.W.) the notice “Keep off the grass” is un-
known. People avoid the herbage of their own
accord. Anyone who wants to sit down either
finds a seat or climbs a tree. He wouldn’t recline
on the green sward if yon paid him. He who
does so shortly feels as though millions of fleas or
worse had invaded him. He rends his garments
apart or off and discovers on his legs, arms and
body numerous lumps, which spread when
scratched. Workers amongst paspalum grass are
the greatest sufferers. A doctor told me that the
“ itch,” as it is called locally, is caused by a vege-
table parasite, which is spread under the skin
when rubbed. Nothing appears to relieve the
irritation to any extent, and often it lasts for two
or three days. The Romeo who walks his Juliet
out here needs to start early, or he finds all the
logs occupied, in which case the only thing to do
is either to perch on a fence or go home.
A DOMAIN IDYLL.
JOE: “ For years I used to get up at six, break-
fast at eight, dinner at one, tea at six, and
bed at ten, and I never felt better in my life.”
BILL: “ Blime, Joe, what were yer in for?”
‘ Mole ” : lie the Westralian politician
alleged to keep his books by drawing diagrams on
the wall (B. 4/2/’O9). A Westralian squatter, on
the Ashburton River, wanted his boundary-rider
to shift from one clay pan to another, and, knowing
his man could not read, he drew' tw'o rings with a
double line running from the middle of one ring
to the side of the other, representing the road
leading from one claypan to the other. A black
boy was despatched with the plan. The boundary-
rider worried a good deal over his boss’s instruc-
tions, and at last came to an understanding. He
thrust a frying-pan into the hands of the bov.
Later on he explained: “I sent him my frying-
pan, but I’d see him blowed before I’d let him
have my noo camp-oven ! ”
* * * *
“ Cowyarder ” :
Romance! Is it dead? Some say “Yes.” But they
know only the sordid life of the city. Driving through
dairying Taranaki (M.L.) recently, I heard sounds of
strife. I pulled up, and saw two brawny cowbangers
dealing out stoush to each other, while a presentable
maiden hung round and strove unavailingly to separate
them. I approached, dragged the girl out of harm’s
way, and learned from her that her boy was asking Dad’s
consent, and simultaneously getting the old man’s
answer. When the combatant,s realised my presence,
they appointed me referee. The hardest part of the job
consisted in preventing the female spectator from run-
ning in and getting bashed. It was a great and clean
fight. In the twenty-eighth round I counted the boy
out, and Dad retained possession of his best milker.
I drove the boy into town, and soothed his anguish with a
long beer. He confided to me that it was the second
time he had asked Dad, hut emphasised the fact that the
girl was worth it, as she was the fastest milker in the dis-
trict. He said he intended to go on bashing his prospect-
ive father-in-law till he won her. We drank another long
beer to the mislaying of Dad’s punch, and parted.
* * *
“Pick”: Talking of long songs. Whilst
shearing at Bibbenluke (N.S. W.) some years ago,
I was mildly interested, then carelessly inatten-
tive, next irritated, and finally frenzied by the
nightly caterwauling of a fellow tomahawker who,
in an alleged song of 54 six-line verses, with a
chorus, recounted the doings of “bold Ned Kelly”
and his “ironclad gang.” The thing had been
concocted by the illiterate nark who incessantly
howled it, and the tune was ingeniously made to
fit the varying lengths of the unrhythmical lines.
Historically it was a fraud, for. though every
chorus ended with the assurance that “ the Kelly
boys would live,’’the final stanza told how they
“like valiant heroes died.” I claim that it was
the longest song on record ; also the most madden-
ing, as sung by its accursed composer.
“ Cheeri-Wee ” files an information :
Jack Kookaburra is guilty of obtaining the sympathies
of Aboites under false pretences; he is Nature’s arch-
confidence bird. Why the Jackass or Derwent Jack
tribes ever came under the Game Protection Act is a
mystery to me and to other observers who know what
vandals all these king., ihers are. As a destroyer of our
insectivorous birds, Jack and all his relations are unsur-
passed. The average of him will, from sheer wantonness,
slay in a week more greenies (Australian canaries),
honey-eaters, catbirds, choughs, wagtails, etc., than a reg i-
ment of pea-gun v.mdalscould in a month of holidays. The
more useful and defenceicss the farmer’s feathered friend
the more certain is it of extermination. A lon of damage
has been laid at the door of the poison-cart driver which
rightly belongs to this useless alarm clock of the bush.
Moreover, Jack’s reputation for killing snakes is founded
on moonshine ; so he has no earthly right to his position
in the useful bird list on that score.
Janor ’ : The Gippslander who sallies
forth these times with axe and bucket in quest of
the “sugar-bag” returns home honeyless and
blaspheming. Bee trees abound and so do
bees, but honey there is none. Not that the
bees have downed tools. Far from it. They
have been sustaining their reputation for
business right antfully ; but their sweets of
labor have been scoffed by millions of
grubs, which have invaded the nests and
permeated the combs. Further, this grub,
maggot, or larva does not confine itself
to the wild honey of the bush, but has de-
pleted scores of well-kept hives of the
domestic brand. Little appears to be
known of the pest’s life-history. Some
beekeepers can recognise the moth respon-
sible for the grub invasion, but all attempts
to keep the intruder’s ova out of the hives
have failed.
“ Wyung ” : Hearken to a tale of thrift.
James Dee, who died the other day, was a simple-
minded son of the bush who accumulated much
wealth by the patient exercise of thrift. And, as
is usual with thrifty people, his luck was amazing.
He bought a village settlement block that had
starved out three families of hard-working people.
And the first and only crop of hay he took off it
was such a “ bonzer ” one that he sold the stack,
humpy, settlement and everything else to the local
financier at a good profit. When the capitalist
took possession he could not find the hut, and
James blandly explained that, not having had
previous experience in stack architecture, he had
built the blessed thing over the hut. In fact, the
haystack was mostly hut. On another occasion he
took a rickety set of harness to the local
auction room, where it was valued at
three half-crowns, or thereabouts. James “re-
served” it at £3 10s.j and the auctioneer-
ing staff simply howled. James also howled.
A month or two later a freckled youth, in store
clothes turned up at the bottom, and wearing a
new silk handkerchief and expensive cigarette at
the other end of him, strolled into the auction-
room to pick up a good set of harness. The
attendant showed him Dee’s. He examined it
critically, and was about to put it down when he
inquired the price. “ Three pun’ ten —cost three
times that amount! ” said the glib salesman.
“Three pun ten—-struth ! it must be a good bit of
stuff, :V>ugh it don’t look too choice. Well,
here’s five bob deposit till I go round to the bank
and get out some more dollars.” Hardly
was he out of sight when James Dee arrived to
remove his harness. He, too, had found a cus-
tomer. The auctioneer passed over the reserved
price, minus the commission, and kept the har-
ness. He went on keeping it—has it yet, in fact,
for that loud youth never came back. And by
adhering strictly to the practice of thrift on these
careful and proper lines, James Dee built up a
snug nest egg, and died unmarried in his old age,
with no one to leave the egg to, and with a confused
idea that perhaps life had been a rather dull busi-
ness after all.
AN INTERMINABLE BEER.
THE BEAT: “Get out! Why should I get out? Didn't I have a long beer?”
THE BARMAID: “ You did; but none of our beers are more than two hours long.”
“ Uckle ” : What “ Jarrah ” noted
(B. 25/2/’O9) re birds colliding with wire-netting
in Westralia, occurred also along the Blayney-
Harden line (N.S.W.) many years ago. Nearly
every other family along that bird-web was in-
dulging in the luxury of feather beds ; and if the
supply of birds had held out, the people who
missed the ’bus would have had feathers too.
Green leeks and rosellas have a horror of hawks,
and if they are on the wing and hear one screech
they immediately swoop down to within a foot or
two of the ground. The people had noticed this,
and used to station their boys and girls along the
netting, or close handy; and when a flock of
green leeks or rosellas approached the fence a
chorus of screeches (in imitation of hawks) would
tear the atmosphere. The birds would swoop
down, and the netting did the rest. Some
youngsters had more life-like screeches than
others, and the best screechers used to account
for from two pillows to a mattress per week.
Carruthers no doubt knew of those feather beds
when he shook the netting. His old flock mat-
tress had worn out.
**•*•*.
“ Henry Phelthatt ” : A remarkable thing
about Australian wild birds is that every year
they lay exactly the same number of eggs. With
a few exceptions—notably the emu and turkey—
there appear to be fixed rules governing the vital
statistics of our indigenous fowl. For instance; a
fully-equipped soldier-bird’s nest will contain
three eggs; a curlew’s, two; a rosella lays four ;
magpie, three; crow, four; diamond sparrow,
four. I have searched hundreds of nests, and
have never yet found any variation from the
prescribed number. Once I tried to deceive a
soldier-bird by placing an egg from another nest
in its incubator. It gazed thoughtfully at the
intruding sphere for a while, and then, after doing
a little hurried addition on its claws, it threw the
intruder overboard.
“ Huflin-Guffin ” : The Glenelg River
(Western Vic.) is rapidly filling with sand. At
Harrow, where I used, 25 years ago, to dive into
water 20ft. deep, there is now scarcely moisture
enough for a tadpole to swim in. The “Big
Hole,” “Old Beet’s Hole,” “The Swimming
Hole ” and others, are now all filled with sand.
Most of the river from Balmoral to Casterton (and
beyond, I believe) is the same. One theory is that
the clearing of the timber on the banks of the
river and tributary creeks has loosened the soil,
and given the winter rains a better chance to
sweep it down. If this is correct, a good many
Australian rivers are in danger. Which is another
argument for some systematic replanting of de-
forested areas.
* * ■*
“ Cict ” : As a first step towards the pre-
servation of our native game, the close season for
wild duck should be extended from August of one
year till May of the next. It would check those
murderers who sally forth annually on February 1
in quest of the immature flappers and their parents,
which for the previous six months have been
schooled to fear not the passing human. A whole
army of shooters journeyed to the Walla Walla
swamp, about 10 miles west of Culcairn
(N.S.W.), a couple of Januaries back. They
struck the edge of the water on the 31st,
and at the first streak of dawn on the
next day 50 or 60 guns sent multitudinous
quarts of lead amidst the puzzled swimming birds,
which scampered from one pair of barrels to
another. It is estimated that the gun-bearers
accounted for 50 score of ducks that fatal morn-
ing, 40 score of which they left to pollute the
water and the atmosphere and victual the ants.
Fortunately for the few ducks that had missed
the shot on the Ist instant, they were allowed a
lengthy spell, as not even the most bloodthirsty
killer could face for a time the perfume which
enshrouded the lake. Any measure to discourage
big bags on the breeding-grounds of these beauti-
ful and valuable birds would be welcomed by
genuine sportsmen.
“ Janor” : Have known the goburra inti-
mately for several decades, but he has never
succeeded in impressing me as a fighter. “Bos-
well’s” statement that he is the “boss bird of the
Australian bush ” (B. 4/2/’O9) is certainly wide of
the truth. There are several fowl that can “do”
the jackass badly—the shrike, for instance. A
while back a pair of shrikes nested in a tree over-
looking my camp, and every morning the cock
bird came along to help me empty the bush mouse-
trap. One morning a laughing jack arrived and
attempted to have breakfast with the shrike.
There was a wild whir of feathers, an angry snap-
ping of horny beaks, and more chin-music than if
a pair of world-champion heavyweights were en-
gaging ; and then the interloper went under.
The scrap degenerated ultimately into a rearguard
action, the shrike dealing it out, drawing blood
and feathers, and following until “ Boswell’s” boss
bird crawled into a handy knot-hole. In addition
to the shrike, the butcher bird, a light-weight
alongside the goburra, holds the laugher cheap.
“ Boswell ” should reconsider the jackass. He is
a merry fowl, but he is slow and clumsy and he
lacks combativeness.
PARTIAL SUICIDE.
“ What on earth made y'r sign th' pledge, Jim?”
“ Well , y'r see, Bill, I wuz sober at th ’ time, an'
wuz so miserable I cud'a' done hanything.”
“ Spoz ” : The toughest hand I ever struck
at dodging a job was “ Hairy Bob.” He came my
way again the other day, and demanded tucker.
I mentioned, instead, a job. The word “job”
affected him like a blow. This dialogue followed :
Him: A job ! What doin’ ?
Me : Digging spuds.
Him : What chew givin’ a bag ?
Me : Ninepence. (The usual price was 5d.)
Him : But I’ve got no fork.
Me : There’s half-a-dozen in the shed ; get one of them.
Him: What about a tent? I got none.
Me : Never mind ; I’ve got one you can have.
Him : But I’ve got no tucker.
Me : That’ll be all right ; I’ll help it up to you till you
dig- enough to get credit at the store.
Him : Not me ! Yer bleeding job can’t be any good, or *
someone else’d ha’ took it.
And he left.
THE GRIPMAN AND THE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Griptnan’s hair was curly,
The Gripman’s face was hare ;
He plied his rattling levers
With gay and jaunty air.
To him the world was blithesome,
For oh ! his blood was young,
And leapt to light fantasias,
Upon his tram-bell rung.
The Girl was slim and dainty,
And cuddlesome and sweet,
With cheeks like moss-rose petals,
And tiny tripping feet;
He caught her eye and trembled ;
His heart beat high and wild,
For she—oh ! happy Gripman—
She bowed to him and smiled.
How eagerly responsive,
He waved a gallant hand,
As by his track-brake handle,
He took majestic stand !
How swelled his manly bosom.
How bold his glance and bright,
At this ethereal vision !
(He watched her out of sight.)
Alas ! for youthful fancies,
That carry us so far ;
The maiden’s fancied greeting
Was meant to hail the car ;
And as it passed, unhalting,
Her smile changed to a frown,
While in a dainty note-book
She wrote its number down.
VICTORIA.
KABAN.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
MR. T. C. ALLEN, Registered Patent Attorney and
Consulting Mechanical Engineer, begs to notify his
many clients and friends that he has dissolved partner-
ship with Mr. Arthur Griffith (late Griffith and Allen) and
will continue to practise in his own name at Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Buildings, corner of King and
Pitt Streets, Sydney.
THE QUEEN BOUGHT
at the Franco-British Exhibition a
number of our AUSTRALIAN
GOLDEN SAPPHIRES.
Her Majesty wears them.
They are fashionable.
Have you seen them ?
They are of rare beauty and are next to diamonds in
reflective power.
We get them from the mines in the rough.
We cut them to various shapes.
We export them —we mount them.
It will afford us pleasure to show them to you.
1 if-* \
■
X 0
J i
&' & ‘it*
Specially-selected Golden Sapphires and
Diamonds, £l5 to £2O.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“Ryton”: Re turtles in S. Australian
rivers (B. 18/2/’O9). The brutes are very plentiful in
the Goulburn, Victoria’s best river. Near
Shepparton, at Christmas time, our party caught
seven in three days, all hooked while angling.
Goulburn River fishermen are their sworn
enemies, as they are perfect pests to the angler.
They are extremely difficult to catch, and will
. keep a new chum busy baiting and re-baiting the
hook. The experienced fisherman knows a turtle’s
bite, and when one is around he quickly shifts
quarters. The one point in their favor is that
when hooked they do not struggle,
but come as a dead weight
through the water.
THE REASON OF HIS ATTITUDE.
OFFSTEIN: “ Oh, dot is a suid I got home from
der Big Tailor Esdablishment dis mornin’.
Id hangs all ride ven I stand oop, but if I
go me down to dot shob like dis der manager
gif me a rebade of ten shillinks for der
shogging misfid.”
THE EXPLORERS.
FIRST WHALER: "Narrandera’s the place fer dust storms. They hen' a hex-ray fake up there
fer to pump the dust outer a sick bloke.”
SECOND DITTO: "Ah, but yer oughter see a dust storm at Deniliquin. Why, the blanky crows
flies tail first fer to keep the dust outer their eyes.”
“ Malacoota ” : The Great Pig Industry
has not received that attention from Australian
poets which it deserves. The horse school of
poesy is so given to blindly worshipping the
Golden Foal that it cannot see the stacks of sale-
able couplets waiting to be turned out from the
tuneful pig. In some country districts the pig is
more than sacred. The inhabitants lay upon
porcine altars the devotion and reverence of their
entire lives. In the Big Scrub the pig train runs,
or used to run, every Tuesday. Ordinary passen-
gers who complained —mere strangers or commer-
cial travellers—were socially ostracised. The
farmers would get out at every
platform to enjoy the bouquet.
1 And at each stopping place
farmers who had driven from
a distance would gather round
to see what pigs were going
through, and ascertain if the guard
and fireman, and other Govern-
ment hirelings, were doing their
duty by them. When the first
Australian pig poet begins to
twang his lyre, he will
awaken responsive echoes
from York to Howe. His
verse, if it is strong in
local color, should
run into at least six
editions.
“ Dandalup ” :
“ C. K. T.” (B.
18/2/’O9) says my
statement re the
speed of bush-fires,
and the wind’s in-
fluence on such speed,
needs qualification.
“C.K.T.” partly quali-
fies my remarks by his
own statement: “A fire in
many cases makes its own
wind.” Then, according to
“C.K.T.,” the fire must
travel at the same rate as
the wind it makes ; if not,
then, like the Federal
Labor party in relation to
Jo Cook, the fire must
leave the wind wallowing
along behind. But, be
this as it may, can
“ C.K.T.” explain where,
‘on a calm day,” when
there is absolutely no
breeze, the Fiend ac-
quires his wind, and
why, if he makes his own
breezes, he doesn’t travel
through green country at the same rate as he does
through dry ? Many Outback residents, when
they sight a blaze afar off, make a simple test of
the velocity and direction of the wind, thereby
assuring themselves when and where the hot
curse will attack their properties. In spite of
“C.K.T.,” I would sooner chance getting my
back-hair singed by a “calm-day” bush-fire than
have the discomfort of propelling myself away
from a small blaze with a 40-mile-an-hour breeze
tickling its rear part.
* * * *
One of the last of the famous red cedars
of the Dorrigo (N.S.W.) was recently felled at
“The Gulf,” Paddy’s Plains. From stump to
first limb the tree measured 48ft., and it had a
middle girth of 20ft. Cut out it yielded 14,000 ft.
of flitch cedar, the largest splinter being 48in.
wide, 17in. deep, and 12ft. in length. The con-
tents of the second and third junks were 420 and
368 super, ft. respectively. The tree delivered in
Bellingen was worth somewhere about £lBO.
When they were last counted in a rough-
and-ready way, Australia’s black brothers totalled
41,889. As the bill for giving Binghi an occa-
sional feed and a blanket amounted to £56,106,
the average works out at about 275. per abo.
Tasmania has no black brother left, so black
brother cost the Speck nothing. N.S.W., with
4287, paid about £3 a head ; Queensland, with
5137, £2; S. Australia, with 26,433, only 95.;
Westralia, with 5261, £3; and Victoria, with 271,
about £l6 per head. The sum varies, of course,
with the means that are left to Binghi of chasing
his own tucker ; hence the vast difference between
the figures for S. Aus. and Victoria.
“ Benita ” : Great is the calmness of the
cocky. Was travelling out Chinchilla (Q.) way,
when I met a lone agriculturist perched on a
stump beside his little wooden hut. I tried to
strike up a yarn, but though he appeared in-
terested, his vocabulary rarely exceeded “ Yairs”
or “Naw.” Then, noticing the deserted appear-
ance of the aforesworn hut, I remarked: “ Haven’t
you got any fowls?” “Snuffed out” was the
reply. “No dog or cat ? ” “ Snuffed out.” “No
children?” I ventured timidly. “Snuffed out.”
A cold sweat broke forth upon me like a damp
halo. “N-N-No wife?” I gasped. He jerked his
thumb towards the humpy. “Snuffin’ out in
there now,” he said, with icy calmness. I gathered
up the beauteous female called Matilda and leaped
for the horizon, and I only struck the ground
twice before I got there.
TO WHAT BASE USE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A bush bar held an old bush bard
(’Twas yesternight, at Got-a-thirst),
Beered-up, and whiskied, and three-starr’d —
In fact, a bush bard on the burst.
And he was knocking down a cheque
For poems supplied, and shouting beer
And fags for many a social wreck,
Who, one by one, did chew his ear.
And what time blue and green and grey
And yellow things climbed over him,
He spoke in an instructive way
Of jams whose Christian name is jim.
“ They all have uses, friends,” he said.
“ Observe that lizard on the bar ;
Note the curved horns upon his head —
He’s worth at least a three-inch par.
“And that brown toad, with lips as blue
As Buckley’s chance, and that young snake,
With nineteen tails of different hue,
They’ll both good nature-studies make.
“ I’d like to photograph them now,
But —see those scorpions on the chair !
They’ve both got udders like a cow.
And cloven hoofs and golden hair !
“ They form a genus of their own.
S. vlatyeercus, from the East;
Ah ! what a pity they have flown ;
They meant an article at least.
“ But never mind ! This centipede—
Note his dog-teeth, how huge and grim !
No doubt, no doubt I shall succeed
To make Miltonic verse of him.
“ And this ” —he rose and gripped the boss,
And threw him heavily and knelt
Upon his bulky chest—“ this cross
Between a pumpkin and a pelt,
“I’ll screw its neck and bottle it
In spirits, till a way I see
To dish it up well trimmed with wit—
An Aboriginally.”
But, oh ! alas ! that old bush-bard,
That old bush-bard upon the burst,
He slept last night on something hard
Down in the quod of Got-a-thirst.
And whilst this morn his head doth ache
And all his senses seem to swim,
He knows the local rag will make
A great big paragraph of him.
victoria.
MILKY WHITE.
WHEN THE RAILWAY TRAVELS ALONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Idly the dairyman sits on his fence,
As dairymen often do ;
He keeps up his cheque and he keeps down expense
By sweating an orphan or two.
He looks at his farm with pleasure. And this
Is the burden and soul of his song :
“ I’ll cut it all up into building blocks
When the railway travels along.”
The dairyman’s man is called from his bunk
Ere daylight; when winter is raw,
He drives up the cows through inches of frost
While icicles cling to his jaw.
He curses the boss, and he curses his cows,
And he curses his work as a wrong :
“ Still, I may get a holiday some-day,” he says—
“ When the railway travels along.”
The dairyman’s wife is a patient poor soul;
Her face has grown wrinkled and hard ;
She feeds the poddies and ’tends to the fowls,
While the children slave on in the yard.
She hates the drab life in the country, and pines
For the city’s clamorous throng—
“ I think we’ll get down to Sydney,” she says,
“ When the railway travels along.”
N.S.W.
A.H.B.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under'
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Cliff-Side : What you and a number of other
unconscious Stinking-Fishers want to do, instead of
taking the daily paper for it, is to buy a volume of the
“Official Statistics.” In the “Trade and Customs”
volume, just issued, you would find that in 1907 Aus-
tralia imported from Natal lOOcwt. of tanning bark (and
244 cwt. from all other parts), while it exported
3‘>B,l67cwt S.P.H.: Has too strong a family likeness
to a yarn that was told a month or two ago... .Toolooa:
Too long-winded ; and not much to be long-winded about
either... A Greek :It pains you, does it, to be called “ a
Dago” ! Then you’re far too thin-skinned, and ought to
get yourself tanned. You’ll find the word in any decent
dictionary. Present writer, by the way, happens to have
been born in S. Aus., and never lost a moment’s sleep
through being called a Crow-eater... R.S.W.: “The
Prodigal Mistress ” and “A Good-Bye” were unsuitable.
Have no recollection of the others.,. .Ashley : Can find
no trace of manuscript mentioned in your letter ...
Blair: Sorry all strike us as carpet-slipper items—
the sort you write when you go home and set to work
to think up something to fill five pages with....
A. 8.0. : Twenty-verses about a practical joke. It is over
the odds J. Edwards : “ The Unattainable ” has been
hanging between the basket and the pressfor afortnight;
and the basket won at last ~. Carlcobur : There’s poetry
in you ; but so far it’s a corduroy track that your Pegasus
rushes you a10ng.,,, lI.C. ; “An Ode to Summer’ is the
usual old ode, and so it has gone the way of all odes
which are not unusual,,,,A.M.D. : Hopeless. Oneofthe
trials of our life is the writer who sends us poetry that
was born to blossom in the pages of the Town and Country
Journal. ... J.W.B. : Try “ The Dog-Snake ”on a hard-
ened scientific paper. Poems beginning :
November and December,
If rightly I remember,
Is the season for our serpents to cohabit —
are, as a general thing, unsuitable to lay journals. ...P.
Wink: “To Betsy Jane’’has an idea in it, but why do
you do things so carelessly ? It is impossible to write
even topical verse decently without taking trouble...
The Racoon : Goodish idea, disappointingly carried out
and handicapped by its flavoring of parody. ..C. MacM.:
The language is vigorous ; but it doesn’t express any new
thought, and some of the old thoughts it expresses have
holes in them.... W.S.T.: “Lord Bateman,” whom we
knew in an illustrated edition, is no more a bush ballad
than “ The Ancient Mariner.” “ Pannikin ” asked about
lengthy ballads which were in favor in the baekblocks....
The Wasp: Your “ Scene in a Gambling Den ” should be
pasted in the committee room of every Wade-ite candi-
date who shows signs of weakening on the future Chief
Justice’s anti-gaming legislation :
“ Pay up, you cursed frauds, pay up,
I won the silver fair,”
Cried a young and desperate gamester,
As he fiercely raised a chair ;
But he was speedily seized and overpowered,
By the rough and evil men,
And wounded from a stab with a knife
He staggered out of the Den.
D.H.W.: Metre is so jagged that it cut the envelope
in three places and wore a hole through the postage
stamp ...J.D.W.: Topical verse isn’t expected to reach
hhdier than the third Heaven. Yours, however, de-
scends into W.W.T.: “Cynicus,” the London
artist, conceived your “ Transit of Venus idea y ears
ago Peer-Oh :We diagnose “ Eppy ’as a steal from
an American comic paper J. Grif: “Arbitration is
beautiful in theory, but rotten in practice.” All right ;
then change the practice. You don t want to abol-
ish boots because some of them pinch, do y0u?....
E.S.E. : Didn’t quite reach the mark... .T.A.N. : Some-
what too sprawly.., .Tacitus ; Third-class work 0n1y....
J.A.8.: Very inferior brand of humor..... .Sandy :It
doesn’t hit us in the right place S.W.E. : Mere elegant
inanity Sancho: Too stilted and grandiloquent.
Simply and directly treated, it would have been a good
story... .Rio: Impossible to say at this distance of tune
‘YV.H.: The basket always gapes for that kind of
stuff... .Nevermore : Merely easy rhyming of the four-
pence-a-furlong variety....F.J.M. : Cheer up! It isn t
going to be as bad as that. Otherwise the verse is pretty
good T.G.S. (Gumbargo): Write to Secretary, United
Clerks’'Association, 87 Pitt-street, Sydney..... Theo
Philus: “Penny in the Slot Piano” is ha’penny in the
slot poetry... .Marcella R. : Not in our line.... .G.V.G. .
If vour yarn of the lad with the ** torturous brass bugle,
and the cows that kept step to a march played on the
same, is really a first attempt, you have a magnificent
future before you as an entertaining liar.. - -I'■ Jackson .
Yes we accept contributions, but we have a prejudice
against those that are stolen from other papers
Sydney G.: Howling doggerel.... Old Salt: Thanks; but
already dealt with... .Rita : “ Sons of Australia is title
type of verse that can only he described as well meaning,
but awful.... Wall op: “Blokes” item too trivial....
Subscriber : “ Post,” Wellington (M.L.).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
D.J.H. : The drawing is better than the joke. It
seems a hard thing to say about any joke, but the tru'th
will out occasionally., ..Slab: Quite good enough tojje
worth a word of encouragement.. . .Bob S.: It wasn-l a
big joke when it was fresh-laid, and it hasn’t grown any
bigger since. Drawing no g00d... .Norman S. : There is
always some difficulty in graphically picturing a red nose
in black ink ; wherefore a picture that hangs on the red-
ness of a nose starts its little battle for life under a heavy
handicap... .Harold Turner: Your debtor is in Mid-
bourne, the debt isn’t worth suing him for, and he wot t
answer your letters. The obvious thing seems to.be ito
at once stop writing' to him. You will thus beat him by
the value of several stamps.
“ Janor ” : It is well-known among busli-
men that the jackass doesn’t turn his beak up at
a bit of carrion. Nor is he singular in that
respect. “ Agricola ” was right recently when be
noted that many native fowl also peck at
carcases. Barring aquatic and migratory birds
there are few that do not. Drought and bush-
fires cause a scarcity of insect and plant life over
large areas periodically, and then it is pot-luck
for those that fly, and anything handy is turned
into bird. Another worrier of carrion is the
honey bee. Have often seen him' emerge from
the wayside cadaver, and I take it he wasn’t
there for sport.


FROM A WINDOW IN COLLINS STREET.
'The latest development' Geelow Chns’f'Chuttij dispute.
fooK plwe en wh^
/ncwHr)ke*>t* in & Jjolicfim&ji
i'o Stop rt r Pe*£on ieubing
I%e sentov
KfcytW of cm y«- .
dye See, for 'll +2>Ke y« wi«salf '
Oj?in ye»- How I
Ityre c
20,000 w'ene "'held A"
in Hobsonj o&.y vVtjilt
lieej^po f picer afeJ
-tffe c& s se of dv cVfiM wirf
t'tyicken £>oX orr on®, of t^eivt
OJ' W^ o le D>—— 1 . Tleet'J
\ S <^oV + "fo "fl^<e_
\
," fu Yit>y& \ of
you ! •’
Ihe ekirjen+s o\'
still
to
Mnitfe tf'ie.i'vi .
(A^s)
, ' The Stated
| fjfcye.
J [(?OIS^T©M
I |fc"}'inrje<3 bef®*'* “se.
/ & in only
3> C»s«s *W* f>*] |
) VCK’dlcT
Co\r,\t CanfeKoice. S+aJc fr-emiers
IS Ok Ho ok
*■ yAjKc we aJI ?
■feK eti ?
Strife Mt ({4 e , 7 "mOl): — h .
I " ; 0 i
•'-" Here I svf you Know- Vjow's %«, pro^etulTon!


THE GRAVE AND THE GAY.
The cry of “No Rifles ” Is becoming acute
amongst the rifle clubs of this State.
The following circular memorandum, dated flarcti
I, has been addressed to captains of rifle clubs -
throughout New South Wales“ Owing to the j
stock of H.L.E. and M.E. barrels having been ex-
hausted, captains of rifle clubs will please note that
there are no rifles or barrels available for issue or pur- .
y chase. .. .-GEORGE L. LEE, Bt. Lt.-Col., Officer y
Supervising Rifle Clubs." Are we drifting back to'
fold methods? i
CHEERFUL FUNERALS.-WHY FEEL SAD AND GLOOMY ?
In Melbourne representatives of the various churches expressed the hope that
a simplified burial service would be introduced by each. It was explained that
the ideas of loss and grief were made too prominent. . . . Said Rev. W. G. Taylor:
• • | have more than once hinted that I sincerely hope that when I am dead every-
thing will be of the brightest and most happy kind.” . . . Brigadier Cain, of the
Salvation Army, says that in Army funerals there is an objection to anything
gloomy. “ White coffins are generally used. Bands invariably accompany our
funerals, and the music chosen is anything but depressing.”
Now, that is the proper attitude toward funerals in general. Here is a list of
funerals which would suggest a spirit of cheerfulness bordering on rejoicing.
/ 'i f// / s ■
Women, reeking with a sickening
odor of stale scent, who will ride in
the tram “ smoker,” loudly remarking
“ Pooh ! It’s a smoker. But it doesn’t
matter—we haven’t far to go ! " Why
feel sad and gloomy at the funerals of
such ?
The man who invented this should
a white coffin, at least.
Also the small boy, who, in
public conveyances, whistles
music-hall .ditties (out of tune
at that; —his funeral should be
“ anything but depressing.”
Then there’s the beast whom it would /
be base flattery to call a swine who;
expectorates on the floors of ferry-
boats, etc., and then spreads the re-
sult about with his foot. Sound the
loud tocsin rather than a knell at the
funeral of such I
The time is now ripe for
setting up Owe-Sullivan’s
“Australia Facing the Dawn.”
And what more appropriate
place than somewhere on the
coast of W.A.?
The outlaw who spends Sundays and holidays
trying to add to the repertoire of his parrot-
sounds seldom heard outside a lunatic asylum or
boiler-factory. A tin-kettle band should follow
him to his grave; and if it were a double
funeral, including the bird, it would add to the
hilarity of the occasion.
Who would shed a tear at the funeral
of such as these? There are others,
but space is limited.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY
PERFECT PURITY.
WHEN Jack and Tommy
come to town they like
to have a polish on their
boots that will reflect credit on
their respective departments.
You, too, can have a glorious
shine if you will use CHERRY
BLOSSOM— the Polish that
brightens easily, lasts a long
time, and effectually resists the
damp. You can get large tins—
Black or Tan —anywhere at 3d.
and 6d. Try it. Write us if
you cannot get supplies.
SWIFT & CO., 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Important Discovery.
HOW FAT MAY BE REMOVED RAPIDLY BY A
SIMPLE HOME REMEDY WITHOUT CAUSING
WRINKLES, DISTURBING THE DIET, OR UNDER-
GOING VIOLENT EXERCISE.
“Fat is nothing but unused energy,” says an
eminent physician, and the man or woman who is
over-burdened with it can easily get rid of the
excess if they wish. All they need is one half-
ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of
Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
8.P., and Peppermint Water to make six ounces ;
all of which they can get at any chemist’s at a very
reasonable cost. Then let them take two tea-
spoonfuls after each meal and at bedtime until
they are reduced to the desired weight.
This simple home receipt is far better than any
of the secret preparations, for it reduces the fat
safely and harmlessly. The ingredients are wholly
beneficial to the system, having both tonic and
purifying qualities, and so help rather than distress
the stomach. The remedy does not cause wrinkles,
for it reduces one gradually and naturally, pre-
serving a good outline, and, best of all, needs no
assistance from physical exercise or any change in
diet—one can get the best results and still take
things easy: eating just what, when and how one
pleases.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
C. E. Pilcher, whom Chief Justice Parley
(N.S.W.) wouldn’t have as. his successor, was,
curiously enough, one of his own law “ pupils.” He
only had three.
The others were
Justice R. E.
O’Connor and
the late “Jack”
Want.
HISTORICAL.
“Oh, Mr. Grigsby, Captain Clinker has just told
me that his people originally came out in the
Australian Mayflower."
“Australian Mayflower? Hum! I suppose
he means the Success !”
What is alleged to be the last asset in
Jimmy Tyson’s estate was sold the other day. It
was a piece of ground in Queen-street, Brisbane,
on which the E. S. and A. Bank is built.
Another Australian-born writer has made
good in the Great Fog. His name is Henry
Handel Richardson, and he is a novelist. His
last book, “Maurice Guest,” was described by
Frank Harris, editor of London Vanity Fair, as
the “ best novel of the last five years.” Richard-
son is a native of Melbourne.
State Excellency Carmichael, naturalist
and Governor, congratulated himself on having
visited Bendigo the other day, “ because,” said
he, “ I have just seen a fly I never saw in my life
before.” The goldfields city is only moder-
ately pleased. At that very moment all were
congratulating themselves that there were no flies
on Bendigo.
S. Aus. Premier Tom Price is now taking
strict rest at Victor Harbor, and not even his
colleagues are allowed to see him. He re-
cognises that his only hope of ever getting into
harness and dragging a full load again lies in
absolutely shutting off exertion and excitement
for a while. Fortunately there will be no general
election in S. A. until next March.
The genial Frank Davies is relinquishing
his position as general manager of the Gordon
and Gotch newspaper-distributing business, with
which he has been identified for a quarter of a
century. He will, however, continue to act as
chairman of directors of the G. and G. Proprietary
Co., and his John Bull-like presence will be at the
head of the table at Board meetings as before.
By strict attention to business, and being
somebody’s nephew, a man may sometimes rise to
great eminence. The late John Hay, knight and
LL.D., when called to Coolangatta by David Berry
(who made hi m residuary legatee and executor), was
keeping a drapery store in Auckland, Maoriland.
The knighthood was engineered by Carruthers ;
and both James Norton (the solicitor and execu-
tor of the estate) and John Hay were made
LL.D.’s by St. Andrew’s University in return for
David Berry’s bequest to that institution.
James Douglass Stewart, who will fill the
newly-created chair of Veterinary Science at
Sydney University, is an Australian native, son
of John Stewart, who for many years represented
Kiarna in the N.S. W. Legislative Assembly, and
for many years afterwards was a member of the
Legislative Council. Father Stewart died a few
years ago, a very old man. Like the son, he was
an eminent horse-doctor. But his name as a
Parliamentarian isn’t kept green by any law
relating to either glanders or lumpy jaw—he was
instead “the man who introduced the process
which abolished commas, semi-colons, etc., from
Acts of Parliament.”
Inspector Roche, of Sydney, who it is pretty
certain is to have the office of Superintendent of
the N.S.W. Criminal Investigation Department,
originally known as the Detective Department,
has a good record as a keen and determined police-
man. Amongst his best efforts was the tracking
and capture of Butler, the mountain murderer ;
and, later on, he secured the conviction of Digby
Grand (an assumed name) and Jones for the
murder of Constable Long at Auburn. He rose
from the ranks of the uniformed police; his
first big case as an ordinary constable was
a tobacco robbery at the Haymarket. Even
Roche, however, hashad cases which looked simple
and yet have beaten him. During the big shearers’
strike he was sent out into the Far West to in-
quire into, among other things, the burning of
the river steamer Rodney, with a barge, laden
with “black” wool. One night a big crowd of
men from a strike-camp moved down on the
steamer, and, after clearing it, wiped it clean out.
Roche spent weeks over that job; but, though
there were at least 40 men in the business, so well
did they keep their pledges that not a conviction
was got, nor even any substantial bit of evidence.
“The Secret History of the Court of
Berlin,” by “A Lady in Waiting” (pub-
lished by John Long), shows Kaiser Bill in the
domestic aspect. He affords a living example of
the fact that the divine right of Kings doesn’t
prevent the holders thereof from looking
clownish on occasion. F’rinstance, it is
said that the Kaiserin—a housewifely
soul —burned once to give her Bill a nice
surprise. So she painted all the wicker
chairs in their joint bedroom with her
own royal hands. When Bill entered in
his night-shirt from his dressing-room he
found the missus sitting in her favorite
chair, with the lights turned low. She
motioned him mysteriously into his, and
was about to spring her surprise by
turning up the gas, when the air was
polluted by wicked swear-words and a
gyrating Kaiser. She spent the next
few hours scraping paint off Bill’s legs,
after which, says the narrator, Bill filled
in the rest of the night doing a similar
service for her. According to the same
chronicler, baths and bath-rooms are
scarce commodities in the royal palaces
of Germany. The dearth of them nearly
culminated in international war when
Leopold of Belgium visited Berlin some
years ago. Leo combines insanitariness
of mind with scrupulous cleanliness of
person, and so special preparations were
made for his foibles. One end of a bath
was shoved under a cold-water tap and a
row of gas-jets was placed under t’other
end for heating purposes. The idea was
to fill the bath, light the gas, and so
heat the water. Somebody lit the gas
but forgot the water. Leo entered,
stepped into the bath’s cool end, stooped
to turn on the water, then sat down on the almost
red-hot other end. It is said that the palace had
not heard such remarks for a century.
Archbishop Saumarez Smith, of Sydney,
Anglican Primate of Australia and the beloved of
cabmen, is likely to retire immediately after next
Synod meeting. He has held the office now for j ust
20 years, having entered upon the duties in 1890.
On the whole, Sydney bishops hang to their
gaiters and their aprons very well. Since Bishop
Broughton arrived, in 1836, there had been only
two other men to wear the millinery until the pre-
sent Bishop arrived—Barker and Barry. Dr.
Barry is living still, a canon resident of Windsor
(Eng.).
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
FITZJONES : “I see you’ve given your
wife a good , sound musical
education.”
FITZBROWN : “ Well, I dunno about that. But I’ve certainly paid for one!”
After the recent performances of the
Senate of the Sydney University it is almost
startling to find that J. D. Stewart, chief inspector
of stock in N.S.W., has been appointed to the
newly-created professorship of Veterinary Science.
Stewart, nevertheless, has a knowledge of Austra-
lian conditions and needs that an imported man
would be years in acquiring, and he is in the way
of gathering up the odds and ends of information
that a thousand observers are getting hold of
throughout the country.
“Surcingle” gives a send-off to a late
“ Leviathan,” news of whose death is cabled from
London :
Joseph Thompson (Solomon) was the eldest of four
brothers, two of whom were Barnet and John. Joe
caused all three to come to Australia, and likewise his
father. Joe began life as a sailor. He said he first landed
at Sandridge, as a deserter, in a barrel. “ I couldn’t eat
bark, so I took to bookmaking when I hadabitof string.”
By that Joe meant about £5O capital. The first Mel-
bourne bookmakers were Hobson, Goyder and Tom
Coker, of the nose. Joe speedily came on top. His early
rivals included Fagan, Glemster, Green the First, Slack,
Alderson and Anderson. He grew up with the Mel-
bourne Cup. In 1868 he was stone broke by Glencoe.
He partnered with Coleman. They married two sisters,
barmaids, out of a Swanston-street hotel. Both excellent
girls, Mrs. Thompson was a treasure. Joe would be
ready to quote Disraeli—“A man may resolve to be great,
but only a woman can make him so.” Barney Thompson
was Joe’s business partner awhile. Then Barney partnered
with Bill Branch, gentlest of ex-pugs, a man who’d
hardly do harm to a blowfly. By 1870 Joe was up
in the stirrups after his ’6B smash. He went in for race-
horse-owning as partner with Jimmy Wilson of St. Albans.
When Lapdog ran Nimblefoot to a tongue in ’7O, Joe was
concerned. (Nimblefoot put out his tongue and won.)
The St. Albans party swore Lapdog should have had the
verdict. Thompson and Wilson tried to fetch off a
tremendous quadruple, Darkie for two Steeples and
little Flying Scud for two flat races. The Scud, a clipper,
was actually got in at sst. 101 b. There was a Wilson imp
ready. If I mistake not, three legs of that quad, came
off right. Thompson also started as a breeder. His King
of the Bing, Argus Scandal, and, above all, First King,
will not readily be forgotten. Pursuing the Melb. Cups,
in 1871 Thompson and Wilson were strong again with
Bomula, beaten by Tait’s Pearl, against which even 100 to 1
was laid. The firm did not strike a Cup till 1873, when
Don Juan bore them triumphantly home. Joe then built
Don Juan House, East Melbourne. He proudly showed
me his library. It consisted of a magnificent bookcase,
filled with the resplendent new volumes of Bow Bells,
right from the beginning. Joe’s darkest day thence-
forward was when Chester won the Cup. He lost £lO,OOO,
but paid ostentatiously in bank notes, in front of the
Bank of Victoria, Collins-street, giving the public a
“ Cann an, Tahmy,” like Jack Johnson to Noah Brusso.
Florance C. Broadhurst, accidentally
drowned in the Swan River (W.A.) the other
day, aged 48, was the son of Charles Edward
Broadhurst, ex-M.L.C., the man who founded
the pearling industry in Sharks Bay in 1872, and
who in one month scooped £2500 worth of pearls
from the virgin beds. Broadhurst, sen., an
American by birth, got from the Government in
the early ’Bo’s an extensive lease of the Abrolhos
Islands, about 40 miles west of Geraldton, for the
sake of their vast guano deposits. During the
first 12 years of the lease, over 50,000 tons of the
smellful stuff was scattered over the earth.
When his father went out of the business,
Florance took over the leases, but quitted some
five years ago. The Government has since sub-
let the islands to a Geraldton syndicate, but only
on condition that none of the fertiliser is shipped
abroad. Broadhurst, jun., was an enthusiastic
mining speculator, and one of the syndicate
which found and opened up the Mount Sir
Samuel district on the Murchison.
The Oldest Inhabitant on one in the same
line of business :
Mr. and Mrs. William Henry Bueirde, of Canterbury
(Vic.), celebrated their Diamond Wedding on March 2.
They were married in England in 1849. The husband is
89, the wife 84. They arrived in S. Aus. in the year of
their marriage. After a time, the gold fever took him to
Victoria. He tried Ballarat and then Castlemaine (Forest
Creek). His party had only been a few hours in camp at
Castlemaine when George Coppin and some others arrived.
The new arrivals went to Bed Hill. Bueirde and his
party went to Barker’s Creek and struck it rich. Later on
he went through the trouble of license-hunting at Bendigo,
and when a deputation travelled to Melbourne to inter-
view Governor La Trobe, Bueirde was appointed secre-
tary. The gold he took down with him he sold, some for
£2 15s. and some for £3 per oz. The interview with La
Trobe was pleasant, the license fee was abolished, and the
money returned. After that, Mr. Bueirde entered into
business in Melbourne, and came out £BOOO to the bad.
In 1854 he embarked in a new line; he joined Miss
Catherine Hayes as business manager of her first concert
season at the old Exhibition Building, and was afterwards
associated with John Black and others at the old Theatre
Boyal. The Theatre Boyal was built in 1855 ;it was the first
Melbourne building lit throughout with gas, generated
on the premises by Mr. Laurie. Melbourne itself was not
lit till 1857. The Boyal, however, did not pay, and B. E.
Jacomb, an official assignee, and Fred Bayne, a fat solici-
tor, were called in to wind it up. Black went to Eng.
land ; Bueirde travelled the colonies with Emma Stanley
and her “Seven Ages of Women,” and also went to
Ballarat with Lola Montez. Then he passed on to other
business ventures, and in 1876 joined Mr. Lewis at the
Bijou as business manager. After that he succeeded the
late Charles Cavanagh as assistant manager for Coppin
and co. at the Theatre Boyal. Just over a quarter of a
century ago he left Poverty Point for good, joined Golds-
brough’s, and has stuck to figures ever since.
The S.A. politicians now living who have
been most blessed with Ministerial office are ;
Greeley Jenkins, late Agent-General, who has
totalled 11 years one month, plus his term in
London; Tom Playford, 10 years four months in
the State Cabinet, besides Federal office and four
years as Agent-General; Fred Holder, nine years
eight months as a Minister, and he has now had
eight years as Speaker of the House of Reps. ;
and Larry O’Loughlin, nine years two months
(not out) as Commissioner of Crown Lands.
THE REPLY DISCOURTEOUS.
HE: “Yes, I rarely wear the same suit twice."
SHE (considerably bored): “ Goodness! You
most have a crowd of brothers! ”
Clarence Hannell, formerly shipping-
master at Newcastle (N.S.W.), died suddenly the
other day. Like all the Hannells of Newcastle,
he was a man of vast girth. His father, “ Jim ”
Hannell, was M.L.A. for Newcastle for some
years; in fact, for a while the Hannells made a
pocket borough of Newcastle, where Clarence was
born 73 years back. He was a good sportsman,
and in his day an amateur actor. Once he
appeared as Claude Melnotte—2s stone of Claude
Melnotte !
THE PARSON DECIDES ON A CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am brain-weary,” was the burden of the Rev. J. T.
Thorburn’s song- when announcing to the Sydney Presby-
tery his acceptance of a “call” to Gloucester, in the
Hastings (N.S.W.) Presbytery, after several years’heavy
work in Palmer-street, Woolloomooioo. “After five
years and a half of going full speed, I feel I need a
change. I admit lam several pounds heavier than when
I started, but lam brain-weary. So now I go back to
the saddle again, back to the jumping sulky, back to the
salt beef and damper. It did for me once, but lam going
to try it again.” —News Item.
I am down-hearted, friends.
No more do tea
And muffin worries rouse
My heartfelt glee.
In point of hard, cold fact,
They weary me.
No longer, as in days
That now are sped,
Can I uphold my end
When folks get wed.
The glad words will not come ;
My mind seems dead.
At christenings I once
Was deemed tip-top.
Last week I dipped a child,
Then let it drop.
In dreams I still can hear
Its dull, dead flop.
My “ Pleasant Sunday Talks ”
(Alas !) no more,
Occasion me delight ;
I feel a bore
What time I spout. It was
Not thus of yore.
At funerals, an air
Of hopeless gloom
Trails in my footsteps, like
The Breath of Doom.
My quips once almost cheered
The chilly tomb.
Two things result from this,
My dreary state,
Both horrible —viz. (I),
A lightened plate ;
And (t!) —almost as bad—
A gain in weight.
And so, dear brethren, is
Thy servant fain
The backblocks deadly life
To dare again.
It’s possible it may
Improve his brain.
If so, your servant shall,
Later, be seen
Brisk, intellectual,
Bright, earnest, keen ;
His pocket, maybe, fat
As he is lean.
X.S.W.
10-2-4.


,
ms
11111
m
me
Sill
mm
m■ ■ i
.
' ,v {, ie
1-S®
■
, V
m
HI 1
Ilfi!
>V
JST'S"
.x ■
1
'mg:
1®
wm
i;
nil
I^.
lx
gm
A*****
;\
•*6fe-
N V/.
’ ' ■ v
■
: • • •
: i
H,v m
mgMie M'
» v
’ *
■ ■
*
MfSS -IS S '' ' >'S
is; .
•x '
'
sSSaSHiSiSS
; v
J§?ILSS
.
j £;1:. ' |. X—
».*
esss
: :■■;'■ X '
S
■ i! • . '
■.■■■. ■ . ■ , .
■... ■ i . . ■
f
/
■
If you choose “ VENUS ” Tobacco no one
can quibble at your selection. Sold in Cut
Double FlaKe in 2oz. Tins & 2oz. &• 4oz. Plugs.
A SAFE SELECTION.


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
B.eliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Ordex*.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
Amongst the troubles of the wine and spirit
trade is the vexed question of nomenclature. “ What is
whisky ?” kept some London Courts busy during the best
portion of a year. In Portugal the district that may
produce “Port” has lately been fixed by law ; the name
is to be confined to the district from Oastello Rodrigo in
the south and Villa Real in the west, the extent of country
being about 70 miles long and 75 miles wide. Gonzalez
Byass and Co., Ltd., the well-known Port wine manufac-
turers of the Douro, have lately acquired the famous vine-
yard “ Quinta de Roriz,” situated in the Alto Douro, and
the wine from these celebrated vines ranks amongst the
best.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
If you are suffering from biliousness, con-
stipation, indigestion, chronic headache, invest
one penny in a post card, send to Chamberlain
Medicine Co., 608 Harris Street, Sydney, with
your name and address plainly on the back, and
they will forward you a free sample of Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets.*
A LIVING WONDER
What the Neighbours say of a
Newcastle Woman,
Unable to Move.
Cured Nearly Two Years ago by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Fills and is
Still Well and Active.
About two years ago, Mrs. Barbara Watt, of
Roxburg Street, Newcastle, N.S.W., made a de-
claration for publication far and wide, that after
being a helpless cripple from paralysis for nearly
three years, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had restored
the use of her limbs. Her case was such a strik-
ing one that it was the talk of the neighborhood.
A representative who was in the Newcastle district
a few weeks ago found that Mrs. Watt was away
visiting; this alone for a woman who had never
left her house for three years is remarkable. The
neighbors who were seen spoke freely of Mrs.
Watt’s cure, said she was enjoying the best of
health, and was
A Living Monument to Dk. Williams’
Pink Pills.
In the .account of her cure originally given,
Mrs. Watt said
“About three years ago, while doing a little
washing, I was overtaken with a stroke of paraly-
sis. I fell to the ground, absolutely powerless.
I lay in this terrible plight for over three hours,
until some members of my family found me. I
was laid on my bed a helpless wreck. It was im-
possible for me to move my arms or legs. The
pain I suffered was terrible. Not one part of my
body that did not give me the most excruciating
pains. It was utterly impossible for me to move
my hand. The little food that I ate had to be
placed in my mouth, and they had to wash my
face and do my hair. I had several doctors
attending me; they said I had a stroke of paraly-
sis. They did everything possible to give mo re-
lief. For three months I lay as if dead. When
my husband found that I received no relief from
the doctors he decided that I should try Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. I started them, and after
two weeks I could move a little. By the time I
had taken 10 boxes I could sit up and eat my
meals, wash my face and dress my hair. I con-
tinued with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills till I reach-
ed about 18 boxes, when I could get out of bed
and walk to the chair. In all I took 25 boxes of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and only for them I am
confident I never would have walked again. I
have great faith in them, and most of the resi-
dents of Stockton know of my case, and how Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills made me walk again. I can-
not speak too highly of them. Not long ago I
walked as far as the ferry wharf —something I
never expected to do—and I am able to dress
myself.”
Mr. Watt confirms his wife’s story in every
respect, and regards her cure as a certain marvel.
There are a few shopkeepers who try to sell
their own lines when a well-known article like Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills is asked for, and this is not
fair to the customers, as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
have a world-wide reputation, because of their
wonderful cures.
The best thing to do is to trade where substi-
tutes are not pushed. The price of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if there is any trouble in getting them locally
they will be sent post paid by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, on
receipt of price.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
u
Ml
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George
(opp. Hunter bt.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Vic. Labor Party has at last grown
definitely weary of Prendergast as a leader, it is
said. So Prendergast will probably be asked to
move if he will not accept the cold silence of his
“followers” as a hint to move without being
aSked.
“ Via ” looks around his post office :
When is Australia going to manufacture its own postal
requirements? Go into any post office. You pick up a
pen made in England, and write on paper made in
Europe ; the clerk checks your wire with a pencil made
in Austria, and you pay him in coin made in the Cold
Country. He puts your money in a safe made in Ger-
many, and the operator sends the wire on a telegraph
instrument made in London, and over iron or copper
wires (imported) ; and the current is caused by batteries
made in Belgium, and filled with French and English
chemicals (the water is Australian). Or you go
to the telephone cabinet and turn the Birmingham handle
and the Sheffield lock before ringing up the Swedish
(or American) telephone that carries its imported copper
wire on American or French insulators, and you drop
your copper (imported) into a slot made in Birmingham.
Besides the water the only real Australian thing on the
premises is the language that the real Australian customer
uses as he passes out after observing these matters.
“ XXX” (from Yassberra) : Mahon
(Minister for Home Affairs), Miller (secretary),
and Holtnan, M.L.A. (W.A.), rushed up here
lately and pegged out a place for the Federal
members to camp at Yarralumla Creek, eight
miles from Queanbeyan. It is to be hoped that
members will bring their own typhoid prophylactics.
Last week therabbit-poisoning(compulsory) was in
full swing, and a sniff of the thousands of festering
carcases would have given the members a lifelong
sickness of Yassberra. Dead rabbits were every-
where-floating down the watercourses and deco-
rating the ponds and the open spaces, and the
smell which rolled across the bush all day, and
more especially of an evening, was hellish. As a
matter of fact, the stench of poisoned rabbit is so
overpowering that the directors of the Yass P. P.
Board lately debated the question of doing away
with simultaneous compulsory poisoning.
G. Reid says that it’s no good Australia
building torpedo-destroyers, because in 10 years
they will be obsolete and therefore only good for
scrap-iron. The world, asevenG. Reid willprobabiy
admit, is moving along pretty rapidly in other
directions besides the manufacture of things ex-
pressly to kill perfect strangers with ; wherefore
other things besides torpedo-destroyers will most
likely be obsolete in 10 years, and the stuff they
are made of will probably be scrap-iron also. Yet,
though The Bulletin remembers that G. Reid
was a pretty strenuous borrower when he was
State Premier, it can’t remember any 7 or 8 per
cent, sinking fund established by G. Reid in
order to repay in 10 years the borrowed money
put into the appliances that were liable to be
obsolete in 10 years. In neglecting to provide a
sinking fund to replace the scrap-iron, who did
Reid propose to rook—Australia’s creditors, or
the Australian of from 10 to 20 years hence ?
During the five years to the end of June,
1908, the Co-operative Wholesale Society of Man-
chester paid £6,639,208 in Customs duties, mainly
on sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa and tobacco. Happy
Freetrade England—the country which is mad
enough to grind out duties on things which can’t
possibly be produced in the country ; the lunatic
land which carefully selects its duties so that they
shall not by any chance stimulate local production
and provide local employment !
The Commonwealth Government has an
idea for establishing a clothing factory, after the
pattern (more or less) of the one run by the Anti-
Sosh State Government in N. S. Wales. As far
as it has gone with its inquiries, it doesn’t reckon
to save much money by the new move; but as it is by
far the biggest user of clothes in Australia—
through the post and telegraph office, and the
military—it reckons upon getting better-quality
goods at about the old price, and at the same time
it will be quite sure that its officials are not dis-
guising their nakedness in sweated clothing.
Alfred Deakin’s campaign of beautiful
language in Tasmania had at least the virtue of
arousing the Speck’s awful Tory press to some
thing approaching vitality. Especially lively was
Hobart’s gloomy Mercury, which broke into a
profusion of leaden adjectives and doughy verbs.
Though it objected to Deakin’s soothing Liberal-
ism, it objected more to its Mr. Propsting,
Attorney-General in Evans’ Cabinet, supporting
Deakin on a public platform. It was hurt and
outraged at Mr. Propsting professing sympathy
with a “ broad Australian policy,” and said, with
fatal conviction, that it is “ impossible for one
State Cabinet to contain both Mr. Evans and Mr.
Propsting.” The ’umble Mr. Evans will now,
presumably, sack Mr. Propsting, on the ground
that he is at the very least an Anarchist.
FOLLOWING A GOOD EXAMPLE.
THE SHEPHERD: “ I hear, Mrs. Marriman, that you are again contemplating matrimony.
And so soon after the Lord has taken your fourth, too! It’s dreadful, dreadful! ”
THE WIDOW: “Mr. Macsnirel, I’d have you understand that if the Lord keeps on taking
them, so will I.”
The Ma State’s lawyer-Premier struck a
bad double last week when the Privy Council sat
on two appeals from the High Court on matters
connected with his grievances against the
Commonwealth. In one case in which he wanted
to kick against the High Court ruling that a
man in the public service for 35 years is not a
temporary officer the Privy Council flatly re-
fused leave to appeal (with Costs). In the other
case, as to the right of the Commonwealth to
impose duty on the State’s steel rails, the P.C.
reserved judgment as to whether Wade had any
grounds of appeal or not. So he has all the worst
of this case also, for, if his right to even appeal is
uncertain, it will be all the harder for him to win
the case even supposing he gets the permission he
is after.
It isn’t always the fault of the shire
council that its land valuations aye so shamefully
low. Donald (Vic.) shire lately made a revalua-
tion, whereupon the owners provided a test
case. The council had valued the land at £4 per
acre capital value ; the Court reduced that to
£2 10s. Yet within six months that estate was
sold for £6 per acre ! Victoria badly needs an
Act that will provide for resumption at the
owner’s valuation, with 10 per cent, or so added
for “disturbance,” when he appeals against an
assessment. Had such a law been in force the
State could have made a profit of £2 per acre in
the Donald case, and nobody would have been
hurt, for the owner himself swore his land wasn’t
worth £4 per acre.
Political freaks have an unusually ener-
getic time in S. Aus. The so-called “Effective
Voting League,” at the recent Wooroora election,
supported the Ass. candidate, who happened to
be Young, a son-in-law of John Darling, because
he accepted their fad. Quite a number of Labor
members are members of the League executive,
and the other candidate, Hawke, was a Labor
nominee. Thus these members support a freak
society which did its little best to defeat one of
their own number.
One Frank Lawrence, who'acted as secre-
tary of Wren’s notorious betting club, has been
elected vice-president of the Fitzroy (Melbourne)
League of the Vic. Political Labor Council. Any-
where within a three-miles’ radius of the site of
Wren’s defunct tote, the odor of its decomposed
remains infects the atmosphere of Labor party
gatherings. When there is a point to be scored
the blessed leagues are suddenly reinforced by
herds of new members of the pony-racing kind,
a-nd somehow the bona-fide workers, whose cause
suffers from this unsavory connection, have per-
suaded themselves that they are all the stronger
for it.
There is no fear of the S. Aus. Labor party
breaking out into revolutionary Socialism ; but
some of the Labor members—who now, counting
Ministers Price and Coneybeer, number 20 out of
42 in the Assembly—are very restive, because the
Liberals, who have only nine members, enjoy half
the seats in the Ministry. Already a few of them
are declaring that when they can win another dis-
trict they will toss Peake, O’Loughlin and Bice
out of the Government and fill up the gaps with
men of their own party. But if they did that they
would at once have the farming community
against them, and the farmers’ vote is the one to
which the Labor party has been pinning a good
deal of its future.
Labor-member Solly’s inclusion in the
Commission of Inquiry into Bent’s alleged mal-
practices is a significant circumstance. Solly, as
a matter of course, is presumed to owe his appoint-
ment to the influence of his political backer Wren,
with whom Bent has been in touch for years past.
Another industry shows its curly head in
the distance, a syndicate having obtained rights
over large areas of desolate country in all or
nearly all of the States to cut the grass trees,
from which a low-grade spirit is to be manufac-
tured. In Westralia the trees grow the strongest;
they are smaller in Tasmania and Victoria, and
in N.S.W. and Bananaland they look like hitting
the happy medium. The man who has been doing
the business in Australia is Dr. Ernest Black, a
native of Brisbane. The other principal is said
to be Roger Wallace, K.C., of Eog Town. Pretty
big concessions must have been secured, for the
other day Dr. Black stated that, even if they
worked at high pressure, they would be able to
meet the demand for 100 years.
An old insult of the politically-departed
Bent came up last week for consideration by the
Murray Government. On January Ist, 1901,
when the Commonwealth was crowing in its
cradle, the Victorian State Government agreed
to allow the infant the free use of a house to put its
Governor-General Hopetoun in. In 1906, Bent,
in his incapacity as State Beetle, demanded from
the Commonwealth a rental of £3OOO per year.
The Commonwealth brushed him aside with a
young but powerful hand, and since then the
question has been lying loose on the premises ; so
the rent —if there ever was any rent —has got in
arrear to the extent of about £io,ooo. As bailiffs
might have arrived at any minute, arid distrained
on Dudley’s furniture, the Government of Murray
looked into the circumstances of the case, and
decided that the G.-G. had as good a right to the
place as the Federal Legislature has to the
Spring-street Houses of Parliament; hence Murray
has extended the original agreement, which gives
free use of Government House till 1911, and has
thrown Bent’s superfluous insult into the waste-
paper basket.
When Prime Minister Fisher starts argu-
ing the financial question with the little local
Premiers, he might ask them to point out where
they have done any economising themselves. It
is only recently, and after much persuasion, that
some of them have even consented to save
thousands a year by using the Commonwealth
electoral rolls, an economy that was obvious from
the outset. And not one of them has tried to
make any serious saving in connection with the
six local Governors. Eight years have gone, and
that first economy has not yet been commenced !
The £50,000 or so a year spent on those excres-
cences and their accoutrements would have built
an ammunition factory which might now have
been turning out enough cartridges to pretty well
supply all Australia. In the day of trouble a
whole 50 State Excrescences won’t be worth as
much as just one cartridge.
Vic. Premier Murray has inherited two
unfinished arguments with South Aus., touching
the division of the Murray waters and a disputed
boundary. Now Murray, who infinitely prefers
his own comfort to anything else, doesn’t feel
called upon to complete Bent’s unfinished argu-
ments, for the reasons that they are not only
Bent’s arguments, but most likely bad ones as
well. In his easy way Murray has asserted his
opinion about the two disputes, and characteris-
tically wants to defer settlement for an indefinite
period. Whereat South Australia, lured by the
overtures of Bent into expecting an early settle-
ment, now finds itself in the mirthless position of
a disappointed spinster. Consequently it has
been mailing acid threats over to the Melbourne
Government. Not only is it thinking-of taking
the Murray waters trouble to the High Court, but
it has now given notice that it intends to put
surveyors to work on the disputed strip of terri-
tory. So, all things considered, Murray has good
reason to curse Bent’s passion for a deal, not
because it was a deal, or even an unfair deal, but
because it is an uncompleted one.
THE DUMPING GROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the youngest son’s a waster
Or a free and frequent taster
Of the alcoholic liquid that is vile,
There is always the plantation,
Or the sheep or cattle station,
Where the black sheep may be sent to make his pile ;
Yes, or drink himself to glory,
And so end the sordid story
That has brightened up the English morning teas.
“ Here’s your Black Sheep ! Take and brand him,
For you seem to understand him ! ”
That’s how he’s presented to “ the Colonies.”
If a singer’s voice is failing,
And her highly-cultured wailing
Doesn’t take in wearied London any more,
It is hinted by the cables
She is packing up her sables
For a brief descent on some colonial shore ;
And the populace are blinded
By th > fact that absent-minded
Kings applauded her their gaudy suites to please.
When the press has ceased its raptures,
Then the diva goes and captures
Gilded adulation in “the Colonies ! ”
If you’ve got an ancient cruiser,
Like a forty-year-old bruiser.
And it’s hardly fit to float on any sea,
Take it gently from the Channel,
Wrap it up in paint or flannel,
And retail it to a helpless Colony ;
For the dead ducks of the Navy,
That by rights belong to Davy,
Can be made to earn the easy subsidies,
If not treated too unkindly
By the Islanders, who blindly
Swing their war-clubs in the sunny Southern Seas.
Listen, listen ev’rybody,
Naval Lords, and Kings of Shoddy—
You who fill the far dominions with your trash !
For the good things we have waited,
With the rubbish we are sated,
And we mean to have the value of our cash ;
So we beg to give you warning
We are starting in the morning
To do something for ourselves, if you please !
And you’ll take this intimation
That we’ve started as a nation,
And no longer are the dust-bin “ Colonies.”
MAORILAND.
PACIFIC ROLLER.


BUCttLEY’-S
Autumn
FASHION BOOK
c- General C&Uilocxue
Jusr Published. W.4*
f Posted Free or> Application"*^
The vSmavrteat Publication
in Ausrpediev.
£rery ///vs/ra /y 'os? /?as jbeen specially prepared
&gr/</es a frue representation o/ our s/ocJfj.
NO HOME COMPLETE WITHOUT ONE
BUCKLEY<- NUNN LI?
VICTORIA HOUSE «s> MELBOURNE
SELLING LIKE RIPE CHERRIES.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Printed, Written, and Illustrated in Australia.
Published at a cheap rate to enable the
multitude to buy them.
..**»**
wjzui&etui
% RECITER
“ Steele Rudd ” —The Poor Parson...
~ Sandy’s Selection
~ For Life
~ Pad in Politics
~ From Selection to City
~ Back at Our Selection
De Boos (Chas.) —Settler and Savage
Bloxham (H. K.)—On the Fringe of the Never=Never
Green (James) —The Selector
Dyson (Edward) —In the Roaring Fifties
~ The Missing Link
Websdale (C. D.) —Seafarers
Pratt (A.) —Three Years with Thunderbolt
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. lid.
Cloth, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. nd.
Cloth, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Cloth, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Cloth, 2s. post free, 2s. sd.
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, 2s. sd.
post free, 2s. sd.
post free, is. 3d.
Cloth, is. 6d. ; post free, is. lid.
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Paper, is. ; post free, is, 3d.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Cloth, 2s.
Cloth, 2S.
Paper, is.
Barry (J. A.)— Steve Brown’s Bunyip
~ Luck of the Native Born
Spencer (T. E.) — How McDougall Topped the Score
~ The Spring Cleaning
~ The Surprising Adventures of Mrs, Bridget McSweeney
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
~ Budgeree Ballads
Porter (L. B.) — Riverfall
“The Bulletin” Reciter— (complete) ...
White (Charles) — John Vane, Bushranger
Harbor Guide— with Colored Maps
Guide to Sydney— with Colored Maps ...
Cameron (J.) — The Spell of the Bush
Brasch (A.)— The Adventures of Mr. Barnes
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, 6d.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Birtles (Francis)— Lonely Lands—Across Australia on a Bicycle
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
; post free, 9d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
Paper, 3s. 6d. ; postage, 3s, nd.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
Surprising
Adventures
vnt. {indffg t
vSs*vtsrjfc
Start the New Year Well
Make Up Your Mind to Begin NOW to
Improve Yourself —TO EARN MORE.
We can train you, so as to enable you to greatly improve
your position, if you desire to do so.
Stott’s Correspondence
Can Train You — By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA T/ONS ! EX A MINA TIONSI
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. : '
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists' Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam.,
etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING-TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free Copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER.
THIRTY years of assiduous study of The Fair and its Treatment, and all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the
means of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth after all other prepara-
tions have failed. lam now in a position to treat advanced cases of Baldness with
every possibility of success. Almost impossible cases are now yielding to my skill.
Gentlemen who are going bald should use SPECIAL
PARASENE and COSMO LOTION, one at night and the other
in the morning.
Price (with postage), two months’ treatment ; Victoria,
10/0 ; four months’, 20/. Other States, 11/0 and 22/-
Ladies with hair falling out should apply RESTORER at
night and CfiSMO LOTION in the morning.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY.
Gentleman writes from
St. Peters, S.A. : “I enclose
P. N. for ns. 6d. for two
months' treatment of your
Hair Restorer. This has been
brought under my notice by an
utter stranger, who, seeing the
bad state of my hair, sympa-
thised with me and told me he
had been cured by your pre-
parations. ”
Here is a case of Scalp
Trouble :
Mr. Coolstad writes
from W.A., stating that the
FARASENE and Exemo sup-
plied to him has removed the
irritation of the scalp, and is
producing a splendid growth
of strong, thick, healthy hair
on his bald head.
Mr.' Rodgers, W.A.,
writes: After using your pre-
parations for a few months,
my hair is showing every sign
of being as good as ever it was.'
One of the Melbourne
Doctors says : “If anything
will make the hair grow, these
preparations will.”
Another Doctor says:
“Mr. Holland has treated
my wife and daughter’s hair
most successfully. I can re-
commend his preparations
with confidence, knowing
them to be of the most genuine
character. ”
NATURALINE is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally and
effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. i for Light Brown Hair ; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
PRICE —Victoria, with postage, 6/3 5 Other States, 6/8.
Mr. Scott, of Sydney, is no longer authorised to act as Agent for the sale of my preparations,
nor to receive moneys on my behalf.
E. HOLLAND,
Kaisr
Specialist,
195 Collins Street,
. . MELBOURNE.


%
O Charles ti\
Heidsieck
Has the Royal Warrant
King Edward VII.
of /
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “ SILVASHEEN ” NAME ON SELVEDCE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
I’m here to give hints
about making tea—lieie’s one
point : —Alwaj's warm your
teapot thoroughly before you
measure in the tea, more
especially in cold weather,
because to get all the goodness
out of the leaves the water
should beactually boiling while
on them—a cold teapot chills
the water cff the boil instantly,
and your cup of tea isn’t then
so good as if ought to be.
The No. 1 Grade Robur
is beautiful tea —it has a nice
flavor, and is very economical
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 9, 1909.
My Dear Arini,-
Next Friday Miss Rawson’s lustrous presenta-
tion, the five hundred pounds’ worth of diamonds
from the women of N.S.W., will go into her
gentle keeping. The glittering bunch, necklace,
marquise ring, bangle and earrings, are of S.
African origin and Australian workmanship, and
when Miss Rawson wears the suite she will be
dazzling enough to light up a subway.
On Thursday night of this week there is to be
something extra in the way of a meeting of
Deputy Grand Masters, and Mark Masters,
and Tylers and other Masonic potentates
at Sydney Town Hall. For some years
past Viking Rawson has been the N. S.
Wales head of the lodge whose members call
one another Worshipful Brother, and wear a black
pinny ; and now the worshipful brothers, and the
brothers that are only partly worshipful, are going
to meet 4000 strong to show the Viking how w 7 ell
they think he has done the Grand Master-mason-
ing.
A vital sparklet of comic opera, whose recent
romantic marriage in Sydney made us a little less
drowsy for a week or so, writes philosophically to
a friend in this capital of her severance from Him.
She objected to having to provide the whole of
the cutlet and all the wine, and the total hire of the
motor, and the full suite in the hotel, and the
entirecabinon theliner. Amazing how thesesordid
questions can clog Cupid’s wings like ordinary tar
on ordinary feathers !
Melba is as cute as a lancet. “Beautiful Mel-
bourne women,” she called the crowd that tore her
hat off, and acted towards her as if she were the
House of Commons and they a suffragist mob.
A good picture group of Crossley and satellites
is on show—taken at the gate of the Maori Pa at
Wakarewarewa. Dr. Muecke, evidently over-
come by the horror of the carven faces with white
shell eyes, leans up against a monstrosity that
may have been an early Maori martyr—after a
rival tribe had done with him. Fair Ada, in
a white hat and blouse and a short-dark skirt,
smiles by the side of Sir Henry Kelly, who looks
what he is, a judicial potentate from West
Africa.
Ada Crossley, with her trail of warblers, will be
in Tasmania this week, feeling as fit, after the
M.L. tour, as birds that have got sweet rain at
noon. The week at Rotorua, says the star, will
always stand out in the calendar as with a thou-
s aid acetylene lamp-power turned on it. She had
no idea such a foresight (not foretaste) of Hades
could be sampled on the planet, and as she will
never see the great original, she was delighted to
be shown its imitation. At Auckland the party
met the Ola Humphrey-Kolker-Titheradge Co.
Poor Ola J. was suffering from laryngitis—a
“ real bad ” attack. Nothing to be done for her,
as nothing but rest would avail, and that she
could not take, as she had no understudy. The
success of the Crossley tour throughout the
Dominion has been past all whooping, as Shak-
speare has it; and Society in the principal cities
has poured the melted butter of adulation over
the group. Which group, by the way, re-groups
itself here in Sydney in a few weeks.
Songstress Frances Alda (of the Simonsen
clan, and once of this country) gets three-quarters
of a column in a New York paper. She was
singing in Puccini’s “Le Villi,” at the Metro-
politan Opera House, and when she came off the
stage at 10 o’clock the human dynamo with the
fountain pen pounced, and the next second
Frances Adler-Alda-Saville was protesting and
denying. She never said she was engaged to
marry Gatti-Casezza. She said she was engaged by
him. New York critics had got anonymous
letters of the vilest kind about her, but she knew
who sent them, and it wasn’t such artists as
Caruso or Eames. “I have sung at the greatest
opera-houses in the world, in London, Paris, Brus-
sels, in Buenos Ayres. AtParmalsang withßonci.
He can tell you of the success I had. . . . People
say I am an English music-hall singer named
Barrison. It is a iie. Everyone knows lam an
Australian.” There was so much “clawing” im-
plied, and so many Italian names in the interview,
that it looked like a police-court report of a row
in the peanut and banana quarter of New York.
Postmaster-General Thomas and his new Post-
mistress-General have been in Sydney, staying at
the Metropole. But for the Deceased Wife’s
Sisters Bill some other lady would have had to be
Postmistress-General. Still, the marriage took
place in S. Australia, and for many years past
there hasn’t been any trouble there about wedding
a sister-in-law ; for in that State it so happened
that, long and long ago, a very important poli-
tician wanted to pick a second bloom from one
family bunch ; and he hammered a bill through
accordingly.
The Lord is going to be good to Cobar. Now
Cobar is out in the Far West, where it rains llin.
of dust, and where half an inch of wet rain com-
pels the inhabitants to go about on stilts. The
architecture of the town is of the tin-type and
hessian period. Therefore, any little atten-
tion from Providence must be more appre-
ciated by Cobaritians than by (say) Paris-
ians, or Sydneysiders. The new smelting
manager, Mr. Bellinger, an American, has his
wife and daughter with him. Both ladies are
said to possess charm, and clothes that have the
same quality—Paris frocks, brought up to New
York standard, and worn in Cobar ! Living in
Cobar will have its compensations now. But if
Sydney doesn’t get a glimpse of those gowns at
its Easter races, Sydney will feel hurt.
Talking of American mining men recalls John
Howell, the most typical Uncle Sam of all those
who ever came in to Australia to pick
up a well-buttered crust. After a few
strenuous years in Maoriland and Australia,
he was supposed to have lost money by large bucket-
fuls in smelting and similar things; and quite a lot
of people said they were sorry for him when
he stroked his goatee beard on an outward-moving
Murkan boat and sadly said good-bye to Aus-
tralia. Yet it seems that the sympathy must
have been wasted ; for a letter from ’Frisco tells
that he is building a palace at Los Angeles, and
looks round the country from the swiftest motor-
car of those rapid parts.
Saw a brown-leather motor-bonnet on a goddess
in a car the other day. Also she hid her hands in
a leather muff. All this on a typical Sydney day
in March—a day that lay over the land like a
horse-rug wrung out of hot water ! But no doubt
the tan-leathered lady felt quite happy because it
was cold and foggy in London.
Concerning Australians abroad, a returned
pretty, who had good opportunities of judging,
says the completeness with which the most
affluent Australians are swamped (once they get
off their liner’s gangway) by the Mammon of
Richestness or Long Descent must all but suffo-
cate the persons who wish to soar—like the tailor
in the play, and for the same reasons. And the
vigor and persistency with which the beknighted
Australians flourish their “Sir” and “Lady” is
in humorous contrast to the simple “Mr.” of
Viscount Something, and the “Mrs.” of, say, the
Duchess of Westminster when the parties are
asked for an address in quarters where they are
not known. If they can avoid using their titles
they don’t miss the chance.
The young Australian dandy who calls himself
when abroad “Australia’s Best Advertiser” is
back pursuing, as usual, such blonde, brunette
and mezzo game as may be found in the
jungles of Australian society. One of his worst
men-friends, who wearied of hearing the Beau-
carish person self-style himself “Australia’s Best
Advertiser,” once took the trouble to look at the
hotel registers in France, Germany and Italy to
see how “ A.8.A.” registered his address. The
inquire-within gentleman was always just a lap
behind “ A.B. A.” in a run through Europe. Not
once was “Australia” written. It was “Mr.
Snooker, London,” every time.
In the new Julius Knight production (at the
Royal), “I Am Here—ln The Limelight,” Miss
Beatrice Day gets little show to be there.
But she wears a picturesque gown Or two.
One is a black velvet over petticoat of white
brocaded satin, big puffed sleeves, of slashed
velvet over chiffon ; her only ornament a mother-
of pearl and silver rosary—one private treasure—
and a silver band in her hair. Her second frock,
in the ball scene, is a trained biscuit brocade,
made in somewhat the same fashion as the first,
but with a high peaked collar outlined in gold
tracery. Miss Quin is a shell-pink study, pink
pearled ; and Miss Wilson looks Undine-ish in
pallid green.
Miss Fairlie Cunninghame, the Sydney girl-
sculptor studying in London, was sighted by some
visitors from here. She was on a scaffolding in the
British Museum, “studying styles,” says one of the
sighters. She spends hours on that scaffolding.
Well, it sounds vague ; but a nice girl does not
inhabit a scaffolding without reason, and the
reason must be study, not hilarity. Princess
Louise praises our girl’s work ; and Lord Portman,
a connection of the artist’s family, sees to it that
her holidays are spent pleasantly.
Mrs. Slap, and Orme Darvall, the new baritone,
will blossom out at the Town Hall next Saturday
night in operatic selections from “ Faust.” The
concert is for the Rawson Memorial Fund for im-
proving the Seamen’s Institute; and as
the public will always seize upon some-
thing different, Miss Minnie Daniel, who is
preparing the programme, hit on the idea of the
“Church Scene,” and the trio grand finale from
Gounod’s chef d’osurre. Then Mrs. Slap, is to
warble Mimi’s song from “ Boheme,” and Miss
Daniel will play solos and a duet, with Sykes at
the organ ; so everything looks to be clear on the
straight road to success.
A man who lives out in the red-gum country
sends me this note
Some of the ladies who shudder when told something
of the barbarous cruelty that attends the gathering of
“ospreys” and “aigrettes,” and forthwith pile all the
feathers they can borrow or steal into their Merry
Widows, may be interested to hear of a pleasant custom
practised for their benefit on the black swans. During
the moulting season (which, by the way, is just about
due), when the swans cannot fly, numbers of these noble
birds are shut in yards, with plenty of drinking water but
not a scrap of food. The object of this engaging practice
is to get rid of the outer fat and make the skin tough and
easily cured. And then, dear lad} 7 , your tender-hearted
sisters fondly smooth their muffs and their victorines ;
and some of them even perhaps thank goodness that they
are not as the other cat is who is guilty of encouraging
the “osprey” and “aigrette” wickedness.
These few remarks remind me that a medical
man, who was here a while ago, has contributed
to Good Health, a local paper, a variation of the
priestly: “Whom God has joined together (in
matrimony) let no man put asunder.” He
says: “Whom God has joined together, ill-cooked
joints and badly-boiled potatoes have put asun-
der.” He in an article, entitled “As He
Eateth, so is He,” gives bad cookery all that’s
coming to it. Addressing the Bakers’ Association
in his American city, he said—“ Good bread, in
my opinion, would help to solve the American
evil of divorce. If good bread were made and the
people educated to buy it, the great destroyer of
American happiness—dyspepsia—would be re-
moved, and we would hear no more of the divorce
problem. Cookery will, in the near future, be
regarded as one of the greatest and most import-
ant of sciences, worthy the attention of our most
highly educated and accomplished young women.”
So, in the “near future,” one of the highest com-
pliments you may pay a woman will be the now
objectionable phrase, “She looks like a cook.”
“Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s spoons ”
ought to be put into the Decalogue as a by-
connnandment. When the new vessel, the
Mukura, was here lately her principal Brass
Bounds had a reception in aid of the Vancouver
Hospital, and were in consequence bereft of 145
spoons by the visitors.
The love-troubles of our old friend the Duke of
the Abruzzi still continue to convulse the press
of two continents. The position changes with
kaleidoscope, not to say flickergraph, swiftness.
At latest advices, his engagement with Miss
Elkins was right off. The other American girls
who had married Italian smart-setters wouldn’t
have Miss Elkins, the Italian royal princesses
wouldn’t have her, neither would the Queen.
That put what is known in Court circles
as the “ kybosh ” on Miss Elkins’ hopes
of being Duchess of the Abruzzi. Her
royal lover’s protest was firm and effective. He
refused to visit the scene of the Messina earth-
quake. Incidentally it is said that he intends to
leave the Italian navy, to drop being a royal duke
and become plain Mister Licciardi, or Peanutto,
or something, and to go “on the land” in the
U.S.A. All these things, however, are in the
air. By next mail, as likely as not, the news will
arrive that Miss Elkins has become a royal sailor’s
bride, that the female aristocracy of Italy is wild
with joy about it, and that the happy pair pro-
pose to spend the honeymoon amid the ruins of
Italy’s lost city.
I cull this from a London newspaper report of
the Stirling-Atherton-Northland divorce suit: —
The Judge (to Mrs. Stirling) : Is Mrs. Atherton’s name
Nancy ?
Mrs. Stirling : No. “ Nancy ”is a nickname I gave
her.
What did she call you?—“Clare, dear.”
What did your husband call her?—Nancy.
What did she call him ? —Jackie.
What did you call Lord Northland?—Fatty.
What did he call you ?—Clare.
What did he call Mrs. Atherton?—Nancy.
How soon did the practice of calling each other by first
names begin ?—My husband had always called Lord North-
land “ Fatty ” ; he had been a great friend of his before
our marriage. Mrs. Atherton became “ Nancy ” almost
from the beginning, as the friendship was a very quick
one.
How came-Lord Northland to be called “Robin”?—
Mrs. Atherton gave him that name.
In letters I see he is sometimes called “T.”?—l think
that was from the first letter of his Christian name,
Thomas.
Why is it that the British smart-setter who faces
the bright light that beats on a trial of this sort
always proves to have so many and such foolish
aliases? The Hartopp-Cowley upheaval resulted
in a heavy crop of these fatuities. They were
meaningless mostly. Thus the “ persop of birth ”
who is known as “Fatty” is hardly ever stout;
“Nigger” So-and-So is quite, likely to be an
albino ; “ Boozer ” Whosthis may be a Rechabite.
Some of the nicknames Tops,” for example,
which was the pet appellation of Sir Charles Har-
topp) have an obvious derivation. But mostly
they are just plain foolishness. An anthology of
the weird pet names that cause cilbbrcsra the Cold
Land have made public would be interesting to
the social student, and invaluable to Professor
Lombroso and the other alienist experts.
The pastime of tin-kettling the newly-wedded
couple is not confined to the backbloeks of the
Commonwealth. The New York papers state
that when Lord Granard and his millionairess
bride reached the American country house
that had been lent to them for their honey-
moon, the village yokels, who were “ armed
with terrible noise-making instruments, ranging
from ‘fish-horns’ to ‘horse-fiddles,’” had to be
bought.off with dollars and strongdrink. Itappears
to be illegal, even in America, to shoot these
blackmailers. In consequence, they are increas-
ing and multiplying throughout the land. They
are doing the same here, owing to the fact that,
when given in charge, the Law mostly sniggers,
and then provides no more than a small fine. An
appreciated wedding-gift of the near future, when
the “happy c»uple”have to go to the country,
will be a powerful blood-hound, warranted to dis-
perse a regiment of tin-kettlers with expedition
and unnecessary violence.
A Queensland brace, Mr. and Mrs. Beit —they
pronounce it Beet instead of Bite—are brightening
Sydney. The lady has radiant hair of pale-
sunbeam shade. He is said to choose her clothes,
and, judging by results, he does it frequently and
regardless of expense, and with undeniable taste.
“Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Bill Backblox and his family have this village in their
clutches, for the Agricultural Show of the year has been
raging, and in Adelaide that means throngs of whiskered
uncles and cousins for a week. For the opening day the
temperature climbed nearly to the top of the pole, and
such deadly dust you never saw. The G.-G. had been
scaling Mount Gambier’s erstwhile volcano, and only
arrived back in town that morning, with S’ Lancelot
Stirling and 60 brace of chilled quail in his wake. He
motored to Marble Hill, pulled on one of his other suits,
found a clean collar, and flew down again to say
nice things to Father Backblox at the Show luncheon.
Lady Dudley and some of her kiddies, looking as cool as
icecreams, also came along to examine the prize fowl and
gees.
Next afternoon the Exes, went in and said Good-after-
noon-pleased-to-meet-you-and-go-on-being-good to the
School of Mines.
Such a bout of festivities as we’re going to have this
week Adelaide never wrestled with before, especially in
Lenten time. Chief of all, on Friday the Dudleys will throw
wide the gates of our deserted Residence for a garden
spree, and we shall saunter in and do our bow just
as though we had a Governor-General round every old
day, and were quite used to that sort of thing.
The Mayor and Mayoress were also plotting a festive
occasion at Victoria Park in the Excellencies’ honor, but
the thing had to be given up because life is short and time
is fleeting, a'nd Governor-Generals have to get back to
Melbourne town in a hurry.
On Saturday the G.-G. will sow the first pile of Glenelg’s
breakwater, and Lady Dudley will also be there to pat
the seed down after it has been planted. The Govern-
ment has issued invitations to the largest officials of the
land ; and the Mayoral Varleys have sent forth invita-
tions to sassiety which is not official, to view the proceed-
ings and taste the briny breezes from the Kiosk.
Unfortunately Premier Price, whose efforts practically
captured that breakwater for the Bay, is still too ill to be
at the ceremony. However, the doctors are beginning to
hope that they’ll soon be able to give us an entirely
whole and mended Premier.
Lord Dicky Nevill was on hand to meet Melba, the day
she landed here, and whisked her off in a motor to
luncheon at Marble Hill with Lady Dudley. The melody-
maker-in-chief of this planet didn’t come back to town, but
crept into the Melbourne express at Aldgate ; and Ade-
laide barely 7 had a chance to wave its costliest lace hanky
at her.
Our new Exes., Admiral Bosanquet and his Admiraless,
and all the Admiralings, have already received King
Edward’s blessing, and departed this way ; and the Outer
Harbor will wear its best coat of mailboats early in April
for their arrival.
Adelaide’s Lieutenant-Ex., Chief Justice Way, will slip
into Melbourne next week to instal Victoria’s Governor
as Lord High and Mightiest of the Freemasons of Victoria.
The Josiah Symons are off globe-jaunting again. They
went by the China on Thursday, with a son and three
nice daughters; likewise a maid and much baggage.
Josiah carries on the twin professions of Law and wine-
making, and he is at the very top of things in both
hemi-spheres.
The China also carried away a considerable portion of
the Richard Law Smith family, who hang up their
feathered hats at Glenelg. The Jule Wendts departed on
their foreign gad a week or so agone, after pacing
through several frilly at-homes and things, promoted in
order tqjget them used to excitement.
The latest engagement announced is that of Allan Bow-
man, of Tatiara sheep-fold, which is down in the vicinity
of Lake Alexandrina. The damsel is Miss Hilda Landseer,
of Milang, a charming maid, and daughter of a late M.P.
The Benedict-elect is a widower, his first wife having
been killed at the hunt soon after they were married.
Dr. Ennis came home from the Islands of Edward last
Saturday to open the Conservatorium for the year. He
was away barely three months. Mr. Treharne, of the
piano and the same institution, has been on the sick list
during the vacation, and has been mending his shattered
health at Largs.
It was a false alarm about the Lyric Club, after all. At
the special meeting it was divulged that the trouble lay
in a shortage of members, the Club having accommoda-
tion for about a hundred more than are on the roll. So
the present members are arising and saying “Curfew
shall not ring to night,” etc., etc., and are going forth
into the highways to find a new member apiece. And if
they can’t lure the new member, they are asked to sub-
scribe an extra guinea to make things square. But if
they are suffering from a tired feeling and don’t want to
do either, then they needn’t, as there’s no compulsion
about it. Still most people reckon that the gay little
Club is worth saving at such small expense.
The burning of the Alexander Hays’ place at
Victor Harbor was a sore blow to that frilly spot.
The house was a white castle-like pile, with im-
posing columns and towers, and it sat up impressively on
the hillside. The site was the one chosen for a Cathedral
in those dark ages when that locality was going to be the
capital of South Oss. The house was full of statuary and
curios and such, and though some of the ground-
floor things were saved, ’bis said a small £25,000 was
shrivelled up in the flames, even Miss Hay’s jewellery
being demolished. The damsel and her mamma, who
haven’t been home from Britain very long, were in the
house at the time the fire broke out. Now the very much
upset couple have come up to town, and are staying at
the South Australian.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Notwithstanding the pleasures he had on
Kangaroo Island the other day, there are still
some joys ahead of G.-G. Dudley. When his
predecessor, Northcote, was in Westralia he was
exuberantly received in all the small towns. At
one place he and State-Governor Bedford were
favored with a banquet and a sort of smoke cor-
roboree. In the course of the latter festivity the
Mayor, who was acting as master of ceremonies,
arose and said : “P’raps now his Excellency the
Governor-General will favor the gents, with a
song.” Northcote apologised, and begged to be
excused. He had left his singing voice at the
foundry undergoing repairs. “Well,” said the
unabashed Mayor, “Governor Bedford will
oblige with a recitation.” Governor Bedford
made hasty explanations; he had never recited in
his life. The Mayor put him at his ease. “No
matter, your Excellency,” he said. “We can’t
all be gifted. I’ll sing a song myself.” And he
did.


“FLIES
CARRY
DISEASE
m
IP
m
$
is
f
y
/
.k+r
<S>
The COMMON
HOUSE FEY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
V Every Tly is
Mmy Killer
si He Art.”
IT’S bairy body carries botb disease
and death. Having its origin in
filth, it brings with it the bacteria
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicß to
the lips Of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
.. . The high mortality among children in the congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
livmg rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say. to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
T
Is the Greatest KILLER
o/ FLIES <a other Insedls.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug' Coy.
SYDNEY.


FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS,
CONVALESCENTS, THE AGED.
The best food is Faliere’s Phosphatine
Food. It is strengthening and nourish-
ing, and very appetising. It contains, in
an easily assimilated form, all the elements
necessary for perfect child health, and for
the sustenance of the delicate. Sample
free from Joubert & Joubert, 552 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Claude Healy & Co.,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney; or D. & J.
Fowler, Ltd., Adelaide.
FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food ,
IN SILK, QUALITY COUNTS MOST.
EMBROIDERY WORK on which one spends per-
haps months of leisure, requires that the very
choicest silk obtainable be used in its execution.
Otherwise the effect is spoilt by the impossibility of
catching the exact tints of Nature.
CARLSON CURRIER
SEWING and
EMBROIDERY
SILKS
are the World’s Standard-and sold in fast colors
ranging from the most delicate to the richest shades.
Let us send you a FREE copy of our Booklet, “ Art
Needlework,” giving many useful Hints on Embroid-
ery and giving beautiful reproductions of examples
worked with Carlson Currier Silks. In return all we
ask is the name of the Draper you buy from.
Leading- Stores Everywhere sell
CARLSON CURRIER SILKS.
Carlson Currier Co.,
The Block, Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
* -
r -
■
or up to date,
unless/ittedwith. our
Solid Rubber
Vehicle Tyres
which not only absorb all noise &
vibration but double the li/e of
thcVehicie -7 . .
/itted/rom perset
t ast/or years ona private conveyance
Price list on application
irivcrcs r
SATISFACTION fiWEAR
-Dunlop
Rubber Heels
Obl&itv&ble cOI
BOOT STORES
ACCEPT ONLY
DUNLOP
RAND-
Durdop \
Rubber Co:
All
Slates
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
KANDY KOOLA TEA
!il
L
a
MBs
a
“The best i* the country-
side i’ faitb.”
The fine, rich flavor of Kandy Koola wins
good opinions and new friends wherever
it goes.
And housewives who have a care for the
weekly expenses find Kandy Koola more
economical than any other tea.
We want to persuade you to try Kandy
Koola once—you will take a deal of per-
suading not to use it after that.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 8, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—-
Melba had not arranged with the weather man
to send along the line a brief description of the
particular sample we were having at the moment;
so she arrived in the steamy, stewy heat of Tues-
day shrouded in a dark tweed dress, which must
have felt like a warm winter-weight blanket, with
a ruby hat to help out the torrid tone.
The Women’s Choir, arrayed in its starchiest,
stiffest white nainsook, waited in hundreds, and
fell on the hot Diva before she could get her
breath. Melba’s hat was jostled rakishly over
her ear, and her smile was knocked out of shape,
before the police could “shoo” off the excited
chookies. Mrs. Franklin Peterson got the much-
met away, and apologised for the wild enthusiasm
of the “dear girls.” The flaky Upper Crust,
who had come did not get within coo-ee,
and tooted off in their motors, hot.ter and angrier
than ever.
Prime Minister Fisher travelled round from the
West by the same boat as the lark, and ‘ ‘ took the
chair” at sundry concerts held on board. Mrs.
Melba strummed the accompaniments; but nary
a song did she sing. Which fact has occasioned
strenuous discussion among the numerous passen-
gers. The usual hangers-on, who hoped valiantly
to get something for nothing, haven’t got over
their disappointment yet.
Melba’s interest in Australian-grown orchestra
and opera material is eager and deeply rooted. It
was a demure and unobtrusive Diva who presented
the shining brassy things to the Orchestra on
Saturday. The chairman of the Board (Dr.
J. W. Barrett) and Mrs. Barrett asked a creamy
few to tea at Paris Cafe on the Saturday
afternoon to make an occasion of the presenta-
tion. All the shining brass was piled on
a table. Melba arrived quietly in a taxi and a
champagne-buttoned cloak and the rain. The
cloak covered a lace gown that made feminine
eyes bulge. Melba topped her smiling face with
a lyre-bird’s cast-off tail-feathers, waving from a
big soup-plate black hat; and in delighted tow
came Mrs. Robert Lionising Power, dressed in
mole color, and trying to not obviously triumph
over the softly-purring pussies who did not ride
in the royal taxi.
Melba left the speech-making to Dr. Birrett,
who read her say ; and the hilarious Prof. Mar-
shall Hall responded with Jovian enthusiasm.
Then the company crumpled up into chattering
strawberry parties. Prof. Peterson had rejuven-
ated himself by a shaved chin. His plump wife
exploited the rather daring scheme of cloudy-blue
transparencies over flesh-color fittings. Von
Pmschof beamed on things in general; Mrs. Yon
was in a purple turban ; and pretty Carmen and
just-returned Sister Elizabeth were in train. Mrs.
Willie Felstead, another returned tripper, has
cast the worries of the Women’s Exhibition into
outer forgetfulness, and looks some years younger
for her dip into the Great Fog; she bloomed in
pink roses and fawn-colored frocking. Miss
Mcßurney, a clever woman conductor, applauded
the new brasses. Then the whole party rushed
the rain for their motors, and Collins-street had a
good ballet view.
Some donor, who is incognito to the general
public, dashed off a little cheque for £lOOO, and
sent it to Marshall Hall as a corner-stone of a
Permanent Orchestra fund in Melbourne. To
this Permanent Orchestra Melba has already pre-
sented a complete set of wind instruments at nor-
mal pitch, which she purchased in London. Mel-
bourne orchestras up to date have had to struggle
with occasional fantastic sounds, produced from
instruments made in Germany, Austria, London,
or Timbuctoo, and of any old and varied pitch.
This wonderful new set will lengthen the life and
temper of the conductor who has to be referee
during the heated arguments among the un-
uniform tooting machines.
Smiling musicians now only wait for a large-
hearted citizen to pay the price of having the
Town Hall organ brought down to normal pitch,
and musical matters might then go on smoothly.
Melba has led the strenuous life since she arrived
in this hot land. On the day of her reception
she squeezed in a polo match, with a strenuous
Power At Home to follow. Melba gave the new
taxis a boost by patronising one for the whole
rushed day.
The women of the leagues that recently battled
for the vote in Victoria can be business-like
even while they frivol. There was a happy mix-
ture of Purpose in the garden party at Mrs. Wat-
son-Lister’s at Kew one recent afternoon. Over
the lawns about a hundred women strolled and
talked, finally settling down in an Eden-like
nook, where, without an intruding Adam, they
discoursed on the Victory of the Vote, theFascin-'
ations of the Franchise, and many other matters
incidental to the new lever with which this State
is to be jolted out of its rut. The vivacious Vida
Goldstein held forth from the green sward,
unaided by a chairman or a water-bottle. Screened
from an inquisitive masculine sun by a dainty
parasol, she addressed the shes who sat on chairs,
or sprawled about the grass. There were several
other spoakers, and amongst them were launched
some Noble Resolutions which later are to steal
like a leaven of sweetness into the ugly dough of
politics. Then informally the hive buzzed off to
the dining-room, where, still buzzing, they regaled
themselves just like women without votes. Even
a suffragette must eat a little and drink a lot of tea.
Whatever of a dowdy the suffragist used to be
she has learned now how to dress. No untidy,
ill-laundered figleaf-polonaise did duty on any
woman of that congregation of Eves. Is it that,
the fight for the vote being over, she turns natur-
ally to the laid-aside color poems and dainty
dreams in which she feared to array herself during
the hours of the toil ?
Somebody writes me that it was a very gala day at
Mount Mitchell, the station home of the Robert-
sons, when the bells made a noise about the knot-
tying of Maggie Gordon Robertson to George
Adam Buchanan. The clans gathered and bubbly
water flowed. Alawa, who was not present, is
understood to have had his own bottle of golden-
top, with oats served on toast. The bridal dress
was of the usual satin duchess, directoired, with
silver fringe and rose point-lace trimming. Cousin
John Murray, the State Premier, toasted the
sporting heroine ; and Robertsons in all directions
cried “Hear, hear,” to his numerous remarks.
The wealthy cousins Laid law, Christina and Bella,
were two of the best-gowned and brighest talkers
of the tartan crowd. Some of the others talk
was embarrassing. For instance, an old friend of
the Thistle-land, in toasting the bride, said—
“ Maggie Gordon Robertson was a good girl, and
afterwards a fine woman, and as her initials
(M.G.R.) suggested, May God Repeat! ”
Yet another engagement amongst the Robertson
clan—Miss Tennie Robertson, of “ The Grange,
St. Kilda-road, to John Thompson, of Hamilton,
and M.P. for Hundas. The lady is one of the
four charming sisters known as the Aberfeldie
Robertsons. She is tall, graceful, and good, like
her late lamented sister, Mrs. Oliver, mother of
the dashing Frankie (Mrs. Stuart Murray).
Linda Cole, one of the daughters of Old King
Cole and Queen Ma ditto, of the Book Arcade,
has become engaged to a son of Hr. Lloyd, the
North Melbourne magistrate, renowned as a
sturdy champion of distressed females.
A smart crowd of mock-mummers attacked
Pinero’s “ Sweet Lavender ” at the Princess’s on
Saturday, and dealt with the delicate, fragrant
thing as amateurs might be expected to do. A most
glorified house did the applauding. Gaud Mayor
Burston, being a Colonel, set a military fashion of
brilliancy with scarlet and gold lace. Commandant
Stanley was a veritable pole of gilt glory. Mrs.
Burston shimmered in a sequined attempt to out-
shine her husband, and Mrs. Tom Hogan was a
resoundingnoteinChinesecolors. Therewasnomis-
taking the brightness of that house. The mellifluous
Honey sister, whose prettiness has the charm of
originality, brought an adoring party of girls to
applaud her brothers on the boards. Some of the
creamiest skimmings among local girls hauled in
the charitable bob for programmes. Miss Evans,
of the auburn locks, had flung gold-dust on her
head in grief at parting from sister Mrs. Newly-
wed Binney. The gold on the flaming tresses
had not quite the effect of dust and ashes, but one
supposes that it was meant to symbolise dejection.
The Women’s Hospital, which spread itself in
iodoformy photographs throughout the “book of
the words,” should feel substantially happy ; for,
judging from the smile behind the spectacles of
little Mr. Secretary Wyatt, the gate-money ex-
ceeded expectations.
That large proportion of Judtea which lives
about St. Hilda is excited at the published en-
gagement of its Rabbi to a Miss Baruch, who
belongs to the gilded Michaelis-Hallenstein tribe.
The new minister, young and charming, arrived
some 12 months ago. While his sister kept house
for him he managed to preserve his bachelordom
intact; but since she stood beneath the canopy
and said she would, there has been a
worried look in his eye, as though the
mending of his socks were a problem. I
wonder do Rabbis’ wives have to go through
a special course of instruction before they are
taken for better or worse ! No Parliament in the
world is hedged in with more forms and cere-
monies than the Jewish religion; and in the
fierce light that beats upon the minister’s wife,
the slightest fracture of one of them would be
regarded as a horrible sin. If, for instance, the
parlor-maid were out, and you went to light the
gas on Friday night, straight off you run up
against a crime; whilst if all your white table-
cloths are at the laundry, and Friday night sees
the fringe of the tapestry covering, that is another
evil deed that has to be answered for. So, from
one point of view, life as a Rabbi’s wife becomes
a thing of deep thought and considerable difficulty.
On the other hand, there must be a fine sense of
dignity for any minister’s spouse in the thought
that her Good Man’s exceeding goodness entitles
him to call her best friends miserable sinners and
other hard names, on at least one day of the
week, when the talk is all on his side.
The Austral Salon, which has the Madden Lady
for its head at present, with the invaluable
Howager Janet still “next in authority,” lent its
be-flowered portrait gallery to reciter Norman
Pearce on Tuesday evening. The youthful ex-
ponent of “saying a piece” lectured to a small
crowd on how to elocute, likewise how not
to ; also what sort of faces to make and how
not to wave your arms, until one felt sure one
could get up and say “Little Jim” (after one
lesson), and be worth a guinea an hour. The crowd
was enthusiastic, and seemed satisfied that it had
its money’s worth. Not many of the Salonites
were present; having rolled up in great form at
the meeting the previous night, they were
suffering the after-effects of too much me-ow.
The A.N.A. Show is over, and the exhibits —
wooden legs, torpedoes, washing machines, and
all the rest —are being packed on lorries and taken
to the next port of vantage. The butter-making
plant, also the freezing apparatus, will most likely
be taken bolus bolus up to the Ballarat Show,
which is to burst forth vigorously next month.
Willie Moore, known here by his tracks through
general art and general everything pertaining
thereto, is now dabbling in things theatrical.
Willie’s career is varied and punctuated here and
there by deeds of goodwill to other sheep of the
fold of art and literature, and it will be interest-
ing to note how many hands are thrust forth now to
return the shout. Four one-act playlets from his
pen are to be produced almost immediately at the
old Turn Yerein Hall in Latrobe-street. Amateurs
who have reared heads before on a higher plat-
form are even now wrestling with William through
the scenes, and the author himself will strut his
little half-hour upon the stage in an opening drama.
Mrs. Frank Luxton, whose pending trip to England
is already booked for April, is even forgetting her
trunk lids and frocks for Smoke Land in her un-
tiring efforts to help the work of William ; and
the dainty, bright-haired Ruby Moore will be seen
in various parts of the programme.
Dina Cooper, the Italian-looking daughter of
Mrs. Hamilton Lake, is trying the stability of the
boards in New York. Manager Frohmann has
offered the beautiful lady a chance, and Belasco
also interested himself in bringing matters to the
engagement pitch. Evidently the mummer’s ter-
rible melodramatic experiences in “ The Fatal
Wedding” have proved good practice for her.
The etchings of Mr. Frank Brangwyn, a gentle-
man with considerable alphabet following his
name, also some work of Mr. Hedley Fitton, are
to be shown in the Guild Hall. The exhibition
will be exposed to public view by The Carmichael,
with his Lady’s smile to back things up.
Some of the defenders of our shores came to
grief in a motor last week. They had been
making a reconnaissance (it’s to be hoped that’s
right) near Cape Schank. Lieutenant Contin-
ental-Tyre Edwards was driving his Commandant
Stanley, Colonel Ballenger, Colonel Johnston,
Colonel Campbell, and Captain Tarrant, all re-
returning from their arduous exploits, when the
front wheels of the car skidded in the sand, and
i the car turned a somersault. Gold-laced colonels
thereupon performed various military manoeuvres
in the air. Fortunately no one was hurt, though
Lieutenant Edwards was pinned under the
choo-choo. His comrades dug him out, righted
the car, and found, instead of a mangled corpse,
merely a much-indignant man, with his boots torn
off. It was a lucky ending to what might have
been a sanguinary skirmish.
The Taffies asserted themselves on March 1,
which is St. David’s Day, and went 1000 strong
for a Queenscliff picnic aboard the Hygeia. Their
singing raised such a gale that incoming craft had
great difficulty in making the Heads; but the
Johnses and the Joneses had one of the 36 days of
their lives. The other 35 days were the similar
days of previous years.
According to non-Gnashers, Padre Newton,
who succeeded Nash, is having a cool time at
Geelong, and isn’t being oppressed by riches.
The fat harvests of the collection-plate have a
way of melting off the' treasurer’s hands into
Church expenses. So, either from choice or
necessity, Padre Newton lives alone at the
vicarage, and apparently “does for him-
self” in the way of tidying-up and cooking.
The non-Nashites rescue the poor man from a
sixpenny-cafe meal at times by inviting him to a
Fatted Chook, in the attempt to console him for
the woes of trying to fill a favored pastor’s shoes.
Mrs. Masseran is holding court in Adelaide,
Melbourne, and Sydney before her departure for
Paris, where she will pick up just the cutest hints
about the importance of being newly-corseted. In
Paris the corset was born ; from a small belt it has
grown to a horrible straight-jacket—a scheme of
torture. The present mode of “making your
figure” is to bind the body in bone and
elastic from neck to ankle. In the case of
unfortunate women who will sit down occasion-
ally, there are hinges at the knees and hips ; but
by such breaks one loses much “ contour. ” To be
the elongated It of the present fashion, the
modern woman suffers agonies unknown by
martyrs of the hair-cloth shirt or other such inner
clothing. Women are rushing the departer,
nevertheless; for she is humane, in spite of her
calling.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston
Previously acknowledged ' .. £166 13 7
Miners’Union, Murnin, W. A. .. .. 15 13 0
Bonnie Dundee Miners and Queenton-
ites (Queensland) 4 0 0
C. B. Weltz 10 0
£lB6 16 7
The list is closed ; the foregoing amounts were in
the hapds of collectors or were in transit on the
date when it was decided to close.
Melbourne’s new taxicabs are doing good
work among the bandits who stand on the ranks
waiting for whom they may devour. Already the
cab proprietors are considering the adoption of the
taximeter for their horse-drawn vehicles. It is
an innovation that chronically-rooked patrons will
appreciate. The taximeter, to be effective, needs,
however, close and regular official attention. It
is said that in recent official trials,' the town clerk
discovered that the meter over-recorded his fare
by 50 to 100 per cent. It isn’t a likely yarn—(l)
because it emanates from thecabmen, a soured body
these days ; (2) because the town clerk would be
the last to be “done” in such circumstances.
Still, all recording machines are fallible, and on
taxicabs and horse-cabs alike, the taximeter calls
for an official eagle-eye, lest it contract, the guile-
less habit of the importers’ invoice, the gas meter,
and other chronically un veracious things.
The cry of “F.C.” :
Will some good Australian who knows his country
better than I, name me a desirable shade tree ? I want a
tree that can be obtained without going to the middle of
the continent to get cuttings or slips, that I can plant
along the north and west of the house, a few yards away,
and that will throw a decent shadow on the walls inside
10 vears. So far, the Queensland sugar gum is the best
1 have noticed, though it is badly beaten by the 10-year-
old shrubs in the Poplar Avenue, in Melbourne’s Fitzroy
Gardens. These poplars are of swift growth, and spread
a luscious shade when it is most wanted ; but I am not
mashed on imported flora. Being Canadian born, 1 love
the pines and firs, also the maples ; but the last are too
gradual, and, as for the conifers, I want a tree that will
share the soil decently with the grass, and not presently
give the lawn the aspect of a cow-yard.


ISHING
ACKLE
Every
9 Requisite
WV
WRITE
FOR
Price-Us
J.Scott. 364BourkeSt, Melbourne
Trout
.fERCH
Cod
y Sea
Bream
CHEAPEST AND BEST
Everybody’s Safety Razor
Only 1/9
Complete
in
Metal Case
with
Directions
and
posted
anywhere.
m
O;
Anyone can use it. A Cut Face Impossible.
The frame 5s hard white metal, rust proof. The bjade
is the best tempered steel, finely finished and warrant-
ed ready for use ; can he inserted or withdrawn from
frame in a moment.
Guaranteed Equal to the Best Half-
Guinea Safety Razor.
i C ‘jE'YERYEODY’S ” is much safer than ordinary razors and
handier than most safeties, because the flat handle
gives perfect control. You can shave up or down, across or
back equally well, and it gives you a closer and easier shave
than most barbers. In America it is recognised as “the
Lady’s Razor ” because it is so easy to use and so perfectly
safe. Never before has a Safety Razor been sold for less than
double this price, and we warrant it as good as the dearest.
Additional Blades Three for only Nine Pence, posted.
THE UNION COMPANY,
299 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
Amusements
CONG RECITAL at the Y.M.C.A. HALL
THURSDAY, MARCH 18,
By ...
MISS RUBY I. MICHAEL,
assisted by Miss STELLA KINGSBURY,
Mr. CYRIL MONK.
Jtyiss JAY and Mr. MONK, Accompanists.
Invitations obtainable and Seats reserved at
NICHOLSON & CO., Limited.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THURSDAY, MARCH 11, FRIDAY, MARCH 12,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE DAIRYMAIDS.
SATURDAY, MARCH 13,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in — '
IT Av A IST A A NEW MUSICAL PLAY, and
ALYA. V xA, LONDON GAIETY SUCCESS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
THE DUKE’S MOTTO.
A MAGNIFICENT AND STIRRING ROMANCE OF
THE PICTURESQUE PERIOD OF LOUIS XIIL
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell &Gunn Season.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gilnn.
THE BEATTY-McINTOSH SEASON.
NIGHTLY OCCURRENCE of BRILLIANT TRIUMPHS.
LAST NIGHTS of JIM THE PENMAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 13,
FEDORA.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Plans at Elvv’s.
ALACE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
A UNIQUE EVENT.
COMMENCING WEDNESDAY NEXT, MARCH 17,
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY and MATINEE
SATURDAY, MARCH 20,
MACMAHON AND CARROLL’S STIRRING PICTURE
DRAMA,
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
Which has made all Australia talk.
Admission—2s., Is., and Od.
LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Palings, 2s 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
“Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
nTo L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, World’s Incomparable Juggler.!
Mr. G. W. HUNTER and MADAME DESIREE.
MR. TOM WOOTTWELU. THE TWO BELLS.
MR. JAY W. WINTON and M’GINTY.
GEOFFREY and BENSON, Comedy Artists.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
THE THREE DONNELLYS. Miss MERLE LAWRENCE.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.!
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician.
(Simply Indescribable.)
CISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
STROSS and FELLOWS, Instrumentalists.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Power of the Idol.”
YEOTHA and CAPT. G. GRADE, Sharpshooters.
Plan at Allan’s. J2T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
ALMA BARBER, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOYDALL.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
I N G’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
K
A STIRRING AND GREAT ATTRACTION.
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, in
FOR THE TERM OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays
J.fcN.TAIT 5
PICTURES.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
('iHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE B O ES * LL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing: Friends.
NYBODY knowing 1 the whereabouts of
EDWARD JOHN and THOMAS WIL-
LIAM DIXON, sons of E. J. DIXON, who
left Australia about 1863-64, and was engaged in
railway construction under Messrs. Cornish and
Bruce while in Australia, please communicate
with
ALBERT Y. DIXON,
Wentworth Street, Nanaimo,
British Columbia, Canada.
u
Worth More
»
The Plough below illustrated is the greatest bargain
ever offered to Australian Farmers.
Made by “ Cockshutt” Plough Co. — New, perfect
condition, fully guaranteed j j
Will do work of the very highest class in any land
where any Plough of its character and weight will work.
A few will be sold at £7 15 o—One0 —One half FOUR,
and one half SIXTEEN months—or less 7\ % for spot
cash.
FREIGHT PREPAID to your nearest railway station
(.Northern Territory, North Queensland, and Western
Australia excepted).
If equipped with Circular Coulters, 101- extra.
WORTH MORE.—Secure one while they are going.
International Harvester Company of A merica
( Incorporated )
200 Roma St., Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke St.,
Melbourne; Bank St., Adelaide; 75 York St., Launceston.
(.260
THE CELEBRATED
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened bv patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANT GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
JAY * F/a^s
trade
MARK
o.
Wholesale only —l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
AT YOUR
SERVICE.
WE SPECIALISE
IN CINEMATOGRAPHS
And in anything appertaining to
them.
We sell, hire or repair machines,
stock accessories, and all duplicate
parts.
Wegive entertainments anywhere.
We have 250,000 feet of Films
—for sale or hire—many quite
new to Sydney.
We’ll show you how to make big
money as a showman.
We are experts in Cinemato=
graphs.
Call and have a chat with us, or
write for particulars.
JERDANS
(formerly Osborn &. Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Died at Annandale, near Sydney, old
Capt. Arguimbau, that rare type—a retired naval
officer who preferred to end his days in Australia.
He came out as captain of H.M. Iris, 50 years
ago; afterwards he went to the African West Coast,
was invalided home on a pension, and soon after
set his face towards Sydney, which he had kept
always in his mind. He quite outlived his genera-
tion, and died hardly remembered as an old
Crimean veteran, who had served at Sebastopol
and also at the siege of Cronstadt.
Max Hirsch, the Freetrade apostle of Vic-
toria, has died at Vladivostock of internal cancer.
The buzzing German came to Australia fifty-odd
years ago, representing some foreign manufac-
turer, and he went on representing foreign manu-
facturers and misrepresenting Australian manu-
facturers to the end of his days. He took up
Single Tax with enthusiasm, but hid it
when Freetrade in Victoria made a last
despairing effort to capture thq farming
vote. His reputation as a platform speaker
rested largely on the fact that he was a very good
and a very experienced drummer. It was no use
knocking him out. Again and again he quoted
figures which somebody in the meeting was able
to prove bogus; but a little thing like that didn’t
worry Hirsch. If he couldn’t sell an audience a
brick he was quite prepared to sell it a stone —as
long as it was a foreign stone. Two years ago he
went away in bad health, and foreign travel
didn’t improve it.
The oiife well-known St. Hubert’s vine-
yard, beyond Lilvdale (Vic.), where Paul de Cas-
tella, and afterwards Andrew Rowan, used to
produce the soul-satisfying wines, has been sacri-
ficed to the great goddess Cow, having passed into
the possession of Joseph Timms, of Adelaide and
W.A., railway contractor. Timms has turned
the sacred cellars into cool stores for the reception
of cow-juice, cow-fat, hogs’-flesh, and other conse-
quences of Cow, and lately he bought a place in
Melbourne, where he hopes to do a trade with the
public. Timms doubtless deserves the success
chat waits on enterprise; but to root up St.
Hubert’s sounds like sacrilege and the seven
deadly sins.
The Melbourne women simply swarmed to
give Melba a hot reception at Spencer-street the
other day, and the world’s soprano came near to
being lost in the struggle. Clearly it was the
lark’s declaration of her keen sympathy with the
cockney suffragettes that drew two-thirds of the
women to greet her. Woman’s rights were
written all over the faces of the multitude, and
the triumph of the sex flamed balefully from a
thousand pairs of spectacles. The deliberate
intention of the wild women was to raise Melba
shoulder-high, and procesh through the city with
her, as a sort of triumphal assertion of their eman-
cipation. But the police stalled them off. “The
greatest Australian is a woman.” It is felt that
that is a smack in the eye for man ; and it is
necessary to make man aware of what has hap-
pened to him.
Dr. Imberfc, of Paris, has been investi-
gating the circumstances of 5500 accidents in
factory and workshop in France, Belgium, and
Germany, and this is what he has found. In all
the countries named, the chances of accidental
death or injury increase with each working hour
of the day. From 6 a.m. to 7 a.m., the first hour
of the ContinentaT working day, accidents are
practically nil. From 7 to 8 tile ratio is repre-
sented by 5 per cent. From that the ratio in-
creases hourly to the 6th hour (11 a.m. to 12noon),
when it suddenly jumps to 21 per cent. Then it
drops again after the midday rest, to take another
sudden jump during the last working hour, from
5 to 6 p.m., when it mounts to 26 per cent. There
is no escape from the conclusion pointed by these
figures. The ratio of accidents increases with the
number of hours worked. The chance of injury
increases with the fatigue of the worker, who
grows less able to watch and control his tools or
machine, and a momentary lapse causes him to
lose an arm or a leg, and be crippled for life.
Yet another relative of an Australasian
Governor has been dragged into the Stirling-
Atherton-Northland divorce suit. Earl de la
Warr, who went into the box last month and
denied the allegations of Therbse Dagorne, Mrs.
Atherton’s maid, is a brother of Lady Edeline
Strickland. Earl de la Warr let a bungalow at
Bexhill-on-Sea—most of which be owns— to Mrs.
Atherton, about the time of the Atherton-Yarde-
Buller divorce suit, and then came to stay at one
of the local hotels. It was on this occasion that
the maid alleges misconduct. London Daily
Express (23/l/’O9) says with pleasing naivetd : —
The place where the Earl and Mrs. Atherton first met
was the celebrated Mount Nelson Hotel, Capetown, the
scene of so many notable events during the war, and the
time was in 1900, while the war was on.
It is hard to say what really notable events took
place at the Mount Nelson during the war,
barring meetings between the merrier sorts of
society dames and soldiers of rank with time on
their hands. There were said to be more flirta-
tions at the Mount Nelson while the Boer-subdu-
ing campaign was in progress than at all the other
hotels in the continent of Africa put together.
To be aspersed by house-servants is, however, no
new experience for Earl de la Warr; he was
divorced by their agency some years ago.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
mm
a is
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
THE FINEST BLEND OF FINE TOBACCO
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plug's, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
The
“ Oval ”
Puzzle
Match Box.
m
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatlv made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed this tricky
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
Quite easy to open when you are in the know. Full
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
TheJoKer’s Indiarabber Snake.
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 1/3 post free anywhere.
THE MAGIC NOSE BALL.
Very novel and surprising-. You squeeze the ball,
and out flies the nose in a most amusing manner.
On releasing the pressure the nose at once dis-
appears. One of the most comical novelties to be
found in our varied slock, and affords no end of
amusement for old and young. Price 1/-, or post
free anywhere for 1/2.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, HaymarUet Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Ox-ford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King; Street, between Georgre and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using l
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Sold under absolute guarantee at
Post Free to any part of Australia.
6/6.
Blades fin.,fin., or fin. deep. Round,Square or Irish Point.
Torrey’s Swing- Strop, 2/6.
Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d.
SOLE AGENTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR I —-
McLEAN, BROS & RIOC PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Luxton & Sons),
14-7-149 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods.
THE “NUGGET” POLISHES
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR BOOTS,
AND ARE NOW
MADE. IN AUSTRALIA
By Australian Labor.
'l'ErlSJfflffil
m
a
■
a
in
THE THERMOS FLASK
EVERY Squatter, Motorist, Yachtsman, and everyone whose work or pleasure
takes them out into the heat or cold, will find the celebrated THERMOS
FLASK invaluable.
It keeps hot drinks hot for 24 hours and cold drinks cold for days.
Fill it up with a pint of hot tea in the early morning, and when you
feel you would like a drink of hot tea, it is there just as when you poured
it in. Just the same with an iced whisky and soda, or any other cold drink.
Thermos, Invaluable for Infants.
Here, there, everywhere you go a Thermos proves its utility. In the
nursery it is invaluable.
In the park, away from the nursery, Thermos gives hot milk, clean-
fresh —health-giving. No trouble at all to carry.
At eventime or early morn soothing hot liquids always ready. No trouble-
no preparation —if your nurse has a Thermos.
The sick room lacks proper equipment if a Thermos is not to hand.
Workers with hand and brain, from navvy to monarch, use Thermos. Every
and anyone must recognise that Thermos is invaluable, indispensable; on
pleasure bent or on work intent Thermos is invaluable just the same. Depend
on yourself for a cooling drink, a hot drink Thermos will provide both a
drink that is fresh and inviting and can be had just when you want it. The
man, or woman, provided with a Thermos Flask waits no one's pleasure only
his or her own.
Makes a splendid gift from one friend to another, or for a wife to give to
her husband.
THERMOS FLASK, nickelled finish, and covered with plain leather, to
hold one pint, sent securely packed and post free for £1 lOs.


AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
What the iS Evening News ” says about 66 The illustrated Australian Medical Guide
“Dr. Philip Muskett, whose competency for the work was, however, un-
doubted, has succeeded in writing the best popular ‘Medical Guide’
which has ever been published, and we make this statement with a full
sense of its value. The ‘Guide’ is modestly stated to be ‘ for Australians,’
and no doubt much of its information is modified, or rather is dictated, by
the circumstances of Australian life and its conditions. But the book will
be thoroughly useful all the world over. To the Australian it will, however,
be peculiarly valuable. There are doctors and doctors. We write of duly
qualified medical men. Some know really little more, barring a perfunctory
course of practical anatomy or dissection, than can be acquired by the
ordinary layman from such a book as Dr. Muskett’s. Some, of course, like
the author, rise above mere rule of thumb. To illustrate our meaning, we
may say that there are many doctors who, meeting with symptoms in a
patient which, according to ordinary rule, indicate a particular disease, at
once diagnose that disease, and prescribe accordingly. Others, however,
knowing from long experience that what seem to be the symptoms of a
particular disease in one person may, on account of certain physical condi-
tions, indicate something totally different, are able to diagnose correctly by
not merely knowing their profession in a mechanical manner. It is for this
reason that we say that Dr. Muskett’s book will give everyone as much
knowledge of medicine as many professional men possess, and will, there-
fore, for ordinary purposes, serve all the purpose of a visit from or to the
medical man. The book, which is completely illustrated and written in a
style which no one can misunderstand, is a very handsome publication in
two volumes. It ought to command a most extensive constituency.”
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
60 SHILLINGS.
IN THE BUSH THESE BOORS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MUCH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
To the Manager , “ The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide,” 2 Vo Is.
THE BULLETIN Office , SYDNEY. “ The Attainment of Health ; and Treatment by Diet ”
Elease forward me the following Medical (2nd Edition)
Works, as per your special offer, viz., * The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ”
(7th Edition)
Postage
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which you undertake to forward the
above works complete, carefully packed, and post free. I am, yours etc.,
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name .
1909.
£3 3 0
O 10 6
0 2 6
0 5 0
£4 10
A ddress-


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
.. Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
The billiard-player has swooped on Billiards
Ltd. with a great and sadden zest, which, if it continues,
will make the fortune of the proprietors of that palatial
establishment. Small wonder, as the. establishment is,
barring one, the largest billiard-palace in the world. The
place is easily distinguished by the electric numbers 630,
632 and 634, that blaze across the panorama of George-
street., Sydney.*
FIVE STOMACH WORMS
Passed By a Child One Yeak and Ten
Months Old.
“For six months,” states Mrs. C. A. Madden,
of Kurrajong, N.S.W., “my little boy, now aged
one year and ten months, has suffered from stomach
worms, which the doctor attributed to the use of
impure water. Until he was sixteen months old
he enjoyed very good health, but subsequently he
became very irritable and cross, and later on he
was examined by a doctor who stated that the
cause was stomach worms. Various treatments
were tried, and on one occasion a stomach worm
was passed from the bowels. The evacuations
from the bowels were always stained with blood,
and the motions were quite unnatural. On three
or four occasions the child was almost choked and
went into convulsions and almost black in the face
through the worms passing up to the throat, and
I had to force my finger down the throat to re-
move the worm.
“ Only last week I was strongly advised t'o try
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets, and
having obtained a box I gave the child a dose in
accordance with the instructions, and the same
evening five worms varying in length, the longest
being 15 inches in length, were expelled.”
Comstock’s “ Dead Shot” Worm Pellqts are ob-
tainable at all chemists and stores, or will be for-
warded by post (postage paid) on receipt of remit-
tance. Price Is. 6d. per box (6 boxes Bs. 6d.).
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
CN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCSILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Public opinion expressed itself somewhat more
warmly and unanimously than usual, but in the same old
purposeless manner,concerning the preposterous “rever-
sals of form ” that happened at the recent V.R.C. meet-
ing without exciting a word of protest from the stewards.
On the second day—the Monday—two of these amazing
exhibitions of the turf’s “glorious uncertainty”were
given by horses that carried the colors of a V.R.C.
steward ; therefore an inquiry was out of the question.
A tribunal —which is a Star Chamber tribunal at that—
cannot sit in judgment on itself. The King’s
colors can do no wrong. When the stewards’
bell rang violently after one or other of these
races, a very uninformed punter suggested that
the owner of the winner, together with his trainer
and jockey, was to be summoned to offer an explanation
of tlie horse’s in-and-out running. A bookmaker, hearing
this remark, burst out laughing. “ The owner is one of
’em,” said Ikey Mo ; “ they’re ringing the blanky bell in
honor of his victory.” Melbourne newspaper comments
on the two races in question made a leading feature of
the allegation that the integrity of the owner (Mr. Turn-
bull) is absolutely beyond suspicion ; and that view of the
situation this paper also takes. But that only brings us
again to the old, old story of the bookmaker who, on
being told that a certain owner fancied his gee-gee for a
certain event, exclaimed with noble scorn —“What the
blazes does he know about it! ”
Nushka and Trafalgar were the two of Mr.
Turnbull’s horses that performed so inconsistently
within 48 hours. Nushka started for the w.f.a. Essendon
Stakes (12 furlongs) on Feb. 27, was backed down to 7 to
2, got away in the front division, speedily dropped back
to the rear, and remained there, eventually finishing
ninth in a field of 10. On that “ form,” the filly had no
visible chance for the Autumn Handicap (13 furlongs),
run on March 1, in which she was required to give lots
of weight to older horses, and was, in fact, handicapped
unfavorably. There were nine runners. Nushka had a
good position when rounding the turn for home, and
eventually cut down the leaders in racing-like
style, winning easily ,by two lengths. Starting
price, 10 and 12 to 1. Gasps of astonishment
and bursts of blasphemy from the punters.
Trafalgar’s “reversal of form ” was even more striking;
but in this case the jockey was changed, and if it is to be
accepted as a turf doctrine that one rider is worth about
2st. more than another to the animal he bestrides, there
must be an end to all imputations of dishonesty, and the
public can makeup its mind.that dealings with packs of
horses are as uncertain in the result as dealings with
packs of cards. Trafalgar met Golden Gate and Monobel
in the St. Leger (If mile) on Febi 27. They all-carried
the same weight, of course. Trafalgar, with Pratt up,
ran in the mostapproved non-staying manner— i.e., he was
one of the two leaders foramile and half ormore ; then be
dropped back and finished fourth, behind Golden Gate and
Monobel, the actual winner being Even Time. On March 1
Trafalgar was backed down to 5 to 1 for the Loch Plate,
a two miles w.f.a. race. W. H. Smith had the mount.
Strange to say, the two horses (Golden Gate and Monobel)
that had so clearly appeared to outstay Trafalgar in the
Leger were not so much fancied as he on this occasion,
although the distance was longer and they were again
running at level weights. This time Trafalgar had the
lead at 12 furlongs, as in the Leger race, but, instead of
dropping back when the test of stamina came, he sailed
right ahead and won very easily. Golden Gate and
Monobel were never in it with Trafalgar. The “ reversal
of form ” amounted to at least 2st., as handicapping cal-
culations go. Golden Gate and Monobel gave Mr. Turn-
bull’s horse a more than 71b. beating on the Leger, and
received a 201 b. beating in the Loch Plate.
The BcbLETiN doesn’t impute dishonesty to
“ the stable” as regards the poor running of Nushka and
Trafalgar on Saturday, Feb. 27, and the conspicuously
good running of the same horses two days later. Nor
does it give jockey W. H. Smith all the credit for the
immense improvement in the “ form ” of Trafalgar, for to
do so would be tantamount to a libel on jockey Pratt and
a reflection on the intelligence of his employers. But
this journal maintains that the stewards of a meeting
where the punting public gets so much cause for reason-
able suspicion should at least recognise, by an official
inquiry, the fact that the performances were incon-
sistent. Can public “ form ”be thus insulted by certain
horses with impunity merely because a steward owns
them ? The small uninfluential owners, and the bigger
men of doubtful reputation (especially if they be book-
makers), are called upon to explain the eccentric perform-
ances of their gees if they can. Is there ever a more
in-and-out performance than that of steward Turnbull’s
horse Trafalgar?
A still more sensational reverse was that of
Soultline in the All Aged Stakes. Within the previous
16 days Soultline had won the St. George’s Stakes (9 fur-
longs), carrying Bst. 131 b.; the Futurity Stakes (7 fur-
longs), carrying 9st. 81b. ; and the Newmarket Handicap
(6 furlongs), with 9st. 111 b. up. lie gave Parsee a stone
and a considerable beating in each of the last two events.
Beforeheaving the birdcage for the All Aged Stakes, two
days subsequent to his Newmarket achievement, Soult-
line seemed ready to “ jump out of his skin,” in a way of
speaking. With his impatient fore foot he scraped a hole
in the ground of his stall. He kicked out his hind
legs joyfully when his plates were being re-
moved. He was as fit as the proverbial fiddle.
He was about to meet Parsee on 81b. better
terms than when he beat the 3-year-old two days earlier.
Yet the betting for a while was only 5 to 2 on Soultline,
and 5 to 1 against Parsee. Subsequently the starting
price ( vide newspaper reports) was 7 to 2 on Soultline,
and 7 to,l against Parsee. The public had naturally been
tempted to back the “ dead cert ” on the favorable terms
offered at first. The race was a satire on “ form.” Soult-
line made the running, with a moderate advantage of
lolare and Parsee, for about 5J furlongs at the most;
then Parser/*collared him, and eventually ran away from
the “dead cert” as though he had a stone or two in
hand. There was no struggle; but the stewards asked
for no explanation of this staggering surprise. Amaze-
ment may have struck them dumb.
Jockey M‘Lachlan, however, had an explana-
tion to offer to his friends, lie didn’t say what the com-
placent newspaper reporters said next day— viz., that
“ Soultline may have gone off,” or was “ probably feeling
the effects of his Newmarket race.” M'Lachlari ex-
onerated the gee-gee and took all the blame to himself.
He had lost the race, said the jockey, by pulling Soultline
in the early stages of the contest instead of giving him
liis ’ead, and compelling Parsee to pursue him at top
speed. To use his own expression, the jockey had
“choked” Soultline, and Parsee had “nothing to beat”
down the straight. How comforting for the layers of
odds! A jockey, with strong arms and good intentions,
had prevented the odds-on favorite from getting away
with the race.
* * * *
A hurdle race winner at the V.R.C. Autumn
Meeting carries the name of Alert Dream. The reason
for which outrage is the animal’s breeding, by Dreamland
—Alert. There are some people of so lively an imagina-
tion that if they had a yearling begotten by Bad Egg from
Nimble they would call it Nimble Egg.
Jfc * * -*
Pendil, the nice little fellow who won the Aus-
tralian Cup, notwithstanding that he was a 6 to 4 favorite,
was whispered about as a good one in his early 2-year-old
days, but he never did anything in public to justify the
whisper until he was a 3-year-old. Then he came out
and won the Maiden Plate and Carnival Handicap at the
V.R.C. Spring Meeting, the two slakes being worth
£BOO odd. Subsequently, Pendil ran nowhere in the
Williamstown Cup, and on the strength of that moderate
performance, Mr. Power’s horse was let into the Austra-
lian Cup at 7st. lib., although his pedigree (Bobadil-
Penitence) suggested stamina. The long race has fallen
to a thnee-year-old eight times within the past 24 years,
but of the others the only one who carried less than Bst.
was last year’s winner, Peru.
* * * *
The railway service to Flemington on race days
is run on severely autocratic lines. The first-class return
fare for the “specials,” although 33 per cent, less than
the old original imposition, is about five times the
ordinary rate; and people, being landed at the
course, have only one chance to get back to
town before 5 p.m. On some days even the one .
chance—a train at 3.30 or thereabouts—is denied to
them. If they want to make their escape between, say,
1 p.m. and 5 p.m., they must go by road and pay a cab
fare. Another old-standing cause for complaint at
Flemington is the afternoon-tea service, which appar-
ently is ill-done at an exorbitant price because the club
sells the catering rights to the highest tenderer, instead
of foregoing this paltry source of revenue and subsidising
one of the principal Melbourne to do the thing in
the smartest town style. People going to the races for
pleasure pay too dearly for their entertainment. They
are victimised all round. Judging from the drop in the
attendance at the recent meeting, they begin to ask them-
selves whether the game is worth the candle.
* * * *
The V.R.C. stewards, frequently blind, deaf,
and dumb as regards the cronk practices of the riders
they know best, made a shocking example of the S’Aus-
traiian jockey Hopwood on the second day of the Autumn
Meeting. Hopwood rode Doughty into second place for
the River Handicap, three-quarters of a length behind
True Scot, the red-hot favorite who won the race. The
stewards took it for granted on what they saw of the
finish that Hopwood wanted to be beaten by True Scot.
Doubtless they were right in the assumption. But while
they were dealing- out punishment to the man who did
the “pujling out,” they shut their eyes to the necessity
for an inquiry into the wherefore of his anxiety to let
True Scot win. Also, the reason for True Scot’s hot
favoritism should have been inquired into. The horse
had done nothing of late to justify his being backed as
though the River Handicap were a certainty for him, yet
the market indicated that some of the other horses were
probably “ off the job” on True Scot’s account, and the
rider of Doughty aforesaid was convicted of deliberately
losingthe race that True Scot might win it. Here was the
suggestion of a conspiracy. Nothing- but the favorite was
freely backed. The way was cleared for the favorite at
the finish of the race. The stewards merely disqualified
the rider of a rank outsider who happened to make him-
self conspicuously friendly to the favorite. They didn’t
attempt to discover who it was that had squared him.
Again, in the case of the steeplechaser Pilot the stewards
ignored the fact that the shaggy old top-weight was out
of condition, and chose to seem virtuously indignant with
Jockey Cahill for not riding the horse vigorously to the
bitter end. Concerning w hich Melbourne Age remarked:
“ It is all the more strange that an undeserving case of
this sort should be singled out for censure when instances
of palpable 4 roping ’ which have disfigured the three
days racing at Flemington were permitted to go unchal-
lenged.” But even the V.R.C. stewards must make some
show of vigilance sometimes. Therefore, to paraphrase
Hudibras, they—
“ Make up for sins their eyes are blind to
By finding fault when they’ve a mind to.”
* * * *
Somehow the V.R.O. Champion Stakes is in
danger of its old prestige. Up to last year the 8-miles
w.f.a. race had always been won by a horse of first-
class reputation, for even Emir was a great goer when
he took the prize in 1904, beating Lord Cardigan ; and
many notable classic performers have finished only
second when put to the 3-miles test. But last year’s
winner, Peru, had nothing better than an Australian
Cup victory (at 7st. 101 b.) to his credit, and this year
the same double event fell to Pendil. It will be in-
teresting to see what the handicappers make qf Pendil
in his future handicap engagements. The fact that he
beat Signor by a head for the Champion doesn’t prove
him to be equal to Lord Nolan, for instance ; but see-
ing that he has won five races out of six as a 8-year-
old, and hasn’t been beaten by any of the cracks at
w.f.a., nobody can say that Pendil is not exceptionally
good.
* * * *
Soultline supplies a good argument for those
opposed to racing two-year-olds. The flying Maorilander
did not compete at that age, and was out only once
during the next season.
* * * *
L.G-.M. gathered the Farm Stakes at Warwick
Farm on Saturday in a way that suggested further suc-
cesses. He is by Louis XIII. from The Meddler, by Trenton
from Busybodj', by Grand Flaneur, and is consequently
half-brother to Yabba Gabba, who has been running so
unluckily lately.
■* * * *
Warwick Farm Meeting on Saturday was re-
markable for the number of bottled-up “good things”
which failed in every instance but one. The Climax,
recently successful at Armidale, was sent out “ a moral”
(10 to nine on), and finished last of four starters. The
waited-for Clarence River tip, Cobalt, who appropriated
Brewers’ Handicap at Grafton last year, started as torrid
a favorite for Farm Stakes as The Climax was for Liver-
pool mile, yet at least eight of 12 others passed the post
before him. Malt King (two to one) went under to
outsider Kiltie (10 to 1 against). Cobalt was tried again in
the Stewards’ Mile, and once more held the strongest
position in the betting, but pulled up sixth. The pun-
ters’cup of gall overflowed when, in the last event, the
Pace Welter, Barley Brew (5 to 4 against) got no nearer
than third. The ' only favorite to score was the reliable
N.S.W. northern district nag Ismailia, at 5 to 4 against;
and anyone who squared accounts through him had to
plunge heavily.
*■*•**
Australia’s first exploring cyclist and motor-boat
enthusiast, Donald Mackay, of Port Hacking (N.S.W.),
is back from his trip in Papua. Because he did not
succeed in crossing from the mouth of the Purari
River to the head waters of the Fly River, and emerge
at the mouth of the big stream in canoes of his own
making, he regards his trip as a failure. As a matter
of fact, he achieved wonders. He had no wealthy ex-
ploration society behind him, neither was he backed up
by any Government in Australia. All he had was a
little swag of about £l5OO of his own hard-saved cash,
and the experience he had gained by riding round Aus-
tralia on a bike. He arrived in Papua at the wrong time
of the year, and, unable to land at the spot he intended,
found himself let in for an extra 120 miles march,
which, of course, sapped his resources considerably.
When he got there with his three white companions lie
discovered what every other explorer has discovered—
that before a big, successful coup can be carried out in
the way of cross-country exploration, some preliminary
investigation is necessary. As he put it himself: “I
found I was a new-chum up there. I had to set to work
to ascertain the local conditions when I should have been
fully aware of them before getting my party together.”
However, he got his party together, and the steamer
Merrie England set him down about 120 miles from where
he had intended to start, and the great, impenetrable
Papuan bush smiled at him cynically.
However, he pegged along the shore valiantly,
and at length reached the Purari River, which he com-
menced to ascend. Then his troubles began. His Papuan
carriers fell ill with monotonous regularity. To leave
them meant that they would be eaten ; so he had to stick
to them. The days went by, and every one of them was
the same as the one that had gone before it. Everything
he required he had to make, and making things took time.
To feed his natives he had to cut down sago palms
and manufacture the sago from the pith. And when
he had made enough sago to last him another day, the
Papuan sago hand became strangely tired, indifferent,
and unable to work. He fell asleep over the sago trough.
This sleepiness was general. The men on sentry duty fell
asleep at their posts, the men who were cutting sago
palms would scramble on to a comfortable log and drop
asleep. The cooks slumbered beside their pots, and the
exasperated white men raged round all the time trying to
keep their crowd awake. Bit by bit the expedition crawled
on, in spite of all difficulties. Mackay himself became
ill, and, getting about too soon, split his knee-cap, and had
to lay up for several weeks. The bearers became homesick,
and a number of them deserted with a canoe and a large
swag of provisions. He was more than half-way through
his self-appointed trip when provisions became exhausted
and he was compelled to retire. He had literally carved
his way for hundreds of miles through the thickest bush
in the world, and now, with exhausted supplies, and the
back of the problem broken, the plucky Australian had to
hurriedly retreat along his own line to avoid starvation.
Donald Mackay has done some wonderful things in his
time, but his ‘‘failure” is really his best achievement.
He played a losing game admirably, and did much valu-
able work.
* * * *
Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron concluded its
season on Saturday with a Ladies’ Race, in which seven
of the crack yachts of the club, steered by ladies,
ploughed round Sydney Harbor in the stiff nor’-easter.
The race was robbed of its interest by the steerswoman of
the leading craft, Nanoya, mistaking the course. With
the exception of Magic, steered by Norman Murray’s
sister, the rest of the fleet followed Nanoya. Miss
Murray ran Magic round the full course, and, thus won
first prize. The way the ladies handled the yachts went
far to discount the theory that yachting is a manly sport.
MISS GLADYS TAIT, AUSTRALIA'S NEW
CHAMPION LADY SWIMMER.
Saturday was the last day also of Sydney Flying
Squadron. Maritana, which finished only third in the
second heat in the final secured a handicap of 2fmin. It
soon became apparent that there was nothing else in the
race ; and, getting a break on the squadron at Shark
Island, the Maritana sailed home the easiest of winners,
having gained lGsee. on the handicap received from Don-
nelly, the second boat in the procession.
* * * *
Motorboat men and good Australians generally
will be pleased to learn that Charles Relpb, creator of the
Magic, Invincible and other all-Australian motor boats,
who for three weeks has been fighting for his life with
pneumonia, is now out of danger and on the straight run
for convalescence. He had a desperate time of it, and for
the best part of a week his life was despaired of by every-
body but his wife. The lady never lost heart, and, pulled
him through.
* * * *
The Whale Boat Championship of Sydney Har-
bor has for years been a perk of the Fire Brigade crew,
which has wiped the floor easily enough with all-comers.
On Saturday last a quintette from the Naval Brigade
came along to argue the point, over a course of four-and-
a-half miles. It was blowing a stiff one from the N.E.,
and the water was rough, very rough. Although after a
fearsome struggle the firemen won by 30 secs., it was
plain that, if the present rate of improvement among the
naval men continues, the firemen’s. day is drawing to a
close. The firemen kept better time, were handled
in excellent style, and had the advantage of a
thorough knowledge of the course ; yet the material
opposed to them was of such sterling quality that, even
with lack of training, ragged time, and general want of
careful preparation, the naval boat was dangerous all the
time, and for the first mile led in great style. Then the
heavy waves struck the boats, and with the better com-
bination of the firemen their craft recovered quicker, and
plunged away while the naval boat was still wallowing in
the trough. It was this prompt recover after each
wave struck the boats that seems to have given the fire-
men their victory. After each shock they gained a
little, and by the time the race was over those little gains
had totalled 30sec.
* * * *
As it was practically just as wet to be out of the
water as in it in Melbourne on Saturday, two swimming
carnivals broke out in two places at once. Down at St.
Hilda, the Melbourne Ladies’ Swimming Club held a carni-
val for girls, and it was a carnival of girls ! Girls plump,
brown, and graceful, festooned the landings, paddled
after corks, dived and swam without intermis-
sion. The camera men for the highly respectable
weekly papers must have got drunk on the spectacle.
There was only one event of any distinction, the 100yds.
Breast Stroke Championship, won by Miss Hilda Bradley.
This event nearly ended in trouble, for one of the
competitors collapsed at the post, and took dangerously
long to recover. Also, despite the sopping rain, a
number of damsels insisted upon capering about in
fearful and wonderful fancy dress. At Fairfield, which is
up the Yarra a trifle, the Fairfield Park Club held its
annual carnival under worse conditions than at St. Hilda,
for there was little or no shelter from the rain. The Open
Handicap drew no less than 54 starters, and was finally
won by H. McKinley (Brighton); Jas. Miller (Melb.), 2 ;
and E. Masters (Albert Park), 3.
“ B.” : If the Board of Control accomplishes
nothing else, it deserves the thanks of the public for
having put Australian cricket on an equal basis. The
1909 team goes to England with a proper set of governing
officers; and, most wholesome of all, there is not the
sting left behind that some of the team is on the half-
share principle—which was admitted in connection with
the 1896 team, when Kelly and Johns each received a half-
share, and is freely believed to have been the custom in
other teams. The Board of Control has swept the white
ants out of the game.
* * ■*
A batch of “prominent Melbourne citizens”
got a nasty bump the other day. The “heap” wanted to
get Hazlitt into the 1909 Australian team, and offered to
pay all expenses, and at the same time didn’t re-
quire a share of the profits of the tour. But the
Board of Control arose and smote the suggestion
to the wind because “ it wopld establish a dangerous pre-
cedent.” The Board might have shown more heat in the
matter, and told the “prominent Melbourne citizens”
that the control of Australian cricket is the job of the
Board, and that it has explicit trust in its selection com-
mittee to choose the team. The efforts to poke holes
through the Board of Control’s armor are lamentable.
Playing in grade cricket at Sydney on Saturday,
Victor Trumper justified his inclusion in the XI., as far as
a man may in an inter-club match, by making 260, in-
cluding- 10 sixers and 29 fours. Stimulated by his ex-
ample, his club-mate, S. McCloy, also waded in to punish
the leather, and smacked up 11*0 before little Syd Gregory
clean bowled him. Trumpet’s end came through being
caught by Charlie Gregory off one from Bell.
The only other century of the day was also a
double by Bardslev, who carried his bat for 217
against North Sydney. The bowling was far from
sparkling: Scott of Petersham, who dropped seven
of Redfern for 63 ; Cranney, of Central Cumberland,
with five of Balmain for 44, were at the top of the
list. For the rest, Glebe, with 9 down for 370, beat
North Sydney’s 241 by 129 on the first innings. Paddington,
through Trmnper’s fearsome score, made 493 for eight
wickets. Waverley could only respond with 199, and so
went under by two wickets and 294 on the first
innings, t-etersham and Redfern were closer, with 277
and 256, giving Petersham amargin of 21. Middle Harbor
with 463 downed Gordon’s 175, and won by a margin of
288. University beat Burwood by 77 on the first attempt.
Central Cumberland, closing its innings with eight down
for 478, beat Balmain’s 152 and eight for 95.
m * * *
Just at present half the white man’s world has
one eye fixed on a big, bull-necked man in New York,
wondering what he will do. Will Jeffries challenge John-
son ? That is the question. Till he started training re-
cently, Jeffries had not had a glove on for four years.
Also, it is said that he had given up practically all athletic
exercise, and never walked where he could drive, and that
from taking a size IS collar, he had to resort to made-to-
order neck gear that went about 22. These are serious
considerations in the progress of a bruiser. They all
indicated that he had got “ fat inside ” ; that is to say,
had developed throughout his innards a vast mass of
soft adipose tissue which could not be worked out
or hardened up except by about two years’ hard graft on
plain, solid food. However, after having made many
solemn denials of any intention of re-entering the ring,
Jeffries suddenly started to train like a Trojan. He fell
on the punching-ball and gave it a terrible time. He rose
up early in the morning and went tearing across the
startled and delighted country. He chopped up all the
wood in the district—he is a great believer in wood-
chopping as an exercise, and whenever he struck an un-
usually tough block he addressed it as Johnson. Then
big, aggressive-looking men began to call at the
farm, and Jeffries took them to secluded spots,
whence they emerg-ed in a heated and somewhat
damaged state. The reporters came in shoals, but the
g-reat man explained he was taking part in some theatrical
show, and was getting himself into condition so as to give
the guys in the seats their money’s worth. He disclaimed
all intention of fighting anybody for the world’s champion-
ship : least of all Johnson. Then Sam Berger and Alfred
Kauffmann came along, and Jeffries took them down to
his athletic club and “ sparred ” with them. Kauffmann
had a rough time of it, and Sammy Berger fared but
little better. Seen afterwards, Berger, with his mouth in
a sling, explained that Jeffries was as formidable as
ever. His quickness of foot, his awful hitting power, his
timing of his “ delivery ” (euphonious name), and his all-
round alertness, Samuel explained, shaking his head
sadly, were quite unimpaired. All Jeffries wanted to
make him fit to knock out the archangel Michael himself
was condition to last, just in case the other fellow stood
up to him long enough. And, he explained, six months’
preparation is all he wants to make him invincible. Then
he called for antiphlogostine.
Then Jeffries appeared in New York. The
Empire City arose and invited him to two banquets every
night. Also it demanded what he was doing in the
matter of that nigger. Was he going to wipe him out?
Jeffries explained that he had been doing a little training,
some sparring, and was feeling himself out. If he felt
convinced that he could recover his old condition,
then he would fight Johnson. ; But he could not say
definitely till he had finished feeling himself out. And
there the matter rests. Jeff, is still feeling himself out.
Better things were expected of Frank Thorn
and Paddy King, Australia’s best featherweights, than
the stuff they gave at Melbourne Cyclorama when they
piet to exchange trouble for the Commonwealth cham-
pionship in their class. The reaction from American
methods of wallow and wallop has gone to the other
extreme, and the strict idea of a clean break that was
entertained for the evening barred anything approaching
in-fighting, with the result that two solid pluggers, who
owe their eminence less to classic ability than to strength,
endurance and willingness, were restricted to long-range
fighting. Neither King nor Thorn is a great marks-
man, consequently the fight was neither good science
nor notable stoush. An evener thing could hardly
have been put into the ropes, but Thorn came with a
flurried sort of eagerness in the last two rounds, and
booby-dazzled the referee into dropping the verdict his
way. When these two met previously, King outed Thorn
in six. If he wants to do it again, he will have to stand
out for the privilege of fighting all he knows within the
strict reading of the Act.


KUGELMANN’S
©
©
/
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid/'
TREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE £ 199 Clarence St., SYDNEV
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the « SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, dojt well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
TELEPHONES
( 4349 Central.
29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
48 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
2
WHAT IS IT?
Yes—what is it that makes riders of B. and B. Cycles so
enthusiastic over their mounts? What is it that has brought 13. and
B. Cycles into such popularity?
If you ride one you’ll know—it is quality—nothing but quality-
real unmistakable superiority.
B. and B. Models, fitted with first-class tyres, guaranteed 12
months. Price JSII. Send for our new 1909 Catalogue.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-building
House ,in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from —
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
Price 10/0,
Post Free
Anywhere in
Australasia.
YOUR MORNING SHAVE
would take half the time it does now with a PLUM
Razor. It justs skims over the chin quickly, gently, no
pulling—and the result is grand. We guarantee and keep the
blade in working order for two years free of charge.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
BILLIARDS
BILLIARDS LTD.
630, 632 and 634 GEORGE STREET
(near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
25 FULL-SIZE ALCOCK TABLES.
AN UNQUALIFIED, INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS.
Everyone Surprised and Delighted with the Cool, Airy, and Splendidly-Ventilated
Rooms. Trained Staff of Markers.
Rooms under the Experienced Care of HARRY GRAY, Billiard Instructor.
Five Handsomely-Furnished Private Rooms, each fitted with one table,
can be booked in advance. Three lines of tramways pass the door.
ELECTRIC LIGHT SIGN IN FRONT OF BUILDING EASILY LOCATES
AUSTRALASIA’S LARGEST BILLIARD PALACE.
Violent Indigestion
> JZ>ejx7/cz-<z£le
V Case ”
V'i /
O'
(A }
.o
SL
K
r
w.
<Ai
Collins Street, Melbourne,
October 7, 1908.
FISHER and CO., 337 George Street, Sydney, .
Dear Sirs,—l feel it right to let you know at the earliest moment that since taking your
PHOSPHERINE, beginning about six weeks ago, I have been completely cured of a most violent
form of Indigestion. Previous to hearing of your splendid remedy I had been taking buckets or
slush of one kind and another, and all to no purpose—but “ FISHER’S ” PHOSPHERINE has hit
the bullseye, and now I can eat anything night or day. ... ,
I am very grateful to the friend who recommended it, and trust many other sufferers will nnci
the same relief that I have found from using it. „., „ „ __ ~
Yours faithfully, W M .
UNSOLICITED AND CONCLUSIVE TESTIMONIAL.
The above testimonial is sent by a prominent business gentleman, whose name and address will
be supplied on application.
Five to ten drops of “FISHER’S ” PHOSPHERINE in water after meals is the greatest aid to
digestion known. The after-effects of over-eating and excess-drinking are removed by this famous
Tonic. Ten drops in water half an hoar before breakfast removes a sour taste from the mouth, ana
makes the breath sweet and pleasant.
If you pay £5 per bottle you cannot get a better Tonic for
INDIGESTION NEURALGIA KIDNEY AILMENTS
HEADACHE RHEUMATISM NERVOUSNESS
THAN
“FISHER'S” Phospherine.
All Chemists, 1/- per bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
INSIST UPON “ FISHER’S.” Take Nothing Else.
POST FREE FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
FISHER & COMPANY,
Chemists and Druggists,
337 GEORGE ST., Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY
This famous Tonic is sold outside of New South Wales under
the name of “ FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC.” Therefore
always ask for FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC.
AFTER
BEFORE
WHY STAY THIN ?
There is now no reason why every man or woman should not
acquire or regain a PERFECT FIGURE. If you want to
add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight, strength,
and beauty, send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of the
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and FLESH DEVELOPER
This newly-discovered HERBAL SPECIFIC is a vitalizing
AGENT and FLESH BUILDER. It will soon put your
NERVES RIGHT, tone up your DIGESTIVE ORGANS,
and make you STRONG, HEALTHY, and VIGOROUS,
with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all SORAGGINESS.
Try it—it will cost you nothing. Call or write for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and FREE BEAUTY BOOKLET.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Department A. ii Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
~ REFEREE TOBAGCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHA.RDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
ANDREW McGEE
The latest—best—simplest and most perfect Safety Razor is the
AUTO-STROP SAFETY RAZOR.
It has all the merits of others, without any of their demerits.
Triple Silver-plated Frame, 1 doz. Blades and Horsehide
Strop. Complete in Velvet-lined, Leather-covered
Case, 255. ; postage, 6d. extra. Extra Blades, 3s.
per dozen.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAYS.
S & 7 Ca.stlerea.erh Street fcornor Hunter Street), Sydney.
sgt


ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
304-page ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE will take all the Worry out of Choosing. Gives wider selection, bigger range of Prices, and will suggest
many things you would never have thought you'd need. Write for copy ; sent post free to any address.
5 <#
5’7l
v >
■!— ,. ~ T ; ' . ■'.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S SEWING COMPANION, Pure
Silver-mounted, Handsomely Embossed,
in Silk-lined Morocco Leather Case,
£2/5/. Other styles, 18/6, 20/, 25/,
30/, 40/, 50/.
GOODS OF
QUALITY.
Buying, as we do,
in immense
quantities,
“direct” from
the manufacturers
for SPOT CASH,
enables us to
offer you
exceptional values
consistent with
the quality.
You’ll find
our prices are
the lowest in
Sydney.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S WAIST BELT, I'ure Silverplated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Pierced
Floral Design, in all Sizes to Fit any Waist.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
BUYING
BY MAIL.
No matter where
you live, our
Up-to-date Mail
Order Department
will serve you
promptly and
satisfactorily.
All Goods,
with the
exception
of Clocks and
Chinaware,
sent, Carriage
Free, to
any address.
SiiiSssSSiL? I
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SOLID SILVER SHAVING COM-
PANION, comprising Soap Tube, Puff Jar,
and Shaving Brush, Finest Badger Bristles,
in Silk-iined Case, £3/10/- Other styles,
£2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
Leather, Pure Silver-plated
Mounts, and Cup Screw-top.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6,
15/, 20/.
TRINKET BOX, Pure
Silver-mounted, Silk and
Velvet Finish, size 4in x
2|in.
POST 5/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6,
8/6, in/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SOLID ' EBONY HAIR-
BRUSH, Pure Silver Shield, Fine
White Bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 9/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CENT.’S SHAVING MUG and BRUSH, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand-embossed, Satin Finished, Gilt-lined,
Finest Quality Badger Bristles.
POST 30/- FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
-
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT SPRAY, Solid
Silver-mounted, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass, 4in
high.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6,
15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEART PIN-CUSHION, Pure
Silver-mounted, Velvet Top,
21-
Other styles, 1/6, 2/, 2/6, 3/,
3/6, 4/6.
mmmt l iMK
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Richly Embossed,
Solid Silver Mounts, Finest Sheffield
Steel Ends.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 20/.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Silver, Handsomely
Embossed, Finest Qua-
lity Bristles, SO/-
Other styles, 20/, 25/,
30/, 35/.
SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP HOLDER, Solid
Silver, Richly Embossed, Finest Badger Bristles
(Soap fits into Handle).
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
JEWEL CASE, Pore Silver-plated, Richly
Embossed, Floral Design, Sillt-lined, size 4£in
X 2 n POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ CHAIN PURSE, Solid Silver, Richly Em
bossed, Stork Design, Silk-lined, with Four Compart
ments, size 3i-in x 2Jin.
POST 21/- FREE.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 3 of, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S HAIR BRUSH, Solid Ebony, Pure
Silver-mounted, Scroll Design, Extra Long
White Bristles, 10/6- Other styles, 11/6,
12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/. Mirror to Match, 20/.
* CTumlJl
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET BOOK, Morocco Leather,
Silk-lined, Pure Silver Mounts, Lock, and Shield.
POST 10/6 free.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Silver, Richly Em-
bossed, Long White
Bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6,
15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR COMB, Pure Silver-mounted, Richly Embossed,
Imitation Tortoiseshell, 10 If*- ot “ e f sty ’
5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Church of England COM-
PANION, A. and M. Hymn and
Prayer Book, Pure Silver-mounted,
Seal Leather Case, 10/0-
Heavier, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
MS ■
GENT.’S HAIR BRUSHES,
Solid Nickel, Richly Em-
bossed, Long Bristles.
POST 17/C FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6. 15/, 20/.
Case, Calf-lined, Fitted with Every Convenience.
POST 21/- FREE.
DITTO, GENT.’S, 25/.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, to £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE HOOK, Pure Silver-mounted, Richly Embossed,
2Jin long, J 5/. SHOE HOOK to match,
7in long, 4/6.
HEAD SALTS, Pine
Hobnail Out Glass, Pure
Silver-mounted, 3 inches
high.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6,
8 >6, 10/.
PLUSH HANDKERCHIEF BOX
Richly Embossed, Silver-plated
Mounts, Silk-lined, size sJin x slin
POST 4/6 FREE)
Handkerchief Box to Match, 4/6
CABINET PHOTO. FRAME, Solid
Silver, tlandsomely Embossed, Flora'
Design.
POST 7/<> FREE.
Other styles, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather, Dark Brown
or Green, Chamois-lined, Nickel Frame, with
Coin Purse. POST 10/G FREE.
Other styles, i/3, 5/0, 7/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6,
IS/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Finest Seal Leather,
Black or Brown, Pure Silver Mounts
and Shield.
POST 15/- FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 17/6.
PEGGY BAG, Selected Morocco Leather, Ex-
tra Division, Nickel Frame, Chamois-lined,
15/- In Seal or Crocodile, 17/6. Other
styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/.
RAPID ADJUSTABLE FIELD cr
MARINE GLASS, Morocco Leather
Covered, Achromatic Lenses, with
Leather Sling and Case.
£ii
Other styles, 30/, 35/, 45/, 50/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W,


m
o o
o 01
GO
O P
u
The BROWNIES are Grand
Cameras —Low-Priced, too!
Because they are so very economical, so reliable and perfect,
the Brownies have acquired wonderful popularity— especially amongst
beginners. They give splendid pictures, and enable the newcomer
into photography to become thoroughly versed in all the points before
investing in a high-priced Camera. The Brownies are manufactured
by the Eastman Company, and are “ almost Kodaks.” The handy
and popular films are used, and no dark-room is required. We
quote some of the Brownies here —others are mentioned in our
comprehensive Kodak catalogue. Ask for a copy.
No. 2 BROWNIE CAMERA.
This wonderful little instrument produces a
splendid photograph, even when used by child-
ren. It is simple to operate, and when provided
with a Kodak portrait attachment will take a
good-sized bust photograph.
It is equipped with two finders and covered
with a fine quality imitation leather. The
pictures measure 2Jin. x S£in., and it has a
capacity of six exposures. The lens is a4jin.
focus Meniscus, the shutter an Eastman Rotary,
and the price only 10/- Postage extra, 9d. ;
Inter-State,. 1/2.
No. 2a BROWNIE CAMERA.
This is splendidly-constructed and takes
pictures that measure 2Jin. x, 4jin. For land-
scape compositions it is excellent, and when
used vertically makes splendid full-length
portraits. It is fitted with a Meniscus achro-
matic lens and an Eastman rotary shutter. It
only weighs 270 z., and has a capacity of
12 exposures. Price, 12/6. Postage extra,
9d. : Inter-State, 1/2.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE.
A dainty little Camera and a general favorite.
It takes pictures measuring 2jin. x 3£in., and is
fitted with an Iris diaphragm shutter for in-
stantaneous, time, and bulb exposures. Always
ready for use as a fixed focus camera, it has
the additional advantage of the special focussing
lock for Bft., 20ft. and 100 ft. It weighs but
160 z., and is splendidly made and fitted
throughout. Price, 21/- Postage, 9d. extra ;
Inter-State, 1/2.
N0..3 FOLDING BROWNIE.
This is the head of the Brownie class —a
light, compact, carefully-constructed Camera
that takes pictures 3Jin. x lt has a
capacity of 12 exposures, a Meniscus lens, an
F.P.K. automatic shutter, anti an automatic
focussing lock. A reversible finder, two tripod
sockets, and a weight of only 250 z. makes it
extremely desirable for 37/6. Postage, 1/-
extra ; Inter-State, 1/8.
All Kodak supplies are stocked at English list prices, and full
information is given on application. Ask for the Catalogue.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “ THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
CONSTIPATION AND BILIOUSNESS
Removed by Rutnow’s Powder.
NO functions are more frequently disturbed than those of digestion. Although not dangerous in
themselves, such disturbances nevertheless interfere with the active duties of life, and render
us less able to resist the various forms of disease, so that their consideration becomes of vast
importance. There is nothing more injurious in its effects than undue retention of food in the
stomach. The regular use of Kutnow’s Powder prevents such disturbances and acts as a safeguard
against disease. Kutnow’s Powder is a universal remedy for Constipation, Biliousness and Liver
Troubles. We ask you to try its merits at once, and you will never regret the trial.
AN EFFICIENT REMEDY.
All debris left from imperfectly digested food becomes
poisonous and vitiates the blood. Kutnow’s Powder
entirely removes these poisons from the system.
The symptoms of constipation are frequently exhibited
in the appearance of pimples, boils, skin blotches, and
other bodily disfigurements.
Nervous headache, despondency, brain-fag, insomnia,
and even insanity can frequently be traced to this baneful
irregularity.
Kutnow’s Powder permanently removes Constipation,
Indigestion Biliousness, and all stomach troubles.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Substitutes.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of 9,11 conscientious Chemists throughout
the World. See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the
registered trade mark, “ Hirsch.ensprung', or Deer Leap,” are on the package and
bottle. This is
How to get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
MAKES YOU HEALTHY.
H. C. M OFF ATT, Esq.,
WRITES :
“ Boyton Manor, Codford, Wilts, January 17,1908.
“ Thanks for your parcel of seven bottles of Kutnovv’s
Powder, which I received this morning, and I am much
obliged to you for sending it off so promptly. I have
used this Powder for some years, and find its effects are
most beneficial —in fact, I am hardly ever without it.
I can fully recommend it as being the best aperient
powder I know of, as its action is not violent, while it is
invariably the same, and can always be relied on.”
Nurse WILLETT
WRITES :
.“11 Stockmar Road, Hackney, N.E., January 3rd, 1908.
“ I gave Kutnow’s Powder to a lady who was suffering
from indigestion and constipation in a very bad form.
After taking a few doses she was very much relieved. I
shall speak most highly of it to others who are suffering.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
* f 3


AUTUMN
Dress Goods
All the New Goods are here —
more exquisite than ever.
But though there is a rush for
the Novelties, the prices are our
usual low ones; there is no
House in Australia that can beat
Finney's on low price.
Let us have your name on a
postcard so that we can send
you a batch of patterns and our
Winter Style Book.
Finney, Isles
and Co., Ltd.
The Big Block.
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
Iu this year of Parliamentary Jubilee in
Bananaland, the oldest colonists are Tom Petrie
and his sister, Mrs. Ferguson. The latter has
lived in Brisbane for 72 years.
The case of Hirsch v. the O.K. Copper
Co., which has been making heavy going through
the Brisbane Supreme Court, is providing Costs
to the strongest Bar engaged in any Australian
mining case since the time, 20 years ago, when an
attempt was made to snare Mt. Morgan from
the co.
J. It. Paddle, who has been rowing the
canoe of the Pleystowe and other N.Q. sugar mills,
moves into a larger ship on May 1 as successor to
Dr. Maxwell, the controller of the Govt, mills.
He commences in much smoother water than did
the doctor, who had to face chaos when he tackled
the job of tugging the State mills off the rocks,
driven there by the incompetency of the Con-
tinuous Government and the general shiftlessness
of the local managements.
Charleville had a queer experience re-
cently. Hot weather brought on a thunder-
storm, and rain fell heavily for about 20 minutes.
After a short spell the rain resumed operations,
and during this second disturbance the moisture
was of a rich brown color, no doubt owing to the
presence of dust. Dust-impregnated rain is fairly
common ’way back, but in this case it didn’t put
in an appearance till the second round ; hence the
before-mentioned queerness of the proceeding.
A sample lot of Queensland copra was
shipped to the Cold Land the other day. It was
grown at Mossman, weighed 2cwt., and was con-
signed to Lever Brothers, the soap people. Good
judges say it is well cured, and of better than fair
quality ; and should the Levers’ report be satis-
factory, Mossman, as well as other Queensland
coastal towns where the cocoanut is already a
fairly-numerous vegetable, may’soon be exporting
large quantities of something else besides sugar.
G. D. Halford, the new Anglican Bishop
of Rockhampton, says he doesn’t want to be
called “My Lord.” He reckons plain “Bishop”
is good enough for him. After that, one may
expect that he will sensibly sign himself “G. I).
Halford,” and not “G. D. Rockhampton.” If he
doesn’t, he might anyway consider whether he
shouldn’t encourage his curates and such to sign
themselves, “Thomas Wild Dog Gully,” or
“ Thomas Alligator Creek,” or wherever Thomas
happens to be plate-propelling.
Queensland Labor-leader Bowman nearly
found himself hustled into a new job the other
day. He went to the Government Labor Bureau
in Brisbane to get a pass for a man who was going
to a billet in the bush. Before he had time to say
what he was there for, a new clerk, who knew not
Queensland’s politicians, asked him if he would
take a job as a bullock-driver. Bowman said he
wouldn’t, and the new clerk was beginning to ask
him what sort, of job he would take when a
clerk, who knew Bowman, came to the rescue and
explained things.
It was cabled some weeks ago that Lord
Amherst, of Hackney, had died from a broken
heart through being obliged to sell his art treasures,
the family shark having made wild speculations
with his funds. A few months ago the Anglicans
at Mackay (Q.) wrote to Amherst mildly suggest-
ing to him to put a pipe organ in the, local church
in memory of his brother, who represented Mackay
in the Bananaland Bailiament in the long ago.
The reply, received a few days after the cabled
announcement of his‘death, was briefly to the
effect that the cadge would have come off but for
the fact that he had just been swindled out of a
quarter of a million sterling.
J. F. Lowry, who passed out at Mount
Morgan the other day, was the first to make
money out of the liquid which trickles out of the
big mine into the Dee River. Lowry collected
the jam-tin and the cast-off horse-shoe, and
started to save by precipitation the copper that
was in the liquid. His vats and troughs, placed
on the river bed below the mine, coined money
for him for a time, till his success opened the eyes
of the big co. Whereon it built its own vats,
dams, etc., and “copper precipitates” is now a
fairly-big item in the half-yearly report. After
that, all that was left for Lowry was the skim-
milk of the business.
By all the rules of the game the Far North
ought to be a place where the white man
habitually wears a languid expression what time
he collapses in the shade and calls to a nigger for
iced water and a fan. But something happens to
the rules of the game somehow, consequently the
North holds more vigorous assault and battery to
the square mile, and less iced water and fan, than
any other part of Australia ; and the inhabitant is
mostly packed too tight with pepper to allow any
room for the tired feeling. Even the newspaper
advts. breathe blood and fire ; as for instance
rPHE Undersigned has been annoyed for the last
- 1 - Three Months with a Larrikin, in the neighbor-
hood of the Content,, throwing- stones at my house
between the hours of 12 and 1 o’clock in the night.
lam determined to put a stop to him.. I am a very
old man, and not able to jump out of bed and run
him down. But I have got a gun loaded with buck
shot, and, by the toenails of Moses, if I put that gun
to my shoulder, there will be a doctor wanted close
to hand. Forewarned, Firewarned.
Sycophantic Brisbane papers have been
saying, with regard to the Chelmsford Constitu-
tional crisis of some 15 months ago, that the
young blunderer’s promotion to the job of Chief
Official Stamp for N.S.W. is “ a magnificent reply
to his critics during that troublous period.”
Chelmsford’s chief critic during “that troublous
period ’ was the present Queensland Premier, who
toiled hard to prove that Chelmsford was under-
mining government by the people. But tithes
have changed ; also politicians. Premier Kidston,
after the 1908 election, suddenly dropped the
Chelmsford matter, and did not proceed to secure
from the Secretary of State for the Colonies an
authoritative ruling on the action of the Governor.
Yet Chelmsford was held by very good judges to
be guilty of a most flagrant breach of, at any rate,
the spirit and intention of the Constitution in dis-
solving a Parliament not six months old in order
to give his friend Philp a second chance for power
(—Philp, the man whom the Parliament refused to
even consider as Premier. Pr obably the abandon-
ment of any attempt to settle the Chelmsford
matter was due to the coalition between Kidston
and Philp, and is another example of how the
interests of the people through the exi-
gencies of party politics.
Gympie will about the end of the month
have the distinction of being the first place in
Australia to hear Prime Minister Fisher expound
his Commonwealth policy. There are men still
in Gympie who voted at the first Parliamentary
elections there, when the district sprawled miles
around, and free liquor and freer fights were the
features of the day. John Hamilton was the
Tommy Burns of many rings ; and after a spell of
mining and physicking on the Palmer, he re-
turned and won the seat. When Horace Tozer
took up political barking, the district had begun
to settle down, and gradually a white-shirt party
was formed, which thought that only some sort of
respectable draper or mining broker would fill the
bill. Now, through the agency of an engine-
driver, Gympie is to become for one day at least the
political centre of Australia.
Some almost-forgotten Queensland legal
history was dug out of the dust the other day
when Frederick Swan wick applied for readmis-
sion as a barrister. Swan wick was given permis-
sion to wear horsehair and a black nightdress in
Queensland as far back as May, 1878, but was
disbarred in December, 1882, for writing a letter
threatening criminal proceedings unless certain
Costs and charges were paid. He applied for re-
admission in May, 1884, but was refused. And
when, the other day, he spoke up after nearly a
quarter of a century’s silence, and asked the Full
Court, consisting of Justices Cooper, Real, Power,
Chubb and Shand, for leave to again go in pursuit
of Refreshers, he found that there was opposition
from the Board of Barristers. Then Swanwick
gave up the fight. Three of the Judges on the
Full Court Bench the other day—Cooper, Real
and Power—were engaged as counsel in the
ancient disbarment proceedings; and Charles
Lilley, whose son, E. M. Lilley, was Swanwick’s
barrister in the recent application, was one of the
Judges.
PLAYING A TRUMP .
"'Ere! Hi! What are you doing with them clothes?”
“ Er! For some considerable time, sir, you must have been aware of the growing attachment
between your daughter and myself,” etc., etc.
“Vigilans”: Queensland, is filling up.
The favored areas for the southern arrivals so far
seem to be between Brisbane and Bundaberg.
Much settlement is going on between Kilkivan
Junction and Nanango, around Gympie, in the
Isis, and in the Burnett district. At Biggenden
one family of 32, recent arrivals from Germany,
took a 1000-acre block. This family consist of 11
sons, eight daughters, and 11 grandchildren. This
month nearly 200 more Germans are expected ;
they will commence operations on the Upper
Burnett plateau. Great preparations are being
made by the few people of that district for their
reception ; temporary abodes are being erected
for the newcomers, and a supply of welcoming
beer got in. It is an interesting experiment. The
plateau is undoubtedly good scrub land, and, if
the rainfall is good enough, should be tine farming
country. The doubt hangs on to the rainfall.
Brisbane Courier is lashing out in the
interests of its sporting writer, who was recently
hauled up before the committee of the Queensland
Turf Club and “dealt with.” The sporting writer
was represented before the committee by Barrister
Feez ; but the evidence wasn’t taken on oath, and
the Courier, having made an inquiry of its own,
stands by its man and heaves charges—very vague
charges, however—at “ a certain clique of horse-
owners and bettors.” The committee is alleged
to he partly made up of men who are “ directly or
indirectly interested in racehorses either as owners,
part-owners, lessees or large bettors,” and the
Courier wants to know if it is “in accord with
British justice” for a man to be tried by his
accusers; also, if a man is “fit to try another
when he admits having agreed with a second
party to prompt the defendant to commit one of
the acts he is being tried for.” The Courier’s
trouble is that, though there was a committee
whose ordinary job it was to try the sporting
writer, there isn’t anybody to which it can appeal
to try the committee, unless it can get hold of
somebody who says something on to which it can
hang an action for libel ; and presumably it is
with that idea in its old head that the Courier
has been sharpening its eyes and ears.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 6, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Judge Noel, of the many indispositions, will go
on leave immediately, prior to retiring from the
District Court Bench. The Judge, who was a
very bright and cheerful young man once, is the
stepfather of the Drs. Macdonald, Val and
Robbie, and of Mrs. Clapp, of N’York City, better
known to southerners, and especially theatrical
southerners, as Vivienne Noel. His dropping-out
just at the beginning of the Sessions has squeezed
forth a wail from the very aged Pauli—he of the
nutty jokes, the Japanese mansion, and the front
row at the theatre. The veteran has been taking
things easy of late, but he will have to come out
on the road again and battle hard for alvhile now.
Upon whom the mantle will eventually settle is a
problem that exercises the mind of the whole Bar;
but with Tom O’Sullivan as Crown Prosecutor—
well, Judgeships often turn that way.
Tuesday will see the kno't-tying of Roger
Hartigan, Bananaland’s hope in the Australian
cricket XI. or XVI., or whatever the chapter is.
By way of getting courage to drag the ashes from
out of the Lion’s whiskers, an evening or so ago
Hartigan betook himself to a beerhouse and there,
after acquiring divers pieces of hardware (to wit,
a silver kettle and two covered dishes), as well as a
lot of good wishes, he proceeded to make some
speeches.
The Pioneer Club is moving once more, and the
annual dinner and the annual meeting are receiv-
ing earnest consideration. Miss Eileen O’Dwyer,
a popular south-sider, assumes the secretarial
penwiper, recently put aside by Miss Dickson;
and with an improved membership and a jubilee
exhibition in the city, the year bids fair to boom
in the social line.
After all, “Bob” Philp will not take on the
managership of the Australian Estates, in suc-
cession to the late “ Paddy ” Leahy. One Jefferies
has been nominated for the position. Mr. Philp,
who will figure on the Ad visory Board, is enjoying
a brief holiday this fortnight in Melbourne, and
may possibly run over to the fruity little island.
The now fully-recovered Mayoress gave her
first At Home this week, and the gathering
showed what awful retribution descends upon the
heads of the chosen of the ratepayers. A jovial
hubby and good-looking son upheld her.
For a long while now 7 it has been known to
an inner circle that a certain officer in one of the
chief State departments was suffering acutely
from an attack of gentle but persistent “rag-
ging.” The victim’s fault is alleged to be over-
much enthusiasm in the cause of an Australian
navy ; and his sins having been proven, he now
suffers three months’ suspension and transfer to
another department. It is told me by men who
ought to know that in the State service any en-
thusiasm in the matter of Australian defence is
put down as inattention to duty. No attempt is
made to meet the convenience of the Defence men
who want to go a-drilling; on the other hand,
punishment is meted out in back-handers.
The Villain-still-pursues-her business is very
rare in this city, where every fifth building you
lean against is a Y.M.C.A. quarters, or the home
of a Society for the Prevention of Lost Dogs. But
the Villain happens along at times, nevertheless.
One night lately a very little person in her best
clothes was skurrying along Ann-street, when
she was accosted by the usual tall dark man in a
flapping overcoat, and a slouch hat pulled down
to hide his wicked face. At the first of his
mellow words the girl turned and fled, and later
wept forth a tale of attempted molestation by an
Italian and intoxicated prince in disguise. It
wasn’t until next day that she discovered that it
was her married brother. And meantime Married
Brother, who is quite, proper, had gone home to
his Alice with a shocked story of having mistaken
a strangp lady for sister Cissie.
Architect Robin Dods and his American wife
go holidaying to Brother Jonathan’s land after
Easter. Our very best-looking hutch-designer
hasn’t been in the land of pork and beans since
he married there, 12 years ago.
That popular, bubbling, plain-spoken maiden,
Nancy Conran, hies southward this week to meet
pa, who is aboard ship, Sydney-bound. Cha-
peroned by Mrs. Adoph Feez, Miss Nancy will
await his coming at the Australia. The departure
provoked a fuss among the local girleens, a
number of whom farewelled her at a smart little
lunch on Monday.
Our most up-to-date hospital matron goes holi-
daying to Melbourne—to see, among other things,
if that township can boast anything as perfect as
the snug little operating theatre she rules at the
Lamington Gynaecological Hospital.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Thus “R.D.,” vigorously, from Durban, S’Africa:
And so your Black Australians are demanding- the
admission of Indians to the Commonwealth because they
are British subjects, and not to be classed with mere
niggers ' Well, I know African niggers by the thousand ;
also Indians. Give me the nig. every time. The follow-
ing items are from to-day’s (14/l/’O9) issue of the East
London (Cape Colony) Daily Dispatch
“ Durban, Wednesday (Reuter). —No fewer than three
Indian murders or attempted murders were under investi-
gation this afternoon by the local Magistrate.”
“An elderly Indian was charged at the Boksburg
Court on Wednesday with a contravention of the
Morality Law. It is alleged that he sold his daughter, a
girl of 16, to four different Indians, and each time got a
substantial monetary consideration, one man paying him
as much as £5O cash. After each marriage the accused is
said to have induced his daughter to return home, and
then sold her again. The hearing of the case is not yet
completed.”
They are typical of what appear in the papers nearly
every day 7. The country reeks with Indians. The
Kaffirs are gentlemen by comparison with them. Mur-
ders and appalling sexual offences are common amongst
these hog-like people. Of all the racial curses we have to
struggle against here in our efforts for improved social
conditions, the Indian is out and away the worst. That
Australia should dream of admitting the calamity is un-
thinkable.
«
“ I tan ” : Where the Warrego, the Barcoo,
the Comet, and many other rivers get their source
in Central Bananaland, almost under the Capri-
cornian line, is a fine belt of tableland country,
runningjup nearly 4000 ft. towards the stars. This
is going to be a splendid sanatorium for the tens
of thousands who will yet make their homes in
Western Queensland and Central Australia. The
area is rich in glade and gorge, in picturesque
mountain spurs which show sheer walls of 1000 ft.;
and in the wet season there are waterfalls that
will yet make the eyes of tourists bulge. Besides
bold landmarks, there are weird and wonderful
features. Explorer Thomas Mitchell noted the
pump-liole. Closer investigation shows the place
to be a marsh in a blacksoil flat, in the centre of
which is a bubbling spring that has never been known
to fail. Nearbyis a cave furnished with thecarvings
and paintings of departed Black Brothers. Further
down is another cave filled with the bonesof aborigi-
nes. One skeleton is of great size ; the shin bone,
for instance, is six inches longer than the average.
The remnant of the tribe thereabouts will, how-
ever, have no truck with that part now ; they say
that devils are everywhere, and they have no use
for devils in these degenerate days.
“ S.S.” : Can’t say I value highly the test
Federal Ministers repose much faith in when
considering the rise and fall of the Chow popula-
tion of Queensland and other sections of the
Commonwealth. They look to the general rice
consumption, and draw inferences from that. If
the imports have not increased, it is rashly
assumed that the Chinese within our gates are not
more numerous than formerly. This would be
fairly reliable^if the,Chow remained a consistent
rice-eater in Australia. But he doesn’t. With
comparative opulence comes an overweening
appetite for pork and poultry and miscellaneous
vegetables. The Australianised Chinaman is par-
ticularly partial co pig, but he takes kindly to
mutton too, and presently becomes a bread-eater.
His fondness for Australia, in fact, springs largely
from the opportunities it offers him to escape
from the deadly monotony of rice.


PRODUCTS OF QUEENSLAND’S CORAL
REGIONS.
B&che-de-mcr, an edible sea-slug, exists in pro-
fusion all along the Barrier Beef:
The pearl oyster is a source of wealth.
A splendid assortment offish exists in the Coral Hens.
In the rivers of the mainland the delicious barra-
mundi is caught.
The naturalist will find the marvellous ccratodus in
the coastal rivers.
There is also potential wealth in—
Sponges
Coral
Pearlshell
Tortoise-shell
Palola, and
Guano.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. X.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald.
THE WEALTH OF THE GREAT BARRIER REEF.
Hitherto in this series the Great Barrier Reef
has been regarded from two view points : first,
from the point of view of national defence; and
secondly, from the tourist standpoint, forming as
it does a lake 1200 miles long, through which the
traveller may make his winter pleasure and health
trips. In this article the reef must be regarded
in its scientific and commercial aspects. And here
it may be premised that less is probably known
of this, one of the greatest of existing natural
phenomena, than of any other such in the world.
Readers of Cook’s voyages —the not numerous
sojourners in literary by-paths whose reward is
so rich—will know a good deal about the Great
Barrier Reef from the point of view of seamanship
and of the struggles of the great navigator with
his tiny vessel, the Endeavor, in these seas. Those
who know their Darwin will be acquainted with
the scientific theory of coral reefs. Jukes, in his
“Narrative of the Surveying Voyage of li.M.S.
Fly,” has given us a special naturalist’s study of
the Great Barrier Reef. The best account of it,
however, made realistic by the splendid photo-
graphs, process plates and colored lithographs, is
the now classic study of the Barrier by Saville-
Kent. Beyond the scientific treatment which he
gives his subject, embodying all the latest in-
formation, he keeps a steady eye upon the potenti-
alities of the reef from the commercial standpoint.
He shows that this potential wealth consists of—
WARRIOR ISLAND REEF, TORRES STRAIT.
1— -The pearl and pearl shell.
2 The finest edible oysters in the world.
3 The besche-de-mer or sea-cucumber industry,
which is worth thousands annually to
those engaged in obtaining and curing
this famous delicacy for the tables of
Chinese epicures.
4 Sponges.
5 Coral.
6 Dugong oil.
7 Immense possibilities of sardine tinning.
8 — 'A splendid variety of edible fishes, includ-
ing (in the coastal rivers) the delicately
flavored barramundi, rival of the English
salmon.
9 The palola—an edible sea-worm.
“ Adventures are to the adventurous,” said Dis-
raeli. When the search for adventure and the
search for wealth can be pursued concurrently, it
constitutes a lure which might be expected to
draw the European from his dull, grey surround-
ings and from his small prospects of advancement
beyond the like father, like son ” stage of stag-
nation, of petrifaction, which is accepted as life
in certain zones of the Old World. Well, here is
a stretch of 1200 miles of territory, with the coral
wall shutting back the Pacific, and the placid lake
within, and in this region of perpetual summer
and perennial sunshine teeming wealth abounds,
and only needs enterprise and capital to develop
it. The Barrier is “the largest of existing coral
structures.” Mr. Saville Kent says: “Of its
kind, or, in fact, of any coral edifiqes, it repre r
sents the most colossal. Built up by direct and
indirect agencies of soft-fleshed polyps of multi-
tudinous form and color, it flanks the Queensland
coast, excepting for the presence of a few intersect-
ing channels, for a distance of over 1200 miles.”
From this great coral formation, and the regions
surrounding it, we may expect, according to the
same authority, “ a harvest field rich from both
the ’ commercial and the scientific standpoint.”
From the standpoint of the scientist and the
naturalist, it is full of interest. Here are all the
characteristics of the coral formation, distributed
over this immense stretch of the earth’s surface —
“from Breaksea Spit almost to New Guinea” —
all forms of coral structures, from the fringing reef
to the barrier reef and the coral atoll. This
mighty structure was built by the “ coral insect.”
Of the marvellous work performed by these tiny
pieces of animate jelly an idea will be obtained
from a few words of Darwin, speaking of the
coral rings of the atoll formations: “Everyone
must be struck with astonishment when he first
beholds' these vast rings of coral rock, often
many leagues in diameter, here and there
surmounted by a low, verdant island with
dazzling white shores, bathed on the outside
by the foaming breakers of the ocean, and on the
inside surrounding a calm expanse of water, which,
from reflection, is of a bright but pale green color.
The naturalist will feel this astonishment more
deeply after having examined the soft and almost
gelatinous bodies of these apparently insignificant
creatures, and when he knows that the solid reet
CHARTED REEF , THURSDAY ISLAND, TORRES STRAIT.
increases only on the outer edge, which day and
night is lashed by the breakers of an ocean never
at rest.”
Of the beauty of the reef formations the reader
will get a good idea from the illustrations accom-
panying this article. All the characteristics of the
different classes of coral formations are in the
Great Barrier, and as the traveller proceeds
north or comes south in the Inner Passage,
he passes, one might say, hundreds of beautiful
little atolls rising from the smooth sea
rings of palm and pandanus. Lady Elliott
Island is the most southerly of them all. It
constitutes “the outlying bastion of that stupend-
ous coral-constructed fortification.” The mind
reels before the contemplation of the immense
power of the tiny reef-builders, who have raised
their structures from the ocean bed around subsid-
ing islands and mainlands, until their tops emerge,
and then become covered in course of time with
palms and other trees, which make the islets such
picturesque objects across the surface ,o,f the sea.
The “coral insect,” this wonder-worker, is “a
simple polyp, comparable in every essential
detail with the ordinary, simply-organised sea-
anemone familiar to every seaside or aquarium
visitor, with the exception that it possesses the
QUEENSLAND PEARLS
property of secreting a dense, calcareous skeleton
out of the lime held abundantly in suspension in
probably every sea.” . , .
Of the beauty of the corals, m shape and in
color, much has been written, and before passing
to the sterner considerations of the commercial
possibilities of this region, it might be well to
quote Jukes upon the lovely effects which coral
makes in the water. “Colors unrivalled, he
says—“vivid greens contrasting with more sober
browns, and yellows mingled with rich shades ot
purple, from pale pink to deep blue. Bright red,
yellow, and peach-colored Nulliporge clothed
those masses that were dead, mingled with beau-
tiful pearly flakes of Eschara and Reteporse the
latter looking like lace-work in ivory. In among
the branches of the corals, like birds among trees,
flitted many beautiful fish, radiant with metallic
greens, or crimsons, or fantastically painted with
black and yellow stripes. Patches of clear white
sand were seen here and there on the floor, with
dark hollows and recesses beneath overhanging
masses and ledges! All these, seen through the
clear crystal water, the ripple of which gave
motion and queer play of light and shadow to
the whole, formed a scene of the rarest beauty,
and left nothing to be desired, either in elegance
of form or brilliancy and harmony of color.”
Passing through the Whitsunday Passage, the
coral islands jostle those belonging to the main-
land formation. Here is the beautiful Lion
Island (Pentecost), which is one of the finest
natural features of the coast, the island having a
perfect resemblance to a gigantic lion couchant.
These coral formations have their special fish, vie-
SKULL REEF, OUTER BARRIER.
ing with their surroundings in the gorgeousness of
their color—some with wonderful, striped, Japan-
ese-lantern effects ; some with rich greens. 1 here
is the orange-headed parrot fish ; the crimson,
gold-finned, blue-banded, and crimson-scribbled
coral fishes ; and then the dreaded octopus, this
time not so hideous, nor so large as usual. >i his is
the blue-spotted variety, “suffused with glowing
shades of the richest ultramarine blue. In the
coral we have the most beautiful shapes, the
corallum branches budding into flower-like effects,
posies, buds, cacti, mushrooms, stars.’ leaves,
coalescing branchlets, five fingers, columnar
shafts, organ pipes, gunbarrels, spiked plants
(echinoderms), sticks of greens, pinks, blues,
violet, and other dainty hues, budding like the
wand of the repentant Tannhauser.
Among these are found the trepang, or bSche-
de-mer. That valuable product, called also the
sea-slug or sea-cucumber, the value of which
annually is about £30,000, and the trade in which
(REDUCED SIZE).
is capable of infinite expansion. The principal
beche-de-mer grounds are near Uooktown, about
the region where Captain Cook was stranded in
the Endeavor, and nearly lost the ship. There
he careened her, and reconnoitred the reefs from
Lizard Island. He found a passage, through
which he escaped to the open sea from what he
imagined were the fearful perils of the multitu-
dinous reefs in the inner passage. He re-entered
150 miles further north. To-day the largest ships
pass through with safety, and at the highest speed,
as a splendid pilotage service has long been
organised for this route. The value of trepang
has long been known. Flinders, on his voyages
of exploration round the Australian coast to the
east and north, met the Malay praus which came
down from Macassar, in the Celebes, from Timor,
Sombawa and the Spice Islands, to get and cure
trepang for the Chinese market. The value is
from £3O to £l5O per ton.
There are various kinds of b6che-de-rner, but
the one which is chiefly cured in Queensland is
the prickly fish (stichopus variegatus) which is
about 4ft. long by sin. wide. The fish are
collected in sacks by wading or diving in
the waters around the reefs during the low
spring tides. At the curing stations “they are
placed in large iron cauldrons and boiled for 20
minutes. They are then taken out, split up longi-
tudinally with a long, sharp, pointed knife, gut-
ted and exposed on the ground in the sun until
the greater portion of the moisture has evapo-
rated.” The fish are then smoked with the smoke
of the wood of the red mangrove for 24 hours, and
is ready for the market. This process is carried
on by the fishermen in small luggers of about six
tons burthen, which generally have their curing
plant on the mainland and are manned by aborigi-
nes. Some schooners of larger size have their plant
on board, Rnd do their curing near the reefs. The
final-stage of the beche-de-mer, when it is boiled,
dried, gutted and smoked, is the packing into
tin-lined boxes or cases and shipping to Hong-
kong. This industry is capable of a very wide
expansion, and could be worked in connection
with other fishing and curing operations.
The life in these regions is picturesque, and in
the past, before the police patrol of the Queens-
land Government became so effective, was often
enlivened by a spice of danger. The aborigines
from the mainland have been known to take
matters into their own hands, and tales are told
of their seizing the luggers and going off, leaving
their Malay or European master marooned on the
coral rocks. One tragic incident occurred a few
years ago in the case of Mrs. Watson. Her
husband was a beche-de-mer fisher, and was
absent with his boats, taking with him
all hands, and leaving Mrs. Watson alone
with the exception of her baby and a Chinese
gardener. The mainland natives attacked them,
but were beaten off by the woman and the
Chinese. Fearing that the attack would be re-
newed, the defenders embarked at night in an old
iron ship’s-tank, and floated off, hoping to be
picked up by some passing ship. They came to the
Howick Group, and unfortunately landed upon a
waterless island, and died of thirst, Mrs. Watson
leaving a memorandum, which was afterwards
found, telling the whole story. Such a tragedy
would be impossible now. .
The'wealth of the pearling industry will be
dealt with in another place. The possibilities of
this are illimitable, as there is little doubt that
ere long the problem of cultivating the spat of the
pearl oyster will be conquered, and there are
hundreds of miles of suitable waters in which the
experiments can be carried on. Queensland
pearlers have gone as far as the Aru Islands in their
operations, and have concessions there from the
Netherlands-India Government. The Queensland
Government in this, as in other matters, will see
to the proper organisation of the industry, and
will, it is to be hoped, establish its right to the
pearl fisheries throughout the seas along the
coasts and within its spheres of influence. The
Government of Ceylon makes £50,000 per annum
from its pearl fisheries. Why should not Queens-
land ? _
The edible oyster is most prolific in these, •
regions, and is the main source of supply for
South. These grow on the coral rocks, and even*
on the long roots of the mangroves. Their flavor
is delicious, and their wholesomeness immaculate.
There is untold wealth in the oyster, fresh or
canned. The seas teem with splendid fish, such
as the schnapper, tailor, bream, dorey, pike, eel,
garfish, trevally. The common sardine sprat
is here in shoals of millions, and some day
a great industry will spring up in canning
these delicious fish and supplying the market
for all Australia. There is wealth also in
turtles and tortoise-shell ; and great expec-
tations have been aroused with regard to
dugong oil. The dugong is a curious creature
whose habits and appearance, it is asserted, led
to the legends of mermaids. They are found in
herds of from 40 to 50 all over the North, and
their oil is a valuable product. The most beautiful
sponges in the world are found throughout this
zone; and there is money to be made from them.
Raine Island has a huge deposit of guano, which
is regularly worked. Last, but not least, there is
a small sea Worm, the patola viridis , which is
found in profusion in the North, and which is re-
garded as a delicacy throughout the East and in
all the Pacific Islands.
These few brief notes show the potentialities of
the production of wealth from that marvellous
natural phenomenon, the Great Barrier Reef, one
of the greatest objects of interest to scientists and
naturalists in the world, The tourists have found
the region, and every winter season they go in
their thousands to spend the harsh months of the
more southern parts of the continent in the warm
air and beautiful scenery of the North. But the
intending settler who has sterner objects than the
mere pursuit of health or pleasure might well take
some trouble to inquire as to the prospects of
exploiting the undeveloped wealth of the Great
Barrier Reef and of the seas which wash its
white coral beaches.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £ ]6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adblaidk & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual jjife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527—Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Ilor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Borth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager : R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security—
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
cs»
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
(IlontdepieteD.il. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH S X’., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collin B-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERY E FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
z
r
r\
p>
T
I!
My
Favourite
Sumisi er
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on << MONTSERRAT.”
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6 ; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
snipping.
N
ord D eutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
ilaiseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
oeagoing vitalities Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, Cl\ ILITV . For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 695. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of flew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504 097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
)irectors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
ieneral Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
THE OCEAN
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
T.ondnn.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Glass.
London .. .. From £57 .. £T6 Os to £2O Os.
Gape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 8. ■
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of" Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
■f Houpay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence bv
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CROSSES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, Gotnbining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land a few of
the important features being-
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( P ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date oniy being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases. ’ ■' '
SAVING* BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skcretart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
/.aw Points
««• Inventors
by letter, and reliable ad*
vice free on all matters
concerning- the obtaining
of P itents. Clients as-
sured of the most skilled attention in draft-
ing, engineering, and chemistry. A. J. CAL-
LINAN, Patent Attorney, Rialto, Melbourne
wmm
m
MILLER’S-®
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swansten Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
yZigMOndvit
& Sohn,
A. G.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Bino-
culars.
NEW MODELS.
For Military, Naval, Sporting, Opera,
and Tourist Use.
Brilliant Definition and Marvellous Illumination.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS, LTD.,
38S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled, “ What
Binocular to Select,” post free. [l
Hotels, &c.
m
Grosvenor
Hofei,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegrant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to to/- per day ; Boom and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Bates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 860 Central, 300 City.
l l'f f
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St , London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON IW.A.)
S.S. Yongala, March 13.
(From Howard Smith
Wharf.)
S.S. Grantala, March 27.
BRISBANE.
mackay.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, March 13.
S.S. Marloo, March 20.
_ { iest an<l Cheapest Route to Gold Helds.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nist L ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET wharves
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
YONGALA, 1 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 13.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, March 13.
BUNINYONG, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, March 20.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers -
and eargo for S. A:,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) _
YONGALA, 1 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 13.
BRISDANE
MARYBOROUGH
RUNDARERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 13.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR.
DAY, March 20.
Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
wV?J?J? K i NG OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE,
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
the BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
T New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UKIO.< STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF M.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streec, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET.”
11.300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Excellent acconiinodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY . 12th March
„ „ „ HOBART - 17th March
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - 22nd March
„ „ ~ ADELAIDE - 27th March
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I mono „„„ _
LIVERPOOL ( S- 13s. £is 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart ;
McILWRAITH, McEAOHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne*
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.


Translated French Novels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd
C. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Crana, Monte Carlo.
TALKS ON RUPTURE-
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pif.rce.
Something- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this newpamphlet to-day.
Address — PIEROE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known British Towns , and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £3 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, stamped fully jewelled, as a FREE
Gift. (Silver Watches are presented toGents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., 10 Grosvenor Buildings, Steel-
house Lane, Birmingham, England. The winner
is required to purchase a Chain from us to wear
with Watch. The name of this paper must be
mentioned. Prize-winners of last competition
were : Miss S. Stubing, Yabmana, Franklin
Harbour, Cornell, S. Australia ; Mr. W. J. C.
Witmitz, View Farm, Robe, S. Australia.
HAVE YOU HEARD
HARRY LAUDER ?
For genuine hearty laughing' there’s
nothing to equal that which follows a
Harry Lauder song. His quaint, Scotch
accent, his droll songs and the inimitable
laugh which almost invariably accom-
panies them are rare tonics for the
depressed.
Harry Lauder draws £lOOO a week in
the New York theatres, but you can hear
him on an Edison Phonograph right in
your own home.
Send for a full list of these famous
records, and call at a dealer’s and hear
some of them. Then you will surely want
to possess them. They sound splendid
ON AN EDISON
PHONOGRAPH.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
neat and
STRONG,
BELTS and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098, Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
“PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALUE ENORMOUSLY”
Lancet. •
“ COCOA
?v
to TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
'■ DELICIOUS
DIGESTIBLE
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DRINK
BOVRIL
By Royal Warrant
AND SODA
A Cool and Sustaining Beverage.
CHEAP CPITION of ON THE HOP!
Pmge 2 0
Postage —N.S.W., 7d. other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
IcATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
1 of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
f throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Kever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st.. Melbourne.
A HUGE SUCCESS !
. .
BIRDS
aXuSTARO^
MoTo
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New
South Wales,when stewed, form an
exquisite Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD,
served either hot or cold* Most popular
with Adults and the Youthful alike.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
in the battle of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
2*
T.
y
Vi
\\ x
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force —and before you ean again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
THE McLAUGHUN GO
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12
C/2
Ss
Ph
<
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness iti the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARIYE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


THE—
STEINWAY
PIANO.
THERE is no doubt about
the STEIN WAY Piano
being one of the very
best instruments in the world.
It has been spoken of as a
perfect revelation in the art of
piano construction by the most
eminent musicians of the day.
It possesses sustaining qualities
and wealth of tone unknown in
other instruments.
Most Moderate Extended
Y
Payments Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:
Nicholson & Co, Ltd,,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYBNEY
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced
to
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CORE.
S ' '
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
£§&
PATEN7J
Coliison&Go.
PATENTS and TRADE MA?.KS.
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
TERMS ARRANGED
SMALL DEPOSIT. BALANCE WEEKLY.
Tj'VERY Description of Business for Sale. Partner-
-P ships Arranged. Genuine Businesses and
Partnerships Wanted. Loans Negotiated. Farms,
etc., for Sale.
WRICHT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 °/ 0 Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
, ba:h or toilet, and a good saleguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
)
>Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
BAD NIGHT?
BAD LIVER?
INDIGESTION ?
CONSTIPA TION ?
“LAXATINE,” that most generous purifier of the
system, provides the REMEDY. Great relief follows,
and the system is drained of its banked-up poisons.
LAXATINE is eaten like a lolly, and is pleasant to take,
LAXATINE is obtainable at all Chemists ; price Is. per
bottle. Insist upon having LAXATINE.
Under Vice*Reg'al
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
DOES YOUR MOUSTACHE WORRY YOU ?
ore
k
~%/?er
Because it’s so poor and thin and spoils .your appearance?
Don’t shave it off. Send for a Jar of CAPILLARINE, rub a little in each night,
and see the result —a full, flowing moustache.
Try it at once—it’s never failed—it won’t fail with you.
Price 10/0 POST FREE TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
CRAIC & AITKEN, 654 6«orge St.,Sydney
Established 25 Years.
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boot,
22/6
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatb' support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is golosh ed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at ; -22/6.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a csird sent to
any of these addresses.
LEE MING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
LET US CURE YOU OF OBESITY
AND REMOVE YOUR EXCESS
FAT
"TTTK have cured many
’ ' thousands of obesity
sufferers. We have the
only non-poisonous and
harmless remedy
ever known.
‘FAVOURE”
acts mildly, gradu-
ally and effectively.
No matter whether
the fat has attacked
your hips, stomach, or breasts, ‘‘Fatcure” will
hunt it out and remove it. The remedy and treat-
ment are the results of years of careful study, and
are absolutely perfect, Not the least harm can
resuit from its use, and its power to do good is
unlimited. . . . From five pounds a week to
over two stone a month has been successfully re-
moved with perfect health following the reduc-
tion. . . . Send two pence in postage stamps
and let us send you a Free Sample and our
Booklet under sealed cover and free from prying
eyes. Our remedy is certain, and no successful
imitation has ever been created. “FATCURE”
CANNOT be had of chemists. Write or call for
Sample.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BARNET GLASS
CYCLE TYRES
Barnet Glass Cycle Tyres are made in two
varieties, the “ Flite” and the “Daddy.”
The “ Flite ” Red Road-Racing Tyres and
Roadsters, with the fluted tread, are made from
the finest rubber, and for good work under any
and all conditions will give better satisfaction
and longer wear than any other Cycle Tyre,
made. Ask your
dealer to show
you the
BARNET
GLASS CYCLE
TYRES.
BARNET
GLASS
RUBBER
CO., LTD.,
Founders of the
All-Rubber
Goods Industry
in Australia.
234 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
226 Flinders
Lane,
Melbourne.
10 McHenry
Street, Adelaide
Also, Perth,
Hobart,
Brisbane.
Two Giraims
Flit&
6- ■
JJtB DftDPY
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to YV. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
BE WISE!
To Save Money
Buy your Cutlery and Plate at McLean’s.
z
THE
Sheffield
Cutlery Parcel
Contains
as '—
fellows.
1 Bread Knife.
6 Table Knives.
6 Dessert Knives
i Carving Knife.
1 Carving Fork.
6 Table Forks.
6 Dessert Forks.
2 Table Spoons.
6 Dessert Spoons.
6 Tea Spoons.
t Sugar Spoon.
2 Salt Spoons,
t Mustard Spoon.
PIECES
for
Sold under absolute guarantee.
Send for New Plate and Cutlery Catalogue.
McLean Bros, § Rigg, Pty. Ltd.,
147=149 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection. ' / » ,
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM S CO.,
94 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
POMEROY
Liquid Powder
Tones down any undue redness and
renders flushing of the face less notice-
able. Is a great protection to the com-
plexion especially when motoring, yacht-
ing, golfing, etc. Made in five shades :
Flesh Pink, Pale Pink, Rachel, Pale
Rachel and White.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores; or
direct from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old
Bond Street, London, England.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price. 6d. The Bulletin Office.
The Inky Way.
The oft-told newspaper story of George Barrington—
the same old story with the same old lie—cropped up for
the hundredth time in Melbourne Aon on a late Saturday,
prefaced by the remark that Barrington’s “ ‘ History
of New South Wales’still remains the most interesting,
if not the most reliable, account of the early days of the
Mother State;” Two columns of-mildewed anecdote and
musty facts concerning the notorious pickpocket lead up
to the same old lie to the effect that Barrington, whilst
still a convict in Sydney, stage-managed “ the first play
ever produced in Australia,” and wrote the prologue
beginning with :
“From distant climes, o’er widespread seas we come,
But not with much eclat or beat of drum ;
True patriots all, for be it understood
We left our country for our country’s good.” ;
Tins Bulletin has made a few attempts to ease Barring-
ton’s memory of this stolen literary property, but there
is apparently no getting it from him. The lines stick to
the man. He gets credit for them in “ Bartlett’s Familiar
Quotations,” for the reason that Bartlett’s useful but not
strictly trustworthy book of reference credits him with
the authorship of “ Barrington’s New South Wales,” the
“ history ” alluded to ill the recent Melbourne Age yarn.
Yet there is unquestionable evidence that the old lie is a
lie in the one history— i.e., “ A Voyage to Botany Bay,
A Sequel to Barrington’s Voyage to New South Wales”
—which the man actually did write, or supply the
material for. All other volumes ascribed to him, in-
cluding “ Barrington’s New South Wales,” were faked up
in London, and the faker probably supplied the rhymed
lines which Barrington didn’t compose. Or they may
have been written in'Sydney. The one thing certain is
that Barrington was not the author of the well-known
alleged prologue to the “ first play ever produced in Aus-
tralia,” and that the play was not “ The Ranger ” (as
Melb. Age terms it), but “ The Revenge.” In his genuine
work, “ A Sequel,” etc., etc., published in 1801, Barring-
ton makes only a passing allusion to this performance of
Dr. Young’s tragedy of “The Revenge,” for which the
Botany Bay convicts were graciously permitted by
Goveriidr Hunter to build a theatre, at the cost of £lOO.
Barrington says nothing about a prologue or apologia
written for the occasion, nor does he claim to have had
anything to do with the show. But he mentions that,
on the second' night of the performance, “some of the
most notorious of the convicts, ever on the watch to exer-
cise their talent for depredation . . . broke into some
of the houses of the audience while the whole family were
at the play.”
* * * *
“T.A.W.”: The reason given by “an old-established
Sydney commercial man ” (B. 21/l/’O9) for the large circu-
lation of Victorian newspapers in certain parts of N.S. W.
may be true enough-as far as it goes; but there are
others. The wails of the Telegraph in this connection
have particular applicability to the Southern and South-
western Districts of Riverina, and it is noticeable that
the paper which in those centres does the Sydney daily
out of its penny is, in nine cases out of ten, not the wail-
ing, Fat-ridden Argus, but the Democratic and compara-.
tively virile Age. Nor is the reason for this far to seek.
Large numbers of the settlers in the districts mentioned
are ex-Victorians who have been squeezed out of their
own State by the weight of the Big Landlord ; and for the
views of the Sydney morning papers, and likewise those
of the Argus on land settlement (and most other matters),
this type of settler has a large and particularly healthy
contempt, wherefore he reads, the Age. Also., when he
has finished with it, he very often lends it to his N.S. W.
brother, who reads, marks, learns and inwardly digests it,
and mostly ends up by subscribing to it himself.
The newspaper that can afford to hoax its readers
nowadays is rare, but for nine years the Paris edition of
the New York Herald has daily printed the following
letter :
“From Centigrade to Fahrenheit.
“ To tub Editor of the Herald :
“ I am anxious to find out the way to figure the tem-
perature from Centigrade to Fahrenheit and vice versa.
In other words, I want to know, whenever I see the
temperature designated on Centigrade thermometer, how
to find out what it would be on Fahrenheit’s thermometer.
“ Old Philadelphia Lady.
“ Paris, December 24, 1899.”
Occasionally some good-natured person who has st umbled
across the letter will write supplying the necessary arith-
metical formula, whereupon the Hkrald’s regular readers
are supposed to shout with glee.
* * * *
From London: Alfred Harmsworth, fresh from an
' American trip, began the new year by taking a firm grip
of the Times. For some time past Printing House Square
has been preparing to receive the pushful Baron, the
whole printing plant having been overhauled and brought
up to date by the Harmsworth machine expert. The
autoplate has been introduced into the stereotyping
department, and the editorial staff has received
various solemn warnings. Now the noble lord
is “getting into touch ” with the heads of departments by
having them spend week-ends with him in his country
abode. Curiously enough, the Times men rather like it,
having discovered that the new boss knows the differ-
ence between threepence and a halfpenny just as well as
anybody else. Meantime Fleet-street is saying that-a
penny morning daily, which earned an annual fortune
ten years ago, is preparing to put up the shutters.
DODDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
European dodder ( Cuscuta europoea) has been added to
the list of noxious weeds, and its importation is made a
punishable offence. Some native species of dodder exist,
but the most injurious are the introduced ones —
{Cuscuta epithymum, etc.). —Journal of Agriculture.
It is a serious thing if a mere Department of Agricul-
ture is invested with authority to prohibit the importa-
tion of such a time-honored product as dodder. Evidently,
however, the new regulation is not yet being fully
enforced—for London Punch continues to reach Australia
and to be openly exposed for sale. Besides, the importa-
tion of magazines containing stories by famous writers
seems to be actually increasing. The mention of native
dodders suggests a further danger, but as yet the
Sydney Morning Herald has evidently not taken the
warning seriously.— Myself.
Oh, sadly chew the bitter cud
Of cold reflection’s fodder !
They’d nip that lovely weed in bud,
They’d lay a ban on dodder.
They heap upon it horrid words,
So bad you cannot rhyme ’em
The least abusive and absurd’s
Cuscuta epithymum.
Of “ pest ” and “ parasite ” they talk,
With cuss words quite improper ;
They would destroy it, root and stalk,
With kerosene and copper.
But Dodder is a dear delight,
Unhonored though it may be ;
And if the law should doom it quite—
Its prophets, where would they be ?
’Tis not the flower of foreign lands
Alone these brutes miscall so ;
Cuscuta europoea stands
With C. australis also.
And thus the ban that they would place
On “Omar K.” Fitzgerald
Would crumple in its coarse embrace
The Sydney Morning Herald.
The pocket curse that might be fit
For Fergus Hume, or Fargus,
Would lay its sacrilegious writ
Upon the Melbourne Argus.
The foot that falls on London Punch,
Treading with steps unwary,
Might grind, with undiscerning crunch,
The Sydney Daily Carey.
Eh, brithers ! Say, if they should rage
Against the Weekly Scotchman,
Then who shall save the sacred Age ?
And —God defend the Watchman !
Cuscuta epithymum! Yell
Your battle cry, my brothers !
And, if ye love these dodders well,
Kemember there are others !
N.S.W.
WAIF.


The importing habit is growing on the
Phidston Government. A while ago tenders were
called for a bridge aver Burrnundoo Creek, on the
Boyne River railway. Walkers Limited, of Mary-
borough, and Dowries, both Queensland firms,
tendered for the job, which wasn’t a bigger or
more important one than scores they had done
previously. Yet it was lately found out that the
tender of a London firm had been accepted for the
iron and steel work. Now the Queensland iron-
workers, who see their bread and butter cut into,
are not hooraying for Kidston with any en-
thusiasm, more especially as it is nearly 18
years since a bridge contract was let outside the
State, and the local work during that time has
been as good as anything that could be dragged
to the country in a ship.
“Harrison O.” on a man of many parts :
J. W. MeCay seems to have at last found a job that
suits him. He had been schoolmaster, lawyer, politician,
and soldier ; then the Deakin Government chose him to
"iganise the Intelligence Department, and now he is a
happy man in charge also of the big Intelligence class at
the Commonwealth School of Military Instruction, lately
opened at the Victoria Barracks. McCay is not a popular
man, and is never likely to be ; blit he has brains, and is
a hard grafter, and his hard graft has won him places
that Providence didn't carve him out for—a seat in both
Federal and State Parliaments among them. While he
was in politics, he was one of the few that refused to
Maffick over the S’African business ; and politics hadn’t
much use then for a man that wouldn’t Maffick. Now,
however, he has a job for which personal popularity isn’t
much of a qualification, but in which brains, pluck, versa-
tility, and a capacity for hard work should count for a
lot in Australia’s service.
“ Billy T.” : All the slaves of Cow are not
in the country. I live in a populous suburb, and
Clint, my neighbor on the left, is owned by a
small, blonde Jersey, about the size of a kerosene
tin, to whom he is forced to give the whole of his
time that is not devoted to grubbing for a crust in
the city. Clint rises very early to wash and dress
the cow and extract sufficient juice for the needs
of the day before starting for the office. He
hurries home in the evening to currycomb the
little pet, and manicure her, and teaze her mane
and tail curls. When he has done this he
cleans out her home, and dusts the furni-
ture, and puts down fresh straw; after which
he subjects Strawberry to the milking opera-
tion again. Most of the evening and far into the
night he is coming out to see if the cow is all
right. If he suspects she has any sort of sickness
coming on, as he usually does, lie makes her a
bran mash with whisky in it, and wraps her in a
horse cloth, and sits and watches for unfavorable
symptoms. When Clint has a holiday he puts a
halter on his Jersey Lily, and leads her out on the
spare blocks and open places, and patiently gazes
at her cropping the verdure. How the country
people manage with three or perhaps four cows.
Heaven knows. If Clint had another he would
certainly have to hire a man, and give up his posi-
tion in the city.
To take a DALLF to his wife
And make her happy all her life,
Professor leaves his gamp behind,
For having DALLF on his mind.
* “ Dalli ” the best, most simple and most com-
fortable way of ironing. Independent of stove and
gas it can be used anywhere.
Non-inflammable fuel with-
out noxious fumes. No risk
from fire; healthier and
safer than any other iron.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern
& Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
■■ PILLS ■■
OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists lit
Australia and New Zealand.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1549.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or ® n *l?® ®®f “ r '* y
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock <> r .treasury Bills ofany of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iPF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mort® , a (r e Deed contains a condition allowing* Borrowers the privilege of repaying*
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during* any year, without notice or payment of any tine. # .
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, De P u y;^ a B ®l?{ a ™ ln .
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon F. E. Wmchcombe, M.L.C. ,
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, t•*.a.,
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
For Public Information Only, the Issue Having Been Already Subscribed.
T 1
TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN DREDGING COMPANY,
NO LIABILITY.
Incorporated under “The Mining Companies Act, 1884” (Tasmania).
CAPITAL:
£150,000 in 150,000 Shares of £1 each, of which 13,250 are held in Reserve.
DIRECTORS:
HENRY JONES, CAPT. E. T. MILES, E. A. PEACOCK, A. H. ASHBOLT, IT. G. GRAY,
M. KENNEDY, KHAW .TOO TOK (Penang).
GENERAL MANAGER:
JOHN KENNEDY.
LEGAL MANAGER:
H. J. WISE, Bank Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
SOLICITORS:
W. A, FREEMAN, Challis House, Sydney; FISHER & EADY, Murray Street, Hobart.
BANKERS:
COMMERCIAL BANK OF TASMANIA, LTD., Hobart; CHARTERED BANK OF INDIA,
AUSTRALIA AND CHINA, Penang.
BROKERS:
J. E. DUOKER, 135 Pitt Street, Sydney ; H. TAYLOR, Pirie Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide;
ALEXANDER OLIVER, 93 Queen Street, Melbourne ; 0. N. LONG, Melbourne ; BAYLEY
& LYONS, Bank Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart; R. MAPLEY, Collins Street, Hobart.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS: ,
Issue of above 13,250 Reserved Shares at 255. per Share.
HE Company was formed at the end of 1900 to work a Concession from the Government of Siam
of about six square miles in the Harbor of Tongkah, Puket, on the western side of the Siamese
Malayan Peninsula, 200 miles north of Penatig. The Concession gives the exclusive and irrevocable
right to dredge the area in question for a period of 25 years, free of rent and from. Customs duty on
plant, etc., imported for work in connection with the dredging operations, but subject to royalty and
to other conditions (not onerous), as set out itt the Concession, a copy of which may be inspected at the
office of the Company. The harbor is well sheltered from bad weather, and the greatest depth of water
at low tide on any part of the concession is 12 feet, while in many parts the bottom is uncovered at
low tide. The average depth of the dredging material is 30 feet, of which 27 feet is overburden,
containing some tin, and consisting of rriud, sand and clay; and 3 feet is karang or tin-bearing
wash. The overburden, though consisting chiefly of clay, .does not stick to the buckets, but
discharges easily. The tide is a great advantage. The Concession is estimated to contain 180,000,000
cubic yards (overburden and karang) containing an average of 21b. of black tin to the cubic yard. Up
to the present, one dredge only has been running on the Concession, but it is proposed to ultimately
run a total of ten dredges. No. 2 dredge is flow at Tongkah, and is expected to commence running
almost immediately. No. 3is expected to arrive in March, and to go into commission shortly after
arrival. Half the cost of the Nos. 2 and 3 dredges has already been paid. This issue will provide
more than the other half, each dredge costing about £14,000 equipped on the mine. With No. 1
OUTPUT SINCE AUGUST, 1908.
1908.
August, days
September, 14 ~ .a t
October, 15 ~ D,
November, 14 ',,
December, 16 ~ ...
1909.
January (time not yet to hand)
February lsl'to 14th (Dredge working 14 days)
The new dredges having, in light of the experience gained with No. 1 dredge, been better
designed for the conditions obtaining 1 , and being bigger and stronger, are expected to do much better
work. It is estimated that the 180,000,000 cubic yards estimated to be contained in the Concession
will be treated at a divisible profit of not less than 6d. per cubic yard (with tin at £l3O per ton),
equal to a divisible profit of not less than £4,500,000.
The issue has been undertyritten.
To permit of a reasonable allotment being guaranteed to the underwriters and their nominees, at
the same time affording a full pro rata allotment to the smaller shareholders, on the share register on
26th instant, or their nominees, the larger shareholders have generously waived their right to
participation in the issue,
The prospectus has been prepared at the request of the underwriters.
Copies of the full prospectus may be obtained from the Brokers, and from the Legal Manager.
Hobart, 26th February, 1909.
s
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES —ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN S’ CO., P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
The Bulletin Post Cards*
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... Is
... lOd
UNIQUES'
'UBIQUITOUS'
/ AND ;
'UNIFORM-'
IF YOU WERE H
A CROESUS
with all the wealth of the world
behind you, you could not purchase
a 'whisky of a more delicate flavour
or greater purity than
.0
the whisky which has been aptly
described as unique, übiquitous, and
uniform. The whole production of
the oldest, farthest north Distillery in
Scotland is reserved to maintain the
superior qualities of 0.0. (Old Orkney),
and as the proprietors of this distillery
always hold a io years’ supply in their
own bonded store, you can always rely
on getting 0.0. with just the same
delightful flavour and exquisite aroma,
no matter in what part of the world
you may be.
If you have any difficulty in
obtaining 0.0. please write
direct to the distillery giving
name of your usual store.
j, & j. McConnell, Ltd.
Stromness Distillery,
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND
C.B.
IRing’s Norton
4 CARTRIDGES
In Miniature Rifle Range Shooting
you’ll have no fouled rifles or cartridge
troubles if you use these cartridges.
They are sold by all Ammu-
nition vendors—long and
short Rifle and hollow point
Sporting bullets —either with
black or smokeless powder-
Agents
COLONIAL
AMMUNITION
CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
[BRITISH MAbE
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
YOUR
racsa
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy' when
every other remedy had failed. .English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
Wholesale agents :
Messrs. Sayers, Aliport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared bw I. W. NSCHCLL. dticßiist
£G, HIGH STREET, BELt-AST, IRELfIEIO.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History
Post Frea, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
A
<F
#
V
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
E he LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
°£ r Special snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
No. 1
CANT
B
BEAT
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, ease hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38|in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W. ;3s 2d, Interstate.
S'
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
HoW to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Od each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußE.lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ;post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, i_llus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
!
HOME cyclopedia
KMBR.ACtNS
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Puhlic
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb .Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 I ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cheyasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted- Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machime on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
'■) “Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WB MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGIO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., OPP.0 PP . C.P.0., Sydney, fi.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
THE BULLETIN POST GAUDS.—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, 10d. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
EMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MQItRISON.
Froprietor, 39 Hunter-street, mdkit.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet,
18« 4d. {stamps) to make 5 gallons spray. ’
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervons Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness an cl Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold, by all Chemists.
0* Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
i invited to visit the Reading Room where files
: of all the leading Australian papers may be
I inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
! the British-Australasian during the first
j two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
j visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
riIHE LONE HAND is Australian .sunshine
X in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


An Eminent Chemist
After Searching Analysis and Tests
6iVes ZAM-BUK Great PraiS*.
m
THE excellence of Zam-Buk from a strictly scientific
standpoint is seen from the following exhaustive
report by one of England’s greatest analysts—
Mr. W. Lascelles-Scott, Lecturer on Chemistry and
Hygiene to the London Conservatoire, etc. This
eminent gentleman certifies as follows :
Chemical and Physical Laboratories,
Little Ilford, Essex, England.
I have chemically analysed, and have examined
in other ways, the unguent preparation known
as “ ZAM-BUK,” samples for analysis having
been obtained from both the makers direct, and
also by independent retail purchases in Birming-
ham, Worcester, Bradford, and Wakefield, as
well as in certain Metropolitan districts. ZAM-
BUK is a balsamic ointment of agreeable, aro-
matic odor, translucent, slightly fluorescent, and
of the consistence of firm butter at average atmo-
spheric temperatures. It melts, however, at
97-98 degrees F., or slightly below blood-heat,
thus assuming the liquid form when applied to
the skin, which QUICKLY ABSORBS IT.
ZAM-BUK, its active constituents being EX-
CLUSIVELY OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN, con-
tains none of the impure, and often irritating,
mineral drugs and animal fats present in less
carefully prepared ointments ; hence it exhibits no tendency towards rancidity*
even after long keeping. The antiseptic and bactericidal powers of this preparation
—largely derived from certain essential oils and gum resins which I find present-
are proved by my bacteriological tests to exceed those of the poisonous and caustic
carbolic acid of commerce, yet Zam-Buk neither cauterises nor inflames even a
very sensitive skin, but promptly alleviates cutaneous disorders due to the develop-
ment of parasites and pathogenic organisms. Moreover, the astringent and bal-
samic constituents render Zam-Buk an EMOLLIENT OF GREAT HEALING
POWER, whether for open wounds or muscular injuries. I have no hesitation in
certifying the entire purity of Zam-Buk, which, in m-y opinion, is WELL ADAP-
TED FOR SUPERFICIAL INJURIES and PREVALENT SKIN DISORDERS*
(Signed) WENTWORTH LASCELLES-SCOTT.
Lecturer on Chemistry and Hygiene to the London Conservatoire ; Consulting Analyst to the Royal
Commissions for Victoria, Fiji, and the Mauritius ; late Public Analyst to the Counties, of Derby,,
N. Stafford, etc., etc.
Zam-Buk, the great
household healing Balm,
promptly cures Sore Legs,
Ringworms, Barcoo, Piles,
Cuts, Bruises, Burns, and
expels disease, tones up
the tissues, and regene-
rates the skin in health.
Price 1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
.
RUB IT ik
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
Xhe question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If» on tbe otber Hand
tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally-you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tbe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion
Dark Maids and Fair.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DARK.
CHILDREN of Shadow; flotsam of black
seas lit
By torches in some undiscovered land ;
With all the strength of Darkness in their gaze,
And all the lure of Shadow in their eyes,
Drawing the soul to picture images
Where the Sun marries Night; and Warmth, the
Lightless;
Black mirrors set for magic in a town
Where giants sleep ; or wells of ebony
Whose secret waters shine in a redden’d moon
Dusky with forest-fires at midnight; shadow-seas
Firemaiden-haunted, which lost wanderers hear
Sing up to them—like bells from a drowning city
Songs that drift
From a forgotten realm of pearls; or firefly-
streams
Driving through darkened orchards of the waves ;
Black roses, jutting through the hiding veils
Of the blue worlds of Sleep and Midnight;
gardens
On iron-black summits, warm and darkly still,
Waiting the winds of Passion ; flowers of tire
In valleys ringed with jet; voices of captives
Sombre with pain, that call upon the, sunset
In summer-burning moments —chords so deep
They sound but dimly, and the song so low
Its sense seems graver than the winds may bear ;
Star-rayed Night
Stealing upon the sunset, like black wine
Poured in the cup of Heaven with spice of roses,
Rich with the heavy blossom of the Dark ;
All things that love the sun—the brown of deserts ;
Winds warm with dust and shot with scattered
petals ;
The burning Dawnbreak,
Before which all pale stars are day-drowned;
tawny beaches;
Tan sails upon a tropic sea ; the sunrays
Leaping across a blowing Noon ; impetuousness
And brown-red life, burnt in the blaze of daylight.
All these—the images of Sun and Night-
Dream in the black eyes, deep as wonder-wells,
Live in the sun-kissed brown of Maids of Shadow.
FAIR.
Pale simper of a smile on love-starved lips,
Poor famished lilies ! Etiolated shapes
And ghastly bodies with their ashen coloring
All cold and bloodless, splashed with pinkish
blotches
And waxy tints of salmon ; milky ugliness
Grown in some snowy cavern, shy of the sun !
Like faded sunshine see the flaxen polls
Topping the round bleached faces, and the eyes
Vain, lustreless— blank saucers, china-blue,
Like delf upon the tavern-board of Death —
The spirit but a painted fire ; the heart.
Laughter and ashes !. . . In the world of years
Across the dropping sands of centuries
A sea-wave swept some Race in fullest flood
Drowning and ever drowning ; leaving—These !
The drenched blonde and the washed-out flaxen
hair,
The gilded weather-vanes, the hollow shells,
The froth of meek and frivolous and vain
And blue and gold and pink and white and
weakness.
But whoso looks into their shallow eyes,
Searching their empty hearts, reads there—the
Flood :
The remnant of the burning lives that were ;
Pale wintry mornings ; fractured marble shapes
Lying abandoned in a world of snow ;
Chill rain ; the grey-blue of a berg-swept sea ;
The faded red of blood mingled with ice,
And dying fires in dawns blown by a wind,
Keen and unending ; frozen golden cups
Cracked, that no longer hold the thin white wine ;
Shallow lakes,
Set in a Polar valley, donned with stars,
Glittering like steel, with mountain fastnesses
Rimming the water, set with growths of tangle,
Haunted by silence ; slow cold moving streams ;
Dull ghosts ; white butterflies on frosty plains.
All these —the images of Ice and Fading—
Dream in the blue eyes vain as empty skies,
Live in the waxen tints of Maids of Whiteness.
VICTORIA.
HUGH McKAY.
By Rail and Semaphore.
FOR THE SAKE OF EFFICIENCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f Traffic Office at Romahapa was a
I triumph of civilisation. The big room in
which the Traffic Clerk and his myrmidons
ran the Section was a magnificent apartment with
eight great windows, divided off into compart-
ments by screens of stained and frosted glass, and
warmed by three fireplaces. Two of the fireplaces
burned coal, but the third, which was a gorgeous
affair of brass with imitation logs resting on hand-
some brass dogs, burned gas. It was down at the
west end of the apartment, and near it the Traffic
Clerk had a splendid English desk, and his assist-
ant, who at that particular time happened to be
Mr. Knutsford, toiled at a slightly less elaborate
structure on the other side of the brazen fireplace.
No matter what it was like outside, it was
always summer in there, and the Traffic Clerk used
to rub his long, gaunt hands in the tranquil glow
of the imitation logs, and wonder how it was
people preferred summer to winter —winter was
so cheerful and gave scope for so much solid com-
fort.
That particular morning the office was at its
best. Down at the other end of the room the
clerks were making wild bets as to whether it was
rain, hail, or snow that was threatening to burst
the windows in. The Traffic Clerk sat down at
his elaborate English desk, and commenced to
work with the energy which had won him his high
position.
“Reports,” he said shortly, heaving a huge
bundle of papers on to Knutsford’s desk. Rub
it into them pretty stiff, old man ; the service is
going to the Devil.”
“ Shall I summarise ’em, sir? ”
“Yes, and let me know what you propose to
do, and if I approve I’ll nod me head ; if I don t
I’ll say so.”
“S.-M. Strathalbyn says his cadet steals his
cigars. Wants him shifted, and a boy who doesn t
smoke sent out. Shall I tell him to keep his
cigars locked up?”
The T.C. nodded, and dropped a bundle of
papers into the correspondence basket.
“S.-M. Burning Plains complains in six sheets
of foolscap that his cadet is very backward at
arithmetic, and recommends that a smarter boy,
with more experience of invoicing, be sent to
him. Shall I recommend him to waste less time
and paper in writing reports, and teach the lad
arithmetic and invoicing ? ”
“Yes, and damn him.”
“Damned he is. Goods-Agent Laurence re-
commends his loading foreman, named Smith, be
fined ss. for careless arrangement of distribution
truck. Fined he is and severely cautioned.”
The T.C. nodded.
Then Knutsford picked up an alarming-looking
bundle of papers, and began to read. He read so
long that the T.C. looked up.
“What have you struck ? ”
“ This runs into three editions. Here are a few
hunks:
Bi/642 Romahapa Passengers.
18/8/ —
District Traffic Manager, Romahapa.
Sir,—l have to report that No. 1 South had to proceed
to Ranelagh this morning under certificate, preceded by
Ganger Wallace on velocipede, Signalman Abbot having
arrived late at Kenilworth Signal Box. Delay of 32
minutes consequently. Yours faithfully,
G. H. Ashburnam, S.-M.
7/i ko ; Ranelagh Station.
‘‘ 18/8/
District Traffic Manager, Romahapa.
Sir,—l have the honor to forward Mr. Jones report to
the effect that No. 1 South arrived here 28 minutes late
this morning, preceded by Ganger Wallace on velocipede,
owing to signalman at Kenilworth coming l on duty late.
I enclose Mr. Jones’ report for your information and your
ruling as to whether such a style of correspondence is in
accordance with the traditions of the service to which we
all have the honor to belong.
I am, Sir, your very obedient servant,
James F. Plug, Station-Master.
The Traffic Clerk chuckled : “ What’s the Labor
Saver got to say ? ”
“ Here it is,” said Knutsford, throwing out his
chest: —
7/151 Ranelagh Station.
S.-M., Ranelagh,— 18/8/- — _
Sir, —I regret to have to report that No. 1 South arrived
here 28 minutes late this morning, prtceded by Ganger
Wallace on velocipede, the train having run under certi-
ficate owing to there being no one on duty at Kenilworth
Signal Box to take and give Block. The condition of the
ganger was most deplorable. It was raining like it
rained brimstone on the occasion of the hurried de-
parture of a certain personality and his angels from
Heaven. The water squirted from his (the gangers)
boots, his whiskers were frozen, and he had lost the use
of his voice. I administered whisky in small doses, and
after the fifth, I am glad to say, the ganger recovered the
power of speech. It pains me to have to inform you, sir,
that the first use made of the faculty was to swear most
horribly. He was able to return in the van of No. 8
North. I should like to express my sympathy with the
unfortunate signalman. I have only been at this infernal
hole a fortnight, and during that time I have twice lost
my way, and once been washed out of the track, for
which a hide-hound central authority fined me ss. the
first occasion and 7s. 6d. the second. Please pass voucher
for the value of the whisky used in saving the gangers
life. Yours obediently,
L. M. Jones.
Then there are reports from the signalman,
reporting himself for arriving late on duty, and
promising it will not occur again. That is fol-
lowed by a complaint from the Inspector of Per-
manent Way, complaining that the time of his
men is occupied in preceding trains owing to men
of the Traffic Department sleeping in. The Loco.
Engineer writes complaining of the fact that the
train had to travel under certificate, and will,
through the lost time, cause two cleaners, one
driver, and one fireman to work 75 minutes over-
time. There are several more reports, all dealing
with the fact that No. 1 South ran under certifi-
cate, but I’m getting sick of it. Shall we fine him
ss. and have done with it ? Poor devil, 1 d sleep
in myself, I think, if I had to wake up on a morn-
ing like this at 4.30.”
“Oh no for the sake of efficiency we must make
an example of Abbot. Tell him to report himself
here this afternoon, at 3 p.m., for interrogation.
I expect we had better sack lnm, just for the sake
of efficiency, you know.”
“ I’ve slept-in myself, said Knutsford.
“So have I, lots' of times; but we must study
efficiency.”
» * * *
When the cadet brought him in, Knutsford
looked at Signalman Abbot keenly. The signal-
man was in private clothes, and carried a hard hat
in his gaunt, weather-beaten fist. He was an aged
man, with a clear blue eye, locks that curled grey
over his ears, and his black coat and striped
trousers had little bright spots on them that spoke
of an application of benzine to remove stains be-
fore facing the great Traffic Clerk. Knutsford
felt genuinely sorry for him, for he was a fine old
man; who had kept himself poor raising a big
family ; and it all seemed a case of making a very
big hill out of a small dust heap.
The Traffic Clerk looked at him fiercely, and
picking up the papers, which by this were about
the size of a corn sheaf, said : .
“Nice bungle you’ve made of the business.
Wliat do you mean by it ? Look at all the trouble
you’re giving us. Here are reports from two
station-masters, the Loco. Engineer, the Inspector
of Permanent Way, and Heaven only knows who.
All because you can’t get up in time. (Raising
his voice) “Stangers, turn up the ledger and see
how many times Signalman Abbot has been dealt
with for sleeping in and other things.”
The old man drew himself up :
“j bin in the service 19 year come February,
sir, and never been fined before. Only been cau-
tioned once for sleepin’ in and delayin’ a stock
special seven minutes.” . . ,
“Oh! So it’s an old game of yours, is it?
Well there’s been too much sleeping in lately,
Abbot, and I’ve got to make an example of some-
one for the sake of efficiency, you know. Well,
you’re reduced to a second-class signalman and
fined 10s., all to be recorded against you. You
can go.”
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE affects PEOPLE DIFFERENTLY
Though no two persons alike are
affeeted in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man may suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism—another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous and despondent—
her neighbor may have all the
symptoms of dropsy or Bright’s disease.
It depends on the sufferer’s constitution
and the nature of the impurities kept
back in the body by the blood filters—
the kidneys.
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills
should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong.
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation; they drive out the uric
acid that irritates the kidney mem-
branes and clogs the passages. Doan’s
Pills help the kidneys in their great
blood-filtering work, and give tone to
the whole kidney organism.
\\
p
A
mum
mmnmmnm
c
x
c
‘Every picture tells u story.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per
box, or posted free by Foster=McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, N.S.W.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin Lane, Surry Hills, Sydney,
says : —For nine years I’ve been troubled with the kidneys.
In that time I used all sorts of remedies, but the first to do
me good was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills ; these were Al.
I used to get pains in the back and across the shoulders, hot
flushes of blood to my head, burning pain under the eyes; I
was frightfully nervous, and had palpitation of the heart.
Regarding the pain in my back, after stooping I would have
to ease myself up. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills started
to relieve me when I had taken a few doses. After I had
taken them for a week I felt so well that I forgot to take
them. Anybody who needs a kidney medicine should get
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above seven years later :
“I am still free of every distressing symptom mentioned
above, and have been ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me, seven years ago. This remedy is unrivalled
for the cure of kidney ailments.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., 749 Harris Street, Ultimo,
Bays: —“Some time ago I strained myself .pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in the small of
my back. For three solid months I was unable to work,
I had a very lame back, and a dull pain through the
loins and the kidneys, and my secretions became unnatural
and irregular. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
obtained wonderful relief. lam so much better, I can now
do heavy work. I am firmly convinced that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy, and I
never fail to recommend them among my friends.”
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement: —“I am still
well, and have never suffered with my kidneys since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me eight years ago.”
Backache
Kid ney
PHIS
The old man was stunned. He staggered out
and on the landing met Knutsford, who stopped
him kindly.
“ How did you get on ?”
Bad, sir, bad ! The Traffic Clerk’s very
severe, sir ; but I s pose he has to be in his posi-
tion. Reduced to second-class, fined ten bob, and
all recorded—it’s terrible, terrible, sir.”
“ How did it happen ? ”
“ All an accident, sir. You see, my old lady
she likes to stay in till the very last minute, and
usually we stayed in too long, and then I’d have
to scurry away through the slush and muck of
them beastly roads to the box without a bite to
eat or a sup of anything warm ; and it would be
nigh upon six o clock by the time the lad brought
me up me breakfast. Well, of late, I’d tried a
httle dodge. Every night afore I got into bed,
after I d put out the light I’d say, ‘ I’m not sure
me dear, that I wound up the clock—b’leeve I
only vvound up the alarm.’ And I’d pick it up
and give the hands a twist round about 40 minutes,
and then in the morning when the old lady would
be worrying me round to hurry up, I’d be quite
independent like. “Oh, it’s all right, don’t
worry, me dear, I’d say, ‘there’s plenty other
jobs beside this one. I must have me breakfast,
and I will, train or no train.’ ”
Of course, you knew you’d plenty of time,
although the clock showed that you were late, eh ? ”
“’Zackly, sir. Well, last night I turns the
hands round as usual, an’ goes off to sleep. In
the night the youngest girl, she’s seven, starts
cryin’ with earache, poor little thing, and the
wife hears her and gets up to put some warm oil
in it, an as she does she hears it chime two, and
there the clock shows it 2.40. ‘Drat the clock ’
she says, and puts it right, an’ I fast asleep all the
time. I nearly fell down dead with astonishment
this morning when I hears No. 1 puffin’ up the
grade. I reckoned I’d still twenty minutes to
spare. It’s very hard, Mr. Knutsford.”
And Knutsford agreed and felt that it was, but
it was only the first of a lot of things done for the
sake of efficiency.
* * * *
It was the last days of December, and things
were humming. The Traffic Clerk looked at the
clock and jumped to his feet.
“The Old Man will be in about 7, Knutsford
and then you can go and get your dinner. If he
doesn t come in, and as likely as not he won’t,
you’ll have to wait till I come, and that will be
close upon 8. Keep cool.”
One by one the clerks glided up, signed the
book, and stole noiselessly away. The cadets
trotted in from the telegraphic room with the
wires informing the Traffic Manager that Special
So-and-so left Such-and-such a station at a certain
time, and Knutsford checked them off on his run-
ning-board, and wished that the Old Man would
come.
The big room was in darkness save where the
dark green shade showed a faint ring on Knuts-
ford’s desk. Knutsford looked at his watch. It
was after 7, and no sign of either of the Chiefs.
The glass door swung back, and a tall man, with
close-curling hair of a reddish tinge, a classic face,
and a look of profound thought and innate
authority, strode in in an abstracted way. He
wore a paget coat of faultless cut, but an emi-
nently serviceable coat all the same. His trousers
were of the best, his boots porpoise-hide, and on >
his red-brown hair rested a high-crowned, fawn- i
colored, hard felt hat.
Knutsford rose to his feet. Although he had i
; never seen him nor his portrait, nor heard his per-
sonality described, he knew instinctively that he
stood in the presence of General-Manager Max-
well.
The tall stranger took the proffered chair. “Is
the District Traffic Manager in ? ”
“ No, sir.”
“ The Traffic Clerk ’ ”
“No, sir.”
“Who are you ? ”
Hengist Knutsford, the Traffic Clerk’s secre-
tary. ’
“ Who is in charge of the traffic ? ”
“ I am, sir.”
“ What year are you in ? ”
“My seventh.”
“ H’m ! I’ll make a note of it.”
He jotted it down in a tiny notebook that
seemed to be cram-full of small, closely-written
memoranda, and then indexed it at the end.
Would it make it uncomfortable for you, Mr.
Knutsford, if the gas stove were lit ? ”
Knutsford lit it, and the General Manager re-
lapsed into silence. The minute hand of the
great office clock slowly climbed round to Bpm
there was no sign of the Traffic Clerk or the
Old Man. Knutsford began to feel that he was
caving in with hunger, but he dared not send out
supper with the G.M. on the premises.
Would he never go?
But the G.M. sat there with one knee over the
other, his chin on his chest, staring into the
tranquil glow of the gas fireplace, saying never a
word. And Knutsford, staring at him out of the
shadow thought of Poe’s Raven, and wished that
an earthquake or something would happen, and
give him some chance to shout or dance or make a
noise or otherwise break the frigid silence.
The clock ticked on. The hand staggered
round and finally reached 9 p.m. From the
operating room came the merry click of the
instrument as the cadet opened the door with
another telegram. The G.M. turned.
“Mr. Knutsford, be good enough to instruct
the boy to leave that door open, and tell the oper-
ators to keep silent. I wish to hear the tele-
grams.”
Knutsford gave the required instructions, and
again the G.M.’s head sank down on his chest.
There were five sounders in that room, all jang-
ling together. One clanged “ urgent ” loudly', and
the operator promptly responded. There had
been a slight smash ; one of the specials had been
derailed, travelling 15 miles an hour, owing to
some larrikin lassoing the pointsman with a law-
yer vine and dragging him from the points lever
and thereby placing the two ends of the train on
different roads.
“ We gave orders for all those half-levers to be
replaced with full tumblers six months ago ! ”
said the G.M., turning to Knutsford as the cadet
brought the telegram in, for the G.M. had read it
on the sounder.
“ Yes, the process of replacement is still going
on,” said Knutsford, as he rose. He walked to
the instrument, and took the key and talked
earnestly to the S.-M. for several'minutes. No-
body was dangerously hurt; a few noses bashed,
a rib or two and three or four arms and legs
broken. The rolling stock, with the exception of
two carriages whose buffers and drawbars were
wrenched, all uninjured.
While Knutsford arranged for doctors to go
out to meet the train at the earliest possible
moment, and altered the time-table for the train
with the injured to overtake and pass everything
on the road, the G.M. checked everything he
did. In the middle of it a tremendous bellow
came from the Traffic Manager’s private room.
The G.M. started. Knutsford shuddered. He
knew what it meant, but went on with his work
as though he had heard nothing. Then his own
name was roared wildly ; and as he rushed off to
try and cover up the impending disaster, the
General. followed close upon his heels.
The big door of polished rimu flew open, and an
awful apparition appeared. It was the Traffic
Manager in evening dress, down on all fours.
His beautiful silvery beard was dragging on the
floor, hiswhit.e tie was round under his ear, and the
damaged remains of a lobster protruded from
his silken dress vest. He was a horrible sight.
Knutsford recoiled, the General Manager gasped,
and the scared cadet fled out of the room back to
the landing, ready to escape to the street if the
Old Man should show signs of biting.
“ Condemn and strike your adjective eyes, why
don’t you come when I ring? ”
His eye caught sight of the form that loomed
up spectrally behind that of Knutsford. He
thrust his head forward and stared at that
shadowy outline and became sober all in a moment
as far as his head was concerned, but his trem-
bling legs refused dufy, and his arms twitched.
He held out one hand appealingly to Knutsford,
and spoke in an awed sort of a whisper.
“Ma Gawd, the General Manager—help me,
laddie ; take me hame and send fer a medico.”
Knutsford dragged him back into his own room
and got him on to the sofa.
“ I’ll take you home as soon as the Traffic Clerk
comes—keep quiet.”
“ Was he nae here when yon deevil came ? He
has come like a thief in th’ nicht, an’ we are aal
undone.”
When Knutsford went back to his desk he
found the G.M. sitting before the brazen fire-
place, his knees crossed, his chin sunk down on
his chest, apparently oblivious of everything.
There was a sound of someone coming up the
stairs. The swing doors were pushed open, and a
whiff of a fragrant cigar floated in. The Traffic
Clerk came after it, but he paused outside the
screen of stained glass and cursed fluently. Evi-
dently he was in a most fiendish temper :
“Here, Knutsford, what the Devil have you
got the place like a dungeon for? Clifford, you
whelp, light those infernal gas jets ! How dare
you have this landing all dark? Fly round, make
your toga crack, or I’ll shift your ear.”
Then he burst through the screen door and
caught sight of the General Manager sitting in his
chair. He gripped him by the shoulder roughly.
“ Here, that’s my place ! Gerrout! Knutsford,
how dare you bring strangers into this part of the
office. I’ll”
The General Manager rose and shook the T.C.’s
grip off his shoulder.
“ Excuse me, but I think you misapprehend
the position, sir,” he said, grimly.
The Traffic Clerk took one glance at his face,
and staggered back as though he had been sand-
bagged. But he was no coward. He looked the
angry General Manager steadily in the eyes.
“ Please relieve Mr. Knutsford. He must be
dying of starvation. I wish to talk to you pri-
vately.”
That Government Gazette which notified the
great shuffle round of nearly every Traffic Man-
ager in the State explained that “ the undermen-
tioned ” transfers were made “for the sake of
Efficiency.”
C. A. JEFFERTES.
Baraldarie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ril HE hills behind Baraldarie
Aie hare and brown, and hot and dry
They overlook the Southern Sea,
And sharply cut the Eastern sky ;
They close, betwixt them and the sea,
Baraldarie.
Ah, curse the day that I went down,
Rough-hewn on Nature’s larger plan,
And flung my fortunes in that town,
Whose weary ways and wastes I scan.
I little knew what held for me
Baraldarie.
She saw me at my toil. Her eyes
Looked up and searched me to the soul,
And trembled into sweet surprise ;■
Across her cheek a faint flush stole.
Ah, loveliness that lit for me
Baraldarie.
She walked beside her husband ; old
He seemed, nor knew what passion lay
Beneath her marble, seeming cold—
A passioned flood that bore away
All bars, and glorified for mb
Baraldarie.
Decrepit wealth and pride had caught
That tender dove of womanhood ;
Though I on faulty lines be wrought,
She for all time was sweet and good—
So pure she chose to die, than flee
Baraldarie.
“I, that am poor, and mean, and rough,
Am rich alone in love, my sweet;
You, that would hold it wealth enough
Must tread high paths with weary feet.
While strange sad shadows haunt for thee
Baraldarie.”
“ Though you be poor it matters not;
You, that are seared into my heart.
The tragic Fate that cast our lot
Willed we should meet, and speak, and part :
Brought bitter-sweet to you and me,
Baraldarie ! ”
So turned I to the hills once more
That quenchless flame within my soul;
And soon along the dreary shore
Ye heard the muffled church-bell’s toll—
Came gloomy plumes of death to thee,
Baraldarie!
She lies within a cypress grove.
Her love was strange and mystical;
It knew no stolen sweet, her love,
But bloomed and perished virginal.
God’s cunning curse you held for me, '
Baraldarie !
VICTORIA.
G. G. A. COLLES.


so
“After having recovered from rheumatic fever X was
weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
w
w
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S.” _______
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
(JHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA,. GOUT,
RHEUM A TiSM, TOO THA CHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND— 2/9, & 4/6
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
3iu*u3q»s«3qainstti«a^3
•sanoq Bft
ui
m
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
colleetionof bis best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Wearne 8 Breakspear,
T, SYDNEY.
, m
296 SUSSEX
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Covernmsnt Contractors.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all Hies and affords comfort to erorv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Uruggtets.
Grocers arid
Hat dw are
Dealer a,
among: whom are
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Ltd..
O’Connell St.; F. ll Paulding’ & Co., St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co.. 268 Pitt St. ,
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers All port
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St;
Feldheim, Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.^
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has ontliv.ed the Centune*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
a fthfimist for its history—the book is free—or write
ABk vent chemist for its history—the hook is frpe—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Boad, London, Eng.
SOLAR
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
METAL POLISH
m
m
m
«/©
m
S'l/1
=>v
O
r-Ss
Manufactured by
N. QUTHRIDQE LtD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY^
FREE
SEEDS
vAc
QIJ.NVM
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
into every home, we are giving- away prizes such as
MUSIC 4 L INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
WJg TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
fIORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N.S.W. f
Are you Bothered a
by Biliousness ■
Many people are. It is a very common form of liver trouble, and a
very unpleasant one, involving sick-headache, nausea , dizziness, and
often complete prostration during an attack. When you are bilious
you require something that will effectively stimulate the liver and give
speedy relief, and there is no better medicine for this purpose than
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
because they act directly on the congested organ, regulate the
flow of bile and carry off all impurities. But the good effects
of Beecham’s Pills are not only confined to the regulation of the
liver. The complexion improves, the dark circles under the eyes
disappear, the head clears, and the general health is renewed.
Beecham’s Pills are purely vegetable and a safe medicine for man,
woman, and child. Take them as directed whenever there is need to
Exercise the Liver.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 h (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
■
■.'r :
Wanted a Situation
for,a good, strong, hardworking windmill.
Very steady and reliable. Never touches
anything stronger than water with a dash
of lubricating, oil occasionally. Guaranteed
to work Sundays and holidays, and as long
as there is a breath of air left in it.
Costs nothing for Renewals.
Equipped with large windwheel, which,
has a bearing on each side of it,
sails to match, and a simple balance gear.
Apply
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD RAILWAY STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Piping, Pumps, Trougliing, and Full-way
Ball-valves supplied to order.
Ask Dept. C for Particulars and
Price-lists.
The Bulletin
a
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
POST
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathei
in his Blindness." From Original Drawing
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, an<
A. Dyson.
JHo. V. Ten Australian Types. Fron
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. Fron
Original Drawings by Leading Australia!
Artists—B. E. Minns, _L. Lindsay, D. H
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugl
McOrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is
Packet of Ten - - - - 10 c
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
21!* George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Wincling-up of the insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
o o
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring-this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turiled rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel-
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. - • .. £1 12
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price ..£5 15
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. ..£2 15
12 Rifies, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. £0 13
6
0
9
are complete with Cartridge
Ail the above guns
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
- address in Australasia.
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
58
*s=
MEN
A NO
WQM.EN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. *»
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men Buffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an applicaion and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. Mo similar book has star bun published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address
FREE.
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elmley House,”
151 Elizabeth -st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


KEEP YOUR FEET DRY!
It is well to be equipped for the
changeable weather that is to be ex-
pected now. Rubber Boots will keep
your legs and feet drv in the severest
weather ; there is nothing like them.
We stock Goloshes and Leggings, too ;
in fact we have everything to keep out
the wet.
Stout Short Boots, best quality, pure
gum, with rolled-edge soles. Men’s
sizes, 20/-
“ Iceland Beacon *' Golosh, with rolled-
edge soles of heavy-weight rubber.
Men’s, 6/-
Leggli^a—Tweed Wellingtons, with
footpieee, 5/6; without footpiece, i/6.
Our new Winter Catalogue is now
ready, and a copy will be sent you 0:1
request. Ask for it to-day !
PER DR!A U RUBBER Co. Ltd.
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVE. YOUR FUEL
by using
THE DEAN BOILER TUBE CLEANER.
Sole Agent, T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
f; v ■
DICK’S PATENT
belting.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADI.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
• v - e , r -L er ' GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
mutations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Bardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
; ° erl ®s, IV.. V., VT. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
racket of Ten. lOd. /
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt ’ steam or Motor Driven. For mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
or rices apply J. WILDRIDCHE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street
ALLIS -CHALMERS CO.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E,S. &A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
and ORDERS along for
SPARE
Flour Milling Machinery.
Cement Making Plante.
Gas
s
PRICE
s ostage—N.S.W.,
7d.; other Stal
i
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
J. A. FAY & EGAN CO. S
NEWEST AND MOST IMPROVED TYPES OF
BAND SAW MILL ;.
ESTIMATES FURNISHED.
We have In stock ana t *? ive
Moiders, Tenoning, M
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
M:Tr
XUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—Woodw jg M« iinfcry, including Planers, Mate
and Boring, Saw Benches, Band Saws, Lathe M
p.
& CO
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ffl
Ms,
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
283 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St, Melbourne.
