

DEWARS
The Whisky for Men of Taste.
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR-
KS’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
5
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street,
3BC O 356 jSI. 7E%. "X\
jjadley’s Orient ptel.
psqnEer
LEATHER
ELTINC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St.. Sydney
X'
«
Take it back,
I must have
Pint Apple Brand
KAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
Gop&u
Sheep Shearing
Machines
cost least for upkeep
—do the best work.
00,
Company#
16 Youafj St., Sydney.
ail , iuclu<jVu) u ■&»
THE SECRET OF !TS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
it isn’t ELECTRIC, it isn’t MODERN !
If it is anything YOU want in modern Electrical Accessories, such as Accumulators, Dry Cells, etc., and it Isn’t here-
ccumuiators repaired by experts. Any information in regard to Electrical matters furnished gratuitously.
The India-rubber, Gutta-percha & Telegraph Works Co., Ltd.,
it isn’t anywhere.
Inquiries solicited.
BECK’S LASER BEER
Cr
( X*XSL4>oC
f
MA.LTHOID makes a complete
? Per^ect covering- for every
ass of building, being abso-
U “f ly impervious to water,
w,thstanding all climatic
changes.
Tiles break, slates crack and
iron leaks, giving endless
trouble and expense, but
MALTHOID ROOFING re-
mains intact for all time. Be
wise, try it.
hopper waggons,
ooad-hakinc plants
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U D
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L"
Locomotive Builders,
General, lining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
c. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
helidon spa water
HELIDON SPA possesses bright and sparkling
properties with persistent effervescence.
BEWHURST S HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Ajents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 3u.—No. 1536.]
[Thursday, July 22, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a. Newspaper.


COMING TOWARDS DECEMBER. ORDERS NOW REGISTERED.
LIEUTENANT SHACKLETON’S ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION.
In 2 Volumes, size about 10 x 8 Inches, with many illustrations and colored plates, finely produced and
bound in cloth; price, 425. the two vols.; postage 2s. 6d. extra.
Since the return of the intrepid Lieutenant and party, the account of this hazardous journey has
been awaited with interest. In the work just announced record will be made of the achievements
of the various members of the Expedition, setting forth in a permanent and fitting manner this
memorable journey to the Antarctic. Orders are now being registered.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTH9L JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon g e d
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice,
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Solti by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Poetical Peter Pans
LOWELL began an essay with the
query—“ Will it do to say anything
more about Chaucer 1 ” —thought it
would, and let himself go for 60-odd
pages. The subject of Shelley is not
quite so ancient and worn. Some time ago
criticism of his poetry settled down and
placed it in the same rank as Chaucer’s ;
but the poet’s character has been the
battle-ground of warring factions ever
since he published “ Queen Mab.” Prob-
ably no literary character is so per-
plexing as Shelley’s, and the mass of
opinion which has accumulated since his
death, 87 years ago, is of the most con-
flicting character. It ranges from that
of Byron, who regarded him as the most
gentle, the most amiable, and least
worldly-minded person he ever met, and
Leigh Hunt, who looked upon him as a
stray from another planet, to that of
J. C. Jefferson, who laboriously endea-
vored to prove that Shelley was
most things that are base. It would
do to say something more about
Shelley—if it be something new and
illuminating. There must be some key to
the mystery of Shelley’s character, some
way of reconciling its extraordinary in-
consistencies. Leigh Hunt’s fanciful
theory would almost meet the case—for
some of Shelley’s actions are akin to those
of the Wonderful Visitor in H. G. Wells’
romance. The poet Francis Thompson
made a new suggestion in an article pub-
lished after his death in the Dublin
'Review. The article attracted so much
attention that it sent the D.R., for the
first time in its history, into a second
edition; and it is now published separ-
ately by Burns and Oates.
Thompson has something to say about
contemporary poetry before getting to
that of Shelley, and makes the same
justifiable complaint as Bernard O’Dowd,
of the surfeit of poetic diction. The
defect, he says, is the predominance of
art over inspiration—of body over soul.. .
The habit of excessive care in word-
selection frequently results in loss of spon-
taneity ; and, still worse, the habit of always
taking the best word too easily becomes the
habit of always taking the most ornate word,
the word most removed from ordinary
speech. In consequence of this, poetic dic-
tion has become latterly a kaleidoscope, and
ono’s chief curiosity is as to the precise com-
binations into "which the pieces will be
shifted. There is, in fact, a certain band of
words, the Praetorian cohorts of poetry,
whose prescriptive aid is invoked by every
aspirant to the poetical purple, and without
whose prescriptive aid none dares aspire to
the poetical purple ; against these it is time
some banner should be raised. . . . We are
self-conscious to the finger-tips; and this
inherent quality, entailing on our poetry the
inevitable loss of spontaneity, ensures that
whatever poets, of whatever excellence, may
be born to us from the Shelleian stock, its
founder’s spirit can take among us no rein-
carnation. An age that is ceasing to produce
child-like children cannot produce a Shelley.
For both as poet and man he was essentially
a child.
Shelley was a child who would or could
not grow up—that is the substance of
Thompson’s theory, which he poetically
elaborates:
He is still at play, save only that his play
is such as manhood stops to watch, and his
playthings are those which the gods give
their children. The universe is his box of
toys. He dabbles his fingers in the dayfall.
He is gold-dusty with tumbling amidst the
stars. He makes bright mischief with the
moon. The meteors nuzzle their noses in
his hand. He teases into growling the ken-
nelled thunder, and laughs at the shaking of
its fiery chain. He dances in and out of the
gates of Heaven ; its floor is littered with
his broken fancies. He runs wild over the
fields of ether. He chafes the rolling world.
He gets between the feet of the horses of
the sun. He stands in the lap of patient
Nature, and twines her loosened tresses after
a hundred wilful fashions, to see how she will
look nicest in his song.
The essay is interesting as much for its
light on the strange character of Francis
Thompson as for its criticism of Shelley—
about whom the last word has not yet
been said.
\l/
Shelley died before he was 30 ;
Swinburne lived to be 72; yet the latter
also presents to some critics the character-
istics of a boy who would not grow up.
J. W. Mackail, in a lecture on Swin-
burne delivered before Oxford Univer-
sity, and now published by the Clarendon
Press, says :
His poetical faculty passed through no
long process of gestation ; it sprang from
his brain suddenly, radiant and full-armed.
In the case of no poet perhaps is there less
difference, either in intellect or in craftsman-
ship, between the poetry of his youth and
that of his later years. . . . His own writing
was always sincere, and even, in a way,
curiously simple, with the simplicity of an
extraordinarily eloquent child who makes no
reservations or compromises, who has no
acquired tact, whose mind is quite trans-
parent. . . . Handwriting, if not an index to
character, is often very characteristic ; and
Swinburne’s writing throughout his life was
like that of a schoolboy. Like a child’s,
his intelligence was swift and clear.
Edward Gosse, in the June Fortnightly,
puts the matter differently :
Before his fortieth year there had set in a
curious'ossification of Swinburne’s intellect.
He ceased to form new impressions, while
reverting with all his former exuberance to
the old. This was extraordinary in one who
had waved the banner of rebellion, and had
led youthful enthusiasm so heroically when
it affected writers just earlier than himself.
In the large amount of anecdote and
criticism which has appeared since Swin-
burne’s death there are frequent refer-
ences to the precocity of the boy and the
child-like nature of the man.
W
The official biography of Swinburne is
to be written by Theodore Watts-Dunton;
James Douglas is to publish a book on
Swinburne as a metrist; and J. A. Hamer-
ton prints a collection of Swinburniana.
An appreciation by Ernest Rhys appeared
in the Nineteenth Century; and various
articles, fully illustrated, in the Bookman
for June. Meanwhile, some extracts from
Gosse’s personal notes may be interest-
ing :
He was more a hypertrophied intelligence
than a man. His vast brain seemed to
weigh down and give solidity to a frame
otherwise as light as thistledown, a body
almost as immaterial as that of a fairy. In
the streets he had the movements of a
somnambulist, and often I have seen him
passing like a ghost across the traffic of Hol-
born, or threading the pressure of carts east-
ward in Gray’s Inn-road, without glancing
to the left or the right, like something blown
before the wind
The slightest emotional excitement, of
anger, or pleasure, or admiration, sent him
into a state which could scarcely be called
anything but convulsive. He was like that
little geyser in Iceland, which is always sim-
mering, but which, if it is irritated by having
pieces pf turf thrown into it, instantly boils
over and flings its menacing column at the
sky.
The intellectual temperament of Swin-
burne is not to be apprehended unless we
remember that he was, in grain an aristocrat.
Outside poetry and, in lesser measure, his
family life, Swinburne’s interests were curi-
ously limited. He had no “ small talk.”. .. .
For science he had no taste whatever, and
his lack of musical ear was a byword among
his acquaintances
Swinburne seemed to achieve, or to go far
towards achieving, an entirely novel and
original form of expression (when read-
ing his own poems). His whole body
shook with passion, his. head hung on one
side with the eyes uplifted, his tongue
seemed burdened by the weight of the
syllables, and in the concentrated emphasis
of his slow utterance he achieved something
like the real Delphic ecstasy, the transfigura-
of the Pythia quivering on her tripod. It
was surpassingly strange, but it was without
a touch of conscious oddity or affectation.
It was a case of poetic “possession,” pure
and simple.
IMAGINATION.
Weary and weak, alone and ill at ease,
I summon subtle sprites that serve me well;
Then, at the bidding of the sudden spell,
The world slips from me; then the thundering
breeze
Whirls my frail bark beyond the Orcades,
And o’er me hangs, with spire and pinnacle,
A fretted ice-crag stooping through the swjeill,
Over the broad backs of the raging seas.
The rapture fades; the fitful flame flares out,
Leaving me sad, and something less than man,
Pent in the circle of a rugged isle,
A later Prospero, without his smile,
Without his large philosophy, without
Miranda, and alone with Caliban.
(From “ The Poems of A. G. Benson.”)
Rules of Rhyme
These rules, as accepted, are well defined
in Chambers’ Encyclopaedia, and may practi-
cally be summed up in the one phrase—“iden-
tical vowel sounds.” Thus “ mark ” rhymes
with “lark.” The final consonants must
be also identipal in sound ; “eyes ” does not
rhyme with “paradise.” It is added that
the rhyme-syllables must be accented—that
is “ merrily ” does not rhyme with “free.”
Also we are expressly cautioned that simi-
larity of spelling does not constitute rhyme
—that is, “ ease ” does not rhyme with
“decease.”
I wtint to point out that these rules are all,
without exception, wrong; whether they were
right or not 50 years ago I have not inquired.
And I suppose I need hardly premise that in
a matter of this sort a rule or law is not a
fiat of an authority, but merely a short state-
ment of practice. There is no appeal to
grammarian or critic. We simply go to the
poets. In the present case we are lucky in
having several poets to choose from—all of
them familiar with several languages besides
their own ; all “educated ”in the academic
sense ; most of them critics of repute. To
begin with Swinburne : To say he cannot
rhyme is as much as to say that Michael
Angelo cannot paint. From one of his finest
lyrics, “Before Dawn,” I quote some pas-
sionate lines :
To hunt sweet Love and lose him
Between white arms and bosom,
Between the bud and blossom,
Between your throat arid chin ;
Where is the identity of vowel-sound ;
where the identity of consonant terminating
rhyme-syllable ? The ' pedantic notion that
“dawn” does not rhyme with “morn,”
learned, I suppose, in some village school
from a teacher who had learned it in some
ancient Scotch grammar, is dispelled at once
if you read in the same poem :
As when late larks give warning
Of dying lights and dawning,
Night murmurs to the morning,
“ Lie still, O love, lie still ” ;
And half her dark liufbs cover
The white limbs of her lover,
With amorous plumes that hover
• And fervent lips that chill;
Notice also the rhyme of “lover” and
“ hover.” This poem, one of the finest
lyrics in English, would have been refused
publication here because of the “dawn-
morn” rhyme ; and so would Arnold’s “The
New Sirens,” in which it occurs three times.
To consider now the need of accent-
ing rhyme-syllables, take the last two
stanzas in “The Scholar-Gipsy.” I quotes
them at length because they never tire the ear:
Then fly our greetings, fly our speech and smiles !
—As some grave Tyrian trader, from the sea,
Descried at sunrise an emerging proyv
Lifting the cool-hair’d creepers stealthily,
The fringes of a southward-facing brow
Among the .ZEgean isles ;
And saw the merry Grecian coaster come,
Freighted with am ber grapes, and Chian wine.
Green, bursting figs, and tunnies steeped in
brine—
And knew the intruders on his ancient home,
The young light-hearted masters of the waves—
And snatch’d his rudder, and shook out more
sail;
And day and night held on indignantly
O’er the blue Midland waters with the gale,
Betwixt the Syrtes and soft Sicily,
To where the Atlantic raves
Outside the western Straits ; and unbent sails
There, where down cloudy cliffs, through
skeets of foam,
Shy traffickers, the dark Iberians come ;
And on the beach undid his corded bales.
Here we have “sea,” “stealthily”; and
“ indignantly,” “ Sicily,” assistances of un-
accented rhyme-syllables. Also notice
“come,” “home,” and “foam,” “come.”
Rossetti frequently employs this form of
rhyme. Franz Huffier, writing in 1873,
seems to consider it recognised, and calls it
the “weak or suspensive accent,” “the
schwebender accent, as the Germans call it.”
Take, as an instauce, from “The Sea Limits”:
Consider the sea’s listless chime ;
Time’s self it is, made audible, —
The murmur of the earth’s own shell.
As to the last rule, I find that mere simi-
larity of spelling does constitute rhyme, but
I cannot, on the spur of the moment, get a
good instance of “slaughter” rhyming to
“laughter,” or anything quite as remark-
able. Swinburne, however, often rhymes
“ love ” with “ move,” and in the “ Ancient
Mariner” we have “cheer,” “sere,”
“were.” llossetti, in “Sister Helen,”
rhymes “blood” with “wood.” Perhaps
the instance that will be most convincing to
your readers is that of “In Memoriam,”
stanzas 1 and 2, where we find “fear,”
“bear,” and “ hardihood,” “ blood.” Note
in stanza 1, “ brute,” “ foot.” Take also in
“Maud,” lines 26 and 28, “word,” “sword.”
is here little resemblance in vowel-
sound, much less identity. The rhyme
depends entirely on the spelling. Tennyson
would never have rhymed “ absurd ” to
“aboard.” Another example is found iri
“Laus Veneris,” stanza 21, where we get
“men,” “again,” “rain.” Here “ rain ”is
linked to “ men ” in a curious fashion.
Probably there is, somewhere, some careful
attempt to ascertain what rhymes are con-
•sidered permissible by the great Victorian
poets. I should reckon among their number
Tennyson, Browning, Swinburne, Rossetti,
and Arnold. In my judgment they were all
men of considerable education, and severe
critics of their own work. They all took
their art Very seriously, and, unlike Shelley,
had ample opportunity of revising their
proofs. They are all modern, in the sense
that no serious rival has as yet appeared.
M.L.
W. F. HOWLETT.
Frederic Manning
Scenes and Portraits (John Murray) is a
valuable addition to that small section of
English literature which has been produced
by Australian-born writers. Frederic Man-
ning, born and educated in Sydney, has pro-
duced a volume of prose sketches displaying
considerable scholarship, and written in a
charming style. With one exception, the
studies are of historical characters: Euripides,
St. Paul, St. Francis of Assisi, Machiavelli
and Ernest Renan. They are treated in that
semi-fictional manner in which we believe all
history and biography will in future be
taught. The record of details will continue,
of course ; but historical artists will present
the past in a series of pictures, sweeping
Rom one to the other in a few broad strokes,
and saving the reader from the dull intervals.
As the panorama unfolds behind us the
number of interesting figures increases, and
the average reader hadn't time to study them
all thoroughly. Manning’s studies are con-
nected by the thread of a philosophy of
disillusion, and in his preface lie acknow-
ledges the principal influence to be
that of Renan. The method is that of
Pater’s Imaginary Portraits , and here and
there the'style is reminiscent of the cultured
languor and autumn twilight which charac-
terise the modern Marius ; but, on the
whole, it is bright and vivacious, especially
in the naturalistic rendering of the story of
Adam and Eve which precedes the bio-
graphical studies. This sketch— “ The King
of Uruk ” —is delightful, and we hope
Frederic Manning will cultivate a vein which
promises rich rewards.
Raising Stones
A writer who discourses fluently and with
much interest on some stirring events of to-
day is Lionel James, an Intelligence Officer
in the service of Britain. His experience
has taught him the value of words; and he
is thrifty with them; wasting none, bub
using all that are required ; with the result
that his laconic, direct descriptions conjure
up real pictures. The characters do not
move, as in most descriptive writing
like the jerky figures on a cinematograph
screen. He attempts no long, wearisome
description ; you get all the details in his
short stories, as by a sudden searchlight
flashed for a moment on a dark place. He
was in Tabriz, Persia, when under Hassan
Ali Khan it resisted the troops of the Shah
in the name of the National Parliament.
He was in Russia on Vladimir’s Red
Sunday, and shows how easy it is to shoot
down an unarmed mob trying to present a
petition. He was in South Africa when the
Republics were being slowly and painfully
subverted, and tells of nerve-tingling trips
in armored trains ; of the midnight raiding
of Dutch farms ; and how traitors were
made. Then to the North-West frontier of
India, where, in a story of domestic in-
felicity, he makes one thoroughly acquainted
with the wild barbarians of the Kyber, and
throws another and unusual light on those
kharki-clad troops of Britain, who from their
impregnable fortresses look down unmoved
on the domestic tragedies of the tribesmen
below. Lionel James is worth reading, and
anyone who has travelled to far lands by his
Side Trades and Bridle Paths (Blackwood)
will look for his previous books, On the Heels
of De Wet, etc.
W
The story of My Restless Life (Dy mock’s
Library) by Harry de Windt, who has spent
most of his years in walking up and down
upon the earth, is also worth reading. He
began at the age of 16 with a trip to North
Borneo, where he acted as AfD.G. to his
brother-in-law, Raja Brooke, of Sarawak.
Since then he has seen many interesting
countries and famous people, and writes
about them breezily.
♦ :
Art and Architecture for June contains a
well illustrated article on Norman Lindsay’s
work by a brother artist, D. H. Souter.


X
m S
3SS*
ass
feat
r •
■ • i. yV- >: i
! I* .
‘M: ,V » '2g#i'.■Jf ' ,1; /'?
V M* V. y- '
The Montrose Dining Room Suite, No. 46, comprising Couch, Lady’s and Gentleman’s Easy Chairs and G Ordinary Chairs, upholstered in best Saddlebags and Utrecht Velvet,
spring seated, heavy, well-carved frames, finished Walnut color ...
u
ip §s?SSss^?
v* v v
■
The Seymour Dining Eoom Suite, No. 47. comprising Couch,
2 large Easv Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, upholstered seats and
hacks, best spring seats, castors to'all the Chairs, frames of solid
Tasmanian Walnut, handsomely carved. Upholstered in best
Pegamoid Leather, £l4: 12s. 6d.
Upholstered in Saddlebags and Utrecht Velvet, .£l6 10s.
' . 1
Dining' Hoom Suite, No. 48, comprising- Couch, 2 large Easy
Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, spring scats, upholstered hacks,
castors to all the Chairs, frames of solid Tasmanian Walnut,
richly carved. Upholstered in best Saddlebags and Utrecht
Velvet, £l7 18s. 6d.
.Upholstered in best Pegamoid Leather, <£l6 ss.
Many other styles are illustrated in our guide: to
FURNISHING. Write for a copy, posted free on
application, and reap the full benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
.
LV.
I
®ppp««p®»
I .1
The
Carrington Dining Room Suite, kp. 45, comprising
backs, well carved frames, finished Wailput color lt .. , ..
Couch, Lady’s and Gentleman’s Easy Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, upholstered in best American Duck, spring-seated, button
i, ... ... ... ... ' %.. ... ... ... 16s.
HORDERN & SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
ILmpormm*
New
Hill,


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Add Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and C a 1 11 e—o a uses,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. I >R.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Lett e r W riter, 1 /-.
ND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
le\* \>
V/i
••r
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
P 1 a y i n g-
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
( altoce t h e r.
Co m p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Triclcs are : —(])The Lightning:
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each ;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4./-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
” REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholksaie Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Svdney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. .TOLLY & CO.. Port Darwin.
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ELSE
MAKES tiie SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
&
&
*«9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
FN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Wholesale Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
iNViGOEATING
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
nv Ful1 Pa y ticulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Uirrmte Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
Ciporg'e Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair- 161 HT\T. STRFFT «YnWFY
Workers * Dernatoioaists, 101
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
H
m
V
FOKSv
Congo is “Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING CO., Philadelphia, U.8.A., and London.
For Sale by Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
mz.
wrniro
r\
Is your Liver right?
It’s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
C
KL
Q
Mi
B
A WONDERFUL CURE
FOR INDIGESTION
REDFERN TESTIMONY.
“Each rooming I woke with the consciousness
that something was not right,” remarked Mr.
William Johnston, of No. 127 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, to a newspaper representative, who was
making some enquiries. Continuing he said : “I
felt as if I was in for a spell of sickness, and, sure
enough, those misgivings foretold what afterwards
happened. You see, the heat was pretty consider-
able where I was, up at Mole, seventy miles from
Warren, 115 deg. in the shade for a week at a
stretch being regarded as only a fleabite to what
could happen when the sun was in good form, and
too much of that sort of business gets on a man’s
nerves, and runs him down a bit, I tell you, and
I think I ought to know.”
“Of course, because you are speaking from ex-
perience,” interrupted the scribe.
“ Exactly. There were a good few of us working
at an artesian bore, which ejected soda water —
without. I need scarcely remark, any whisky in it
—and too much soda straight is not good. In-
deed, it proved very bad for us, and as we never
got within reach of anything in the way of vege-
tables, it is only to be expected that the conse-
quences were very bad for the blood. Mine, like
the rest, was in a terrible state, sores breaking out
in all directions, and the flies were so troublesome
that we laid to go away and sit in the dark to get
a little peace. The remedies I tried to put myself
in order with were of no avail, and my sufferings
became unbearable. When I sat down to a meal
I would get half way through when an attack of
retching always occurred, so no wonder my strength
fell off like it did. I became as weak as a kitten,
and, the work being laborious, I could not keep
going. Matters were about at their worst, when
the overseer went over to Bourke, and returned
with some Clements Tonic for the men, and I give
you my word as an honorable man, that after I had
taken but one bottle I felt a different being en-
tirely. The headaches that I had beforehand
were enough to destroy one’s happiness, without
anything else; but, besides, I had most of those
wretched symptoms which usually accompany in-
digestion. To begin with, my chest felt quite
clogged up, as though I had swallowed a lump of
dough that was clogging the breathing passages
and about my loins. I felt as if I had been beaten
with a stick—sore and aching. Again, under the
blades of my shoulders there were shap, pricking
sensations as if a needle were at work, and in
addition to all else, there was a perpetual feeling
of weariness as if I had run myself to death.
When getting out of bed of a morning, I would
have to hold on to it to steady myself, the dizzi-
ness being so great that I would have overbalanced,
and all the time I was going down-hill fast. My
weight was disappearing in a most alarming man-
ner, and I dread to think of what would have
happened had not Clements Tonic made its timely
appearance, through the kindness of our overseer.”
“He had probably used it himself on some pre-
vious occasion ? ” hazarded the writer.
“He said so, and swore by it. There is no med-
icine in the world to equal Clements Tonic, he
used to say, and, my word, he was right, for it
fixed us up splendidly. Its purifying effects on
my blood cannot be too highly spoken of. Enough
to say that the sores soon disappeared, after which
I rested better. I began to eat more freely and
regularly under Clements Tonic’s influence, and
the retching after meals became a thing of the
past. And if Clements Tonic cannot cure indi-
gestion quicker than anything else, I’m a Dutch-
man. It put me right out of touch with each
symptom belonging to that complaint in no time;
then it added to its wonderful work by steadying
my nerves, and giving me as much strength as a
man could wish for. Whenever I meet a person,
either man or woman, suffering in any particular
like I did myself, I just tell them what I know
Clements Tonic can do, as in my case, and if they
don’t go and get a bottle or two of that remedy,
then all I can say is, they deserve to suffer. Pub-
lish this any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, WILLIAM JOHNSTON, of 127 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure byClements Tonic, and also contains my fullper-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act. If f"
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty
eighth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
13] PETER GORNALL, J. I’,


The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
filler’s
I Cherrii Sectoral
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing,relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Crepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade Mi-AD
Coventry FByers
at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, nnd
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODELS JS3.IQ to &9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
easily made. Write c. once, using t-uffieient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
ell sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO„De P , 280 LIVERPOOL.
rnHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
| of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and acents of the World. Office : 214
Oeorere Street. Sydney.
EDDIE “WEATHERBURN
When he was 6 months old, Eddie
Wealherburn, 21 Windmill Street,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, N.S.W.,
suffered greatly from bronchitis, and
his mother, Mrs. E. Weatherburn,
decided to give SCOTT’S Emulsion
a trial. “From the first
bottle I noticed an im-
provement,” she writes (Sep-
tember 1907). “He is now
restored to complete
good health, and looks
well and rosy, which
is entirely dne to
SCOTT’S Emulsion.” Thick
of “ emulsion ” and you will think
of “ SCOTT’S.” All emulsions are
similar in appearance, but that is all.
It is only results that count, and the
results of SCOTT’S follow from the
fact that SCOTT’S is the only
emulsion on which you can rely to
cure. SCOTT’S “ fishman ”on the
package is the guarantee of the
desired cure,
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK. OUT YOUR CURE!
from three or four directions at the same
time it is quite natural to expect coughs
and colds —these should not be left to run
their course, but should be treated promptly
by taking
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
This splendid remedy acts like a charm
and will cure the most persistent cough
or cold.
The cost is so small that it is foolish to endanger your lungs and
perhaps your life by allowing a cold to run on.
All Chemists and Medicine Vendors stock “ BONNINGTON’S IRISH
MOSS.” but see that you do not get a worthless imitation—insist on having
“BONNINGTON’S.”
IN USE 45 YEARS. BOTTLES 1/6 & 2/6 EACH.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfills the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOP 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS. LTD.. Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
“ LOVELY WOMAN! ”
is the Name of our FREE BOOK
r 3
which tells
thin women
how they
may in-
crease their
weight and
develop ai I
i m m ature
bust. It
tells how
thin people
are de-
veloped to
normal.
S 3
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
is a pure, medicated, scientific bust
developer and flesh builder. Harmless
and efficacious. In average cases
weight can be increased five pounds a
week, and inches are rapidly added to
your measurements. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial sample and free book, or
call if convenient. Hours, 9a.m. tosp.m.
FALLIERE 11 FLESH-FOOD ” CO.,
Da pi. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY,
lIORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
At
brcak-
£a s t
time or
supper time
HorlicSc’s \
Malted Mills is'
a delicious sustitute
for tea, cofiee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,'
and requires no cooking.
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, ilorlick'3'Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd., Slough, Bucks., Eng.
Sauce
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
Jsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed tree from Preservatives.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence*
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/*.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
IF YOU ARE PAYING FOR
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings
you are entitled to some kind of guarantee that these World-famous
fittings are exclusively used in the construction of your bicycle.
Remember that even One part of inferior imitation stuff may spoil the
whole bicycle and bring about disaster or disgust.
For your protection all component parts of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings are stamped with the well-known trade mark of the
“three piled rifles,” and the presence of this mark upon
every part of your bicycle is in itself an unequalled guar-
antee of the highest quality attainable in cycle construction.
For fuller details of B.S.A. latest designs and trade marks, also
of the famous Eadie Coaster and I wo-Speed tilths
and Free Wheels, ask your dealer for the 1908
Handbook just out, or write to—
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. CO. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building,
MELBOURNE.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Morning.
If, perchance, by night you’ve toasted all the
maidens of your choice,
You awaken in the morning with a hard and
husky voice,
And all the glorious sunshine cannot bid your
soul rejoice,
For you’re feeling very like an Awful Warning.
’Tis not so many hours ago since, full of love and
beer,
You were sailing to the zenith with a grand, sky-
shaking cheer:
All night you trolled and carolled like a gallant
cavalier—
But a Puritan awakens in the morning.
When the midnight lamps were winking from
their brackets overhead,
Your golden coins were vying which should be the
soonest fled,
You’d have given a sheep-station for two lips of
rosy red.
And two brown eyes that flashed their timely
scorning.
You could cut a dash (and proved it) with the
very, very best;
So your gold took wings and left you, and to-day
you count the rest;
Then you walk to save a tram-fare, for you find
you are possessed
By a hard, Scotch feeling in the morning.
The dainty maids who pass you, so demure and so
discreet,
(Yet from underneath their lashes comes a flash
of lightning sweet),
Ha 1 you seen them ere you slumbered, you’d have
had to chain your feet
Lest they should follow your quick thought’s
suborning ;
But now your eyes rest dully on the bright peach-
blossom face,
And the natty belts don’t tempt you to an eloquent
embrace.
’Tisn’t only that the footpath doesn’t seem a fitting
place,
It’s that cold, tired feeling in the morning.
Full many a jolly fellow I have seen, as midnight
tolled,
In the lists of love resistless, in combat brave and
bold ;
How they flung their fists and fancies ! How they
scattered round their gold !
They were fit King Charles’s court to be adorn-
ing.
But when breakfast-time was over, I have met
them once again,
With codfish eyeballs staring out of heads that
throbbed with pain :
Which chaps were true, I wonder? That wild
crew of Bacchus’ reign,
Or the stodgy, stoic Methodists of morning?
VICTORIA.
L.
Tiger Hill.
When you’ve fired on Mihiwaka
Till the tunnels make you ill—
When you’ve sweated on the Paikolc,
There’s a grade to sweat on still,
Lying ’way back, west of Nowhere,
And they call it Tiger Hill,
Tiger Hill!
In my dreams I dream I see you,
Tiger Hill !
When you’ve pulled from Alexandra
And are clear of Chatto Creek,
You’ll observe the line rise hillward,
Snaking upward, bent and weak;
Then you lay hold of your shovel,
And you neither spit nor speak.
You can hear her four-foot drivers
Nipping pieces off the track ;
There’s the funnel’s roar above you,
And the waggons at the back ;
And you know if once it beats you
You will surely get the sack.
For you can’t get any water
Till you get to Omakau ;
Therefore, you must waste no vapor—
Sweat the freckles off your brow—
And be glad your kind, old mother
Can’t observe your antics now.
When you think you’ve got her going
You will feel her at the bends.
With the railheads and the flanges
Making out that they are friends,
And the tourists in the carriage,
Saying “ How this line ascends ! ”
Inch by inch we topped the Tiger
On a one-in-forty grade,
And the way it snakes up hillward
Made us guess the line was laid
By a circus in a snowstorm,
With a meat-hook and a spade.
It’s away back, west of Nowhere,
Yet I dream I’m on it still,
With the track a-snaking hillwards,
And my mate observing, “ Bill,
God alone knows what would happen
If we stuck on Tiger Hill.”
Tiger Hill!
You’re a circus in a snowstorm,
Tiger Hill!
MAORIIjAND.
WILL LAWSON.


Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion,
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE Sf AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
wm
II
IB*I VI
i'MW
n
li«ii!f
a 11
T>3
Il l I
: :) (
111
IMI
nw
IMv.
m
IgMii
ii-
m
Si
m
lilt!
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
CHEAP €PITION of ON TNE NOP!
Price ty /£* Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
‘“/^ H THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
No. GB9l9—Best, Quality Silvcrplated Flower
Stand, £3.
THE true value at which we buy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the.
quality and value of every article. We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality —just what
they are represented to be in material, make and finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues— one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the other is our . large general 112 page. Either, or all of
them, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. HBs2—Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand. £2/15/-
No. GBsss—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Cake
Basket, Special Value, £l/10/-
No. G 4067— Be«t Quality Silverplated
Cake Fork, 2/- each.
No. 358 A—Best Quality
Silverplated, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
No. G 3550 Best Quality Silverplated Chased Sugar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand, £6/10/-
No. E2234 —Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, 1/-
No. G 6714 —Silverplate on Nickel Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, ,£l/17/6.
No. J292—Best Quality Silverplate.
Our own special design, at the
Manufacturers’ Price, £2/2/-
No. Fs63—Best Quality Silver-
plated Engraved Sugar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/2/6.
No. 388—Silverplated Jam Spoon, 3/.
Butter Knife to match, 3/-
No. 84990 —Best Quality Silyerplated Revolving
Vegetable Dish. Eacli Dish can be removed
and used separately, £6/6/-
No. Glsol—Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. F6s27—The “Kins: James ” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silverplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. F6l4o—Silverplated Butter Knife, 3/.
No. J3l4—Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2/15/*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 30.-NO. 1536.
THURSDAY, JULY 22, 1909.
Price 6d.
The Imperial Press Conference Is over,
and there hasn't been one speech from
the best>lcnown editor of them all.
London. Thursday. -In the House of
Lords yesterday Lord Gorell (late Presi-
dent of the Probate. Divorce, and Ad-
miralty Division of the High Court of
Justice) moved In favor of arrangements
being made for cheaper
divorce courts. In the in-
terests of the poorer
classes.
THE WORH CAN NOW
AFFORD TO TURN.
Lower Class Husband : •• Look
’ere, if you keep on a-naggln’
of me like that ’ere. I’ll git
a divorce If It costs me a
bob—| will, fey guno j-■
NEILO HaNDS OVER THE JAWBONE TO WEBSTER.
old-age pension.
The officials will be required lo know
something of the habits of ihe pen-
sioners. as there will be from 100 to
200 pensioners In the larger suburban
districts, the task of the officials seems
a big one, and would point lo the ne.
cessity for special arrangements.
UP aQaINST n,
London, Wednesday Afternoon.-Several of the suffau
genes who were sentenced to Imprisonment refuse to work.
‘ he ' r ' v " ,<,o ' vs »"<> struck, collectively,
•against the prison rules. "
Q - What proofs can you give that your age entitles you
to a pension ? " *
A,: "lam a bowler." (Passed.)
it SS Ada VVaf£| . the actress evange-
list, says that she Intends going back
to the theatre to attend rehearsals,
visit actresses In their rooms, and read
and pray with them.
>r ° m Sydniy to Brisbane - ‘ he “‘her day, fn
to chZeVom Were Austra »a« boats and an Australian train
SOCIAL EVENTS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 2J4; George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkoi), Managing Director.
How to Address Letters,
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good tiring to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ref used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tvx columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when 'the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or otlier topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland; Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at h/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancoavei , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency , 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —7 'he Colonial Book and' News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tub Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6'ivn. x lldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 22, 1909.
MAORILAND, ITS JOE AND ITS DEBTS.
An obviously sincere and earnest Maoriland cor-
respondent writes “ a protest and an appeal” to
The Bulletin. “For many years The Bulletin
has helped forward the cause of Democracy in
Maoriland,” he says. “Little by little, however,
the Maoriland contributors have become mission-
aries of the Opposition.” And then this corres-
pondent furnishes a list of the things the Govern-
ment of Joe Ward has done during the past
three years—it has made Protection stronger, it
has passed a Shipping and Seamen’s Act, it has
pushed through another Land-Tax Bill, and
it has provided a scheme for the superannuation
of the whole Civil Service. Then, after
enumerating other things that the Joe Ward
Government has done, this sorrowful corres-
pondent stops short—stops short just when
The Bulletin wanted him to go on. For
besides doing all these things the Joe Ward
Government added no less than £4,484,637 to the
public debt in the last financial year alone. And
it is by that fact that the Joe Ward Government
must be judged.
*- * * *
The correspondent thinks The Bulletin has
changed. Unfortunately it is the Maoriland
Liberal Party that has done the changing.
Ballance saw how nearly the rickety islands
had been wrecked by the insane policy of huge
borrowings practised by his predecessors. This
policy had so inflated values that, when a bad
season came, the islands found themselves almost
incapable of paying the interest; then the bor-
rowing had to stop, the artificial prosperity came
down crash, prices slumped, and there was an
almighty trouble in the land. Ballance, realising
what had caused the damage, turned his back on
that policy, and the Liberal party kept its back
turned on it for a while. Gradually, however,
the party veered round. Every Government
naturally wants to show that its policy is pro-
ducing prosperity; and there is no such easy way
of producing all the appearances of prosperity as
by borrowing lavishly. A strong, honest, patriotic
Government wants the real thing; a weak, dis-
honest, time-serving, or incompetent Government
is content with the appearances. And this
record of Maoriland’s borrowings shows how the
islands gradually left the path of honesty and
patriotism, and chased the shadow instead of the
substance:—
Movement of Maoriland’s Public Debt.
Four Years 1892-5. Four Years 1906-9.
1892 Dec. .. £117,282 1906 Inc. .. £2,279,040
1893 Inc. .. 544,772 1907 „ .. 1,988,000
1894 ~ .. 563,575 1908 ~ .. 2,274,857
1895 ~ .. 560,549 1909 ~ .. 4,484,637
Increase ..£1,556,614 Increase ..£11,026,534
It is not necessary to go beyond that to show that
the Liberalism of Joe Ward is not the Liberalism
of John Ballance. In fact, John Ballance’s
work was to clean up a mess of the very same sort
as Joe Ward’s successor will have to clean up.
* * • *
The great trouble with all these borrowing
manias is that the disease does not stop with
the Government. The State sets the pace,
and the community tries to keep up with
it. The local governing bodies dash away after
their leader. In 1892, the first year of Ballance’s
rule, the local bodies in Maoriland floated loans
to the extent of only £39,241. In the past year,
according to a statement made by the chairman of
the Bank of New Zealand at the annual meeting,
the loans raised by them in London alone totalled
£1,410,600. From the State and the governing
bodies the disease spreads to the individuals.
Everybody knows the effect of a good harvest or
of a fair harvest combined with high prices. With
an extra few millions to play with the State
booms. Old buildings are pulled down and new
ones spring up in their place. The banks have
plenty of money to lend, and make liberal ad-
vances. And the more they advance, the more
the property-owner demands from a buyer. The
first results are exactly the same during a
borrowing boom. Money is plentiful and every-
thing is painted pink. The borrowed money
has to be spent; so work is plentiful, and, the
money having been easilj' got, nobody is very
particular about the conditions under which it
goes. Earnings are therefore high ; and the land-
lord and the corner-grocer see that most of the
high earnings come their way. So the rent of the
workman’s cottage and of the corner-grocery goes
up, up, up. And as the rent goes up the capital
value goes up. The farmer also gets high prices ;
and the rent and capital value of land go up
too. Then the wretched bill for the interest
comes in. It simply has to be paid or everything
is lost; so a man is sacked here and a man is
sacked there, and presently an army of unem-
ployed is yelling out for a Premier who is too
busy packing-up to show himself. About this
time the banks get frightened and do a little
squeezing here and a little more there ; and so a
few more men are sacked.
* * * *
Even if things go well—if the harvests are good,
and the metal pours out from the mines, and
prices all round are on a pinnacle—there is hound
to be some trouble, simply because every boom
breeds extravagance, and all extravagance has to
be paid for. But if things do not go well, then
the troubles fall in like a clutch of avalanches.
“ It is most disconcerting to have to admit,” said
the chairman of the Bank of New Zealand, the
other day, at the annual meeting—“it is most
disconcerting to have to admit, in view of the
long period of prosperity, that a sudden drop in
values of our primary produce, for one season
only, should cause such a financial dis-
turbance as we have been experiencing.’’
To pay merely the interest on the money
it has borrowed from the foreign Cohen,
Maoriland has to send away £3,500,000 a year.
Mostly this is represented by produce—exports
in excess of imports. But in the past two years,
partly owing to the fall in the value of Maori-
land’s products, imports have exceeded the ex-
ports. Still, the interest has to be paid. And in
such a case it is paid in two ways—either by
doing a most disastrous thing, and borrowing
more money to pay interest on money already
borrowed, or by pinching and squeezing the local
population. Maoriland has done some of both.
And if Cohen shuts down, as he is liable to do at
any moment, there will have to be a great deal
more of the pinching and squeezing. There is no
other way out. A further succession of good
harvests, along with high prices, may make the
pinch less felt; but the pinch and the squeeze
will have to be there. They may be
postponed by continuing the policy of borrow
and boom, just as the awful pains of recovery may
be postponed by continuing any other drunk ; but
the longer the drunk is continued the worse the
pains of recovery will be in the end.
** . *
The Joe Ward Government may have done
many good things. But if a man cuts our friend’s
throat it doesn’t count much to him that he first
bought him a bag of bananas. Joe Ward, what-
ever else he may have done, has also done the
unforgivable thing. Under the cloak of Liberal-
ism, he has handed the Dominion over to the
pawnbroker. He has sold it into a long slavery—
sold it for the price of a brief and bogus pros-
perity. And no man, whatever he may call him-
self, can do worse for a country than that.
HOW A BRITISH QUEEN MADE
GERMANY.
About a month ago?—in its issue of June 17 — The
Bulletin passed certain remarks, under the head-
ing of “Some European Politics,” about how the
German —or, rather, Prussian—leanings of the
meddlesome and incompetent Queen Victoria
created the huge German menace which now over-
shadows Britain and threatens it with disaster.
A day or two ago the June number of the National
Review, published in London, came to hand, and
in an article entitled “How Bismarck Made Three
Wars” it wholly endorses The Bulletin’s state-
ments. As recently as 1863 Prussia was a small,
impecunious State in two detached sections. It
had no fleet, and it hadn’t one decent harbor in
which it could build a fleet. It badly wanted to
do three things : (1) To take Schleswig, Holstein
and Lauenburg from Denmark, in order to get
a larger coastline, some good harbors, and a
chance to make the Kiel Canal, and thus get
a short cut, wholly under Prussian control, from
the Baltic to the North Sea. (The difficulty
here was that France and Britain had solemnly
guaranteed the integrity of the Danish kingdom);
(2) to annex Hesse-Cassel, Nassau and Hanover,
in order that the Prussian kingdom, instead of
being two widely-severed fragments, might be a
large, strong, solid State; (3) to drive Austria out
of its position as the leader of the loose and dis-
organised German Confederation, so that Prussia
might become, first, the leading State of the Con-
federation, and, second, the head of a restored
German Empire, to be 1 milt out of the old, sham-
bling Confederation aforesaid. The first move in
this great game was the seizure of the three
Danish duchies, so that Prussia might have good
harbors and a serviceable coastline. In this
matter Bismarck, who was Prussia in those days,
relied, first, on the assumption that France
wouldn’t move without Britain; second, on
the fact that no matter what treaties Britain
might make, only the Sovereign could de-
clare war, and without the support of the
Sovereign treaties were waste paper; third,
on his knowledge that Victoria was wholly
German; that her daughter was married to
the Crown Prince of Prussia, and she wanted
to see her daughter inherit a great kingdom ; a.nd
that her grandson was the heir to the Prussian
crown, and she wanted him to inherit a great
monarchy. In fact, he relied on Queen Victoria’s
incapacity, and on those dull domestic virtues
which induced her to mistake the baby and the
hearthrug and the fireside cat for statesmanship.
* » » *
So Bismarck took his chance and stole the three
Danish duchies, whereby Prussia got the harbors
and the coastline which enabled it to start
business as a great sea Power. As he expected,
France wouldn’t move without Britain, and
Britain turned traitor on its guarantee of the
integrity of Denmark, because Victoria, Britain’s
German Queen, sympathised exclusively with
Prussia in the interests of her daughter and
grandson, and refused to move. And when, a
little later, Prussia proceeded to annex Hesse-
Cassel, Nassau and Hanover, to drive Austria out
of Germany, to crush France, to annex Alsace
and Lorraine, and to establish the German
Empire, Britain remained paralysed because
Victoria wouldn’t move, and Victoria was
apparently hypnotised by the facts that her
daughter was the coming Queen of Prussia and
German Empress, and that her grandson was the
future King of Prussia and German Emperor.
To quote the National Review for June (page
556): —
He [Prince Christian, of Augustenburg, who was fooled
by Bismarck witli the promise that he was to be Sovereign
of Schleswig, Holstein, and Lauenburg when Prussia had
stolen them from Denmark] was a near connection of Queen
Victoria, having married the daughter of her half-sister,
FEODOREof I.einingen, and thus was sure of her sympathy.
Though feeling in England was strongly in favor of Den-
mark, the late Queen took up what was described at that
time as a “German attitude.” The marriage of her
daughter, the Princess Royal, into the Prussian Royal
family was an influence which swayed her to the German
side. “ I know,” she wrote in 1863, “ that our dear angel
Albert always reoardkd a strong Prussia as a neces-
sity, FOR WHICH, THEREFORE, IT IS A SACRED DUTY
FOR ME TO WORK.” She did not as yet clearly under-
stand the character of Bismarck or the formidable plans
of aggression which he meditattd. And there is abundant
proof that he knew of this failing of hers, and played
upon her affection for the dead to the utmost. With
Queen Victoria on his side, he hoped to render Palmer-
ston, whom he really feared, helpless.
And, again, to quote from the same National
Review
In overwhelming force the Austrian and Prussian
armies entered the duchies, and even invaded Denmark
proper. . . . Palmerston was for joint British and French
intervention because, as tie said in the House of Com-
mons : “ What is at the bottom of the German design . . .
IS THE DREAM OF A GERMAN FLEET AND THE
WISH TO GET KIEL AS A GERMAN SEAPORT.” But
he found Queen Victoria and the majority of his Cabinet
against him. Napoleon would do nothing, stating—not
unreasonably—that France would not engage in a war by
which she was to obtain no increase of territory—and
England was not ready to acquiesce in any annexations
by France. Napoleon told his most intimate friends
that the French army was unprepared for a conflict. Yet
on three separate occasions his Foreign Minister put the
plain question to the British Government whether it
would support France on land against Prussia, without
obtaining a satisfactory reply. Meantime, Queen Vic-
toria “PLEDGED HER HONOR THAT THE KING
OF PRUSSIA WILL TAKE NOTHING” [and yet Prussia
took everything it could lay its hands on], having received
assurances from Berlin, and apparently believing that the
duchies would be handed over to Prince Christian of
Augusteriburg', so that the net result would be only one
little German principality the more. Cobden raised a
fearful clatter in the country against any armed support
of Denmark, and thus paralysed Palmerston. The end
of the miserable business was that all the Powers looked
on while Denmark was beaten to her knees and compelled
to surrender the duchies. Bismarck lost little time in
ejecting the “ Augustenburger," as he scornfully called
the pretender, from all real power in the duchies.
The story was the same through the two subse-
quent wars—the struggle with Austria whereby
Prussia annexed Hanover, Hesse-Cassel and
Nassau, and became a big, strong, solid kingdom,
instead of two detached principalities; and the
row with France whereby it annexed Alsace and
Lorraine, and rebuilt the German Empire, and
made Kaiser Wilhelm the head of a new State,
richer and 50 per cent, more populous than the
British Isles. Queen Victoria “took up a German
attitude.” She couldn’t look beyond the fact that
her daughter was the future German Empress and
her grandson the future German Emperor. Not
only was Britain prevented from interfering, but
British diplomacy was used to prevent other
countries from interfering. But the last effort of
fatuousness came to pass when Victoria made
her grandson, the present German Emperor and
Britain’s great naval rival, an admiral of the
British navy. He is a very imposing admiral,
and when he wants up-to-date information
about Britain’s newest ironclad he has only
to put on his British naval uniform, and
range alongside in his yacht, and climb on board,
and officially inspect things for himself. The
whole story of the rise of modern Germany is a
story of the evils of the monarchical system, for
the monarch marries his or her children to foreign
potentates, and then the longing to promote the
interests of the son’s or daughter’s adopted country
is apt to overshadow all other considerations.
Victoria may yet be remembered in history as
the Sovereign who ruined the British Empire by
reason of her domestic and fireside virtues.
To her, the fact that “dear angel Albert,”
who was really only the offshoot of a very minor
princely family of Germany, had certain ideas
counted for everything, and the interests of
Britain faded into the background. And Britain
has never recovered from the consequences of
Albert’s views—the views of a little German
prince whose political horizon was bounded by
Austria on the one side and Prussia on the other.
In his early life his tiny German State was
domineered over by Austria, and it looked to
Prussia for protection. Therefore, to him, the
business of European politics was to have “ a
strong Prussia.” And a strong Prussia has
arrived in real earnest.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Brisbane “Worker’s” Shocking
Revelation.
That curiously venomous paper, the Brisbane
Worker, came out the other day with what it
called “ A Shocking Revelation.” It discovered
that The Bulletin receives payment for its
advertising space the same as it does itself, and
its grief at this corruption was very great.
Said the Worker :
People who wondered why Sydney Bulletin so sud-
denly ceased its condemnations of the Kid-Philp coalition
need wonder no longer.
A question asked and answered in the Queensland
Assembly last week has solved the mystery. The sum of
£2O per issue for 12 months is being ladled out to the red-
faced Bully for advertising the advantages of this State
as a field for settlement.
Just prior to the fixing up of the contract Tiie Bulle-
tin, in the excess of its disgust at Kidston’s coalition con-
duct, had declared it wouldn’t be found dead in the same
paddock with him....
The Bully’s denunciations of Kidston’s treachery sud-
denly petered out. A deathly silence about the coalition
pervaded its columns all at once, etc., etc.
There are two or three discrepancies in the above
narrative. First, The Bulletin never made any
contract with the Queensland coalition. Its
agreement re the advertising matter above men-
tioned is dated 17th July, 1908, and signed “S. J.
McDermot, Under-Secretary.” The Worker can
easily verify that point if it likes to inquire;
possibly, however, it has already acquired the in-
formation and is merely suppressing the truth.
The actual publication of the articles was post-
poned till space would be available, and in order
to give the writer time to collect his material; but
the contract dates back fully three months
before there was any coalition. The article
in which The Bulletin said it wouldn’t
be found dead with William Kidston appeared
on October 29. Therefore, when the Worker
says that it appeared “just prior to the fixing-up
of the contract,” the Worker is plain lying, and
when it implies that the contract was the price of
the suppression of any future remarks of the kind
it is doing the Ananias act by implication. The
article was a case of throwing the clod of honest
condemnation at a rich advertiser with more
business to give away, rather than trying to pro-
pitiate him. The Worker’s statement that
“ people wondered why The Bulletin so sud-
denly ceased its condemnation of the Kid-Philp
coalition ” is also a lie ; nobody wondered any
such thing save in the Worker’s imagination, for
the condemnation never ceased ; though when
there are five Tory State Governments arid one
Federal coalition to consider, there is a limit to
the space which can be given to the denunciation
of the nine-months-old iniquity of Kidston, how-
ever large he may loom on the Worker’s horizon.
In some senses the Brisbane Worker is a
calamity. It is very much more venomous to-
wards a Democratic paper, which competes with
it for the support of the Democratic elements of
Queensland, than it is against the most bitterly
Tory paper which doesn’t thus compete. It seems
to be used, to a great extent, as a vehicle for some-
body’s private animosities. And, when its frenzy
is aroused, even an Orange Lodge isn’t much less
reliable. Whether the Worker’s honesty is
ahead of its veracity is a matter upon whichlthere
is no evidence at present before the Court,. On
that point the Worker is remanded along with
the drunks.
>
The Remarkable Case of Lord Fitznoodle
and Giles Clodleaper.
Last week Britain very nearly tried to do some-
thing definite in the way of land defence, but at
the last moment its amazing social distinctions
got in the road. Lord Roberts’ Bill, providing
for the compulsory military training of all the
able-bodied male population, got as far as its
second reading debate in the House of Lords, and
was only rejected by 20 votes. These 20 were
scraped together through the Asquith Ministry
throwing its whole weight into the scale against
the measure. The Earl of Crewe, who repre-
sents the Government in the Lords, was passionate
in his appeals to the Peers to reject the scheme
because it would level social distinctions. Com-
pulsory training, he explained, must needs com-
pel the son of Lord Fitznoodle to live in
the same camp with Giles Clodleaper, the
agriculturist, or young Bodysnatcher, the
medical student; and thus the pillars of
society would be knocked out in one round.
The argument evidently fetched the Peers, for
the Bill departed on its ear. And yet the political
situation looks complicated enough to justify even
Lord Fitznoodle’s son in carrying a rifle along with
Giles Clodleaper, or young Bodysnatcher. In
a depressed sort of way Britain begins to realise
that times, have changed, and that there are a lot
of things that the biggest navy in the world can’t
do. If Britain went to war with Germany, even
two such navies couldn’t prevqpt Germany occupy-
ing Denmark, closing the narrow entrance to the
Baltic with overwhelming land batteries, occupy-
ing the Low Countries, and cutting off, in one
great act, Britain’s commerce with Sweden,
Northern Russia, Denmark, Germany, Holland,
and Belgium. Again, all the navies on the
sea wouldn’t prevent Austria taking posses-
sion of the Dardanelles and shutting British
ships out of the Black Sea. A time
may be coming when a dozen navies will
be of no value to hold Egypt and the
Suez Canal; railways begin to crawl down that
way, and there will be a day when the Canal can
be seized by a land force from Europe. Britain
has fixed up one of its cobwebby ententes with
France, but against Germany—still more against
Germany and Austria combined—it would be only
a cobweb. The British fleet, not being able to
travel overland, would be of no use to 1 ranee in
a row with its eastern neighbors, and the 100,000
men that Britain reckons it could spare for a land
diverson wouldn’t be seen in a shindy where the
combatants ran to several millions. /The solid
reason why France, except under tremendous
provocation, wouldn’t lend Britain a hand in any
such war is that, if it lost, it would have to pay
not only for the damage it had done to Germany,
but for all the damage the British fleet
had done to the German colonies and com-
merce, and the assistance whicii Britain could
give wouldn’t be half commensurate with the
risk. France might even be driven, as the
price of its own existence, to take sides
against Britain. Then, it is freely rumored that
Japan will shortly give notice of its intention to
terminate the Anglo-Monkev treaty, on the ground
that an “Asia for the Asiatics” movement is
coining, and it wants to be free to act as the
leader of Asia if the opportunity presents itself.
Also, a Russo-Jap alliance is said to be preparing.
All these things are mere possibilities, but
there are a lot of them, and they are very un-
pleasant-looking, and some of them are really
very possible possibilities. Under the circum-
stances it would seem a fair thing to start a British
Universal Military Service system. The system
would cost comparatively little—in fact, all it
would cost might probably be saved out of the
bill for the existing inefficient and hideously
costly processes. It would make war less pro-
bable instead of more so. And it would be healthy
exercise for Bull, junior, whose chest measure-
ment has caused some anxiety of late. But, alas !
if the young British swell went into camp to learn
to defend his country, he would have to meet so-
cially undesirable persons and speak to his—haw-
inferiors, and that would be too terrible for
words. If the Empire can only be saved by the
son and heir of Fitznoodle associating with Giles


Clodleaper, even to the extent of carrying a
rifle with him in the same company, the Empire
must go. And it is sad to reflect that, in the
course of its going, the enemy may shoot Fitz-
NOODLE and Clodleaper against the same wall
for putting up some sort of irregular scrap without
wearing a uniform, and the two may be mixed in
death after all. And their unmarked grave—but,
on second thoughts, it won’t be unmarked ; it will
have for a monument the unquiet ghost of Fitz-
noodlk protesting against the society in which he
finds his bones, and begging to be shifted to
Westminster Abbey.
- ♦ •- —
Remarkable Discovery of Water at Yass-
berra.
A PEW weeks ago the four experts—all N.S.W.
men and all from Sydney—who were appointed
by the Australian Government to explore the
Yassberra area and select a site for a capital city,
presented their report. And in it they declared—
all four of them —that the Cotter Creek couldn’t
be relied upon to regularly supply the needs of an
up-to-date city of more than 50,000 people, and
that it would be, in any case, a very costly supply.
This was such a damning indictment that the
Yassberra-ites plainly realised that something
vigorous must be done, and they did it for all they
were worth. So, last Saturday, this appeared in
Sydney Telegraph
A report has been furnished by Mr. 15. M. db Burgh,
Chief Engineer for Harbors and Water Supply, with
reference to the flow of the Cotter River. The report is
dated July 14, and is as follows :
“ I have the honor to report that the measurements of
the flow of the Cotter River from January 1 to 7th instant
are now available.
“During that time 9,919,00,1,000, or an average of
52,753,400 gallons of water per day, flowed down the river.
“ During the same period 2,240,000,000 gallons flowed
off the Sydney catchment into Cataract and Prospect;
so that more than four times as much water flowed down
the Cotter as flowed into the Sydney storages.
“In the same period 050,000 people were supplied in
the City of Sydney and suburbs with a total quantity of
4,972,474,416 gallons, or an average of 26,449,322 gallons
per day. So the unstored flow of the Cotter was twice as
much as the consumption of 650,000 people for all needs.”
A copy of the report lias been forwarded to Mr. Dhakin
for the information of the Federal Ministry and
Parliament.
So, according to the four New South Wales
official experts whom the Australian Government
appointed to investigate, the Cotter can be relied
upon to supply 50,000 people. Whereupon State
Premier Wade apparently butts in with a report,
obtained by himself, to the effect that the Cotter
is good for the supply of 1,300,000 people, or 26
times as many. Apart from the supreme cheek
of this interference with a purely Federal matter,
it may be mentioned that four opinions are prob-
ably better than one, and that this discrepancy
looks like overdoing the business. Furthermore
the Cotter has a catchment area of 170 sq. miles,
while the water supply of Sydney is gathered
from an area of between 400 and 500 square miles
and yet is none too plentiful, and it seems start-
ling that the small area should yield so much more
water than the big one. It is still more startling
when it is remembered that the rainfall at Can-
berra is set down at an average of 23 inches per
annum, while Picton, about the driest spot in the
neighborhood of the Sydney water catchment,
has about 30 inches. This amazing discrepancy
between a water supply for 50,000 people and one
for 1,300,000 —26 times as many—ough t to be looked
into. But in any case whence comes this wild
anxiety to make out a case for a spot without
any special scenery; a place in a district
so poor that the N.S.W. authorities have
decided that its port of Jervis Bay isn’t worth even
a cheap railway ; and where the water supply is
so discrepant that four N.S.W. authorities ap-
pointed to examine into the matter, declare it to
be absolutely sufficient for only 50,000 people,
whereupon another person rushes wildly in
and raises the estimate 2600 per cent. —a
rate that even the most sordid usurer
would hardly charge on an unsecured loan
to a lunatic. Whose interest is involved that
all this excitement and multiplication should
arise? It is still difficult to find that there are
any points about Yassberra save that it is within
the influence and easy reach of the Foreign-trade,
anti-Labor, anti-Democratic, anti-Federal State
Frights morning papers of Sydney, whereas
Monaro—ovhich doesn’t require so much compli-
cated explanation about its water supply—is so
far away from both Sydney and Melbourne that a
capital there would have to grow papers
of its own—possibly Labor-Protectionist papers
which knew not Gregory Wade, and which
would put the interests of the Common-
wealth before those of State Frights. If
there exists any reason for the advocacy of
Yassberra beyond the desire to prevent the capital
escaping into a locality where it will be beyond
the range of the State Frights press—where it
won’t get its orders and its instructions and its
information and its views from papers which exist
to prove that Sydney is Australia, and that
Gregory Wade is the beginning, middle and
end of all wisdom —it is time that someone ex-
pounded the fact in a way that will carry con-
viction.
+
About Certain Japophile Governors.
Governor-General Dudley and family took a
steamer trip to Brisbane last week, and they took
it on the Nikko Maru. A few hours before the
time fixed for the departure of the Jap craft there
left for the northern capital the A..U.S.N. Co.’s
Wyandra. The Wyandra is smaller somewhat
than the Nikko Maru. On the other hand, it
has compensating advantages. The Nikko vessel
is not particularly luxurious as to fittings and ap-
pointments, it is no cheaper than the Australian
steamer —and its captain and crew are Japs sailing
under the flag of Nippon. An isolated instance
of a Governor deliberately electing to travel by
a foreign line—even one which was owned and
run by colored people—would not, in itself, call
for loud comment. But the thing seems to be
getting chronic. Admiral Rawson, for all his fine
old British tarriness, left for the land of his
birth, nof under the inspiring shadow of theUniou
Jack, and with British sea-dogs around him, but
beneath the Mikado’s flag and amid a horde of
Asiatic mariners. And other instances might
be cited. It is a lamentable fact that a
large number of benighted folk, full old enough to
know better, are the more likely to patronise
any industry, from a steamship line down to
a wayside fruit-stall, if they know that the same
has won vice-regal favor. Australia is vitally
concerned just now with the problem of develop-
ing its mercantile marine. And the mercantile
marine of Australia isn't going to develop worth a
yellow coolie unless Australians and those whom
Australia pays to be its figure-heads, give local ves-
sels their loyal support wherever practicable. The
action of high officials such as Governor-General
Dudley and ex-State Governor Rawson in going
out of their several ways to afford their patron-
age to foreign-owned ships—and colored
alien-owned ones at that—is deplorable from
every point of view. It embarrasses and
scandalises Australians and anti-Australians
alike. It is tantamount to saying to the anti-
Australian in this community—the class of person
who is for ever mouthing about the grand old
British “Jack,” and the inestimable boon of associ-
ation with boys of the bulldog breed —that all the
talk which is regularly undammed at banquets,
foundation-stone layings, etc., about the Flag, and
the necessity for “standing by it” and “keeping
it flying,” and so on, is mere cant; and that the
bulldog lad is one to avoid like Ahriman on the
high seas. There is no more conclusive method
of demonstrating contempt of the far-flung piece
of softgoods which B. Smith exists to save from
annihilation, than to decline to travel under
it. It is impossible to cast a graver re-
flection on the character of the British sea-
man than to side-step those vessels which
are manned by his sort in favor of craft whose
crews, from bridge to stokehole, are made up of
saffron-hued heathens. And from the patriotic
Australian standpoint the effect is exasperating,
inasmuch as it advertises to the Commonwealth
and beyond it that Australian vessels are not good
enough for Australian Governors to travel on (a
perpetuation of the evil old importers’ yarn that
nothing Australian is any good whatever); and,
incidentally, it does a considerable something in
the direction of hampering the expansion of the
local coastal trade, and the arrival of the Aus-
tralian mercantile mariner, who is going to
be so badly needed by the nation before
many years are past. It is just conceivable
that the Colonial Office in London has issued
instructions to overseas Governors to travel when-
ever possible by the ships of the Empire’s dis-
colored ally, It is the sort of attitude which that
strangely tactless institution might almost be
expected to adopt. Whether, however, the
amazing fondness of the Commonwealth’s high,
and highly-salaried officials for the yellow Pagan
from Nippon and his craft, as opposed to the
craft of White Australians, proceeds from “ orders
from home” or from personal predilection is, to
us, immaterial. The fact remains that it is a
tendency which is prejudicial to this country, and
as such, calls for vigorous protest on the part of
all sincere nationalists.
Concerning Deakin’s “Call.”
Quite a number of people are beginning to realise
the fatuousness of Deakin’s appeal to the States
to make their empty spaces available for settle-
ment. At his Melbourne meeting Alfred the
Affable said that he was going to “call” on
the States “as they had never been called
on before,” to unlock their lands. Well, he
has called, and there has been no reply beyond
a loud snore from Premier Murray, of Victoria.
And this is what the Age thinks of the “ call” :
It was fresh in the minds of the House that the Prime
Minister has made repeated applications to the various
State Governments to join him in some policy for pro-
moting immigration. His offers have always taken
the same shape, which is that, if the States made lands
available, the Commonwealth would undertake the duties
of bringing immigrants to them. Everyone knows that
that has not produced the smallest effect. Mr. Dkakin has
repeatedly complained that he could get no co-operation
from the States.
So glaring has the case become that even Tory
members of the Federal Parliament are beginning
to think that the “calling ” process is a failure.
Palmer, whom the Age calls “the mild and
milky member for Echuca,” was moved a few
evenings ago to declare that the Federal Ministry
must do something effective in the direction of
getting the State lands thrown open for immi-
grants. Then, apparently terrified at his own
temerity, the wobbly and hide-bound Tory said
that he “ would have the Government apply to
the States to throw' open their lands.” And,
when an interjector queried “ but if they won’t?”
all that the addleheaded Palmer could say in
reply was : “I believe they will.” The signs of
the times, however, are that the Federal Parlia-
ment is getting tired, very tired, of “ calling ” to
the States ; and that before very long it will put
the question with a hatchet, in the shape of the
long-expected progressive land-tax.
«
Once Again the Gentle Indian.
A BODY of P. and O. Lascars, 76 strong, bolted
from the Moldavia and advanced threateningly
on the Sydney offices of the eo. at an early hour
of the morning last week. Just what they
wan ted didn’t appear. The official explanation
was that they were bent on “reporting a griev-
ance.” As it doesn’t take 76 people to report a
grievance, and as there is no one, anyhow, in a
Sydney office to hearken to grievances at the time of
day when the Lascars broke loose ; and, further, as
it is a widely-known custom of the P. and O. ser-
vice not to allow its servants to chat over griev-
ances or other matters with coolies, but only with
serangs, the official explanation looks thin. A more
likely one is that the niggers were dissatisfied and
quarrelsome and mutinous (a row between two
sects of Lascars had occurred in the engine-room
that morning), and were in Bridge-street with the
blind, unreasoning aim of taking it out of someone’s
hide. Anyhow, that is what the local police
thought, for they headed the savages away from
the P. and O. offices with much firmness, and
coralled the whole of them iii the Water Police
Station. It is only a few months since the
Punjabis and Seedee boys of the Mongolia—
sister-ship to the Moldavia—demonstrated in
similar fashion in Sydney. The police got to
them less briskly than they did to their compa-
triots last week, and, as a result, according to the
S. M. Herald's report (24/12/’08): —
Blood was soon flowing freely from a dozen' of the
fighters... A Seedee boy fell from a knife thrust in the
body.. . Both sides yelled and swore, and their shouts,
mingling with the cries of the wounded, created a veri-
table inferno... The forecastle was slippery with blood,
etc., etc.
It is pretty widely agreed among sociologists in
India that two factors have combined, during the
past few years, to ruin the once-gentle Indian for
semi-serf purposes. The success of the colored
party to the Russo-Jap war produced a recrudes-
cence of Mahommedanism throughout India,
coupled with a conviction that the white sahib
could be thrasbed by his down-trodden colored
brother if boldly and intelligently tackled ;
and, further, the education which the
white masters of India forced on the
natives has just begun to bear fruit in the
shape of supplying agitators in the cause of
Indian nationalism with an opportunity to spread
their doctrines. Anti-British feeling is rife among
native Indians the world over, as the Wyllie
murder and the happenings which led up to it in-
dicate ; and the movement is accompanied by
much contempt of the once-revered white man.
It is a time-worn axiom that the white man, if he
is to handle niggers (Indian or otherwise) with
success, needs to be esteemed by them as little less
than a god. It is the P. and 0. Co.’s trouble,
and that of the other cos. which employ
blacks, that the latter refuse for the
reasons above stated—any longer to regard
their white bosses as deities. The Lascars,
Seedee boys, etc., have got the precise hang
of the situation. They are as full of the
subject of their “rights” as the most contentious
and sore-headed of Caucasian sea-lawyers. About
the only thing that differentiates them from the
white sailor now is that they are cheaper in-
dividually, also lazier, dirtier (much dirtier), less
competent, more irritable and mutinous and un-
disciplined, and far more liable to strange, unex-
pected and gore-productive explosions of frenzy,
owing to their diverse and strange creeds. If
what they chance to consider their “rights” are
denied them, they don’t salaam and apologise for
speaking, as in the good old pre-education, pre-
Bande Mataram and pre-Russo-Jap war days;
they simply rise up and sail in to get what they
reckon is due to them with knives and axes. It
suggests two things : (1) That the time is at hand
when the P. and O. and other nigger labor steam-
ship lines will be driven, for the sake of their
passengers’ safety, to give white seamen jobs in
their ships in place of colored aliens ; (2) that if
they don’t the passenger-list is likely to wilt
almost into nothingness. Judging by the present
complexion of things, no ship that carries black
labor will be safe shortly, unless it also carries a
battalion of well-armed white John Dunns, and a
full-sized police-station.
The Decay of Hanging in N.S.W.; and the
“Herald’s” Great Grief on the Subject.
S. M. Hkkald showed itself (14/7/’O9) to be as
bloodthirsty an old journal as ever in connection
with the Ceook case. When it learned that
Crook’s death-sentence had been commuted, and
that there was to be no neck-breaking or strang-
ling, no newsy items about the condemned
wretch’s last moments, words, meals, etc., the
paper foamed in this wise :
The community will feel that a grave miscarriage of
justice has taken place.. . . Under similar circumstances
the man Ross was hanged in Queensland the other day...
It does not relieve the situation that Crook expressed re-
gret afterwards for what he had tried to do. The evi-
dence is clear that murder was attempted. ... The Judge
does not seem to have uttered a word of protest, and the
Executive has accepted his mildness and the jury’s meek-
ness as a matter of course. Surely things have come to
a strange pass.
The Statute Law of the gore-stained State
of N.S.W, still prescribes the death penalty
for 10 specific offences. The law of the
United Kingdom—conforming to the prac-
tice of most other civilised communities —
restricts the operation of it to one offence. The
ghastly old traditions of lagdom die hard in
N.S.W, ; but—for all the State's blood-lustful
dailies —they are dying. Coghlan’s “Wealth
and Progress of N.S.W.” (1890-91) shows that
between the inclusive period 1830-40 the number
of local executions reached the hideous total of 296.
In the last clear decade quoted in the same
volume—that is to say, the inclusive period
1880-90—there were but 27 executions. The
population for the first decade of convictions
(1830-40) was less than quarter of a million ; the
census of 1890 disclosed a population of 1,121,860
—which is to say that a population of over a
million executed 27 persons where formerly a
population of less than quarter of a million had
made away with 296. Finally, Knibbs’ “ Official
Year Book of Australia ” discloses that for the
period 1901-07 the executions of N.S.W. petered
down to a mere 11. And the population for the
period covered works out at about a million and a
half. Meanwhile, says Knibbs —
The general total of convictions for all offences against
the person shows a decline since 1901 of about 16 per cent.
What other conclusions are to be drawn from the
above figures than (1) that N.S.W. is slowly
emerging from a condition of barbarism in regard
to the legal slaying of its fellow man, and (2) that
it is suffering no hurt in the process? People are
recognising, the world over, that hanging, be-
heading and other methods of the Dark Ages do
not deter from crime to anything like the extent
commonly supposed, and cause awful damage to
the morale of the nation. A few cranks in the
Old World, a few belated admirers of the chain-
gang system of the convict colony in the New, a
few reactionary journals of the Herald type,
still keep up the old discredited baying for human
blood. But they are as hangmen crying in the
wilderness. The Herald’s latest lament at being
baulked of the gore it felt it had a right toexpect,
is likely to be of value in one sense. The
paper harps repeatedly on the fact that “murder
was attempted by Crook, not once but twice.”
That is so, If ever a man deserved to swing for
this particular crime, Crook did. The Herald’s
wild insistence on the reprieved man’s guilt will
make it hard, if not impossible, for any future
N.S.W, Administration to hang another for a like
offence. In that sense the gorv-minded old sheet
builded more humanely than it knew.
s -t>
“D.” ON a point of Sociology :■ —
If a mere Australian advanced the argument (so de-
rogatory to the character of Britain) which the Earl of
Crewe employed last week in the House of Lords, during
the Compulsory Service Bill debate, there would arise an
uproar from local '‘loyalists” like unto the clamor of a
disturbed monkev.house. Said this painfully frank aris-
tocrat (14/7/’O9): —
“ Many of the middle and respectable working classes
of Great Britain would object to their sons camping with
what they would consider the riff-raff, just as they did
not send their children to the council schools lest they
should be associated with what they regarded as gutter
children,”
It recalls a charming passage from G, B. Shaw’s
“Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,” The Moroocan
bandit Johnson (of Hull, England) is chiding his fellow-
malefactor Drinkwater (a London Cockney) in the pres-
ence of their captive, Sir Howard Hallam;—
Johnson {with slow severity ■, to Drinkwater); “Look
here, do you see three gentlemen talking to one another
here, civil and private, eh?”
Drinkwater (chapfallen) : “No offence, Mr, Jornson.”-
Johnson ( ominously ); “Ay; but there is offence,
Where’s your manners, you guttersnipe ? ” (Turning to
Sir Howard) • “ That’s tiie curse’o this kind o’life, sir;
you got to associate with all sorts. My father, sir, was
Cap’n Johnson, o’ Hull—owned his own schooner, sir.
We’re mostly gentlemen here, sir, as you’ll find, except
the poor ignorant foreigner and that, there scum of the
submerged tenth,” (Contemptuously talking at Drink-,
water) : “ He ain’t nobody’s son ; he’s only a offspring o'
coster folk or such.”
Drinkwater, broken and humiliated, seeks not to jus-
tify himself. He bursts into tears, and sobs, “ Clawss
feelin’! Thet’s wot it is—clawss feelin’,”
This queer trait in the character of the Cold Land,
which prominent men such as Crewe and Shaw note)
militates against the national progress and well-being in
a thousand unexpected ways. Thus a British private
soldier might have the genius of all Napoleon’s marshals
combined and yet not get a chance to exercise it, And if he
did get the chance he would in all likelihood be made, by
his colleagues, to wish that it had been denied him.
Hector Macdonald is one of the rare instances in British
history of a genuine “ranker" —a son of the people—
winning to high military position. He possessed, un-
doubtedly, supreme genius as a soldier, and had magnifi-
cent achievements in the way of heroism to his credit.
Yet (and this was years before any cloud was cast on his
moral fame) his fellow-efficers declined to associate with
him as an equal. The convention which forbids pro-,
fessional cricketers, in England, to take the field or leave
it by the same gate, as the “gentlemen,” or to have
the word “mister” inscribed before their names on the
scoring-sheet, is carried into every relation in social life.
The barrister is chary of associating on equal terms with,
the solicitor ; the cavalry-officer contemns the infantry-
man ;• doctors decline to know dentists; an artist
wouldn’t be seen dead with a photographer ; wine and
spirit dealers ban publicans; stockbrokers reel at the
idea of fraternising with auctioneers or house-agents ; ;
a fried fish-shop proprietor would decline with blasphemy
the acquaintance of a whelk-stall man. And so right
down or up the scale. Folks living in the suburb of
Hampstead scoff at those who inhabit Clapham, and
Clapham sneers openly at Rotherhithe, and Rotherhlthe’s
contempt of the Mile End Road is unspeakable. And
Kensington (whether South or West) considers the whole
of them to be “ impossible.” Lord Crewe’s argument is
understandable and valid to anyone who knows his
England. Unquestionably, there are hundreds of
thousands of people there who would see the entire
dashed country handed over to Kaiser William, ere ever
they shared a camp with one who had been educated in a
Board School.
And Crewe himself, in the eyes of the old British
nobility, is a mere rotten upstart. He is the first Earl of
Crewe. His father was the first Baron Houghton (pro-
nounced How ton). His grandfather isn’t mentioned.
He takes his title from a shoddy, sudden town, which
sprang up not many years ago because the London and
North-western Railway established workshops there.
And the old British nobility—individuals like the Earl of
Crawford, whose title dates back to 1398, and the Earl of
Rothes (1458), and the Sutherland person (1230), and
Gormanston (1475), and the Clinton baron (1299), and the
Forbes baron (1445), and the Moubray Daroriial indi-
vidual (1283) and a multitude more, look on Crewe as a
joke just as he looks on other people as a joke.
The Bleating of the Sheep.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo, I listened to the bleating of the sheep—
Squatters’ sheep—
And I sat me down and pondered long and deep.
And a cloud of gloom came o’er me
At the empty leagues before me—
Yea, I marked the virgin grass-lands’ mighty
sweep—
Land that called for cultivation ;
Cried aloud for population—
Land that carried trees and fences, grass and—
sheep.
O, I listened to their bleating on the plain—
Virgin plain—
And I spoke to them with epithets profane.
In the valley, on the hill,
Yet were sheep, and more sheep still.
(Which annoyed me very much, I must explain.
For one sheep may be a blessing,
But a million are depressing.)
And I cursed them, but I knew I cursed in vain.
Lo! and then I fell a-dreaming where I sat
Sadly sat —
Till I didn’t see what I was looking at.
And my dream was most alluring.
Ah ! But, had it been enduring,
What a reckoning it would have been for Fat!
What a blessing for Australia
If my dream —but inter alia,
I’ll explain to you what I am driving at.
Lo ! (excuse this weird redundancy of “lo,’’
Soulful “lo”;
But I want to be impressive, you must know).
Lo ! instead of jumbuclcs bleating,
I could hear the reaper’s beating ;
And I saw abundant milk and honey flow.
I espied snug homesteads dotted
O’er the plain. I also spotted
Towns, with factories and workshops, rise and
grow.
Ay, a busy line of commerce filled the place—
Desert place—
And mine eyes beheld a happy populace
Wresting from the land its treasure ;
Loving work and earning leisure.
Industry and population grew apace.
I could hear the hammers ringing ;
Happy housewives blithely singing ;
And I read Prosperity in every face.
Then I saw a file of troops go marching past—
Bravely past.
Adown the plain I heard the bugle’s blast.
I beheld the banners streaming,
And I fancied in my dreaming
That our happy country owned an army vast.
As each patriot marched proudly
By, he cried, exulting loudly,
“ Fair Australia is safely ours at last!”
Then a large, red man rode up upon a horse,
(Large roan horse),
And spoke to me in strident tones and coarse.
And his discourse was (diluted)
“ Wanderers are prosecuted
On this crimson run. Now get!” I got—of course.
As I’ve said, the man was bulky,
And he seemed morose and sulky ;
And it just occurred to me he might use force.
But, in spite of him, my dream I still may keep
Fondly keep.
And from out it sprouts the wisdom that I reap
For the benefit of all men,
But especially of small men.
(Meaning men whose wealth does not exceed
one heap.)
Ay, the lesson is before you—
Pray forgive me if I bore you ;
But, my brothers, heed the lesson of the sheep !
For, hark ye, hear the bleating of the sheep—
Human sheep !
(O, my brothers, but their sheephood makes me
weep !)
Mark ye”, how they flock together
After some old, sly bell-wether —
One that Fat finds it convenient to keep ;
Watch them how they follow, follow.
See the verbal weeds they swallow,
And the squatter keeps his grass for paying
sheep.
O, the squatter has of woolly sheep a lot—
Quite a lot;
But they’re not the only sort of sheep he’s got.
How he profits by their fleeces
And, when price of meat decreases —
Human meat —the butcher, Fat, will take the lot.
O, ye farmers and selectors !
Landless voters ! Free electors !
Think, my brothers ; are ye sheep, or are ye not ?
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
W FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
When partisan excitement at footer
matches becomes too heated it should be remem-
bered that the cooling counsels of D.C.L.—the
whisky of the wise—soothes the fiercest breast.
The calming spirit of the scholarly brand, properly
appealed to, subdues the most fiery outbursts, and
replaces them with the steady glow of sustained
enthusiasm.*
N.S.W.’s traditional yearning to import tilings
from abroad breaks out in queer places betimes.
The latest manifestation of the miserable ten-
dency has been supplied by the committee
appointed under Wade’s Pure Food Act.
One of the Committee’s offices was to indicate
to the public the surest way to get pure
water. To that end it recommended a couple
of filters which, it said, might be used
with advantage by persons anxious to side-
step typhoid, diphtheria and kindred com-
plaints. Did the committee give the advertise-
ment of its recommendation to an Australian
filter? Not by a jugful. A body of its sort,
which exists by favor of the local import-
ing party, and would break down hopelessly
and sob if it thought it had scandalised
aFreetrade, and hence anti-Australian, newspaper
doesn’t do rash, unexpected things of that sort.
As a matter of fact, it didn’t even recommend a
British article. Its selections were two filters,
one of which is French and the other German.
There is no suggestion in any knowledgable quar-
ter that locally-made filters aren’t equal to any
that are imported. Here, for instance, are some
facts re the “Abbott” filter (vended by N.
Guthridge, Ltd., of George-street, Sydney), all
of which were in possession of the Board of Health
two months before the committee’s report was
made:—
(1) The “ Abbott ” is an Australian invention.
(2) It is manufactured in Australia.
(3) It was first submitted to Dr. Nelly, the foremost
bacteriologist in Victoria. After being subjected by him
to severe tests and being keipt under observation for
three months, he gave a full report of the tests and a
certificate.
(4) To confirm this report the filter was submitted to
Mr. Dk Bavay, chemist to the Foster Brewing Co., and a
recognised authority, who also gave a certificate.
(5) The filter was subsequently tested by several Gov-
ernment experts and by Mr. Potts, now Principal of the
JJawkesbury Agricultural College.
(6) The Maoriland Government had it tested by its
chemist, Mr. Gilruth, who wrote strongly in its praise.
(7) The “ Abbott ” was approved by the Victorian Board
of Health during Dr. Gresswell’s. presidentship, and one
was installed in the laboratory. It was approved by the
Melbourne Board of Health on 3rd October, 1899.
Put shortly, the Abbott filter seems to suffer from
just one fatal defect: it is made here. And that
is an incurable defect.
♦
The ridiculously heavy sentences passed by
Justice Pring of N.S.W. on the men who raised a
penn’orth of dust at Broken Hill have not yet
been annulled, mainly, it would seem, because the
State Government’s dignity has got in the road.
As there were no signs of anything happening,
Griffith, M.L.A., put a notice of motion re a
revision of the sentences on the notice paper of
the Assembly. Then it oozed out that the Gov-
ernment had really been thinking of doing
something for the confinees, but its position was
now hampered by the fact that if it did anything
it would look as if it had been driven into action
by Griffith and his party. Of course, if there
was any promise of prompt release, Griffith
would cheerfully burn his notice of motion; but the
WADKGovernment has a difficulty aboutgi ving any
such promise; it would look like buying Griffith
off. And probably if Griffith withdrew his
notice unconditionally it would still be difficult to
do anything for the men ; it might seem too like
an expression of gratitude to Griffith for not
attacking the Government. And when, at long
last, it is possible to bring on the motion, and it is
formally debated and formally defeated—-well, the
Government, having declared in the course of the
debate that Griffith is quite wrong in calling the
sentences unfair and excessive, may possibly feel
bound to keep the men in gaol to show that it
fully believes all it said. So the.position seems to
be that Griffith has spoiled the men’s chance by
trying to help them, and that they didn’t seem to
have any chance before Griffith cried to help
them. The one thing certain in all this muddle
is that the men are still in gaol, which is a very
uncomfortable place.
4. :
In the first of his series of Extension Lectures
before a Sydney Trades Hall audience last week,
Professor Francis Anderson delivered the
ancient gag that a man who does not vote is a
social criminal. If that is the brightest thing he
has to say, his lectures are going to be a frost.
Sometimes the man who doesn’t vote is a social
criminal; sometimes it is the man who does vote
who is the criminal. Suppose there are two can-
didates (call them Barabbas and Pontius Pilate),
many a man couldn’t conscientiously vote for
either. Of course, he should have seen to it that
there was a candidate for whom he could vote ;
but it isn’t every man who has a candidate lying
around loose to be produced at short notice.
Certainly voting should be compulsory, except in
cases where the voter really can’t reach the poll;
but there ought also to be a negative vote which
demands the rejection of all the candidates and a
new nomination. Say the result was : Barabbas,
964 ; P. Pilate, 832 ; Negative vote, 1010. Then,
not only would there be a new election, but
neither Barabbas nor Pilate would be qualified
to stand again till next General Election. Prof.
F. Anderson might seriously consider this propo-
sition.
The decision of the Wages Board in the Brisbane
shop assistants’ ease hasn’t been made public even
yet; still everything has been fixed up, and,
according to present arrangements, the extra
shilling or so will be payable from August 2. On
the whole, the award is going to be better than
Phidston’s Minister in charge of that Depart-
ment apparently intended it should be. As the
employers’ reps, and the employees’ reps, couldn’t
agree on a chairman, the Minister had to appoint
one ; and Kidston’s Minister had the astounding
effrontery to appoint the secretary of the Soft-
goods Warehousemen’s Ass. to the job. In
fact, the appointee was more than that; he
was a wholesale fluff-merchant’s son-in-law
to boot. When the appointment was made the
Shop Assistants’ Union didn’t quite know what
to do about it. The committee knew that-if a
Labor Government had appointed the secretary
of the Shop Assistants’ Union the howl of the
Courier and the Telegraph, and the whole Tory
and employing crowd would have wakened the
sleepiest crocodile in the Gulf of Carpentaria;
but it was decided not to encourage the assistants
to howl. And, amazing to relate, though the
assistants don’t get anything like what they should
have, it has leaked out that they are to get a good
lot more than the employers offered. But that is
no reason why the assistants should love Phid-
ston and Minister Appel. It wasn’t their fault
that things turned out as well as they did.
♦
A Sparke flew into print last week which is cal-
culated to get into the eye of any man who gouges
out his daily bread with a pen. The initials of
the Sparke were P. C., and if he didn’t flash much
light on anything, he was a bright, cheerful speck
while he lasted. His location was the Sydney
Telegraph, and the tail of him was thus : —•
Tbe views of a good number of clerks in Sydney are
known to me, and they certainly are not a class who,
once they see the trend of affairs, will calmly submit to
compulsory unionism and Socialism, but will speak with
no uncertain voice repudiating the aims and aspirations
of the Clerks’ Union, which represents the feelings of a
very small minority, and cannot possibly be taken as a
reflex of the opinions of clerks generally.
The power that the present Labor Party holds in Aus-
tralia to-day is not due to its own strength, but to the
apathy of those opposed to its principles, and I would
appeal to the clerks in Sydney not to allow themselves
to be apathetic over this matter, but let each one make
it his particular business to sign the petition which will
be circulating this week, protesting against the proposed
inclusion of clerks in the schedule to the Industrial Dis-
putes Act.
By way of balancing that conflagration, The
Bulletin scissors this from the editorial columns
of the same paper a little while earlier :
The revelations concerning the conditions of clerical
employment, in numerous instances, were astounding, as
published in the report of the Union ; and if any industry
or avocation has a right to appeal to an Industrial Court
for redress, the clerks certainly have that right. For
some reason, probably a foolish disinclination to fall into
line with manual labor, those doing clerical labor have
long been willing to endure conditions which, if enforced
on a miner, for instance, would have put a fringe of fire
about the oratory of the union spokesman. When, taught
in the end by bitter experience, they at length formed a
union and took their case to the Industrial Court, they
met with a check, due to the fact that those doing cleri-
cal work are not included in the schedule of the Indus-
trial Disputes Act.
Despite the assertions of Sparke, the clerk’s
capacity for calm submission is one of civilisa-
tion’s sorrows. For want of organisation in the
past, he has been crushed flat by his boss, and his
resuscitation is going to be a long, painful pro-
cess. A spectacle for derision is that of Sparke
standing over the prostrate form and assuring the
world that it will presently arise and "speak
with no uncertain voice ” against the people who
are trying to pump air into its lungs and food into
its stummick.
Alf Edmencs, fancy-goods dealer, of Mel-
bourne and Victoria generally, passed out last
week, aged 56; and the people who sell the
brassy-glassy wares to the public are grieving, for
Alf was a good employer. The departed fancy-
goodsman had a certain amount of genuine stuff
among his big stocks; but most of his glittering
store was just imitation. His windows blazed
like the stateroom of a prosperous pirate. Year
in and year out, diamonds, rubies, emeralds, gold
and silver winked, blinked and flashed at the
public; and the public leaned joyously on the
window, or went in and covered itself with price-
less gems for about 9d. or Is. 3d. There were
always more people looking in Edments’ window
than in Gaunt’s, the jeweller’s, a few doors down.
If Edments had been a seller of the real expensive
articles he probably would never have commanded,
as he did, a shop army of 300 assistants.
About Melbourne’s daily wash :
Some of the best-informed residents of St. Kilda (Melb.)
are saying nasty things about what is practically an order
issued by the Murray Government for the removal of
Kenney’s Baths. One day last week Kenney, the present
proprietor (son of the original Captain Kenney) was sum-
moned to meet Murray and the Vic. Minister of Lands,
and the Mayor of St. Kilda, and the local Foreshore Com-
mittee in a “ conference.” This turned out to be a mere
official announcement of the fact that the baths, which
must inevitably be shifted from their present site, wouldn’t
be granted another leasehold in the immediate vicinity.
There was no “conference,” seeing that Kenney was given
no say. He had come to the eut-and-dried meeting
with plans for a new' structure, to be erected north of the
old pitch, where the appearance of the foreshore would
be improved by a smart building, and the thousands of
people who journey to St. Kilda by tram and train for a
dip would find “Kenney’s” the most convenient place
for them, as of yore. Without attempting to show good
cause or reason why Kenney’s scheme couldn’t be accepted,
Murray and the rest of the opposition offered him a vague
promise of a new site, a quarter of a mile away
to the south. The effect of the Government’s
refusal to deal reasonably with him will, of course,
be a vast gain to the business of the opposition
baths, situated close to the pier on the south side.
These other baths are owned by an influential
syndicate, whereas Kenney is the successor to his
respected father, whose money merely helped to feed the
gold-mining industry of Victoria. No such uncom-
promising notice to quit as has been served on Kenney
junior would have been served on his father. The old
captain was a pioneer of St. Kilda, and the man who
made it a sea-bathing resort. Some of the flooring of
the hot-sea bathrooms in the place now about to dis-
appear is the deck of the old vessel which Captain Kenney
grounded on the beach 56 years ago. With the strongest
sentimental claims to consideration, the son of the late
proprietor (who died a year or two ago) might at least
have been granted a suitable site for new and ornamental
baths close handy to the historic pitch ; and, apart from
sentimental considerations as regards Kenney, there is a
question of public convenience, which will presently
attract attention to the matter.
One thing that has made the widening of
Oxford-street, Sydney, necessary is the periodic upheaval
known as Mark Foy’s Fair. When Mark covers his
windows with weird signs, intimating that various things
are “fairings,” a maddened rush of bargain-hungry
female sets in, and Oxford-street becomes impassable.
Burly assistants have to struggle to get the doors shut to
prevent the avalanche of female outside rolling in and
smothering the cats who have got there early, and are
understood by those without to be snapping up the pick
of the bargains. Some day the bacteriologist will dis-
cover the microbe of this disease, and the now helpless
husband will circumvent the wiles of Mark the Charmer
by inoculating the ladies of his household. But up to
the present the bacteriologist has not appeared, and
while this is being written half the women in Sydney are
raging through Mark’s extensive establishment spending
their husband’s hard-earned savings in a way calculated
to make even devils weep.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Flag Lieutenant. ”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “ Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lycecm Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Philip Newbury (24th).
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Taming of the Shrew,”
Her Majesty’s “Havana.”
King’s “A Sailor’s Sweetheart.”
Princess’s “ A Bachelor’s Honeymoon.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
Sooner or later every actress of charm and
personality comes, if managers are willing, to
“As You Like It.” At Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
last week there passed before the writer’s
mental eye, a misty procession of bygone
Rosalinds—Miss Neilson, statuesque and very
serious; Miss Baird, with the gracefulness
and beauty of youth ; Ada Rehan; Mrs.
Langtry, of the lovely face and unlovely
voice; and Ellen Terry. It is hard to
compare Miss Stewart in the part with any of
them. The keynote of her interpretation is a
joyous, unreverential dash and elan. She is the
merriest, shapeliest, healthiest, most forthright
Rosalind conceivable. Is there any pawky coyness
about her love for Orlando ? Not much. That sort
of phaseis antipathetic to the cheery temperament
of this star. Her Rosalind is a good and modest,
though far from shy, girl, having the flirtatious
time of her life under exceptionally thrilling cir-
cumstances with the one young man who is all the
world to her. This is delightful to witness, if we
care to accept “ As You Like It ” as a romantic
comedy. But, since it is not that, but rather a
lyric poem long drawn out, a fantasy or
infinitely beautiful fairy-tale, containing a well-
defined note of sadness withal, the hearty material-
istic atmosphere that Miss Stewart’s method
induces jars considerably. Possibly “As You
Like It” reads better than it acts; perhaps, as
“youth, the dream departs,” one gets stage-
illusions less readily. The writer
owns, for his part, that on
neither of the two occasions on
which he visited Her Majesty’s
during the revival under notice,
was he able to escape the dreary
conviction that the Rosalind
there, was as far removed from
the period of (say) Charles
VII. as from any hint of
elusiveness or sublety; nor did
Arden, for all the gorgeous
detail with which it was pre-
sented, appeal to him as other
than a plain forest; beautiful,
certainly, but lacking the quality
of haunting mystery altogether
—the sort of place wherein a Puck
or a Peaseblossom, if he drifted
there, would be apprehended in
short order, by a uniformed Ranger,
for clothes and conduct calculated to
disturb the matter-of-fact peace of
the inhabitants.
Actors who assisted to produce this effect of
commonplaceness were Langhorne Burton, as fine
a figure of a man as ever donned Orlando's garb, but
a most restrained adorer—the very pink of modern
“good form” in the love-making line; Claude
King, who played Jaques in the colloquial manner
of a present-century philosopher, depressed owing
to liver trouble; and Harry Ashford, whose Touch-
stone fairly shrieked, in spots, of musical comedy.
Miss Roslyn Vane erred in the other
direction, by rather underplaying Celia. Fred-
erick Moyes was an imposing if somewhat
stagey Duke. Minor parts were well enough
handled by Miss Harriet Trench, Miss Mar-
jorie Chard, Templer Powell and Alfred B.
Tapping. The scenic effects were things of beauty
throughout.
Julius Superbus is to be a downfallen
Bonaparte at Her Majesty’s for four nights, and
on Saturday “ The Flag Lieutenant” will happen.
** * *
“ Hamlet ” was played at Sydney Criterion
during last week, and the first three days of this,
with Walter Bentley in the name-part. The pro-
duction was handicapped by the staging and
setting. The world has got away from the simple
scenic conventions of other times. Nowadays, if
the programme mentions “Castle Ramparts,
audiences look for a structure which bears a color-
able resemblance to the substance that ramparts
are made of ; in palace scenes, they feel they have
a right to expect something more or less palatial.
The Criterion ramparts were palpably papier-m&che
structures ; the Queen’s Closet suggested nothing
so much as a dentist’s ante-chamber. If we are
not to have more or less convincing presentations
—in the matter of scenery, properties, and so forth
—of the plays of the Bard, it is arguable whether
a reversion to 16th century customs wouldn’t be
welcome. The writer would rather, for his part,
in the final Castle scene, have had the bald legend
“Courtiers—male and female” inscribed on a
piece of board and pasted up for all the house to
see,, than the self-conscious band of supers in
fancy dress who simpered through the gory doings
leading up to Hamlet’s regretted demise at the
Cri. #
Walter Bentley plays the part along Beer-
bohm Tree lines—which is to say, in the robustious
manner of the older school of mimes. The eyes,
dilated so that the irises appear bright blue spots
in round and gleaming seas of white ; the gracious,
Blessed Damozel-like poses; the effective little
trots across and up-stage ; the wavy business with
the hands—these all powerfully suggest the
big London character-actor. There are no
nuances about the Bentley Hamlet. This particu-
lar Dane is not the gentle elusive character,
instinct with shrinking sensitiveness whom Goethe
conceived. He is a hearty and rather loud person,
possessed of a voice that makes the palace rafters
shiver when it is raised in annoyance or protest —
one who is slightly “touched ” to start with, and
plain homicidal mad at the finish. A fine elocu-
tionist is Walter Bentley. His enunciation is fault-
less. It is his way, by nod and beck and wreathed
smile and frown and so on, to drive home each
verbal dagger to the hilt. In his instructions to
the players every conceivable gesture, facial and
otherwise, was employed. The player that failed
to grasp the purport of orders so conveyed were
too incomprehending a dog to carry a halberd in the
poorest company. A disconcerting result of this
method, on the night the .writer attended, was
that an untutored gallery heartily cheered vari-
ous “tags” which called for nought but sym-
pathetic silence. The gallery wasn’t all to
blame. Walter Bentley has a way of “ beef-
ing out ” his lines on occasion that compels
enthusiasm regardless of the exact meaning of the
phrases beefed. Bentley is particularly admir-
able, it seems to the writer, in the fine sense
which he betrays of the rhythm and poetry of
many of his passages. If he fails signally any-
where, it is in those rare moments when he essays
to be lightsome and humorous.
There is little to be said in kindness for
those who supported him. Miss Nellie Fergus-
son (Ophelia) was the most satisfactory of an
indifferent lot. She looked attractive, but her air
of, at times, almost stolid calm was out of place
in that demented environment. Miss Helen
Fergus supplied a comely Queen —with a quaint
trick of starting dumbly at Hamlet’s injurious
hints, suggestive, somehow, of an inarticulate
mother-of-a-family who has suddenly heard her-
self referred to as “no lady” by a total stranger
on a public tram. Johnson Weir was a fine,
resonant ghost, and John Cosgrove limned a
Claudius, King of Denmark, who should do a
considerable something in the cause of repub-
licanism. Also, Horatio was one “ Titheradge, ”
who was not the Titheradge we used to know,
though he closely resembled him by reason of the
fact that he possessed the same number of legs.
■K * * *
“ Cinderella ” is due at the Cri. on Satur-
day. Pantomime, nowadays, takes no account of
Christmas seasons.
** * *
Bland Holt is still in the “Great Rescue”
business at Sydney Royal, and his feats and those
of his accomplished colleagues nightly win large
“AS YOU LIKE IT,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
NELLIE STEWART FREDERICK MOYES as the
as Rosalind. Banished Duke.
masses of applause and silver coin. There is no
indication of a slump in humanitarianism yet
awhile.
** * *
The first Newbury concert at Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Hall was such a melodious and artistic
success that this (generally thrifty) listener feels
ashamed to have taken it for nothing. There was
a good-sized audience, and it was greedy for
“ more. ’ The three daughters of the horse-leech
had to take a hack-seat by comparison. The
curly tenor himself sang “Salve, Dimora,’ as his
first number, and a duet (from the garden
scene in “Faust”) with Miss Amy IVlurphy.
His other programmed selections were reinforced
by the encores wrung from him by the
music-robbers. All the assisting artists were of
the best in their respective lines. Besides Miss
Murphy, Mr. Cyril Monk made his violin sing,
and Mr. Gladstone Bell, the new ’cellist, inter-
preted choice selections with and without the aid
of Monk, Sykes and the soprano. Mr. C. Larsen
lifted the baritone that is rapidly making him a
favorite ; and a pretty damsel named Wingfield,
with an amazing head of red-gold hair, recited
coquettishly or pathetically as the verses de-,
manded. At next Saturday’s event, Miss Kath-
leen Dorahy, a contralto, will appear. Mr. Lewis
Scott, whose name is well known in Sydney,
manages.
** * *
“The Love Affairs of Mr. Boyd,” a
comedy by Miss Agnes Chambers (a sister of the
well-known playwright Haddon of that surname)
was put on at the Standard Theatre (Sydney) on
Monday night by “The Playgoers.” It is a talkv
play, but some of it is clever talk, and if the
prompter had not to intervene so often and loudly,
and if the stage management had not been so
good-humored and leisurely, the piece would have
had a better opportunity. Mr. Boyd looked as
young as his daughter, who dreaded a step-dame.
Miss Ailsa Sherbrooke and Miss Nitschman sang
prettily during the third act, and later Miss
Chambers very reluctantly ascended the stage to
receive the plaudits of the audience. Mr. J. C.
Lee’s “ Her Bad Hat,” the story of a lady who is
for ever chasing that desirable quarry, a husband,
and who secures three of him, was an additional
item on the programme.
su * # *
At Sydney Lyceum, Harry Lauder and the
Chronomegaphone are in the latter days ; so the
voice of the fiend in kilts who gets
week for singing drivel will soon depart. The
military drama of “The Brothers in Arms,” which
rings the changes so energetically on every pas-
sion that afflicts humanity, is one of the star
pieces of the programme. There is also a trip
through “the most distressful counthry that ever
yet was seen ” ; and Ireland is, on the screen
anyhow, a land of changing beauties. Some good
missionary work is done with a film in which
marriage in all the ages is shown in a realistic
manner, and the pampered daughter of Eve is
given to understand how wonderfully well off she
is with her modern brute. Woman is having the
time of her whole existence, if she only knew it.
A few more films of this sort, and this writer will
propose that a statue be erected to Mr. Spencer.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
When You are Kept Awake
At night with that troublesome cough, remember
that it can be speedily cured by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
The Misses Isaacs, well-known Sydney ladies’
hairdressers, etc., of 161 King Street, have issued an up-
to-date catalogue and price list full of feminine interest.
Everyone knows that no matter how fashionable a ladv’s
costume may be, its artistic effect is shattered if the
wearer’s head-dress does not harmonise. The Misses
Isaacs specialise ladies’hairdressing, and their catalogue
illustrates the latest styles of transformation, frinoes
Empire puffs, tails, hair pads, etc., as manufactured’by
them. Ladies are cordially invited to visit Miss Isaacs at
the above address.*
At' Sydney Palace, West’s Pictures are
now exhibiting the finest set of films displayed
up to date. It is a tall thing to say, but with a
crowd of Pathe films running loose, it is readily
understandable. West has hardly any Yankee
films on the present list, and the making of
pictures is one of the things they do better in
France. Every admirer of beauty should see
“The Hotel Thief”; for the chief thief is a
woman worth throwing away a dozen immortal
souls for, or wading through all the crimes on the
calendar (bar one) to obtain. She is a dream, a
vision, and a masterpiece of creation rolled into
one. West has abandoned the gruesome in his
cinematograph plays and taken to comedy, which
is good of him. By the time the shivering public
holds this issue in its half-frozen hand, there will
be running at the Palace the view of the great
naval review given at Portsmouth to the Empire
Press delegates; so an enraged Sydney audience
will be able to see at first hand the spectacle of
Whiskers Ward doing his grand record grovel act.
* *- *
On Tuesday, at the uninspiring hour of 30
minutes to lunch, the Professional Musicians
welcomed Prof. Marshall Hall at their rooms in
Rowe-street, Sydney. This writer did not go to
the welcome because he is on a diet of goats’ milk,
and he hates the effort of putting Satan behind him
by declining the bumper fair. But he listened for a
moment to the cataract of a flattering speech
from some one, given to a Wagnerian accom-
paniment of corks in the drawing, and the
Ohopinesque flow and trickle of the liquids that
are forbidden him. Prof. Marshall wdl wave a
practised baton at the next concert of the Sydney
Symphony Association.
** * *
Chung Ling Soo is again the mainmast of
the Sydney Tivoli programme. For his return
season, he has taken several new miracles out of
his travelling box. and there is so much novelty in
the revised turn that he practically amounts to a
complete new Chung. The most fascinating of
the tricks is the one in which he changes a girl
into an orange tree laden with fruit. It is a really
valuable and beautiful operation, and if C. L. Soo
will hand round the recipe, this scribe for one
will be grateful. There are times when the nicest
and best girl in the world would be even nicer
and better as an orange tree or other vegetable.
Probably each girl would turn into whatever tree or
flower she resembled most; droopy, morbid girls
would be weeping willows ; girls with languid eyes
would' be magnolias ; whispering gossips would
turn into rustling poplars; and hardworking
charwomen would be something useful, like
parsley. The loaded cannon trick, the oyster
wonder, and the egg-pigeon amazement are all
very fine ; but the girl-tree miracle is absorbing on
account of its beautiful possibilities. If the
Sultan of Turkey had known it when the Young
Turks broke up his establishment, he could have
transformed his harem into an orchard and saved
533 cab fares. Around Chung’s wonderful 45
minutes various stars revolve gaily. The brightest
of them are Cissie Curlette, the Three Laurels and
R. H. Douglass.
* * *- *
“10-2-4” :
“0.K.” cites (15/7/’O9), in support of his contention
that British melo-dramatists miscall their titled folks,
four alleged instances of titular mistakes in well-known
dramas, and what he terms a “ crusher.” I will take the
‘ ‘ crusljer ’’first. Says “O.K. ” :
“ And now, by way of a crusher, I quote from the pro-
gramme of ‘London Day by Dav,’ a drama by G. R.
Sims and Henry Pettitt. One of the characters is Lord
Kempton (a sporting baronet ).”
I would be crushed if this were so; but it isn’t.
Turning up my “ Dramatic Notes ” for 1889, I
find (page 171) the full cast of the first perform-
ance of “ London Day by Day,” which occurred
at London Adelphi on the night of September 14, 1889.
The late James East played the part of Lord Kempton,
and there is no allegation whatever on the play-bill that
the latter was “a sporting baronet.” I saw the old play
several times in London, over a decade ago, with (I think)
Harry Nicholls in the part of Lord Kempton, and there
was no mention then, either on the programme or by any
of the characters, of that turf-fancying nobleman having
a baronetage concealed about him.
Thus “0.K.” again :
“ I will quote a notable instance of imported incorrect-
ness. The programme of ‘ The White Heather’ gives us
Lady Janet Maclintock, widowed mother of Captain Alec
Maelintock. This strikes me as not being quite according
And yet it is all meticulously according to Debrett.
Lady Janet Maclintock was—-although the daughter of an
Karl or a Marquis or a Duke—the widow of a “ com-
moner.” Children, by British heraldic law, do not inherit
the rank of their mother. Aod so the male offspring of
Lady Janet and her Maclintock would be plain ordinary
Maclintock, with no hereditary titular frills whatever. I
could cite “0.K.” enough Debrett examples in point to
fill this page. One will suffice. Lieut.-Col. Gordon
Wilson, a well-known Vic. absentee landlord, married, in
1891, Lady Sarah Churchill (thus making her Lady Sarah
Wilson), daughter of the 7th Duke of Marlborough. They
have one son, who is plain Wilson, and will so remain,
unless—as Lady Janet Maclintock’s gallant lad did—he
enters the Service and snares a handle on his own
account.
And so with the other instances which “ O.K. ’’considers
disclose the British melodramatist’s ignorance of the
heraldic game. Lady Gwendoline (of Dyce Morris) may-
be either Lady G. Dyce Morris (of Dyce Morris) as in the
Lady Janet case above (such colloquialisms as Lady'
Gwendoline are common enough on programmes c.f. the
Lady Alma in Marsham Roe’s “ The Witch ”) or she may
be the Baroness or Viscountess Gwendoline (Gwendoline
in this instance being a title), even as Lord Chelmsford’s
spouse is the Baroness Chelmsford. In the latter case Lady
G. ’s son would be “ Johnnie Dyce Morris ” for the simple un-
sensational reason that Lady C.’s is Freddy Thesiger.
Seemingly the Gwendoline country seat is called after a
family name—a common practice in the Cold Land.
For example, Balcarres (which belongs to the Crawford
earls); Harbord (the property of the Suffields), Euston,
Garvagh Glossop (owned by the Howards of Glossop), and
so forth.
“ John, Earl of Woodstock,” is the correct way (for all
“O.K’s." expressed view that it is wrong) to designate
one who is liable to be confused with a predecessor, or
what not, of a like style. Thus it has been the custom
for years to speak and write of the present Earl of Rossi vn
as “Harry Rosslyn ” and “Harry, Earl of Rosslyn.”
Georgiana, Countess of Dudley, Olivia, Lady Cairns, etc.,
are female instances of the same sort of thing. ’
The nearest I can get at the moment to any sort of
authoritative record of the “ Woman of Pleasure ” cast
which “ 0.K.” hurls at me is a fragment of an old bill-
head kindly Supplied by an official at Sydney Cri. And
( he first thing I note on it is that the Earl in the Prologue
L not Carlingforth (as stated by “ 0.K.”) but Carlingford.
I find a Lord Carlingforth in the drama part of the bill—
and then, unfortunately, nothingness. “ 0.K.” defies me
to make Debrett sense out of the “ Woman of Pleasure”
names he supplies. I will do it cheerfully—but merely,
be it understood, as an academic exercise: the insane
printer’s errors that appear to burst broadcast into the
local bills make me chary of admitting relationship
i,between them and the originals.
Harold, Earl of Carlingford, then, is waiting in the
prologue till someone dies before he shall bour-
geon into a Marquess. By the time the “In
the Drama ” part of the programme is reached,
he is Lord (or Marquess) Carlingforth (of the
Towers)—as who should say Marquess (or Lord) Camden
(of The Priory). “Lord Arthur Selwood ”is a correct title
for the Marquess’s “ son,” also* for hiS “ heir.” A legal
definition of “ heir” is “ one who inherits or is entitled td
the possession of property after the death of its owner."
Plainly, Carhngforth’s eldest, son (the Earl) has been
turned down by his sire for ignorance of heraldry,
or some other grave malfeasance, so that “The Towers”
heritage passes to Lord Arthur. Put otherwise, Lord
Arthur is his father's heir (as stated in “ O.K.’s ” bill);
the Earl, Lord Arthur’s brother, is merely heir to the
marquisate—and, hence, in all likelihood, a hopeless
insolvent Said “0.K.,” jauntily (24/6/’O9), when he
started this controversy :
A knowledge of the rules of British titular classi-
fication is as easily acquired as a smattering of sporting
lore, of which even intellectual writers like Boucicault,
u? . ania *'’ s l ; > or * Ouida,’ the novelist, were unpardon-
ably ignorant. Anybody can get a course of instruction
in forms of titles from a story by Thackeray, or his dis-
ciple, Anthony Trollope. ”
It isn t so ; and “ 0.K.” has proved the fact to demon-
stration, in his own person.
** * *
“ 0.K.” writes :
The people who are always moaning for literary drama
will have a chance to show how much their patronage is
worth during this current season of the Asche-Brayton
co., at Melbourne Royal. It is to be a quick-change
season four or five Shakspeare plays within six weeks.
Two of them—“ Othello” and “The Merchant”—have
not been seen in Melbourne for 20 years. Geo. C. Miln
was the last Othello, and it was at the old Opera House
that he smothered his Desdemona. An almost forgotten
revival of “ The Merchant ” happened at the old Royal,
when Janet Achurch played Portia, and her hushand,
Charles Charrington, made a feeble attempt to present
a pathetic, dignified Shyloek, such as Irving had brought
into fashion. In neither case was the performance very
admirable in any respect, so the forthcoming revivals will
be the best— i.e., the most practised and artistic —pro-
ductions of two popular Shakspearian plays that even
the parents of the present generation have seen in the
whole course of their Australian lives. No Repertory
Theatre co. would be able to “ do ” any classic play half
so completely and expensively. Therefore it is now up
to the Repertory Theatre advocates to show what their
professed enthusiasm amounts to in £ s. d.
A company that comes from England,
bringing all its appointments, for the avowed pur-
pose of impressing classic plays upon a
reluctant public, must, in the first place,
justify its claim to exceptional favor.
A generation which is easily attracted,
on the one hand, by light musical
comedy, and on the other by two
sorts of melodrama will not turn
from its beaten track at the bidding
of any invader whose war cry is
“ Art.” Oscar Asche couldn’t com-
mand a rush of patronage, as, Say,
Sarah Bernhardt did 20 years ago,
or as Henry Irving might have com-
manded it. He has to win a local
reputation for the most part by the
effect of his opening show.
On Saturday night, at Melbourne Royal,
the visiting manager certainly scored “a big
break” to start with. The house was crowded,
and the crowd was duly impressed. The beauti-
ful mounting and dressing of “The Taming of
the Shrew” gave it a new interest for old play-
goers. whilst the performance had enough of new
vivacity to keep everybody entertained. This
was Shakspeare up-to-date, calculated to
create a keener appetite for the Immortal Bard
than Melbourne, hithprto, has betrayed. Not being
“Jack and Jill” or an unpoetical drama, it couldn’t
attain the topmost note of popularity; but it
went high enough to raise a great demonstration
of approval.
•* * * *
A while ago, when Miss Anglin restored
“The Taming of the Shrew” to this forgetful
country, there was some empty talk about playing
it with the original “ Induction ’’—the Induction
being practically a curtain-raiser wholly uncon-
nected with the piece de resistance. It is a strik-
ing feature of the present show. Christopher
Sly, the tinker, lying wrapped in beer and tatters
on the snowy ground outside Widow Hackett’s
pub, is utilised for the sport of the lord of the
the manor. The lord’s flunkeys con vev the bliss-
ful drunk to the “fairest chamber” in their
master’s castle, and when he has slept off
some of the effects of Mrs, Hackett’s beer,
he is told that his real personality is
a delusion which has haunted him for 15
years, whereas all the time he was monarch
of his luxurious surroundings. The conspiracy
of liars includes the masquerading of his Lord-
ship’s page as the wife of the dazed tinker, who
chases the mock female around the apartment
like Mr. Spettigue in amorous pursuit of Charley’s
Aunt. The Induction joke ends in the departure
of all parties to witness “The Taming of the
Shrew,” and the tinker melts into a memory.
* * * *
Oscar Asche, as Christopher Sly, is a con-
vincing character actor. He makes the itinerant
reprobate an older fellow than he appears in
Orchardson’s picture of the bedroom scene. He
is a heavy, dishevelled boozer, not of the lowest
16th century grade, but with a parched mouthful
of decayed teeth, a lack-lustre eye, and a faint
sense of his supposed dignity. A wonderful make-
up ! Tinker Sly is unrecognisable in the spry, ad-
venturous Petrucliio, ready to marry a she-devil for
the sake of overcoming matrimonial difficulties.
The present “ Taming of the Shrew ” follows the
dramatist’s text. The comedy Miss Anglin played
was Garrick’s condensation of the original, and
truly nothing is gained by introducing the extra
complications of plot, omitted from the shorter
version. Superfluous bits, however, are put
through with business-like expedition, and the
only regrettable difference between this revival
and its recent predecessor is in the loss of the
sentimental roadside scene where Katharine was
permitted to sleep awhile. That, by the way, was
not according to Shakspeare, but it\vas a charm-
ingly effective incident. In several places the
imported production provides unexpected scope
for variety of action, especially in the opening
scene—a Street in Padua. The performance has
an Italian atmosphere, and the characterisation is
strengthened thereby.
Petruchio, as Oscar Asche presents him,
is more of a merry, hot-headed fellow, carried
away by a humorous idea, than a naturally blus-
tering person delighting to assert his authority.
He is unconsciously masterful. He can crack a
joke more heartily than he cracks a whip.
The Katharine of Miss Lily Brayton
is a handsome young tyrant of the fiery
brunette type, whose violent temper seems the
result of her having been allowed the full run of
it. She is horribly discontented because every-
body gives her her own way. When at last she
bursts out crying like a child, and her husband
rewards her with half a pint of soup and throws
bits of bread into the liquor whilst she is spoon-
ing it up, one feels that the whole flimsy
structure of Kate’s shrewishness has been
washed away by the flood of tears —and the soup.
Therefore she wears her subsequent air of subjuga-
tion with an easy grace, and the closing scene
comes natural to the story. Miss Elfrida Clement,
as Bianca, presents a passable family likeness to
pretty Kate, and is otherwise satisfactory. The
incidental widow who marries Hortetisio is also a
well-favored lady. The low comedy parts are
well played by Athol Forde (as Grumio), remem-
bered as a matter-of-fact comedian with a
husky, monotonous voice; and by R. F. Anson
(son of “G.W.”) who is a ridiculously funny
Biondello. Caleb Porter makes a distinct success
as Gremio, the old Italian buck suitor for Bianca,
whilst Herbert Grim wood, as the father of the
girl, is a companion picture to Gremio. These
old men parts are more interesting than the
young ones. Three young characters —Lucentio,
Franio and Hortensio—are played with no in-
dividuality to speak of. and in the case of
Lucentio the actor is neither as youthful-looking
nor as loverlike as he might be. But he doesn’t
amount to a serious defect in a generally admirable
performance.
** * *
Hugh J. Ward, at Melbourne Princess’s
with his company of comedians, found no
trouble with the clashing of two big theatre
nights. The house was crammed. The company
is strong enough to uplift and hold out of harm’s
way a fabrication that is thin and so piled with
absurdities that it would collapse with unskilful
handling. As it is, the absurdities send an audi-
ence into shrieks of laughter, even when an
apparently decorous solicitor-man. such as
the monocled Houston (Reginald Wykeham),
crawls downstairs on his hands and knees
“ HAMLET” AT SYDNEY CRT.
Hamlet (Walter Bentley) asks Horatio (W. S.
Titheradge) and an inoffensive soldier to swear.
and says “Bow-wow” at drunken intervals.
Hugh Ward, in a characteristic grey suit,
is delightfully quiet, and humor emanates
from him as an atmosphere. Every look
and movement has a telling subtlety. His
dancing is quick and slick as ever. His feet,
even in the muffling of middle-aged spats
and shoes, are as full of expression as a
pianist’s hands. One effective turn is a grotesque
ghost of a dance. Newly-married bachelor
Ward has his body stationary on a chair, but his
feet are describing a ghostly dance of delight at
Palottu-Juno Joyce’s song of admiration. The
Palotta herself can scarcely claim anything so
ethereal —but dancing has never been her strong
suit. In earlier days she cunningly kept
to a seductive suggestion, with rippling lin-
gerie over dainty ankles, and a cute step
or two. She has several songs that hit the
audience where they laugh, and in her part
of Juno Joyce, actress, finds herself perfectly
at home in beautiful gowns and “an air.” A
Grecian stage rig-out—or rig off—discloses some-
thing very chic in the way of a figure, most cur-
vedly slight. Rosie Musgrove returns to Mel-
bourne light as a Cockney slavey, bitten by Sher-
lick ’Dimes, and secretly studying to become a
detecative. She finds plenty of practice with
Clues, because the household will insist on making
a muddle of its perfectly respectable regime. Mr.
Benjamin Batchelor (Hugh Ward) has eloped
with Juno Joyce (“ ackatrice ”), and dare not let
the marriage be known until sister Minerva (Celia
Ghiloni), who holds the purse strings, is
placated. The new Mrs. Batchelor pretends to
be the housekeeper, but the unexpected return
of the absent Minerva turns her into the governess.
This makes horrible complications, because Mr,
Benjamin Batchelor, widower, has represented
himself to his new wife as without “encum-
brances.” The attempts to keep the stage secret
from Minerva, and the encumbrance secret
(which is twins) from Juno, tax Benjamin’s in-
genuity to bursting point. Dr. Ludwig Schwartz
(Arthur Eidred), who was a former lover of Juno,
is in love with a twin. He arrives on the scene
and causes certain Ach Himmel and Donnerwetter
complications, so that if Hugh Ward did not
dance occasionally the strain would be awful.
Greig as Gumbug (a “ detec-a-tive), furthermore
butts in and conspires with Marianne Mus-
grove over Clues. Two charming girls, Miss
Redfern and Miss Ruby Baxter, dressed
in the expensive white muslin of innocence,
make a bright and natural touch as the twins.
Celia Ghiloni puts quite a strong Gilbertian flavor
into her Minerva. Her song, “Find the Man,”
is a triumph of artistic handling.' The very velvet
points on her prim black dress are tokens of rigid
old maidenish respectability. “A Bachelor’s
Honeymoon” is wild farce—it does not pretend
to be musical comedy—but song and dance are in
eluded at erratic and effective intervals. Slavey
Marianne bursts out in song at times, and the
effect is a right down slavey’s way of singing
current music-hall melodies. In spite of the
“business” breaks in her voice, Miss Musgrove
shows that her warble is in improved trim. For
the mounting of this money-making trifle there is
one good “ interior,” which serves for the three
acts.
The last week of “ The King of Cadonia ”
has arrived at Her Majesty’s in rather of a hurry,
and on Saturday (24th) the present co. will intro-
duce “ Havana ”to Melbourne. Anyone who has
not yet been present at the shaving of Cadonia’s
Sovereign, or witnessed the terrors of the Heir
Apparent when his Majesty is temporarily lost,
will need to get to the final performances without
delay. Also persons desirous-of booking seats for
the impending production of “ Havana ” are re-
quested to note that the end of the season is
approaching.
Fair houses are still greeting “Sweet
County Kerry” at Melbourne Bijou; but it is
patent that the County will never thank Mr.
Allen Doone for his gratuitous advertisement.
For one thing, the play is loaded with too much
sweetness; and for another, one or two scenes
that are meant to be imposing, fail of their very
extravagance. When Allen Doone drags in a
walking population to toast the Imerald Oisle,
the effect is not unpleasing; but when he also
drags in a jaunting-car, whose juvenile occupants
drink to Oireland from a bright tin dipper, the
effect is childish and rather absurd. In fact,
there is a good deal of childishness about the
whole show.
** * *
“ A Sailor’s Sweetheart,” which started a
second innings at Melbourne King’s on Saturday,
is mainly noticeable for its bald, virtuous ex-
panse. Its vice is faintly grey and glacial ; and
its villain, Philip Pemberton, has the tepid
dissoluteness of a deacon. But it is Lieu-
tenant Clive who is the monarch of the
whole trouble. Everything he does is urbane,
and most of his remarks are distinctly gentle-
manly. When he attempts to perish in a West
African forest, in tattered pants and a whiff
of shirt, he runs the gamut of artistic staggers;
and, later, reaches the pinnacle of heroic effect,
when he writes a farewell message in his own
bleed. As Roy Redgrave does him, the Lieutenant
is a capable and lovely officer, and finally makes
an imposing- return from the dead in the
palatial habiliments of a horsey swell. Miss
Kate Gair, as the horoine, is a vision
of peace and a dancing smile; while Laurence
Dunbar masquerades dully as the villain that
isn’t. The strident Miss Bryer, as a widow, adds
several new noises to her extensive catalogue ; and
Albert Bailey arouses larfter with a brogue like a
brawl and a grin like a chasm. Ned Duggan,
as a parson, in a hat of irrepressible flatness,
naturally talks tracts; and Temple Harrison, as a
matrimonial candidate, is choked to the muzzle
with lugubrious sentiments. Max Clifton is a
vulpine lawyer; Walter Dalgleish wraps his
visage in a. suit of soot, and calls himself a nigger
chief; while J. H. Nunn, Stirling Whyte, and
various supers make surprising representatives of
Britain’s might. Miss Fanny Erris might also be
mentioned for some bright soubrettish work. One
of her visible assets is a smile like a day’s recre-
ation.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House a new musical
“turn” by Florence and Lilian was due on
Monday last. Others that are not new, but have
only recently returned to the bill, are Bluett and
the Two Bells, and for the rest there are the
Meisters, Lawson and Namon, and Blake-cum-
Granby, whilst Cinquevalli juggles in the fore-
ground of the show as usual.
** * *
Maggie Moore is still playing the hoyden
at Adelaide Royal, showing— to use the astonish-
ing phrase of one newspaper critic —that she “has
lost none of the vivacity of 1834.” H. R. Roberts
does some fine work in support. West’s pictures
are still at the Town Hall, which announces with
pride that it is engaged for months ahead; but
Spencer’s pictures have had to vacate the Tivoli
for Rickards is coming back with a variety co.
(This is the house that started in life as White’s
Rooms; White was the tailor who built it. Then
Arthur Garner called it Garner’s Rooms. The
late Tommy Hudson enlarged it, and called
it the- Bijou. Finally, Rickards changed it
to the Tivoli). Yokama is doing some
wonderful balancing at the Empire, supported
by Marsh. That is, Yokama does the
supporting, and Marsh risks the broken
neck. The Orpheus Society has celebrated its
21st year with much singing and a good deal of
smoking, and the two rinks compete keenly
with fancy-dress carnivals. A popular variety-
house in Rundle-streetr has ended its career. It
used to show travel-scenes, joggling up and down
the while and pretending it was a railway-
carriage. Then it boomed tremendously for a
brief season with a Venus attired with tasteful
simplicity in gold-paint. Lately it has tried to
be a “ Katzenjammer Castle,” without much
success; and now it settles down to be a mere
pianola warehouse.
The sporting- “star” drops naturally on to the stage
nowadays. The latest to fall there is champion sculler
Dick Arnst, who is out on a tour of Maoriland with a
picture of his last turn with Bill Webb. Cycling brother
Jack goes with him, and the pair throw in some athletic
exercises to help the flicker show earn its keep.
THE CHEER OF THE SUPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two delegates of the recently-formed Stage Super-
numerary Union waited on the Council of the Anti-
Sweating League At one theatre t hey got only 12s. 6d.
a week. . . . Sometimes they had to shout “Hooray ! ”
News Item.
Oh ! list to the cry of the super, ye who patronise the
stage,
His work in the play is very fine, and fine is his weekly
wage ;
His usual part’s a silent one, but when he’s allowed to
speak,
He says “Hooray ! ” in a furtive way, for Twelve-and-Six
a week.
He has to dress in the wildest togs, and murder, and love,
and fight;
He’s a dead marine and a guardsman gay—and more—in
a single night;
He’s shouted at by the manager, whose manner is far
from meek ;
But, once in a way, he says “ Hooray ! ” for his Twelve-
and-Six a week.
Sometimes—once in a dozen years—he has a scene with
the “Star”
(Which means he’s on in a struggle—as some twenty-two
others are);
The hero hurls them down in a heap, whilst the gods,
indignant, shriek
For the blood of those who are cast-off foes for Twelve-
and-Six a week.
JSight after night through the cheerless years the tawdry
game proceeds.
A super once is a supe alway—though they will aspire to
leads—
The principals may shout for drinks till of liquor they
fairly reek,
But the super only shouts “ Hooray ! ” and gets Twelve-
and-Six a week.
S.A.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Thc “Stetson” Lounge Hat
FOR GENUINE COMFORT.
This hat is made of real Nutria Fur,
and is beautifully soft and light to
wear. The name “ STETSON ”
guarantees Good Wear.
Price 255.
Colors—LlGHT GREY, MEDIUM BROWN, and ELEPHANT GREEN.
We pay the carriage on Hats to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONE.S Ltd., Sydney.
HALF REAL SIZE.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
The GOERZ “PAGOR
BINOCULAR.
A New Type of
Prism Binocular
SMALLER than anv other Prism Glass, YET just as
Brilliant. The Human Eye is NOT as big as a dinner
plate, YET it answers the purpose for which it is
created.
THE GOERZ “PAGOR”
is a triumph of Optical Science. It transmits everything
as the Human Eye does, but with a Brilliancy never
before attained.
IT IS A MARVELLOUS BINOCULAR.
For Sportsmen, Tourists, Pastoralists, Ladies, etc.
Price (including Slings and Leather Case),
Magnification, X 6 ; Weight, lOoz.
OTHER SIZES STOCKED.
£B|lsj-
HARRINGTONS LTD.
PHOTO. MATERIAL and CAMERA MERCHANTS,
386 George Street (near G.P.Q.), SYDNEY.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
QUITE A NATURAL MISTAKE.
REV. GENT (referring to lurid language): “My
friend, the Evil One is speaking .”
LUCKLESS MOTORIST (savagely): “ Well, nobody
ast yer to speak, damn yer! ”
It may turn out to be something different;
but so far as it has gone a recent Horsham matter
reminds Victoria of the murder of farmer Sangal,
at Keysborough, a few years ago. Sangal’s death
under very brutal circumstances was ascribed to
the amours of his wife —who was a sister of
Thekla Dubberke, of the Boot Box Tragedy—
and one Tisler; and the police are trying
to set up the same explanation concerning
the Horsham affair. In this case Edward
Cox, a 50-year-old fruiterer, was killed on the
evening of July 12, in the sitting-room at the
rear of his shop in the main street, without any
outcry being heard or any fuss being made. His
30-year-old wife presently informed the police that
a tall, fair man had walked through the shop,
slaughtered her husband and then departed with-
out even saying “Good evening.” The police
listened to this narrative, and then, having in-
spected the corpse and the premises, thoughtfully
went to the house of Albert Hay, a blacksmith,
who had been a frequent visitor to the Coxes,
arrested him, and charged both him and Mrs.
Cox with murder. An awkward circumstance is
the presence on the premises of a Merely Mrs.
Griffiths, who alleges that she wished to call the
police during the alleged scuffle, but that Mrs. Cox
wouldn’t let her; and, apparently, she didn’t
think of screaming or of rushing through the shop
into the street. It is an unfinished narrative alto-
gether ; but the corpse of Cox is a positive fact
that will require a lot of explanation.
The matrimonial affairs of Australia’s only
baronet— i.e. , the only one whose hereditary
handle to his name was made in this country —
are to be ventilated in Melbourne Divorce Court
next month. Amy Mary Clarke, wife of Rupert,
has filed her petition on the ground of her hus-
band’s “carrying on,” as she calls it, with his very
obvious lady friend, Connie Waugh—Connie of
the Titian red hair and expensively artistic frocks.
Connie, so the petition alleges, has performed all
the duties of a legally-qualified co-respondent for
nine years, in Australia and elsewhere, during
which time Amy Mary Clarke, aforesaid, has been
mostly domiciled in Park Lane, London, with her
two daughters. The marriage of the elder
daughter brought her mother back to Victoria a
few weeks ago, and the ceremony took place under
the patronage of both parents, who played the
parts of a happity re-united couple. Immediately
after the ceremony papa Rupert departed on a
business trip to Papua, and in his absence his wife
applied for a divorce. Cohabitation between the
parties has ceased for seven years, the petition
states; so it was about time that the relative
positions of Connie Waugh and Amy Clarke in
Rupert’s regard should be settled to the satisfac-
tion of a censorious world. One clause in the
petitioner’s affidavit will be read with much
interest by students of matrimonial rights. She
says :
In the year 1907 respondent again came to England,
and stayed for about three months. During this time I
heard rumors to the effect that the respondent had been
going about a great deal with Connie Waugh ; that he
was seen with her at races, theatres, and caf6s in Mel-
bourne ; that he had bought a house for her in St. Hilda ;
that she was then in London, and that the respondent
had been seen with her in London. Just about this time
the respondent complained to me that I was spending too
much money, and I said to him angrily that if he could
afford to buy a house for this woman he could surely
afford all the money I was spending, and I told him I
would be compelled to take divorce proceedings against
him. He replied, angrily, “ Very well ;do so.”
A rich husband who is under dark suspicion only
deepens the gloom that hangs round his character
when he tells his lawful wife that she is spending
too much money. It implies that he is running
short. The reasons of his shortness may be : —(1)
Horse; (2) Wild Cat; (3) the Other Cat; but it
is always set down to the Other Cat. Better far
to supplement his income by running a fruit
barrow or a coffee stall in disguise, or by going
into the pawnshop or old clo’ business under an-
other name, so ,that he may be able to give so
much to his wife that she will feel it is a financial
impossibility for there to be any Other Cat —not
even a cheap Cat.
Melbourne lately examined a cubic inch of
the stuff it breathes, and found that it
contained 1,902,000 sooty particles. Which
is filling a cubic inch up to the limit; no
cubic inch can keep on at that rate with-
out bursting, or being fined for over-
crowding. To properly realise what the
Melbourne lung has to keep going on, it
is necessary to set an alarm clock, and,
with its aid, arise on some still morning
before the sun has got to business. Then
sit on a hill, and consider the smoke-
shrouded city from afar. After every
windless period, Sydney has its own
black canopy which falls down on its head
at night; and it is a fairly impressive
sight, but the morning smoke pall of
Melbourne is like the stagnant vapor from
about three dozen hard-working volcanoes.
Viewed from a distance, the dense, black,
woolly breath of the chimneys is a de-
pressing sight to all but the lung specialist.
When a man faints by the Yarra nowa-
days, the kind old gentlemen who push
the curious crowd back cry, “Give him
smoke! Give him smoke!” It isn’t any
use calling for air.
“F.H.”: In a quiet, unassuming way,
the Victorian Government runs a Technical Ex-
hibition at 581 Flinders-street, Melbourne. The
show is designed to educate the producers of
wheat, wool, spuds, cow and kindred money-
makers, and also to discourage the breeder of
export poultry from ringing-in peculiar birds on
the Government Cool, Stores expert. One notable
exhibit consists of 44 large glass jars of spirits,
each containing a bit of fowl collected by hen-
expert Hart at the stores. Every jar represents a
different fowl-ailment in its grossest and most
interesting form ; and the collection, according to
its placard, “ shows the necessity of supervision”
—a remark which is invariably endorsed by
visitors after inspection of the horrors. Even in
“ interfering with ” the fowl for Sunday’s dinner,
Socialism is a blessed, benign influence, and these
44 diseased fowls bear witness to the fact in a loud
cackle.
An effort is being made to induce the Mel-
bourne Hospital committee to return £ll5O which
a man named Pook gave to the institution when
in an unsound state of mind. Pook, the chairman
explains, really wished before becoming de-
mented to give all his goods to the poor. Then
uprose Rev. Bevan, and asked : “Is this the only
act of folly of which the man was guilty ? ” Who
was it now who said, “ Sell all that thou hast, and
give to the poor?” And wasn’t he considered a
demented Nazarenein his day?
*■*■*■*■
The Sydney City Council has declined to
purchase the old Presbyterian Church at the rear
of St. Andrew’s Cathedral. Too high a price
(£9500) was asked ; the building would have to go,
and the ground alone was not considered worth
the coin. So the shades of Colonel Kenneth
Snodgrass, who laid the foundation stone, and of
Dr. McGarvie, the first meenister, will still haunt
the spot. Other ghosts are there, for the old
cemetery—the graveyard of the time of the first
five Governors (1788-1819) —was alongside.
Even Yictoria, which puts up with J’s.P.
and such-like cattle of a kind that hardly any
other State would tolerate, ought to be a little
tired of its wonderful police-magistrate, Read
Murphy—the one who once had sundry youths
stripped and flogged in court. The other day
at Geelong an ancient and incurably-diseased
person who made a precarious living as a collector
of bottles, old iron, etc., applied in Read Murphy’s
court for an old-age pension, and not only failed
to get it, but was arrested by Murphy’s order for
“no lawful visible means of support.” Next
day the venerable one proved that he
doddered around in a lawful calling, and though
his means of support were few they were lawful
enough. Now a good many people are waiting to
learn how much longer Murphy will decorate
the Bench. A magistrate isn’t supposed to be a
man-trap or a spring-gun ; and an Old-Age Pen-
sion law wasn’t intended as a device whereby an
old citizen might be beguiled into explaining his
poverty so that a policeman might have an excuse
to rush at him, and drag him off to gaol on sus-
picion of vagrancy.
THE ABSENT-MINDEDNESS OF WOMEN.
FRANTIC FEMALE: “Hi! Stop the tram! I’ve left me umbrelly in the car!”
“D .” sizes up some public symptoms :
Touching' the Dreadnought proposal, one of the things
that caused me to aver early that it could not be alive, as
alleged by the daily newspapers* was the plain fact that
there were no rows in bars over it. A first outcomeof all
these burning public questions (that'is, if they really do
burn) is the bitter word of hatred hissed in the. public
drinkery, the swiftly-flung beer or-.spittoon, and the sub-
sequent frenzied scuffle on the floor amid the sawdust
and spilled counter-lunch.
Your militant Imperialist—the sort who writes to the
papers about Dingoes and-the Grand Old Motherland, and
the need for hiring more and more defence from her in
the sacred name of the Flag—is invariably a chronic
bar-haunter. The bar supplies him with the beer
which is his inspiration, and with the audience which
he can’t amass elsewhere. Having well punished
the beer of the establishment, he proceeds to orate. If
the question under discussion is genuinely burning, the
rest of the bar-frequenters yearn to orateabout it as well.
They endure their wordy companion for a while ; then
one or other tries to get a word in. The Imperialist
angrily waves the interrupter down, and proceeds with
his discourse. Rage and jealousy gleam from the faces of
all present. They are filled to the muzzle with ready-
made phrases culled from the current papers and from the
latest oration of Senator Lieut.-Col. Field-Marshal Neild,
and they hanker to give expression to the same. Again
one of them essays to speak. The holder of the floor
turns infuriatedly, and hisses the unforgivable rebuke
“ Pro-Boer”—or “ Dingo ” —as the case may be. It is
enough. Amid shrill yelps from the barmaid, and the
plash of falling alcohol, and the dull, sickening scrunch of
lain-upon victuals, the ceremony, which is as old as
public-houses, is enacted amid the chair-legs.
I don’t often enter a pub, yet during the Boer war I
was gratified by the spectacle of no less than 27 bar
scraps, all of which arose in the above fashion. I saw
half a dozen at least which were the fruit of discussion
by liquor-enthusiasts of the Burns-Johnson engagement.
Yet I am assured by a leading dipsomaniac of my
acquaintance that Dreadnausea failed to produce a single
row in any of the numerous hostelries which he patronises.
If a belated Dreadnoughter did trench on the dead old
topic, the rest listened dully for a few moments, till they,
grasped the purport of his sayings, and then hurriedly
gulping their beers, they stole peaceably but swiftly else-
where.
GRAZIER’S SONG: A BALLAD OF DEAD MEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said a grazier deputationist to N.S.W. Premier Wade
yesterday :—“ If you saw' the beautiful mutton and beef
which leaves the country and saw it again in Sydney,
when the consumer has to eat it, you would not recognise
it. Why, even the shearers wouldn’t eat it !” — Sydney
TKLBGRArH ( 16/7/’O9 ).
Well-nigh any sort of meat
Does for Shearer Bill to eat.
Viands stringy, tainted, old,
Warm or tepid, or stone-cold :
Joints that have been dead for weeks,
Rich old tripe that almost speaks,
Bygone chops and has-been steaks,
Lamb (so-called) —the sort which breaks
Hearts and molars—stiff, pale beef
Whereon waltz, in bold relief,
Multitudes of stout black flies :
Almost ev’rything that dies,
Well-nigh any sort of meat
Does for Shearer Bill to eat.
Nought is too diseased or tough
For the shearer-bloque to scoff.
See him rush yon aged ham,
Lo ! without one bl—rst or d-mn
He negotiates it, and
Calls for more. He thinks it grand.
He concludes a hearty meal
With some phthisis-smitten veal.
Its best days are long since past;
At it most would reel aghast:
Not so honest Shearer Bill,
He assails it with a will.
Nought is too diseased or tough
For the shearer-bloque to scoff.
So the meat he gets be dead,
Bill will shift it “ on his head.”
Rabbits, which have met their fates
By absorbing poisoned baits,
Are, in turn, absorbed by Bill
Gratefully. (Such food would kill
Other human beings; him
It improves and strengthens). Grim •
Awful-looking bits of ox
Pass into his face in blocks ;
Also wombats, parrots, and
>• Other fare none else could stand.
So the meat he gets be dead.
Bill will shift it "onhis head.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
THE WORSHIPPERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The problem, “ Why don’t the men go to church ? ” was
revived by a witness before the Saturday Half-Holiday
Royal Commission. “Sometimes,” he said, “ people say
to me, ‘Why don’t you go to church?’ My reply is,
1 Because I’m too tired.’ I have to work so very hard on
Saturday that I’m tired out.”— Daily Paper.
Janies Calico a draper was
For six days out of seven ;
He draped not on the last because
He gave that one to Heaven ;
He frowned on Sunday walks and games,
And God was very good to James.
James Calico was fat and large,
Sleep was his chiefest pleasure ;
And, when he could not overcharge,
Or wield his good tape-measure.
He loved to shut his eyes and doze,
And make strange discords with his nose.
James Calico perspired by quarts,
And so did all his minions ;
He dreamed in church—’twixt heavy snorts—
Of harps and angel pinions ;
The weary ones who did his work
Slept in their homes and dodg-ed the kirk.
James Calico, one Monday morn,
Waylaid a toiling mercer ;
The eye of James was filled with scorn,
His Monday manner terser.
Said he : “ How is it, Serge, that you
Are never seen in any pew ?”
Serge glanced at James and wildly laughed.
(His intellect was shattered
By hopeless and unending graft,
So nothing to him mattered.)
“ I never go to church,” he said,
“ As I prefer to sleep in bed ! ”
N.S.W.
THE VERGER.


A Woman’s Vote—Result
When our Australian women exercise the
franchise, it is a foregone conclusion that
the women’s vote will be on the side of
progress—quality and not quantity of mem-
bers. We see it in everyday life —there
are three women to-day using Sunlight
Soap for laundry and housework to one
using any other soap in the world. .Why?
Because women quickly recognise quality,
and the progress effected by the Sunlight
way of washing described on the cardbox ot
every tablet. Try Sunlight Soap next wash
day and you will vote there is nothing better.
111-health is what everyone hates;
Good health is the best of all mates.
To secure it you must
Laxo-Tonic Pills trust;
The best asset we have in the States.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, and Is. 6d.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade, (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A SPLENDID BOOT
FOR WINTER*
We illustrate a new style in footwear for Winter.
It is practically watertight. Between the soles
we have inserted a Waterproof material that will
keep the feet dry, and the whole design is one of
extreme comfort for the Winter. The uppers are
of soft, pliable leather, and will polish splendidly.
They will carry many re-soles before being
finally abandoned. This special boot at 16/6 is
not an expensive item, but a splendid boot for
the money—a far better boot than is usually
offered at the price.
IN BLACK OR TAN -
If posted, I/- extra.
Give size and color when ordering.
16/6
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
IVTw.im’s OrT'Tt* a ”
Men’s Outhtters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australia’s undesirable immigrants, especi-
ally of the Syrian or Hindu breed, are a modest
lot. One such, ten days after he had completed a
sentence of five years for criminal assault, actually
had the pall to apply to Melbourne City Bench
for a hawker’s license. Though the Victorian law
distinctly forbids any convicted person holding
such a license, the P.M., instead of bumping out
the dangerous nuisance in great haste for fear of
accidents, held the
matter over for
a week before
dismissing
the appli-
cation.
THE
SERVANT
PROBLEM.
FIRST : “ I don't
know what to do.
I found my husband kissing the servant, and
she's such a good girl."
SECOND: “Oh, I suppose' you'll have to get rid
of him! ”
S. M. Herald is horrified to find that
something like tan epidemic of baby-murder is
raging round Sydney. The Herald should be
shocked. It does well to be so. A few of these
murders would probably have failed to come off
had the Herald, by refusing to insert advertise-
ments for a kind lady to adopt an infant with pre-
mium, prevented the inhuman parent getting in
touch with the thug tlnif does the job.
* * * *
The S. M. Herald, in its wild anxiety for
the blood of Crook (who didn’t slay Mr. Russell
Sinclair or Constable Gates), seems to have gone
clean delirious and lost its reasoning power alto-
gether. Thus it headed its whoop for Crook’s
gore (14/7/’09): “ What is Murder ? ” It might,
with equal sense, have entitled the clamor
“Why are Onions?” or “Where is Drink?”
The murder issue didn’t enter into Crook’s case,
and no one with the remotest knowledge of the
law of the land would suggest that it did.
HIS VALUABLE PROPERTY.
"That 's the wife of Inkill the well-known artist. You see her in some of his best pictures.”
“Great Scott! You don't mean to tell me she’s his model?”
“Certainly; he's a caricaturist.”
“ Japh ; Says a Bulletin writer
(10/6/’O9): —-
Australia has a lot of laws for the adequate gaoling of
him who cadges from citizens in the streets.
The fashioner of the above seems to be discon-
certed, or something, at the conception of a
man getting gaoled for being (1) broke, and
unable to get that work which is money ;
and (2) anxious to side-step starvation
—which factors combine, commonly,
to produce the coin-cadger. I should
like to lead him to England and
show him how they deal with the
indigent clamorer for cash there.
For instance, at the Middlesex
Sessions last month, Thomas A.
Baynes, an unemployed tailor,
was sentenced by Mr. Montague
Sharpe (the Chairman) to “twelve
months’ imprisonment with hard
labor, and to receive a whipping
of twelve strokes for begging.”
7 homas is G 5 pears of age ! A
couple of days later Henry Mason
(aged G 2) was, for the offence of
bolting from Stepney Workhouse
clad in a suit appertaining to that
institution, handed a term of gaol and
a whipping. By comparison with this
flogging of GO-year-old paupers for the
crime of being dog-poor, anything Aus-
tralia does to its out-of-works is mild.
I doubt—now that the Windeyer breed
of judicial horror is pretty well extinct—if
any local Judge would sentence a sexagenarian to
be flogged, no matter what the ancient did.
The military court-martial which sat at
Sydney to try a sergeant-major for irreverence
had a fairly uncomfortable time. Having said
that the service was d d rotten, and that he
wouldn’t be found dead in it, the prisoner went
ahead and told the rufHed Court exactly why.
He had been despatched to Molong to takecharge
of the Western Squadron of Light Horse. Not
only was the Horse found to be in a state of
decadence and inefficiency, but no accommodation
could be found for his (the sergeant-major’s) wife
and family. The sergeant-major appears to have
worn out several pens in the wilderness writing
to his superior officers; but they were busy
seeing if their hats were on straight, or else
their feathers obscured the correspondence, for
the S.M. got no answer He then wrote to the
acting Militia adjutant of the Horse, and received
“a direct snub.” This, being neither a horse-
medicine nor a residence, was of no use to the
worried warrior. Ho the distracted legionary got
another pen and tried a colonel with “an un-
official plea.” The only result was that it got
him “involved with the staff office.” (This sounds
like the sort of tragedy that happens when a man
goes groping for matches in the dark, and gets
mixed up with a fly-paper.) All this time
he was without a rifle and a great-coat, and
he had to wait for early trains in an unarmed
condition and with a saddle blanket round him.
(Apparently some of the Horse had died and left
its blanket behind.) The accumulation of official
silence, combined with the irritation of the horse-
blanket, at last maddened him and “brought out
the bellicose side of his character.” However, he
didn’t do violence to any of the supreme roosters ;
only “ his minutes began to be strongly worded.”
Shortly afterwards lie returned to Sydney and
made a frank remark about the decayed state
of the service. If the facts are as stated, it was
about time for a professional warrior to breathe
hard through his nostrils and speak severely to
someone. Lots of clerks dictate snappy letters
under much less provocation. And, as regards
ferocity, we don’t want the warrior to lag behind
the unorganised quill-propeller.
The Fat Victorian merchant, who is for-
ever deputationising the Postal Department for
telephone concessions, is always asserting that in
the days when the Melbourne ’phone system was
carried on by a private company there
was none of this trouble about getting
connected, and nobody was suddenly
cut off. This is, of course, all piffle, for
when Byron Moore ran his telephone
company, the growling was as vigorous
as it is to-day, and as it will always be
until a fool-proof ’phone is invented.
But what the stout supporter of sturdy
individualism omits to state is that, in
the company days, the Melbourne’phone
system comprised only about 2000 num-
bers, all told, and those in the city.
There were, in those days of Private
Enterprise giants, no network of subur-
ban exchanges to complicate matters,
no slot bureaux, and no long distance
lines. A telephone to Ballarat, or Gee-
long, or Bendigo, let alone to Syd-
ney, seemed then more remote than
aeroplane tourist trips to Kosciusko do
to-dav. Further, there is just one
question that the postal authorities
might put to the next obese capitalist
who quotes the ’Phone Company as an
example of all that is good and holy :
Would he like to go back to the rates
that he used to pay the company for the
privilege of being connected with 2000
other switches ? And then the Stout
Person would fall down dead.
In a Yic. country police court case, a
woman, charged with cruelly ill-using her
daughter, confessed that the girl was chained
to a bedpost and left there for days, receiving
occasional whippings. “Why did you chain her
to the bed?” asked the Bench. “Because she
misbehaved herself,” said accused. “ And why
did you whip her?” “ Because I needed her to
run messages.”
* * * *
The jubilee of St. Patrick at Parramatta
(N.S.W.) —not the eminent saint and snake-
chaser himself, but a church that was named after
him—recalls the fact that things weren’t always
so good with the denomination as they are now.
When the first R.C. service was held at Parra-
matta 106 years ago a convict smith hammered
together a chalice of tin, and some old damask
curtains were cut up for vestments. The priest
was a convict sent out for his share in the Irish
war of ’9B. and the church was.any sort of a place.
“Can a Christian be a Christian ?” The
question will come up for settlement one of these
days. People have already been asked whether
almost everybody else can be a Christian, but this
problem is new—or comparatively so. An eminent
barrister once said that women and clergymen
were the most unreliable witnesses that he ever
met in the box, and certainly the fanatical and
thorough-going parson is unreliable to an amazing
degree. Whether he is seeing popes or fractured
marriage-ties or drink statistics in his sleep, he is
mostly the same kind of jest. He multiplies
the drink consumption by the escaped nuns
and the machinations of Rome; adds on
the illegitimate births and the confiscatory
designs of the Labor party; divides by the
broken marriage tie : and the result is either the
flames of Smithfield or the'.exact number of
heathen saved last year by the efforts of the un-
boiled missionary. And Vhen the parson is a she
things are not so much better. For instance, this
was a recent deliverance by Ada Ward, the Saved
Actress :
For the past eijrht or nine years I 'have been doing
everything for others, and here I am, living almost in
poverty. Am I doing rightin giving my talents? God has
given me great talents. I was one of the most successful
actresses that ever lived. During the whole term of 25
years I never had one failure in mv life. I was always
most successful, and the night I left the stage I was
getting £lOO a week, besides mv percentage of the
receipts. . . . With my talents to-day I could earn hun-
dreds of pounds, and use it in God’s work. . . . There is
nothing to be made out of this religious life.
Well, Ada Ward was a fine actress in her day,
but she had failures .in her 25 years’ career,
arid towards the end failures have a tendency
to come thicker and faster, and to be each
worse than the last. Twenty-one years ago
Ada was doing a hopeless uphill skirmish at the
shabby mouldy Sydney Opera House, and on
August 11, 1888, The Bulletin wrote in sorrow,
not in anger :
At Sydney Opera House, Miss Ada Ward was, on Satur-
day last, still fighting a dreary battle against her adverse
fate in “ Bright Hope.” With the exception of Messrs.
Frank Gerald and Harry Power, Miss Ward has practi-
cally no support. Genuine actress as she undoubtedly is,
the whole of the work of maintaining the interest of the
public throughout a long and wearying piece is too much
for her. It would be too much for a Siddoris. The piece
is bad ; the scenery is worse ; the company is thin, very
thin ; and the audience is nightly getting no large!'.
If Ada Ward’s misguided girl-hearers want to
rush madly to the stage to revel in the gilded sin
which Miss Ward speaks of (it often isn’t there),
and the £lOO a week and a share of the profits
(they are hardly ever there), they had better pull
up and consider that dim old back-street theatre
and that tragedy. Thinking of Ada’s vanity and
her cheerful inaccuracy one is moved to wonder
very much if a Christian can be a Christian. Or
must a very ardent Christian be a fish-narrative '!
* * * *
The people of Albury (N.S.W.) don’t
think much of the Wade Government, and have
put the fact on record. Last year an old man
named Perkins died suddenly, and though be had
some money he was buried as a pauper by the
State. The Albury people have raised a monu-
ment over his remains, and on it is inscribed :
“Erected by the people Of Albury and surround-
CONSOLATION.
HE : " Darling! If I should die, what would
you do?”
SHE: “ I'D go to your funeral."
ing districts to the memory of Samuel Perkins,
who was buried as a pauper by the Government
of New South Wales, although he had sufficient
money at his death to pay for his burial. A man’s
a man for a’ that.” Perkins had £22 in his
possession at death. The Government rushed
him cheaply to the cemetery for 405., and the
other £2O went into the surplus.
DIRGE OF VANISHED GENERALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Owing to tlie impossibility of obtaining: a general
servant, my husband and myself, together with our eight
daughters, have been compelled to give up housekeeping,
and go into lodgings.— Usual letter of usual d d
lazy woman.
/TJ.ENERAL Servant wanted, few weeks, small
' grown-up family ; good wages.
General wanted. Apply, Bellevue-street,
u lvogarah.
— Advertisements.
Boom ! Boom !
I hear a ghostly broom !
It’s pounding down in the darkened hall
Like a rather restless cannon-ball.
(0, General, can you hear ns call !)
Steady ! Now steady the light!
We must take no chance
In our stern advance !
’Tis a ghost we seek to-night !
(Half-right!
And a ghost’s no pleasant sight!)
Boom /...... Boom !
Our thoughts are thoughts of gloom.
Up the shadowed stair the echoes come,
Stirring our hearts like the muffled drum
Lamenting a hero still and dumb.
(Boom !—Boom !. . . Hark ! the grim Dead
March !)
Now follow we must
This general’s dust!
“ Eyes front ” —on the cap of starch !
(’Tis starch
That has caused this sad Dead March !)
Boom ! Boom !
On the way to the tomb !
The boarding-houses are full of grief,
And women, idle beyond belief,
Who lie like wrecks on a hash-bound reef
And hate the sight of a broom.
(Boom ! Boom !)
Won’t even tidy a room !
(Boom !)
Their sloth is its own dull doom !
(Boom !)
So with measured tread,
O Generals dead,
We follow the pounding broom
(Boom ! . . . Boom !)
To a dusty backyard tomb !
N.S.W.
THE LODGER.


Ko fcblies kron Ooo'f'
employers t>ec»% Kec^iVe^
-to %o. •nVii'khot-r r o
/j~ 0 'Hie. op
\ ifyc '|^<4tt'&4Tov 1 , ~tW y
1 pool"Amo»? /
1 decided fo /
"to /
./ " Kitchener «s Com 117^
j#!i
i)_ ." j^Ny
Kif§7*»» — ,Q defend,
you vus r
\ you see \ ir
/-v be'.of if hX ifie .
V tfaf&nQ object;
the tripper,
/ w-he»> —-
/jSfPeaJcir) > "yes ,y c S-
M&l'bixt’ 'm<Sv+'S too COrv)n)o>>
|?lc\te for A«'stVAli^'
iff C V*'tyou s«ss»st'
SO*>ne v/orid.erfu I
*■*:•.■«**.. sfra.tTeAVy scheme
2,-fb ,f imo> tne
/'business rigVfoff/
/ ( We i7€ed i7or
Wko«o o«r
&ny
-feeling at divfrosjl"
M
" Af*:f?eid spoK*." \l
(DA'ly
H« is gWe n 2s
KicV on f>n»jci|lcs
mW**C*nZ<*s
Old -(to dubious party).:— 'After yer yWi
Sleeb on $e Sofy )wcnr~wrong ye r fcy ib fire.
spoony ScO “s€*' "
Muscle -
SHoc'K-
]r<~
TrX de /
WriieK in f?«v'iew'
S\fs— "The
ttnc>n[>!oyrne»»+'is
wtjo prefer’ idleness avccefjfTne a IoV
•aJltjouo'W it" is a\ mucti v>
\ WorK is l "
oVn g«!l' s
» Bre^ d
T*re
. 'f&C'Wce'' is <^oin^
* 'tftt'ouQ l» 'fie frocetf
op derennitiiiid on
V/liith
IS ‘bu'ttei-ed
(A^)
UtfREADy
Rt AP^
' /\n of-
rjew CoinSyeC
for »S
Wiug minted in
£rw,l| l>c
Ke&dy shortly.
(Fed Ti'ea^uro'j
0 2\W 1 1 «7^ Voice inside.—
' — I
fell J/erl' Vo'f*
l is if* op yowrin wl?e*>
it'll be Ke &4y ?-
S|-)/4V,t j •* '
{AfiftJ:-' WH* 1 "! TooWeui -Hffence *
\gf y ou Joiwe. no Knowledge of E«c.ltcJ
oy "ttye * Sciences or or-v.
jajw.— *’ Jhn not" Selling 'tije.rn M riiste«'—
Irn Selling if»isJ
'■ Vhy > fcwtteKeeJ 019
side %r I djoiVt
lOtow' f
SOME CURRENT POLITICS.


mm
Schnapps
Golfers
Schnapps
A PURE SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
The“Fx.§R.”
WATCHES
are f-plate Levers.
They have Brequet hair springs.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order for two years (break-
ages excepted) without charge, y
They are made in every style of case.
Write for Catalogue.
Gent.’s Oxidised Open Face, J-plate “ Fx. and R.” Lever Watch,
15 jewels, 33/- ; with 7 jewels, 28/-
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX g ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SARCASTIC.
CITY CLERK (to Bushy Bill, in town for holi-
days): “ Look here, you brutal ruffian, I'm
not afraid of you."
BUSHY BILL: “ Get a move on. I've seen bigger
things than you in cheese!"
“ Henry Phelthatt ” : Some men are called
upon to bear afflictions that the passage of time
only renders more acute. Such a one was old
Charlie Farley, a well-known identity of Pyramul
(N.S.W.). Thirty or 40 years ago the brumby
stallions came down from the hills, and stole his
chestnut mare from him. He always vowed she
was stolen, and blamed pretty well everybody
except the brumbies. He left his home and
•searched vainly for months, visiting nearly every
mining camp in the State ; and returned only to
discover that his wife had grown tired of the
loneliness, and had left him for better or for
worse. Finally his reason got out of order,
On one point only his memory was as good
as new. He never forgot the loss of his
mare. From that time onwards, whenever he saw
an equine blonde, he identified it as his property.
There are few old hands of the Pyramul district
who have not been accused by Charlie of horse-
stealing at one time or another. For nearly 30
years he tramped to and from the police station
in the endeavor to get someone dr other arrested,
and he never missed an opportunity of warning
strangers (those, that is to say, who happened not
to have stolen his mare) to be careful of their
horses, as the place was overrun with horse-
purloiners. Charlie’s death was hastened by the
discovery one black day of his mare at the police
station. He recognised the futility of fighting
the police force and gave up the ghost.
“ Jimmie Pannikin” : The camel has come
to stay, Outback, as a carrier. Recently 38 camels
left Broken Hill on the same day for White Cliffs.
One team of 12 camels drew a waggon carrying a
three-ton load of general stores ; a second team of
six camels drew a smaller waggon ; the remaining
20 camels carried packs. Waggon camels pull
from the top of the neck, like bullocks, but not
with a bullock yoke. Inverted horse-collars are
used. The waggon camels ars expected to do the
journey to White Cliffs in 10 days, which is about
half the time taken by horse teams. The distance
is 160 miles or thereabouts. One gets tired of
hearing city bushmen assert that Afghans have to
be employed as camel conductors, because white
men cannot manage camels. As a matter of fact,
white men manage camels better than Afghans ;
but no decent, self-respecting white man will work
for the miserable wages earned by Gholab Turban.
During my term of Outback exile I saw a boy of
16 bossing a team of six camels as capably and
confidently as a boss bullocky could manage a
team of bullocks. Abdul and co. are cheap and
nasty, hence they are beloved of certain firms of
employers who ought to reside in Hades.
“ Itan ” : It is time the bird-murderer
and the egg-snatclier and the orchid thief, gene-
rally masquerading as scientists, were dealt with.
In the North Coast districts of N.S.W. there are
well-known haunts of the shy birds, such as the
rifleman, the regent, and the lyre bird, and the
“scientist” prospects them all. In North
Queensland the raids are more frequent,
because other and much more valuable birds
are to be snared or butchered there. The lofty
Bellenden Ker range, with its marvellous
flora and its awesome gorges, is a reserve ; yet the
“scientist” is always roaming thereabouts. A
little caution to evade notice is all that is neces-
sary. After that, the work of devastation is an
easy matter in a jungle so dense and so little fre-
quented by the ordinary public. Dealers in eggs
and skins openly publish lists giving prices for the
spoil. For example, the tooth-billed bower bird,
with nest and eggs, is quoted in one of these cata-
logues at £4 4s. Until quite recently no one had
ever succeeded in drawing such a prize ; but at
Bellenden Ker the successful method of attack
has been discovered, and no doubt specimens will
now be regularly marketed. Although these raiders
are often pulled up, they get out of the tangle by
Simply saying they are working in the interests of
science, when, as a matter of fact, they are
murdering in the interests of cash. It ought to
be fairly easy for the Government to give cre-
dentials to the real scientists. Then others caught
red-handed should be given time and space enough
for calm reflection.
* * •# «
“ Janor ” : Be haunted shafts (B. 17/6/’O9).
They are by no means uncommon on old gold-
fields, but as they moan and groan at all sorts of
old times with an unghostly disregard of the mid-
night hour, they wake no superstitious fears in
residents of the simple-hearted copiously-
whiskered Bush. The talking shaft is in all cases
an alluvial shaft that has been “ driven
out”; and the sounds are due primarily to
alterations in the level of imprisoned water.
By this means air is forced through crevices
or small openings, and the. yell results.
Startlingly like the human voice these sub-
terranean noises are. There is a noted
phonetic shaft at Pegleg Gully (Vic.). It
lies right alongside a well-used track, and
quite recently was nearly, the scene ,of a
tragedy. A beer-logged new arrival passed
by the orifice at a late hour as it groaned
in its sleep. The first groan pulled the
drunk up. He located the second, and knelt
downon theedgeof theholeand peered below.
At the third ghostly plaint he over-balanced
and plunked into the water in the shaft
bottom. Then a duet roared through the
night, the voice of the spook dominated by
that of beer. It roused a digger camped
near by, and, coming down with a rope,
he raised the fallen. And the fallen, object-
ing to this interference with the liberty
of the subject, landed his rescuer a
woodener on the jaw, and biffed him right
into the shaft. There he stayed until morn-
ing, when some miners going on shift hauled
him out. Then he hunted up the ungrateful
bloke, and having put a head on him, got
into dry clothes and had breakfast. The shaft
still cries out its weird curses at the impassive
gum trees.
* * * *
“S.S.”: I do not set much store on
“ woman’s wit,” as advertised in popular drama,
but have found a rather silly sort of female equal
to a trying occasion more than once. The occasion
I have most particularly in mind dates back to a
mild juvenile smooge with a miner’s wife on the
bank of Blanky Creek, at Clunes. I’ve not seen
Clunes for 20 years ; but in olden days the preci-
pitous bank of the creek, studded with huge
boulders, was a popular courting camp. I and
Mrs. Dodgebuck were comfortably disposed on
the shady side of a great rock one Sunday night.
The flirtation was a tremendous enterprise on my
part, and anxiety remained with me, for I was a
small, timorous youth, and Dodgebuck was
a large, combative Geordie, who might have eaten
me in my boots. Presently we were made aware of
another couple on the other side of the rock. This
did not add to my assurance. I was vaguely con-
scious that I would be better at home with mother.
Our camp must have been discovered at the same
moment, for while I debated the matter in whis-
pers with the little woman, a big, moonlit head
came over the rock, and a coarse voice said :
“Here, you—out o’ that! This is our pitch!”
The voice was the crack of Doom ; the head was
the head of Dodgebuck. I was beaten. Never in
all my life have I felt so dilapidated. But the in-
jured wife rose to a point of order. “Yes,” she
cried, “I will go, you villain, for I have tracked
you down. I know all I want to know, and this
boy is my witness.” I believe it cost Dodgebuck
all his savings to restore something like peace at
home.
SARCASM.
PERFECT LADY (disgusted
with a diminutive nobbier):
“Look 'ere, Mister, you’re
afraid I'll break the pledge ,
ain't per?”
“ Micaw her ” : The biograph operator told
me this:—
No, I won’t take a show out this winter. There’s too
many in the game. To make it pay you need the brain
of a Shakspeare added to the nerve of aT. Burns. I was
working my way down to Sydney last year, and had got
as far as Singleton when I became financially broke.
In sooth things were deadly. To make matters
worse, another film operator was working right in front
of me. I had a better show than his, so I caught him up
and tried to effect a compromise. He wouldn’t be
reasonable ; “showed” and went broke. I had the hall
for the next night.
There was to be a football match that day. I inter-
viewed the officials and offered to take a picture of the
match.
They were willing. The whole town heard of it, and
turned out to see the match, and, incidentally, to get
into the picture.
But I’m ahead of myself.
Here’s where my bluff came in. I had no appliances
for taking' pictures. Nevertheless I secured a kerosene
tin, a black cloth, and other props, and proceeded with
my assistant to the scene of play. The crowd was im-
patient for the game to begin. Here was my chance.
I ranged the dummy in front and proceeded to
work the oracle. They forgot all about football.
Hats were adjusted, ties fixed, and scores of self-
conscious dials directed at my bogus apparatus.
Together with the time engaged on the match,
we worked the handle of the “ machine ” about
40 minutes and hoodwinked the bucolics to rights.
At night the hall wouldn’t hold them. I knew
they’d play hell if they didn’t see the football
picture. Anyhow, I meant to do a bunk before
the finish. At the last moment I found this
would be impossible, as the train didn’t leave
till morning.
I had some good pictures, and the show went
strong for a while. Then the crowd grew' im-
patient.
“What about the football match?” someone
shouted, and the cry was instantly taken up. “It’s
a shlinter. We want our money back.”
When the pandemonium had ceased I left the box and
proceeded to explain. Would the audience grant me
a half-an-hour’s grace. The films were not quite ready, hut
if they would allow me to return to the hotel I’d fix every-
thing up. They agreed.
This was ray inspiration. I knew my rival had an old
film of the Ail Blacks v. New South Wales. If I could
borrow that I’d beat ’em. I thought a quid would
cover it. You see I had £l7 in the house, and could
afford to be generous. I dashed to his pub and put it
to him. He laughed. (He knew the house was full.)
“A quid! I want a tenner for that picture.”
He had me beat and knew it. So did I.
Eventually we compromised at five quid, and I
hastened off with the film under my wing. I told the
crowd that it was impossible to show the preliminary
pictures, as they were in a highly inflammable state
and likeiy to ignite if put in the machine.
“ Never mind them. Give us the football match,” they
yelled. And they got it.
I put the reel on and shoved it a foot out of focus.
All that could be seen was a heterogeneous mass of
heads, arms and legs. Yet the spectators took to it like
beer. They went wild over it. It seemed the truest of
bills to them, and the players began to pick one another
out. At the finish I had to put the film through again.
But it was worth it.
Yes, my boy, it was a big bluff, and it came off. Still
I wouldn’t care to risk it again.
“ Panhandle Pete ” says in his haste that
in Melbourne you may hear “one of the boys”
inform a pal that he was in a “ rice and curry,” and
so he jumped on a “bread and jam,” and went into
the “Lewisand Whitty,”as he had to meet a “Jacob
Hart”onthe “almond rock.” While he waswaiting
he had some “pig’s ears” and got “elephant’s
trunk,’’and when she turned upshe went “butcher’s
hook,” so it’sail off. Which being interpreted means
tpat he was in a hurry and so jumped on a tram
and went into the city, as he had to meet a tart
(otherwise a young lady) on the Block. While he
was waiting he had some beers and got drunk, and
when she turned up she went crook ( i.e . became
annoyed), and so it’s all off. At this distance it
seems safe to hazard the suggestion that “P.P. ”
is romancing.
A DOUBTFUL COMPLIMENT.
FRIEND ( consolingly): “So you've lost per job,
eh? Well, don't worry about it; I reckon
you wos only wastin' yer time in a place
like that."
YOUNG BILL (sadly): “ Yes, that's what the boss
told me when 'e sacked me."
LANGWIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The flamin’ cows ! ” ’e ses ; ’e did, an’ worse ;
’Twas ’orrible the langwidge that ’e used.
It made me blood run cold to ’ear ’im curse ;
An’ me that taken-back-like an’ confused ;
VV’ile them poor beasts ’e belted an’ abused.
‘ They couldn’t shift,” 'e ses, “ a blanky ’earse !
The flamin’ cows ! ”
“ The flamin’ cows ! ” You oughter ’eard ’im curse.
You would a bin that shocked. .. . An’ the idear !
’lm usin’ such remarks about a ’earse ;
An’ ’is own brother buried not a year.
“ Not move a blanky ’earse !” ’e ses. My dear,
You ’ardlv could imagine langwidge worse.
“ The flamin’ cows ! ”
“ The flamin’ cows ! ” Wot would the parson say ?
An’ ’im so friendly-like with ’im an’ ’er.
I pity ’er ; I do, ’cos, in ’er way,
She is respectable. But ’im ! It’s fur
From me, as you well know, to east a slur
On anyone ; but wot I ’eard that day. .. .
“ The flamin’ cows 1 ”
“ The flamin’ cows ! ” I know quite well that we
Ain’t wot you’d call thin-skinned ; and nasty pride
Is wot I never ’ad. . . . But ’er ! ... . W’y she—
She’s alius that stuck-up an’ full o’ side ;
A sorter thing I never could abide.
An’ all the time ’er ’usband. . . . Goodness me !
“ The flamin’ cows ! ”
“ The flamin’ cows ! ” O’ course ’e never knpwed
That I was list’nin’ to ’im all the Wile.
’E muster bin a full hour on the road;
An’, Lord, you could ’a’ ’eard ’im for a mile.
Jes’ ’cos they stuck ’im in that boggy sile :
“ If they ain’t blanky swine,” ’e ses, “ I’m blowed !
The flamin’ cows !”
“The flamin’ cows ! ” W’y, if it ’ad occurred,
An’ me not ’eard, I’d ’ardly think it true.
An’, you know well, I wouldn’t breathe a word
Against a livin’ soul, I don’t care ’oo ;
Not if the Queen of Hingland arst me to.
But, oh ! that langwidge ! If you only ’eard 1
“ The flamin’ cows ! ”
“ The flamin’ cows ! ’’ ’e ses, an’ more besides.
An’ fancy ! ’lm ! To think that ’e would swear 1
W’y“Blarst!” ’e sen. ... Yes ! “ Blarst the’r blanky
’ides! ”
(Oh, you may well throw up your ’ands an’ stare !)
Yes —“ Blarst," ’e ses, “the’r blanky ’ides an’ ’air !
I’ll cut the blanky skin off er the’r sides !
The flamin’ cows ! ”
VICTORIA.
DEN.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
A 20th Century Preparation.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for coughs and
colds. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Price
Is. 6d., large size 3s.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the cause.
Used the world over to Cure a Cold in One Day. E. W.
GROVE’S signature on box. Is. lid.* [2
Of all the silly proverbs, one,
Whose vogue should be diminished,
Is : “ Woman’s work is never done ! ”
It should be : “ Never finished ! ”
She’s always working, understand,
To keep the home together,
And has Woods’ Peppermint Cure on hand,
For colds in wintry weather.*
“Jimmie Pannikin”: How bunny pro-
vides everything in the country towns just now.
A physical wreck of a school inspector recently
showed me the quarterly examination papers of
the school at Crateville. All the sums set dealt
with bunny in some form or other. The dictation
was an extract from a leading daily’s account of
the rabbit trade. The essays were mostly about
the übiquitous bunny. The favorite poem for
recitation was “The Bunny’s Lament.” The pic-
ture talk concerned “The Burrows of Bunny.”
My three companions at tea were rabbit-
buyers. Strange to say, bunny was not an item
on the menu —probably commercial travellers were
expected that evening. I slept under a rabbit-
skin rug, and dreamt about rabbits. In the very
early morn I was awakened by local dogs chasing
rabbits about the premises. The booby prize at
last night’s progressive euchre tournament was a
rabbit trap !
* ir ■+
“Coda”: Various Aboliars back the
magpie as the boss fighting-bird of all creation.
Well, the mag is game and willing, all right, and
(after carefully locating Mrs. Mag to make sure
she isn’t skirmishing around in the rear) I take
off my hat to him as a bird who defends his own
home, and does not depend on the magpies in
England to do it for him. But why overlook the
merits of the common or barnyard gander? If
there is anything on this earth that is fonder of a
fight than he is I have overlooked it. When I
was a boy, we had a gander that had been in the
family for 30 years. He would fight anything,
especially at brood time—dogs, cows, goats, other
ganders, or humans, he wasn’t particular ; and the
row he kicked up while he did it was astonishing.
In those days, Castlemaine (Vic.) was wrecked by
a cyclone. I was sitting in the house, reading,
when the storm burst on us like the applause of a
thousand devils, uprooting trees and demolishing
stone and brick houses. My mother, who was
slightly hard-o’-hearing, looked up in an indignant
way and exclaimed, “Lord ha’mussy ! There’s
the old gander killing another poor child ! ” And,
seizing the broom, she was making for the door to
interrupt the assassination when the storm arrived.
During that cyclone the gander fought a strenuous
round with a flying dog-kennel; and it was the
only time I ever saw him knocked out.
THE HONEYMOON.
(Scene: Swell Hotel.)
WIFE (as the sugar is
passed): “ Use the
tongs, William.”
BILL (from Wayback):
" ’ Tain’t ’ot, is it?”
The plucky Backblocks Australian again.
One of him named Barker, knocking out a living
on the Murray Lakes, above Goolwa (S. A.), broke
his left arm in three places. After he had had it
patched up at home, he started to get professional
help, going alone in his motor launch. When he
had gone two miles the engine stopped, sulked,
played up suddenly, and broke his right arm as
well! He coaxed the boat home again, and then
started on the eight-hour run in an open boat to
Goolwa. (He did not try to row the boat him-
self.)
A SAD CASE.
PHILANTHROPIC OLD LADY : "But I gave you sixpence yesterday on condition that you were
not to spend it in drink, and I can distinctly smell liquor on you.”
DEADHOUSE DAN : "Lady, lam the victim of cruel circumstances, I found a bottle containin’
wot appeared ter me heye ter be worter. Wot was my ’orrer, lady, to find, arter
drinkin' of it all, that it were whisky!"
Sedition, or blasphemy, or something else
horrible is being talked in the Wimmera and
other rich farming districts of Victoria—nothing
less, in short, than a proposal that farm-hands
should have a half-holiday in the week. Worse
still, some of the talk is being done by farmers
themselves. Certainly, the blasphemers
suually make qualifications : they suggest
that for a start the farm-hand shouldn’t
look for his half-holiday during the six
“ heavy ” months—the four months of
ploughing and the two of harvesting.
During those months he might
still be allowed the joy of work-
ing from 5.30 or 6 a.m. till 8.30
p.m. every day except Sun-
days ; and generally there
are a few jobs to be done
on Sundays as well. It
doesn’t seem a very tre-
mendous reform ; yet one
farmer who writes to the
local papers says that he
favors it himself, but
won’t venture to intro-
duce it until the thing
is made general, for
fear of being ridi-
culed. That farmer
evidently knows his
class. And yet in their
least dull moments they
know that something
will have to be done. In
those parts of the River-
ina, for instance, where
the places are still too big
for one man to work, even
with casual help, nearly every
farmer has his “shares man”
nowadays, simply because he
can’t get men to accept wages
on the conditions he offers.
But nine times out of ten he
doesn’t think of offering better
conditions —probably for fear of
being “ridiculed”; he just
goes home and tells the toiling
missis that what this country
wants is a whole lot of immigrants—good, clod-
like immigrants, who won’t talk any nonsense
about a half-day holiday once in a week for even
six months in the year, even though in the other
six months they have to work from jackass to
jackass with half an hour over at each end.
* * It *
“Derf Commor” : The amount of work
some men do when they are drinking their sixth
beer is really cruel. In a Charters Towers pub
lately a muscular-looking chap was boring and
firing out the shaft, only stopping to sip his
long ’un. After he had bored and fired out and
cleaned up a few times, he was interrupted by a
tired voice, which said, “ Hey ! mate; isn’t it
time you started to timber ? ” In another pub
two miners were having a long ’un, and they
started to bore out a drive. They had bored and
fired out before half the beer had gone. By the
time three-quarters of the beer had fled they were
rigging up for the third time. Presently two
chaps appeared with a wheelbarrow and shovels.
One of them went up and tapped the smaller of
the workers on the shoulder. He turned round
fiercely, ani wanted to know “What’s up?”
“ Me mate aSH me are looking for work,” was the
meek answer ; “ any charnce of a job trucking?”
“ Flinderino ” : Cooktown, the almost
deserted village of the North, awoke from its
slumbers the other week, and indulged in a few
days’ carnival. Races, dances, and other
frivolities happened, and the curiosity and abori-
ginality shopkeepers were enabled to dispose of a
large quantity of chips off the Captain Cook tree.
They never miss an opportunity of pointing out
to the visitor the ancient, leafless herb on the
bank of the Endeavor, and explaining that Cap-
tain Cook tied his Dreadnought to it in 1770.
Every tourist who happens upon Cooktown packs
away in his portmanteau a chip of wood which he
bought at one of the numerous curio shops, and
which originally was part of the Cook tree. Some
of the chips are of cedar, some of pine ; also they
are gum, ti-tree, silky oak and various other
timbers. The curio-seller guarantees each chip to
be the real genuine article. The fact is, that
Cook tied his ship to a whole forest, and his relics
are like that timber from the Mount of Olives,
whereof chests of drawers and the like have been
made ever since the time of Pontius Pilate.
UNFAIRLY
ACCUSED.
OWNER : “ What do
you mean by pull-
ing my horse?"
JOCKEY: “I wasn't pullin’ yer bloomin’ crock. I
was only holdin ’ him up.”
“ Edyson ” : Donegan was the most
strident Irishman at Bragh, and Bragh, adjacent
to the Goulburn (Vie.), has a more determined
Irish vote than Bungaree now-a-times. Donegan’s
yell was the characteristic note of Bragh. When
Donegan had had three whiskies and a stoup of
'beer, he was always overcome with an uncivilised
inclination to yell, and he went forth and yelled.
Donegan’s yell would wreck a church. One day a
teamster, coming through from Gowanath, bogged
just outside Bragh, and tried cajolement, per-
suasion, profanity, and a shovel, all in vain. At
this stage Donegan appeared on the scene.
“Gimme five bob V I’ll shift ’em,” said he. The
teamster called it a bargain, and Donegan spread
himself. “Now then, vou cows,” he said gently,
“ all together—WHOOß-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-o-o-o-o-
O-O-O-O-O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-O !! !! ! That howl had
never been equalled by mortal man. It scared
seven devils out of the cattle. They plunged
madly, yanked the waggon out of the ruts, bolted
furiously into Bragh, and tore all the front out of
Cotter’s bootshop. It cost the teamster £7 to
repair Cotter’s establishment, and then Donegan
sued him for the ss.
THE LITTLE SLIT IN THE TAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m glad that the Bushmen can’t see me now
A-doing it tall in the town,
I’ve an inch-brimmed hat on my sun-burnt brow —
And my collar jumps up and down.
I’m wearing a vest that would charm a snake,
And a tie like a lost soul’s wail;
And I’m dressed in a coat of the latest make,
With a little slit in the tail :
With a little slit in the tail of it,
With a little slit in the tail.
My pants alone are a thing of joy,
And they’re built to show my bends,
With a crease behind and a crease before,
And a little curl in the ends.
I carry my nose-rag in my cuff,
And the lot should get me gaol—
I paid five guineas for my rig-out,
And one for the slit in the tail:
For the little slit in the tail of it,
For the little slit in the tail.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. /Same and
address must appear on MSS. i Vo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Geniing: If we published your remarks re the
great Bloke Language, we would open the floodgates of
controversy; it would rain learned dissertation for 40
days and 40 nights, and in the end there wouldn’t be a
pinnacle of rejoinder visible above the waters, for all the
high hills would be covered with verbal slush... Butcher :
Monkey poem not up. Attempt to rhyme “ limber and
“climber” finally slew it....Yui Q. : Thanks, but that
doctor has been given his pill already H- Stokes:
Moderately ingenious, but nothing else. And some of
the rhymes aren’t rhymes—“ latitude ’’and “magnitude,
f’rinstance Graymorgee : Items unsuitable. The
points re compulsory training have been made,
and the education par. is somewhat heavy
Constant Reader : Yes, of course you can marry her ; you
could, even if her father were your mother's full brother.
W.W.B. : Fell asleep trying to disentangle the jumble
—cooks and billiards and cards and drunks and pugilists
and Maoris and more or less white men Massa: Nothing
in|“By the Grace of G0d.”... F.T.: The husband who obliges
his wife and her friend by suiciding is a commonplace in
fiction... Jacq. : Divine poesy and football toughs don t
agree Marloo : Turkey jest ancient Herb E. R.:
Night porter’s romance nearly as inspiring as last night s
beer J. Mcl. : Amiable remarks about your mates
limped sadly into W.L’.B J.D.B. : “Matter” not
acceptable, more especially the cheap imitation of “ I saw
Esau.” Also this paper looks with well-founded suspicion
on poems that begin with “ Methought.”... A.A. .
Atrocious rhymes about some pet mummers of yours re-
ferred to our advertising columns Verdi: Alteration
not an improvement Oxo : Heavy jingle Coda:
Tired of giving free ads. to the gentleman.. . ,C.L. : What
a terrible jog-trot your Pegasus breaks into, to be sure .
T.D. : Uncouth doggerel about navvies’ pretty little
ways hushed to death U. B. : May use one
Packhorse : Not speculating in that mine—or in the poem
aboutit H.P. B. : Gone to their proper place... ..
Wallaroo: “The Girls of Other Days ” are too dead
H.H. : Small blame to the locusts for “ squakmg ” when
the love-lorn lubra whistled at them .F.W.F. : Idea
good, treatment shocking Isolde: Damp romance
gone to blazes Massa: Vile comet joke killed
it O.E.F.M. : Died of senile decay.... Jep. : “ Fancy s
Dream” about poet reclining by “the murmuring
Yarra” too poetical altogether. “ Singular Saws ”an
unholy Martin Miller-Joe Tapper fusion.... Edward M. :
“Bull’s Machine” antiquated in design and heavy
in action N.F.W. : An exhausted subject......
A.E.O. : No room for bad verses whooping for the British
flag and throne, and Dreadnoughts... .Oheeri VVee : Worse
things than “ to vegetate nicely in making things meet.”
One is singing about it.... J. W.R.: Sanguinary melo-
drama is notin our line E.P.R. : Conventionally pretty-
pretty... .J.P. A. : “River”flows too unevenly....M.P. : If
that wilderness —a wilderness with live green grasses
keeps calling you, dare to be a Samuel, and g 0... .Spes :
Try any Labor agency. There are always billets going for
such as y0u.... H.T.: We don’t traffic in “orthographi-
cal blunders” Z. : Profoundly uninterested
A.M.T. : Oat narrative drowned Crossbill: Doggerel
version of the Creation myth piously declined.. ..R. McD.:
Lines about Australian heroes chiefly remarkable for
their length and for the statement that “drovers go by
where their sheep may die.”....G.G. : “Loyal” alleged
verse about “the good king of England” and his invin-
cible tars declined .. E.P.P. : What in thunder do you
mean by sending us a description of the Church Pageant?
We don’t notice exhibitions of that sort... .L.S.B. : Poem
you wrote when you were asleep not a success. .. Wally
Lee: Hot-water-bag jape too instructive.... Belmont:
Blighted narrative about a clock that struck eight times
when it was 8 o’clock, and the fire brigade that put out a
fire that wasn’t a fire.... Yerom : “A sea incident” —
very small incident swallowed up by much sea... ,L. W.:
Tedious sort of ship, isn’t it?. ...B. S. Steadwell (Wis.,
U.S.A.): Market for pushing Yankee missioners dull just
now. Wait till Australia has recovered from present
speculation. No money in it for a year or two, any way.
J.M.C. : Weak mixture of puns and ditchwater
L. : Poor old Sol never deserved this... .Clanmack :
Your four small poems were, as you hoped, of some
small use to us—they made excellent pipelights....
G.S. : Without compunction, we resolve not to publish
the verses or to adopt the suggestion. May use other
item ... Red Wing : Agricultural Editor and Engineering-
Expert unanimously declare that the old man’s patent
isn’t worth storage.. ..S.W.S.: Australia as viewed from
a lunatic asylum not exciting enough... .C.M.S. : The
sun’s not a “ her,” your poem isn’t a “ ditty merry,” and
crystal isn’t “fresh.”....W.P.Y.: Inferior Brummagem
costermongralism about Liz politely declined... .J.S.: If
we were to print things like yqurs “in one of the com-
pany’s journals,” there would soon be no journal at all,
and the company would go up King-street... .L.S.D.:OId
verdict stands. You’ve no more ear for music than a cat
has Berkeley: Drunk person’s exploits of little
interest John F.E. : It isn’t a joke; only a rude
remark.. .N.D.L.: Joke either indecent or meaningless...
Derf. Cominor: “Ginger” knocked out in one round
A.G.K.: Tame battle ; tame verses ...Tahuna: Perhaps
the girl didn’t like you saying that the star “ shone over
we two.” Nondescript: “Resurgam ”is still dead, but
the other may do F.K.B: : Rousing song a soporific.
R.K. : Go to Chanuca yourself J.L.O. : Letter and
stamps for return have reached us, but not MS Non-
descript : “ Golden Rule ” passed out Myrtle: The
man who wrote that par. about the real meaning of the
Marquis of Dogberry rules is a man who has boxed him-
self ; also, he has been a referee himself; further, he is a
press veteran of a big city, who has reported on as much
stoush as any man in Australia. Therefore he may know
something.... A.D.Q. : It hid its face, and smothered
itself in the basket L’lnconnu: Well, good luck ! But
we don’t believe you’ll ever pay your passage out of the
proceeds of your poetry P.C. : Your Pegasus calls
for a lot more training yet. On second thoughts,
judge you’d better make a cart-horse of him
E.M.: Murderous verses about Hate; also suicidal. Fat
ode trite. May use third Coolola 2: Your “Awake,
Arise ” thing wouldn’t waken a weasel R.G.W. : We’re
not printing any hymns about “sportive rabbits.”...
X.N.T. : Effect spoiled by neglect to mention when you
last visited the place John E. 8.: That item about the
gentleman who had washed his feet has already arrived
at this office twice. Where did it really happen?. ..
M. Baker: Most times we say “Send the verses to the
girl yourself.” But no girl could quite deserve to get
this lot Chun Wee: Too late... .Straight Goer: In
the first place, people weren’t “wondering” why
The Bulletin changed its attitude towards the
coalition, because there being conspicuously and obvi-
ously no such change they couldn’t. In the second
place, the pretence of being shocked and amazed and
horrified to learn that this paper receives payment for its
advertisements is a painfully silly hypocrisy.


A Colic .
Tbe *— ■ J)or>i“ re-
jr"** I lf*ve "to be &v />
" (
Tlnrjo, .
S*y ie
”<Ahy cbaoice of
Job boss ?"
Lacy
ti»y« -Hfe potatoes 1-fefch '. A *7«-
ovaJiTftc&b J" /
"fc City
Irian's Hevv’ Vie'tirv> .
"(Sjoim* 1 deceived yo« . .
£JI mortis j Im only ©i Common f Bd'rriCK.
Onusyd down r
I [}<(<
>s <»***] „
SHe mbXks \ otfe*"to the
er ’ r > €,>^ 7 ”
tt> ©**f
"THE WUMMAN WITH THE HOE," &c.
In connection with suspicions of dummying on the Heart Estate, Gippsland (Vic.), according to the official plans and papers, the Industrious Yeomanry
(about 34 settlers) includes no fewer than 12 ladies, two of whom are single. Age.


GAE LI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
NO man is a hero to his
valet, but a valet is a
hero to his man if he
uses Cherry Blossom when
polishing the boots. Anybody
can use Cherry Blossom—
everybody will find it good.
You try a 3d. or 6d. tin—Black
or Tan—and see how it adds to
the good appearance of vour
boots, and makes them delight-
fully easy on the feet. Write
to us if your dealer does not
Mana K i,l P Agents for Australia—
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Cgnnell Street, Sydney.
When your child has an attack of croup
no time should be lost in experimenting with new
remedies, no matter how highly they may be
recommended. You should know without question
or doubt that the remedy given will afford relief,
and that it contains nothing in any way injurious.
No preparation containing opium or chloroform is
safe to give a child at any time. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is most valuable for small children,
as it contains no narcotic of any description, and
each bottle bears the Government analysis show-
ing that it has been officially declared free. When
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is given as soon as
the child becomes hoarse, or shows any indication
of croup, the attack can always be avoided.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is invaluable for
coughs, colds and whooping cough.*
Builds up
Strength
As a recuperative in cases of lung',
stomach or bowel weakness or after
severe illness, Angler’s Emulsion is un-
equalled. Soothing to lungs, stomach
and intestines, a great
aid to digestion and a
splendid tonic, it is
invaluable in lung
affections, digestive
disorders, “run-down”
conditions and all
wasting diseases. It is
the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
mm
b&gs&tm
i
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
The Angier Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St., Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Captain Hynes, one of the oldest salts of Syd-
ney, died at Rand wick (N. S. W.) last week, aged 78.
He was really older than his years might suggest,
for he made a very early start and got command
at 23. Over 20 years ago he left the sea, and
tried to nurse the old A.S.N. Co. through the
troubles of its latter days. The case, unfor-
tunately, was hopeless, and the A.S.N. Co. has
its little allotment in the financial cemetery.
HELPLESS.
AUSTRALIA (to immigrants seeking land): “ Get
past! How on earth can you expect to get
past when I’ve been trying to get past for
years , and haven’t been able? ”
Died a few days back at Enfield (N.S. W.),
Mrs. Lucy Hannah Hicks, widow of a man who,
in the old days, used to edit the long-defunct
Sydney Punch. Airs. Hicks was matron for
many years of the Immigration Department and
of the “Hyde Park Barracks,” in those times a
home for aged women. She was Mrs. Apple-
whaite before she became Mrs. Hicks; and the
well-known old-time cricketer, Tom Garrett, now
high up in the N.S.W. Civil Service, married her
daughter.
Died, in Sydney,
Patrick O’Connor, aged
58, younger brother of
Daniel O’Connor, of
Australia, America,
and Europe. “Patsy”
O’Connor was the anti-
thesis of Dan in almost
everything. He hadn’t
Dan’s top hat, white
whiskers, festivity,
early and late sittings,
publicity, pugnacity,
platform fluency, vol-
canic energy, übiquity,
dash, and display. He
was solidly set, and
quietly dispositioned.
He was reserved with
the crowd, and sub-
dued in company. He
took the world easily,
and shook the hand of
intimate friendship
only, whereas Dan
shook the paw of the
entire globe twice
over. He had more advantages than Dan in
the way of education, and was intended for
the law. His memory was remarkable, and
he had stories of all the identities since the
genesis of Responsible Government. He wore
a hard hat, was partial to a brown pattern
in tweeds, and never appeared without an um-
brella, and in these respects his aspect had been
permanent for the last 30 years.
John Thomas, who claims to be the sole
survivor of the party that found the first gold in
Victoria, had a 77th birthday on July 7. The
discovery in which John, whose surname is
Thomas, had the finger, happened near where
Buninvong cemetery now lies, and the date was
August 2, 1851. The others of the party were
John’s brother Edward. Thomas Hiscock, jun.,
and T. Hiscock, sen. They were looking for a
moo-cow at the time, though the party was sup-
posed to be prospecting for gems, and Hiscock,
sen., did the actual finding. They were careful
men. and didn’t forget to rope in the cow before
returning to camp. Presumably from that one
animal descended all the bulls that have hitherto
fattened in the mining market; but the Bulletin
doesn’t possess the family-tree of the bears.
A sporting attempt to get in ahead of
Chapman and Alexander was made the day the
co-missioners (some people spell it with another
“in”) arrived in Adelaide. The advertisement
in the dailies ran :
The Ten Lost Tribes of Israel. Seal your Passover in
the Millennium Gathering by fee £1 Os. Id. till the angels
have delivered you safe. Address, Ismael, Tram ter-
minus, Enfield Hotel. Particulars on application from
10 to 2. Ismael-Moses, fourth day, Millennium Dawn.
Even the Chapzander partnership does not
demand a pound fee for salvation—paid in ad-
vance. The attempt to tack on an extra penny
(presumably for postage) suggests that this Moses
has a strain of the McTavish in him.
W. H. Judkins, of Victoria, who has been
invalided from the moral battlefield for some time
past, calls from his sick room that he shortly in-
tends to sally into the fray and assail Sin with an
extra-big axe. If the good light had only languished
a little during Judkins’ absence the great com-
mander’s dispatch would have been hailed with
more than lukewarm paragraphs ; but during his
enforced absence the piratical salvage firm of
Alexander and Chapman has been campaigning
vigorously, and harassing the Devil with hymn,
song and story. The position now is that
Alexander—assisted by Chapman—has tempo-
rarily shifted all the movable Sin ; all the collec-
tions have been taken up; all the enthusiasm has
been blown off ; and every single brand has been
snatched from the conflagration. So Judkins is
left with an empty grate and not a single stick of
moral firewood wherewith to warm himself. It is
a wintry situation for a great reformer.
Thus the Oldest Inhabitant :
Some relics of a past generation were picked up re-
cently in Castlereagh-street, Sydney. While some navi-
gators were excavating in the roadway south of the Fire
Station there was dug up a diamond-shaped lead
plate on which was the inscription, “ Robert George
Baker, born Oct. 30, 1838; died 22nd May, 1841.”
People began to think that a cemetery had existed on the
spot, hut the sequel was that a trench was cut in the
street some years ago, and in filling it in several loads of
clay and sand from the old cemetery in Devonshire-str et
had been used. Some time ago another plate was dis-
covered at the same spot. It was in memory of Fanny
Isabella Baker, who died December 2, 1843. Both names
were inscribed on a tombstone in the old cemetery. It
was erected to the memory of his children by Mr. William
Baker, who, in the mid’forties, had established himself
in King-street as an engraver, lithographer, letterpress
and copper-plate printer, and machine ruler. Later on
he named his place the Hibernian Printing Establishment.
It was on the corner of Terry’s Lane (or Lee’s Court later
on), and had for opposite neighbor the Albion Printing
Office, run by Mrs, Trood. Mr. Baker was the publisher
of “Heads of the People.”
Arthur Hardy, just dead in Adelaide, was
the Oldest Inhabitant among lawyers. He was
nearly 94. That is, he was a grown man when the
province of S.A. was founded. He came from
England as a consumptive, but quickly mended on
his sheep station (six miles from town ; suburban
trams run there now); and within a year was
begged to come in and lend bis knowledge of the
law to Crown prosecutions. The law was an ass
in those days, and a cruel one. It hanged a man
whenever it could, but if a word was misspelt in
the indictment it let him off altogether.
So Hardy became Crown Prosecutor, and helped
to deal with the Black Forest cattle-stealers.
(The lawless forest was 2J miles from the
G.P.O. Highly respectable Goodwood stands on
its site to-day.) Being early on the scene, he was
the first to be, and do, a good many things—
captain of a volunteer corps and opener of°the
Glen Osmond quarries, for instance; also he tried
all the disputed returns for the Leg. Council till
full Constitutional Government was granted.
Long afterwards he explained that he always de-
clared the election invalid, but never by any
chance declared the petitioner entitled to the seat;
nor did he give his reasons. There had always
been shameless bribery on both sides, and both
were satisfied with the negative result. Hardy
was a brother-in-law of John Stuart Mill, and
used to more than hint that the best part of
“ Mill on Liberty ” was written by his sister.
MORE OMINOUS THAN HUSH.
A chunk of what Lord Rosebery calls the “ OMINOUS
HUSH, that rests over all Europe.”
E. S. Emerson, bird-songster for The
Lone Hand, and hetter known to Bulletin
readers as “Milky White,” is leaving his pretty
little home in the Fern Tree Gully (Vic.) district,
to take charge of the Port Denison Times at
Bowen (N.Q.). A distinct Australian type is the
clean-cut Emerson—a relation of the Emerson, by
the way—with his refined literary tastes and
robust national sentiment. Educated for chemise
try, and very chemist-like in appearance nowa-
days—he took to the hush and knocked around
among the rovers and drovers. Before he settled
down to journalism and verse-writing he used to
run the half-mile in a shade less than two minutes,
and as recently as five years ago he was about the
best slow bowler in the Vic. League of cricketers.
Already, at 38 years of age, he is positively the
baldest-headed bard in Australia, not excepting
Randolph Bedford. He leaves a book behind him
Santa Claus and a Sundial ” —which is to be
issued by Geo. Robertson and Co. in October next
as a special Christmas publication. The yarn is
said to have been charmingly embellished by
Percy Lindsay, with illustrations and marginal
decorations.
Eden (N.S.W.) whalers are divided on the
subject of the transmigration of souls. Some
time back an ancient aboriginal named Charley
Hadgery wandered into the whalers’ quarters,
and liked the environment so well that he didn’t
wander out again till the hearse called
for him. Our fellow-Australian was
particularly impressed by the sagacity
and prowess of the killers—the inter-
esting fish which help the men to
snare the great big whale—and foretold
that when he died his ghost would
“jump up killer.” Soon after the old
chap’s departure a new killer appeared
among the band of destroyers in the
bay, and was promptly dubbed “ Char-
ley Hadgery.” Argument ensued as
to whether it was really brother Charles
transmigrated or not. The men kept
a close eye on fish-Oharley, and when,
the other day, he put in some beautiful
work on an extra large whale, tne
“ayes” reckoned they had it easily.
Tiie “ noes” weren’t convinced, though,
because their new ally didn’t request
a hand-out of ’bacca at the conclusion
of the fray. They couldn’t irmtgine
any Charles being genuine who could
do without a smoke after getting a
sweat up. The argument is still unfinished.
Recent crops of J ohnsons must have gone
at least 91 bushels to the acre. No less than three
of that name are reaching out for the Labor
backing in the Robertson electorate in order that
they may hand Willis, M.H.R., the dirty left.
The complaint of the office cynic :
Baronet Rupert Clarke, presumably in anticipation of
the matrimonial breeze ahead next month, has resigned
his official position on the V. R.C. The move is unlike the
blandly unconcerned public-opinion-contemning Rupert.
Furthermore, it is a work of supererogation. No member
of tlie V. lt.C. or any other club would care one solitary
blank,y, in all likelihood, if Rupert had a matri-
monial record. behind or ahead of him comparable to
that of the late Henry VIII. Local club con-
ventions, like many other circumstances of the
sort, are imported here from the Cold Land.
Some of London’s most exclusive clubs (White’s, The Turf
and The Marlborough, for example) would burst finan-
cially and otherwise, if an injurious spirit of Puritanism
crept in and rifled tliem of their respondents and co-res.
—the lie La Warrs, Cowleys, Rossiyns, Yarde-Bullers,
etc. Baronet Rupert's uncalled-for action constitutes, in
its way, something of a reflection on the V.R.C. It is
practically tantamount to accusing that institution of
being a Y. M.C.A.
“ Bank Serf” writes
In connection with two recent cases of embezzlement
from Melbourne banks, it is saddening—but not sur-
prising—to read that one man was regarded as “ a lucky
turf speculator,” and that the other was looked upon as
“ a very shrewd speculator.” - “ Had a good day ” is the
time-dishonored fiction of the cash-box roilicker when an
admiring friend sways over the empty bottles and asks
thickly, “ How th’blazes d’yedoit?” It is a nice com-
pact excuse ; it is swallowed as easily by sports as by the
greenest would-be sport; also, it does away with further
questioning. It seems to have served well enough in the
two most recent cases. Until one man shot himself and
the other neglected to come back from his holidays, no
one seems to have doubted that the bookmaker was sup-
plying the coin. The vanity of the punter will not allow
him to acknowledge defeat, and he believes to the last
borrowed fiver in his ability to beat the law of averages,
the original and acquired sin of owners, trainers and
jockeys, also the boss, the auditor and. the bookmaker.
He may be as keen as a new-stropped razor on everything
else ; but once the punting fever grips him thoroughly,
his veracity and his judgment go lame in the off-foreleg.
The sporting banker of Melbourne now plays tennis with
timidity, and has lingering doubts about croquet. It
doesn’t do to look like a sport even to the extent of play-
ing penny nap. A dire necessity for walking a chalk-line
has come on the brotherhood.
Colonel Madley, head of the S. Aus.
police, steps down in November, after 23 years’
service. Before becoming boss constable he was a
teacher of teachers, having been brought from
Sydney to run the training college. He is small
and fat and unimpressive, and he hurt the feel-
ings of the force when first appointed by requiring
it to pass many examinations. Promotion is dire-
fully slow in the S. Aus. police, and it takes quite
30 years for a man to get a corporal’s stripe—the
equal of a senior constable in some other States.
Of the five sub-inspectors now on the list the
youngest joined the force in 1879, and three of the
others have over 40 years’ service behind them,
and hardly any hope of promotion in front.
MR. WEBSTER'S METAPHOR—CON-
TINUED.
Mr. Webster coined some painfully mixed metaphors...
Mr. Deakin bad been frankly told by the Labor party
when he was given notice to quit that the ship of State
was not moving fast- enough, and it, was necessary to
change horses to lift it out of the mire. (Laughter.)—
Argus, humorously.
MR. DEAKIN (in his turn): “Y’ can clear out
with yer ’orse , Fisher. We’re quite contented
t’ stay ’ere till th’ tide shifts us!”
ANDY: “But what about your passenger?”
DEAKIN: “ That's nothin’ t' do with you. She’ll
just do as we let her!”
A very old bootmaker, Alex. Dowie,
died last Sunday at Adelaide, aged 82. He
was reckoned the Father of Boots in the State.
Also he had a more disreputable relative than
boots, for he was father-in-law and uncle com-
bined to “Elijah ” llowie of the Purple Wings—
Elijah of Zion and the whiskers and the revela-
tions and the powerful cuss language.
(Continued on page 38.)
AFFABLE ALF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Has he magnetised the people ? Has he over-persuaded
them? I recognise his marvellous gifts of speech; they
are, I think, beyond compare. I have heard Mr. George
Turner say that Mr. Deakin has sometimes convinced him
by the way he looked at him.—Senator ’Siah Symon.
Have you heard the inscrutable mutable Alf,
The mannerly man with the silvery tongue?
Ever loquacious,
Smiling and gracious.
Loud in the land have his praises been sung.
He has magnetised all with his eloquent speakin’—
The great oratorical oracle, Deakin.
His somewhat sporadical radical speeches
Have over-persuaded us all, and his style—
His easy urbanity
Tickles our vanity ;
And we are won by his affable smile.
He captivates all with his eloquence sinister,
Does the persuasive, evasive Prime Minister.
His fine pyrotechnical technical phrases,
His grand perorations, exordiums, too,
’Spite their obscurity,
Are of a purity
And of a quality equalled by few,
And he knows all the tricks of portfol-i-o seekin’,
That clever illusionist, fusionist Deakin.
But, beware of mysterious serious Alf.
His weird cabalistical, mystical call —
His impetuosity,
Plus his verbosity,
Acts like a strange anaesthetic on all.
But, when you get over the charm of his speakin’,
You’ll come to a frangible, tangible Deakin.
You’ll find an accessible cessible man,
With political frailties many as most o’ them.
’Spite his euphonical
Gifts histrionical,
Critics political point to a host o’ them.
He is but a man after all and a weak ’un—
A most inexcusable fusible Deakin.
His most omnifarious various views
He’ll alter to suit the occasion that pays him,
Though lacking in clarity.
Any disparity
In liis fused following’s powerless to daze him.
Regarded apart from his eloquent speakin’,
O, what a lamentable, rentable Deakin !
VICTORIA.
DEN.
AN APPEAL TO THE BRETHREN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Earl Beauchamp, formerly a Governor of New South
Wales, in speaking at the annual meeting of the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge of the Church’s out-
look in the colonies, referred to the . . . special cry of
the missionary bishops who came over to the Pan-
Anglican Congress. There was an immense need of niore
clergy to work in such colonial parishts. He did not
think it was possible for people in lAtaUand to realise what
was the strain of life in' thojfe Sqjpmstances. They
ought always to have a very w;Wm capper in their hearts
for those people who were fightingPagainst loneliness
year after year, not only for the squatters, but for their
wives and children.— Tear-compelling item from the re-
ligious column of Sydney Telegraph.
Beloved, I would ask vour tears
For these—oppressed by cruel Fate—
Who linger out sad, lonely years
And vainly for redemption wait.
O brothers, hear their bitter cry !
Give ear unto the mournful moan
Of On-lows in their agony
And Dangars who for comfort groan.
True consolation is denied—■
If we Earl Beauchamp may believe—
Our squatters ; yea, Australia’s pride
The saving grace do not receive !
O let their cry come unto you,
My brethren ; let your tears upwell
For Manifold, and Chirnside too,
Condemned in solitude to dwell!
No bishop goes their homes to bless—
No Chad band Mission e’er arrives
To break their blighting loneliness,
Or lead them Up to higher lives 1
Think ! In these faithless, modern days
These squatters, simple men and slow,
Know nought of services of praise.
Are ignorant of Endless Woe !
Wherefore, beloved, grant your aid—
Your tears, your prayers, with, now and then.
Your pounds : ’tis time a start were made
To save all those poor, lonely men !
n.s w.
O. C. CABOT.


j* /
■
;
. t *
-
-
rm
f 1
ssa
■*#§
(fft
K -S
11
r"
.............V
. '
fc.l *:■!*! 4^-’
| -. |g|l| ; J :
■ * 4 < ...
V ‘ •'
ssm
wmm
i
I " * 4 U % '
r\ r s $.
1 - ’
mMm
i
i
A
t
-
; * ' • v - - •?
■
*
-H f JI
The Champion
First Grade
Gold Leaf
Darß Leaf
Cut and Plug.
loz


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
"NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Eockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Eock Drill, a Concentrating
Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron & Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
machinery. Addresses:—
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY,' Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT;
And Pall Mall, BENDICO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank op Australia, which
had a re-valuation of assets in 1901, and transferred
11143,000 of forfeited capital to reserves in 1902 :
Dividends
Profits (3 p.c.)
(less loss on Writ- Added
on Assets Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. off. serves. serves.
Dee.,’o2 .. £39,194 £31,759 £7,435 £184,730
Capital forfeited .. 3,000 187,730
June,'o3.. 37,442 31,759 5,683 193,413
Capital forfeited .. 2,500 195,913
Dec.,’o3.. 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital forfeited .. 1,500 206,292
June,’o4.. 38,746 31,759 £15,521 -197,758
Dec.,’o4.. 41,461 31,760 9,701 207.459
June,’os.. 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
Dec.,’os.. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June, 06.. 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 225,234
Dec.,’o6.. 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
June,’o7.. 46,423 31,760 5,000 9,663 247,488
Dec.,’o7.. 51,678 31,760 —19.91 S
June,’oB.. 52,015 31,760 5,000 15,255 282,661
Dec.,’oB.. 55,217 31,760 23,457 306,118
Written off, £295,000 .. .. 11,118
June,’o9.. 53,573 31,760 25,000 16,813 7,931
The position can be shown like that for the present,
though later on it will probably be found best to show it
some other way. After the Alelbourne boom the bank
transferred its worst-looking assets to a Trust, and
guaranteed the payment of the deposits which these assets
represented. The bank used to show its own profits ;
then out of the profits it deducted the amount necessary
to keep the Trust’s accounts square. Out of the balance
a further amount was appropriated towards wiping out
the Trust’s deficiency—that is, the difference between its
liabilities and the estimated value of its assets. This
special reserve fund had in December last grown to
£295,000, and in the foregoing table was reckoned among
the reserves. It is, however, no longer shown as a re-
serve ; the amount appropriated to square the Trust’s
accounts is no longer shown; and the annual vote to-
wards the deficiency is now practically written off, being
appropriated “to replace capital.” For the past six
months the vote is £20,000 ; th_- other £5OOO shown above
as written off comes off the bank’s premises account. The
position appears to be as follows
Dec., ’Ol. Dec., ’OB. June, ’O9.
Liabilities of Trust .. £3,334,903 £2,256,508 £2,141,281
Assets of Trust .. 1,800,000 870,000 800,000
Deficit of Trust ..£1,534,903 £1,386,508 £1,341,281
Less Reserves .. 27,619 306,118 | * 2 f7’y3i
Net Deficit .. ..£1,507,284 £1,080,390 £1,058,8-0
*Trust Reserves. fßank Reserves.
The deficit on account of the Trust alone is thus £1,066,781.
There has apparently'been a reduction in the Trust re-
serves. Possibly the assets have been written down out
of them. Still, these reserves are not shown anywhere, and
have to be calculated. In any case, the point is im-
material ; what shareholders and others want to know is
the extent of the deficit, and that is stated plainly,
although it depends, of course, upon the valuation of the
assets.
At December 31,1908, the deficiency (apart from
bank reserves) was estimated at £1,091,509. Last half-year
£20,000 was appropriated out of bank profits towards
what is now called “reinstatement of capital.” That
would reduce the deficiency to £1,071,509. But the
deficiency is stated as £1,066,781, so evidently £4728
has been made somehow; probably that amount
has been realised above the estimated values. At
the beginning of 1907 it was officially stated that in
five years properties valued at £479,56(5 had been sold for
£503,752, thus realising a shade above 5 per cent, over
the valuation. Apparently that surplus has been used
as an internal reserve to prop up the estimate if it should
need propping later on. During 7£ years over £40,000 of
profit has also been used to writedown premises ; and that,
the accumulation of formal reserves, and other causes
have produced largely-increased profits during the past
two or three years. Therefore, when the last of the re-
maining Trust assets have been sold, it is most likely that
the deficiency will be far below £1,000,000. Apart from
anything that properties may have realised above the
valuation, the last three years’ bank profits have ex-
ceeded the amount of the dividend by £112,697, or an
average of £37,566 a year. At the rate of £37,566 a year,
it would take 27 years to till up a hole the size of
£1,000,000; but the longer the operation proceeds the
swifter it should get, because every £250,000 of accumu-
lated profit, if it can earn 5 per cent., would tip another
£12,500 a year into the hole. In fact, £35,000a year, accu-
mulated at 5 per cent, compound interest, would amount
to a million in 18 years. Of course, before then the pref.
shareholders may get impatient, and want the 4 per
cent, which is their limit. But as against that can
be set the fact that the O. B. of A. when
it reduces its liabilities by purchasing deposits
doesn't pay 20s. in the £ for them ; and that discount —
also apparently hoarded up as an internal reserve to prop
up the estimate of values—is never mentioned anywhere.
Altogether, then, the final cleaning-up won’t happen so
late in the 20th century as might appear from a hurried
look at the surface of things.
Figures relating to current business show that
the bank is nowadays going cautiously :
June, ’OB. June, ’O9.
Notes, bills, etc. .. £567,815 £448,445 Dec.,£119,370
Deposits at interest 2,040,147 2,165,805 Inc., 125,658
Free deposits .. 2,225,430 2,470,849 Inc., 245,419
Liquid assets .. 2,181,856 2,866,201 Inc., 684,345
Advances .. .. 4,751,330 4,313,296 Dec., 438,034
Premises, etc. .. 432,520 432,761 Inc., 241
The large increase of deposits, in a year when deposits
haven’t generally increased largely, is notable ; on the
other hand, the reduction of advances is equally notable,
seeing that it has happened when advances have been
much sought after, especially on landed property at high
prices. The cash position is strong; the bank owes
£5,085,099, apart from its guarantee on account of the
Trust deposits, and it has £2,866,201, or 56 per cent., in
liquid assets. The capital is £2,117,350 pref. and £95,619
ordinary ; total, £2,212,969. If the Trust deficiency is
£1,066,781, the capital intact is £1,146,188 ; and on that
the earnings were at the rate of £9 7s. per cent.—a figure
which, in view of the very larg'e amount of liquid assets,
suggests that there is quite as much capital intact as the
management says there is.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1902.. 2687 2J p.c. =1313 1374 15.152
June, 1903.. 2153 2| ~ ~ 1313 840 16,022
Dec., 1903.. 2408 2£ ~ ~ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904.. 2251 24 „,, 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2| ~ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905.. 2262 2| „,, 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 2f ~ ~ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 2| ~ ~ 1330 1131 22,215
Dee., 1906.. 2644 2| „,, 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „,, 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 „ „ 2122 4000 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 ~ ~2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 „,, 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909,. 4314 5 ~ ~ 2658 1656 21,800
A whole drove of plagues fell upon Queensland at about the
same time. The State would have had to pay the penalty of
its wild borrowing boon) in any case ; but when it had to
do the paying it was in the worst possible condition, for
on top of drought came low prices for wool, and on top
of that again came the cattle-tick plague. Then, when
Federation arrived, and it was certain that the bargain
made with Tommy Tanna would be respected, and he
would be taken back to his islands, the sugar people said
they were doomed; and there was no activity
in that quarter. Then the change came. Good
seasons and high prices put the sheep and cattle
men on their feet again ; the metal markets
boomed ; the sugar industry began to adapt itself to the
new conditions, and the Jeremiahs whistled a more cheer-
ful tune ; and the new butter business grew amazingly.
From being the most dispirited and dejected State
Queensland thus became about the most buoyant. The
only really gloomy thing about it, apart from the threat-
ened return of the borrowing mania, is the State’s failure
to increase its wheat crops. Acres are talked and written
about this, that and the other district being the very
thing for agriculture, about new farms springing up, etc.;
yet the doleful fact remains that the area cut for wheat
for five years has run like this :
1904 150,958 acres
1905 119,356 „
1906 114,575 „
1907 82,461 ~
1908 80,898 ~
If those figures were moving one way as fast as they are
the other way, almost everything in Queensland’s garden
would be lovely.
While Queensland was the dispirited State which
didn’t have enough confidence in itself to even give its
home a necessary coat of paint, it for the most part
practised hard economy. If its banks made profits they
used a good deal of them to write down values, and in
many cases, no doubt, the values were written down
below those to which they have since recovere d. In
those days Queensland institutions weren’t expected to
pay big divs. ; and, in common with the rest, this bank
didn t pay them. The result is that, now that things
have improved, not only are current profits larger, but it
probably isn’t deemed necessary to apply so much of
the revenue to writing-down purposes. Hence the profit
figures of this bank show a wonderful growth. On the
basis of capital and reserves combined tbe7 have latelv
worked out as follows:
Dec., 1905 .. £3 16 11 p.c. Dec., 1907 £5 8 4 p.c
June, 1906 .. 4 1 4,, June, 1908 .. 6 010
Dec., 1906 .. 4 6 7 „ Dec., 1908., 612 1
June, 1907 .. 417 9,, June, 1909 ... 7 3 7 ”
Of course, the restoration of confidence in Queensland
helped in another way: it made it Easier for this and
other banks to get the help of the public’s money. In Dec
1905, the deposits totalled £361,384; they have now
reached £686,440, and the advances have increased from
£342,567 to £515,195. Even now, however, in spite of this
growth of deposits, there is only £5 6s. of the public’s
money in the bank for every £1 of the shareholders’—a
safe enough proportion under ordinary circumstances,
though when 6 to 1 is reached it will be time to think
about getting in more shareholders’ capital. In certain
other respects recent movements have been :
June 'OB. June’o9.
Deposits £509,505 £586,440 Inc. £76 935
Bills in circulation, etc. 74,777 57,920 Dec. 16 857
Liquid Assets .. .. 183,708 213,701 Inc 29*993
Advances 494,803 515,195 Inc. 20 392
Premises .1 .. .. 31,127 39,922 Inc. 8,’795
The liquid assets are equal to 33 per cent, of all liabilities
to the public—a fair, though not high, proportion ; so the
bank doesn’t seem to be in a position to increase its ad-
vances on its present resources. Quite likely, however
the fact that the Queensland banks haven’t been rushed
with money will be good for them in the long run. Had
they been, there might have been more of a boom in
Queensland land values. If southern banks strike any
serious trouble during the next few years it will be
because they didn’t have to keep as tight a hold on their
purse-strings.
* * * •
As it is now just about certain that the A. J.S.
Bank’s scheme of reconstruction will go through with
few, if any, material changes, shareholders begin’ to ask
how they can make it easier for themselves. Under the
scheme they will have to pay up £2 10s. per share ; they
would most likely have to pay that up anyhow, because
if the bank doesn’t reconstruct it is pretty certain that it
will have to liquidate, and then they would have to argue
with the liquidator. The scheme provides that the calls
shall be paid quarterly, half-a-crown at a time ; that is to
say, the holder of two present shares, being entitled to
five new shares of £1 each, will have to pay 12s. 6d. per
quarter, so that the whole lot will be paid off in 21
months from date of allotment. But the holder of old
deposits is to get 2s. 6d. in the £ in new deposits
payable in two years, meantime carrying 3 per cent. ;
and if he also holds shares the whole or any part of the’
two-year deposit may he applied to pay for the new
shares—that is to say, to pay up the calls which will be
made on the old shares, and in return for which new
shares are to be issued. So far as concerns present
deposit-holders who are also shareholders, this means
that, if they haven’t got the money, and would have to
piy more than 3 per cent, to get it,’they will find it pro-
fitable to tell the bank to pa.v itself out of the deposit.
Also, the man who can make better use of his money than
3 per cent, will tell the bank the same thing. In fact, it
isn’t certain that the new bank will pav even 3 per cent,
on ordinary shares, and for some years isn’t at all likely
to pay more.
Some shareholders who are not at present old
deposit-holders are, however, calculating whether it
would pay them to buy deposits. Suppose a man
has 100 shares. He will have to pay up £250 within
21 months of the formation of the new bank. The
money paid up may or may not carry 3 per cent. ;
that is to say, the bank may or may not pay an ordinary
dividend. To pay up for these shares out of the two-vear
deposits the holder of 100 old shares must buy £2OOO of
old deposits, worth now from 10s. 6d. to Us. At Us.
they would cost him £llOO. In return for that he would
have his shares fully paid for (£250), and get £667 in pref.
shares and £lOB3 in interminable stock. The pref. shares
are 3 p.c. cumulative preference, without limit as to
the dividend that may be paid, and the stock is 3 p.c.,
with a maximum of 4 p.c. While they pav 3 p.c. he will
get £52 10s. a year from his pref. shares and stock ; which
means £4 16s. per cent, on the total purchase money
(£1100). So if a man owning 100 shares, and who must
therefore pay up £250, is prepared to put an extra £B5O
into the concern, he can get a return of £4 16s. on the
whole £1100; and anything he gets from the ordinary
shares will be so much to the good. If those shares pay
3 per cent., his total return will be £5 9s. per cent. On
the other hand, if he pays up only his £250, he may not
get even 3 per cent., and it is highly improbable that he
will get more than 3 per cent, for many years. What a
man has to answer for himself, however, is whether it is
good enough to risk the extra money.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne), which wrote £42,000 off its reserves in 1898 :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £2436 5 p.c. = £2250 £lB6 £9,577
Dec., 1902.. 3168 5„ „ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903 .. 3699 7„ ~ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903 .. 3226 5,, ~ 2250 976 12,020
June, 1904.. 5352 5„ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3332 5„ ~ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905.. 3768 5„ „ 2250 1518 17,722
Dec., 1905.. 5577 6,, „ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906 .. 5466 6„ ~ 2700 2766 23,365
Dec., 1906.. 7061 8„ „ 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907.. 4432 6„ „ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec., 1907.. 4271 6,, ~ 2700 1571 30,129
June, 1908.. 4892 8,, ~ 3600 1292 31,421
Dec., 1908.. 4657 6,, „ 2700 1957 33,378
June, 1909.. 5965 6„ „ 2700 3265 36,643
Under ordinary circumstances the half-year’s profit
would have appeared as £4865. But an extra £l4OO
dropped in on the sale of Aus. Deposit and Mort-
gage Bank pref. shares (previously written down); and
on the other hand £3OO is voted to ex-Chairman Godfrey
on his retirement after being 1 connected with the co.
since it started—the first trustee co. in Australia—3l
years ago. The late chairman saw many changes. He
watched the co. flourish exceedingly in the boom years ;
then, when values slumped, he saw it so hard hit by
adverse verdicts that it lost £130,000. By 1393 it had ac-
cumulated a formal reserve fund of £llO,OOO. Most of that
went, and another £30,000 of capital was called up, in
order to strengthen the position, making the present
total £90,000. This co. has been through the mill, and has
learned its lesson. Dividends, at any rate, are kept strictly
moderate, so that in the past seven years only 59 per
cent, of the aggregate net profits has been scattered
among shareholders, and there appears to be a fixed
determination in the office to go on accumulating reserves
until they amount to at least £lOO,OOO. The steady
growth of business shows that this policy produces con-
fidence. Some idea of that growth can be got from this
comparison :
Dec., ’OO. Dec., 08. June, ’O9.
Commissions .. £9,176 £10,085 £10,390
Interest .. .. 649 1,128 1,153
Expenses .. .. 5,611 6,556 6,677
Profit on Funds p.c. £7 14 9 713 5 717 9
Trust Estates .. £6,326,344 £8,678,461 £8,819,475
Expenses p.c. of Es-
tates .. .. 3/6 3/- 3/-
In calculating profit on funds for the past half-year
both the special payment and the special item of receipts
before mentioned have been excised in order to make a
just comparison. For a trustee co. the earnings
per cent, are small, but that is due mainly to the
unusually large amount of paid capital ; for obviously a
co. with only' £20,000 capital can do just as big a trustee
business as one with £90,000, though the former offers far
less security for the right performance of trust obliga-
tions. One other reason for the low earnings is the large
proportion of capital sunk in office bricks and mortar,
while the gross rent received for the rented portion last
half-year was only £269, which means less than 1 p.c.
p.a. on the total outlay. With regard to that, it has to
be noted also that the co. does not include among its
expenses a charge for office rent. If it charged itself
£2OOO a year on this account the expense rate would move
up to 3s. 6d. p.c. of estates in hand ; and even that would
be distinctly moderate.
* * * *
Australian Kodak Ltd.—This co. was formed
in August, 1908, mainly to take over and extend the
business of Baker and Rouse, dealers in and manu-
facturers of photographic supplies. The business was
taken over as from June 1, and the present accounts
cover a period of ten months. The authorised and paid
capital is £150,000, of which £75,100 was subscribed in
cash ; “ actual tangible assets ” taken over by the co. re-
present the other £74,900. The position is strong in this
respect—goodwill, trade marks, and trade names and
processes are not reckoned as assets. That means that,
with one possible exception, none of the capital, reserves,
and liabilities is represented by paper assets. The possible
exception is in regard to the item “Shares in other
companies, at cost, £90,105.” Nearly one-half of all the
assets are represented by these shares ; and it is possible
that the capital in these other companies is partly repre-
sented by paper assets. Where so large a proportion of
the capital is in shares in other concerns, it seenra highly
desirable that this co. should say what those other cos.
are. The income from investments is set down at
£10,262 ; the net profit on trading and manufacturing
account was £10,965. So about half the interests of this
co. are in other cos. over which this co.’s shareholders
can exercise only an indirect influence, and about whose
accounts they are probably not in a position to get any
information. That, practically', is the only weak
point which shows itself at present. After
providing for preliminary exes, and depreciation
a profit of £20,965 is shown, or at the rate of £l6 15s. 4d.
percent, per annum. The divs. (Is. 6d. per share = a
shade under 9 per cent, per annum) absorb £11,250, leav-
ing £9715 as reserves. One of the very questionable
articles of the co. is that four-fifths of the profits must be
divided unless the holders of two-thirds of the shares
agree to do something else with the money. It is pro-
posed, in view of the heavy expenses incurred in building
factories, etc., to ask for a dispensation covering this
past term. The debts on March 31 were £20,859, plus
£3750 for dividend ; and the liquid assets were £8336,
including book debts, but excluding shares in other cos.
—some of which, it is reported, have since been sold at
25 per cent, over book value. The co. has made a very
fine start; but, especially’ in view of the article men-
tioned just now, whether it has enough capital for its
purposes will depend upon the ability of the co. to realise
its heavy investments at or above book value.
*** , *
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.): —
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1899 .. £6457 10 p.c. =£4ooo £2457 £11,839
1900 .. 6353 10 „ „ 4000 2353 14,192
1901 .. 7107 10 „ „ 4000 3107 17,299
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£50,000, and reducing reserves to .. .. 7,299
1902 .. 6814 10 p.c. = 5000 1814 9,113
1903 .. 6268 10 „ „ 5000 1268 10,381
1904 .. 6250 10 „ „ 5000 1250 11,631
1905 . 6423 10 „ ~ 5000 1423 13,054
1906 .. 6741 10 „ „ 5000 1741 14,795
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£60,000, and reducing reserves to .. .. 4,795
1907 .. 6778 10 p.c. = 6000 778 5,573
1908 .. 6705 10 „ „ 6000 705 6,278
1909 .. 6308 10 „ ~ 6000 308 6,586
The capital is £60,000, but only £40,000 of that has been
actually paid by shareholders; the other £20,000 has been
transferred from reserves. On the amount actually paid
the dividend is therefore ad the rate of 15 p.c. The
profits are so uniform that there is a suspicion that the
directors have some sort of levelling machine in the office
which chops off surpluses in good years and probably fills
up some of the holes in the bad ones. This can be done
by the simple process of writing off more or less from
various items —freeholds, stock, book debts, etc. Under
ordinary'circumstances, of course, the reserves would be
ridiculously small compared with the capital ; but if
assets have been written down below their value (which
they may or may' not be), there would be a sort of
internal reserve. The continuous high dividend and the
transfer of reserves to capital suggest that something of
this kind may exist. If it doesn’t, then the reserves
shouldn’t have been transferred to capital. The balance-
sheet gives a general impression, however, that the co.
doesn’t do many rash things. Its position is remarkably
strong:—
1900. 1905. 1908. 1909.
Overdrafts, etc. .. £B,OOO £6,500 Nil Nil
Freeholds .. .. 20,644 26,966 £24,714 £31,506
Advances .. .. 17,045 22,617 17,839 13,283
Stock and plant .. 13,929 12,827 14,277 13,825
Sundry debtors .. 10,477 8,469 7,253 7,723
Cash balances .. 2,098 1,175 5,194 3,249
Gross trading profit 9,223 8,849 9,361 8,912
Management .. 2,870 2,426 2,659 2,606
Thus the co. doesn’t owe anything; so that, even if
things go badly with the beer business, there won’t be a
lot of debenture-holders or other creditors waiting to
take the first bite. And no doubt bad things may happen
to the beer business ; there is no telling what the public
will decide on the liquor question during the next few
years. Apparently this co. hasn’t very great fears, because
it has increased its freeholds, which no doubt means pubs.
Yet, judging by the Maoriland experience, there appears
to be more danger for the pub than for the brewery as a
brewery ; for though the pubs are fewer, the habit of
having a few bottles or a keg in the cupboard grows.
There is little doubt that this closing of pubs will go on ;
but whether it will end in national prohibition—which
would close the breweries too—there is no saying yet. It
is a risk and it has to be taken into account, though at
present it looks far off.
On this subject of the probable effect of pro-
hibition on the consumption of beer, etc., it will be
worth quoting from the Maoriland statistics lately issued.
An official table shows “ the quantities of beer, spirits
and wine entered for home consumption at the Customs,
and the quantity of beer on which Excise was paid,” and
the quantities are worked out per head of mean popula-
tion :
Beer. Spirits. Wine.
Gallons. Gallons. Gallons.
1899 .. 8-150 0-653 OT4I
1900 .. 8-696 0-684 0‘145
1901 .. 8-919 0-726 o'lsl
1902 .. 8-777 0-716 0-150
1903 . .. 8-987 0-718 0'142
1904 .. 8-996 0-729 0'135
1905 .. 8-777 0-695 0-124
1906 .. 9-085 0-734 0‘136
1907 .. 9-645 0-766 0151
1908 .. 9-689 0-757 0150
These figures of the Customs and Excise Department are
obviously of more value than those which are flung- round
by partisans. They’ show an unmistakable increase
of liquor consumption, in spite of the shutting up of
hundreds of hotels. It would, however, probably be too
much to say that the habit of keeping a keg in the house
is responsible for all or even most of it. Maoriland has
been having a borrowing boom, and in the extravagance
that such a boom always breeds, the liquor bill was
bound to go up, just as now it is bound to come down a
trifle. Apart front the closing of hotels, the figures cer-
tainly don’t look deadly for the brewery and wine-and-
spirit business. But, as remarked just now, there is no
telling where the legislation will stop.
* * * •
The Chillagoe Co., which used to be the New
Chillagoe Railway and Mines, and before that was the
Chillagoe Railway and Mines, and before that again was
the Chillagoe Proprietary
Written To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1906 .. £10,498 Nil £9,965 £533 £533
1907 .. 55,201 Nil 49,051 6,150 6,683
Premiums on new shares .. 14,750 21,433
f £33,091 Nil 30,620 2,471 'j
1908 -( Written off new share v 23,899
V premiums .... 5 J
1909 .. £63,679 Nil 49,563 14,116 38,015
The original co. was formed in the early ’nineties to open
up North Queensland mines, alleged to be of great
size and richness; and, mainly to connect them
with a market, authority was got to build a rail-
way. The mines, which at one time were outrageously
boomed, have proved most disappointing ; and in the
present report the matter is mentioned this way :
“Operations at the co.'s mines at Chillagoe during the
year were restricted in extent and not encouraging.”
Hopes are, however, based on the railway and the smelt-
ing works. With the sanction of the State, which guaran-
tees 2£ per cent, on the debentures, theco. is pushing the
railway on to the Etheridge field ; and, besides collecting
freight, the eo. hopes to gather ore for its reduction
works, which are among the finest in Australia, and have
lately been doing some of the very best work. Unfor-
tunately, the people for whom it does this work
often get very little out of it—the Mungana Co.,
for instance—on account of the awful complexity
of much of the ore in the district. It can be
seen from the table that, though the Chillagoe Co.
shows a big px-ofit now and then, the bulk of it is written
off. Up to novv mine development—that is to say, the
money spent on shaft-sinking, driving and other develop-
mental work—has been treated as an asset; then as a
drive, for instance, has exhausted the ore in its neighbor-
hood, the cost of the drive has been written off. Thus
profits have been inflated by neglecting to charge to
expenses much of what ought to have been so charged,
and the amount has had subsequently to be written off.
Fortunately the “ development” item has now been got
rid of altogether.
The recent history of the railway has been as
follows
Expen- Balance
Dec., Receipts. diture. over Exes.
1903 £60,300 £26,071 £34,229
1904 .. 50,112 21,927 28,185
1905 .. 63,871 23,753 40,118
Mar.,
1906 (3 mos.) 14,503 5,777 8,726
1907 .. 87,628 26,475 61,153
1908 .. 114,840 36,847 77,993
1909 .. 105,038 37,125 67,913
The net revenue from works was :
Chillagoe railway (as above) .. £67,913
Etheridge line, in progress .. 6,383
Wharf 3,648
Total £77,944
Excluding the debenture interest (£24,915) from the ex-
penses, the gross profit for the year was £88,594. Deduct-
ing £77,944 from that we get £10,650, which seems to
represent the total gross profit made last year oh mining
and smelting. It is not possible to divide up the mining
and smelting profits further ; but so little mining was
done that probably the whole profit belonged to the
sineltihg. In fact, there may have been a small loss on
the mining. For a year £10,650 gross is a very poor
return on works which stand in the books at just over
£125,000. The co. has been charged with being a cor-
morant in its capacity as a smelter; but it is certainly
not getting fat on it.
The co.’s share capital is £450,987 (a million
shares paid mostly to 9s). There were on March 31 the
following liabilities: —
Chillagoe Debentures .. .. £573,300
Etheridge Debentures .. .. 200,000
Etheridge overdraft 56,758
Debenture interest, etc 73,712
Total £903,770
The old Chillagoe debenture-holders agreed to accept 5
per cent, in any year in which the co. doesn’t pay
more than Is. per share div.; in such a year the
interest will be 6 per cent. The Etheridge debentures
carry 4J per cent.; they have netted about £94 15s.
On the Chillagoe debentures there is £47,496 of accrued
interest, for which deferred coupons have been issued ;
this, of course, pushes dividends a bit further into the
distance. Still nobody can tell what the future will be,
because nobody knows how the Etheridge and intervening
mineral country will develop. The railways and smelting
works have, however, a tremendous burden to carry.
“Mining properties, railway concessions, water rights,
etc., etc.,” stand in the books at £315,363 —the cost to
the new co. The mines taken over and included in this
are practically valueless at present prices ; they can make
no profit. The rest is paper. Thus, of the capital and
debentures, £315,363 is not represented by substantial
assets, which means that, in order to pay 5 per cent, all
round, the other assets must earn that much and £15,768
into the bargain.
■* m * *
Broken Hill is for the moment interested in
gold. The new show is quite near the town on the west
side, and during the last week a whole field has been
pegged out. But except on the parent claim, named
with some originality the Bowyang, no work beyond cut-
ting corner trenches and erecting posts has been done.
One of the “ rushers ” pegged out a piggery, which
adjoins the Bowyang, and the owner was very vexed
about it. He finally pegged out a claim himself, and
offered to swap. Even that failed, and now' the owner of
the piggery is about the only man in Broken Hill w’ho
hopes the gold show won’t come to anything. As a
matter of fact, it isn’t very likely that it will. The only
encouraging prospects found in the one shaft that has
been sunk on the reef are a few tiny specks of gold and a
fair sprinkling of pyrites.
Broken Hill South has been doing a good deal
of straightening up in the top levels, and a surprising
quantity of high-grade ore has been broken into. If they
had known of these bodies in the early days it would have
given the mine a different history’. There was a time
when the futui-e seemed to all hang on the sinking of a
winze. The mine manager wanted to sink the winze, and
the Board —in Sydney in those day’s—thought it wasn’t
worth while, as the mine was so clearly a duffer. After a
lot of persuasion the Board gave the manager his way,
and a rich patch of ore was broken into. Still, it was a
long time before the co. got out of financial difficulties.
The first concentrating mill was erected by Hawke and
Go., of Kapunda (S.A.). A set of Cornish rolls was broken,


HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD*, AGENTS,
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie. [*
la the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating- mills and workshops, every small item should oe
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving: waste of power, that make tor
high working costs. The type of bearing employed nas a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and.6s per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. VV. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 11*™ 1
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Go., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; oIZ-nib
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
* • * *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor ” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Beii s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s A-bestos-Pack<-d Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
. . * *
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of 97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.YV., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense * • • *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and. conditions of concentrating' ores, with'
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a,
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to he screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. I 1 or
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street. South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
■ * * *
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker’s name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co., Sydney and Melbourne.* U
* * * *
The .Toint Stock Companies’ Journal, London,
of 23/9/’OB, writes regarding the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office—viz. : that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the Twelve
Option ’ contract lately placed on the market.’’*
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Mki,bourne.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, whichis common slack, being
less than I£l b. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.* #
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
ail purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.* t
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sii.berbk.rg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * * *
Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent btreet,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are finding
an extensive market for Alf. Herbert’s High Speed Ball-
Bearing Drill. This machine has no gears, and is of the
simplest design ; it is very easy to work, and that it can
cut through a bar of |in. mild steel in three seconds
speaks for its working capacity. It has many' unique
features which recommend it as an up-to-date and valu-
able machine, and it has been the subject of many inter-
esting and remarkable tests.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UHION
Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Industrial and Eleotrlcal Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 11
Importers of Tramway, Mining,
and had to be replaced by another set. When they were
gent up from Kapunda the Silverton Tramway Co. refused
to deliver them without the money, and the manager had
to wire to Melbourne and get the Board to send round the
hat. Times have changed a bit since then.
*-* * *
Recent developments at Wyalong (N.S.W.) are
better than any for the previous six months. The True
Blue is sinking from the 1200 ft., and is down 35ft. in a
well-defined channel carrying average mineral ore. In-
creased yields are being obtained from battery stone,
which is treated at the co.’s mill ; and 25 tons of mineral
ore and concentrates treated at Cockle Creek averaged
7£oz. The Barrier Co. treated at the same works 16 tons
for soz. per ton. The Homeward Bound, in which a lot
of Sydney money is invested, is making big improvements
to the shaft before exploring the deep country. The
Golden Fleece has had a fairly long run of poor stone, but
the latest developments in the Keep-it-Dark, now amal-
gamated with the Fleece, point, to a change for the
better. In the early days of the field the Keep-it-Dark
was a highly productive property, and was the first to
send stone to Footscray (Vic.) for treatment. It is said
that a co. is prepared to take over the Fiery Cross at
Barmedman, on condition that the mine is unwatered.
A * *
Some of the sober men who are standing behind
Kyloe (N.S.W.) will be disappointed people if they don’t
buy their Christmas dinner with a Kyloe dividend. No
doubt, as the bottom levels have been opened up, the
mine has improved out of all recognition ; and, though it
isn’t of uniform width, the lode at No. 4 is a fine-looking
body. It is remarkably rich in spots; in one place
there is 7ft. of 25 p.c. ore. In fact, the ore going
into the little furnace yields an average of over 16
p.c. The bulk is, however, of much lower grade,
and the co. proposes to concentrate it first; the
mill is having the earlier finishing touches put on
it now. Ashcroft, the consulting engineer, is confident
about results ; but mill-concentrating is mostly a poor
makeshift, and that part of the business is quite likely
to yield some disappointments. They ought to know as
much about copper-concentration at YVallaroo and Moonta
as they do anywhere; yet at those works they only
recover 83 per cent, of the metal in their concentrates.
At Moonta, in fact, taking that mine by itself, the re-
covery is only 74 per cent. Nor are things improved
when the business is run on a smaller scale, as Girilam-
bone could testify.
* * * *
This shows the achievements of Boulder Per-
severance (W.A.) for 1908: —Receipts, £304,344; ex-
penditure (including administration charges, deprecia-
tion, developemnt, etc.), £257,619; profit, £46,725. The
co. brought forward £44,527, so there was a total of
£91,252 available. Dividends absorbed, £69,972'; £5OOO
was written off investments, so £16,280 was left to carry
forward. On December 31 the co. bad, in addition to
mine, plant and trimmings, the following possessions:—
Stores, £22,316; ditto, not allocated, £509; sundry
debtors, £334 ; investments, £5OOO ; broken ore reserve
(i.e., amount expended in getting 85,187 tons ready for
the mill), £20,202 ; bullion in transit, £20,964, and cash
£23,220. A sum of £49,470, representing ex-chairman
Frank Gardner’s loan and ever-increasing interest, also
appears in the list; but it is almost time the co. did
something else with it. Liabilities (principally sundry
creditors) total £16,096; so that the co. is still
well ahead of it. The average working cost was 19s. 4d.
per ton, as compared with 18s. 2d. for 1907. The increase
is attributed to: (1) “ The method of stoping adopted
proved increasingly disadvantageous,” (2) difficulties in
roasting, and (3) increased cost of power and labor. The
report states that, from the beginning of this year, money
spent on development in ore was to be charged to
“mining” instead of to “development.” This addition
to the cost of mining, however, is expected to be more
than balanced by economies in other directions, and a
material decrease in working expenses as compared with
those of 1908 is looked for. Ore reserves are given as
391,947 tons, valued at £547,093; and there are also
218,440 tons of “ probable ” payable ore. No ore below
1100 ft. has been included in the estimate, though the
management h ts hopes that the deep levels will make a
considerable addition to the reserves.
» « * •
Chairman S. W. Pardon writes from London re
some remarks concerning the Gwalia Consolidated
(B. l/4/’09): “The Bulletin is wrong; the position is
much better than it thinks. Messrs. Hooper, Speak and
Williams are consulting engineers to the co. Mr. Williams
is at present on the mine, and we have received a cable
this week advising us to double the present cyanide plant.
This, I need scarcely say, would not have been done
had there been any question as to its being a
success. Some six months ago Derenburg and Go.,
leading stockbrokers in London, were willing to
purchase our new issue of £25,000 at 20 per cent,
premium on the report of Mr. Snallcross. Tne share-
holders decided to take the shares at a still higher price.
In the early days the co. had a precarious history, and I
was asked to join the Board to pull it through. I think
I have succeeded. We have now between £30,000 and
£40,000 cash in hand out of a capital of £lOO,OOO. About
July 1 we shall have 30 stamps running, and within four
months from now the cyanide plant will be completed,
and we shall then be enabled to extract the profits from
the tailings heap, which were estimated by Mr. Shallcross
six months ago to be over £13,000, and which now
amount to at least £20,000. The mine is in its infancy so
far as developments go, but at the 200 ft. level we have
exactly the same value of ore as we have above.”
What The Bulletin said away back on April 1
was that, though a monthly profit of over £3OOO was
being 1 boasted about by Gwalia Consolidated barrackers,
that and more was being absorbed in capital expendi-
ture. The February, March and April results were
Expenditure Other Mine
(Revenue Expendi-
Gold. Account). ture.
February .. £7,197 £4,093 £2254
March.. .. 7,586 4,578 200-.
April .. .. 8,031 4,981 21 ' 5
£22,814 £13,652 £6431
So the total expenditure was £20,083 plus office and
management expenses ; and that would leave very little
of the £22,814. On top of that, as the chairman admits,
the consulting engineers recommended further capital
expenditure. But, even without that, what The Bul-
letin said on April 1 was so close up to the truth that
the variation can hardly be noticed with the naked eye.
* * * *
A few wrinkles can be got from Chaffers report
for 1908 on how to live well on £4092 a year. The re-
ceipts just topped this amount; yet after
London expenses had been deducted, and the officials
given their whack, £391 was left. With this balance
and £715 premium received on thesaie of forfeited shares,
the Board has written off the whole of the preliminary
and reconstruction expenses (U 785), and the loss incurred
on change of investments (£367), leaving a debit balance
of £45 at profit, and loss. The ore reserves are roughly
estimated at 20,000 tons of 425. 6d. ore. The report
mentions among other things that when the year closed
the available cash resources of the co. amounted to
£31,556, and that the royalty collected from the tribu-
tors whose term of agreement expired on April 13 last
was £3553.
* * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) is said to have much improved in
appearance and promise. Last year the co. just managed
to show a small profit, but the exceptionally heavy
amount charged up as development, and not included as
working expenditure, explained this. Receipts total
£32,402, and, after deducting £23,486 for general expen-
diture and writing off £7848 and £927 on account of
development and depreciation respectively, a surplus of
only £139 remains to carry forward. The reserve of gold is
given as 12,600 fine oz., which the manager reports is
about three times as much as was in sight at the end of
1907. The cash in hand amounts to £12,785, and what is
due to sundry creditors is more than offset by the value
of the stores on hand and the debts due to the co.
* * * *
H. C. Hoover is hustling in the new r6le of
managing director and chief scout for the Oroya-Brown
Hill Uo. During the past year he has gone into the
particulars of 600 or 700 propositions, and submitted to
the other members of the Board 60 properties in the
Malay States, 65 in W.A., 93 elsewhere in the Common-
wealth, 22 in Burmah, and 125 in other parts of the world.
Hoover gets nothing beyond out-of-pocket expenses, but
is entitled to a cut out of any profit made by the co.
on any of the transactions it enters into as the result of
his work.
* •* » *
Peter Finalyson and those of the old brigade in
the Long Tunnel Extended, YValhalla (Vic.), are not just
either to themselves or to their mine manager. Their
last balance-sheet is a tale of woe. The long-established
cash reserve has disappeared, all that is left being equal
to Board fees and salaries for about a month. Nine
pennyweight stone has wrought all this distress, and it
behoves Peter, like his famous namesake, to go in for a
little introspection. No one can accuse this Peter, how-
ever, of want of faith. So great was his faith, indeed,
that he thought past words of warning were so
much piffle. The Extended, he fancied, could live
for ever, the shoot could not shorten, or if it
was shortening it would turn back east. This was
the creed of the old Extended brigade. Though faith
is sublime it sometimes is as foolish as that of the seven
virgins who were sure they would wake in time for the
wedding breakfast. Peter and his colleagues, seeing this,
now throw blame on the mine manager for assuring them
as to the future of the lower levels. Should not their
own sense have told them, though, that the man who
advises that gold will be found beyond where it is exposed
is playing with risks? It would be well, too, to have the
manager’s statements produced. And, anyhow, instead
of giving a parting kick at their manager, why don’t the
directors view their mine in its altered aspect and pro-
pound a policy ? That will be the true test of the Board’s
grit.
* * * *
Burnt Creek, Bet Bet (Vic.), is a much older
alluvial concern than many of the cos. which are now
cock-a-whoop in that State. One or two reconstructions
have been its fate; and that sort of thing makes yu
think. So there is little hifalutin among the members of the
Board, save perhaps on the part of one hustling member,
who does not like marking time while the stage is being
reached for the scrip to have an active market. Prof.
Nanson is one.of the big guns in the co., and his mathe-
matical mind has long since grasped the fact that to belt
out wash while it is green and dripping doesn’t pay in the
long run even if it helps to a momentary spurt in the
share market. So he sits on the valve, and takes
off his kid gloves to press the handle down the tighter
whenever the word “shares’’pops out. The co., as the
result of his sagacity, has a big block of the gutter drained
and draining. Yet the word still is “Go slow 1 Six
months’ work has netted £2OOO in profits. The Govern-
ment loan is down to £l5OO, and calls ought to be
done with and divs. near at hand. What is more, the
grade of the wash has improved. That means a lot to
Burnt Creek, for it works more cheaply than any other
alluvial show in ihe State. Consequently the outlook all
round is better than for ten years past.
* * * *
For the past half-year the New Moon, Bendigo,
got down to an average of 3dwt. 22gr., the lowest on the
record of the present 23-year-old co. Still even on that
it paid £338 for machinery, provided £3ll for renewals,
and carried forward an extra £1395. Costs, excluding
the machinery item, are down to 14s. 6Jd. per ton ; and
no part of the mine expenditure is stuffed away into a
“ Development ” item. Surveyor Cundy has been over-
hauling the mine, and reports that “ there is every pro-
bability of an improvement shortly, seeing that so many
places are being operated upon.” The co. is in a fair
financial position : besides its reserve fund of £lO5O it has
a bank balance of £2lOO. The position ought to be
stronger, of course, for the co, has paid £338,400 bn a
capital of £11,560 ; but it has pulled through since 1890
without making a call, and has got into the habit of
thinking that it will always be able to pull through. It’s
lucky for the New Moon that it isn’t a lead or copper or
tin mine ; if it were, it would have been on the tailings
dump long ago.
* • * *
The C kxl Hope, a claim which 30 or 40 years
was the best known in the Grant district of Gipps-
land (Vic.), will probably be given another trial. The
original co. paid £27,000 in divs.; but bad surveying,
terrific costs, and poor mill work killed it. Another co.,
the Gippsland Prop., had a shot at it, trying to get to the
Good Hope reef at a lower level by means of a long
tunnel. It never reached the Good Hope shoot, but it
worked two poorer ones for a while, and then it gave in.
Surveyors Graven and Tuxen say that the tunnel de-
flected ; and the idea now is to drive another 700 ft.,
meantime working the other shoots with modern appli-
ances. Tuxen says that with economy sdwt. should pay.
The bottom tunnel is about 400 ft. below the one in which
the rich Good Hope shoot was worked ; and if it can pick up
that make, and drain it, work can go on cheaply by sink-
iny from the now heavily watered winzes sunk from the
upper tunnels.
* * * *
East Mexican has provided the biggest Charters
Towers turnover for the last fortnight. In driving .the
830 ft. east of the old underlay shaft, a vein was met at
340 ft. and followed to 353 ft., the reef gradually improving
from 6in. to ISin. ; and this caused the gamble. The level
has entered disturbed country, and the reef has pinched ;
but, notwithstanding this, many people are hopeful about
this development. If a good reef is found it will probably
cause a revival of Day Dawn P.C. and S.E. Day Daw n ;
up to now the latter has never been any good. The
eastern extension of the Day Dawn reef was a surprise,
and before Mills’ United got it, both the Mexican and New
Brilliant Freehold were down on their luck. The Day
Dawn reefs are now supposed to have a strong north-
easterly pitch ; if they have, some of the deep levels may
turn out well.
* * * *
New Einasleigh (Q.) sent 1586 tons of copper
ore to the Chillagoe smelters last month, and has a con-
tract to continue regular shipments. It is telegraphed
that No. 3 east crosscut has struck an ore body 47ft.
wide worth 8 per cent, copper ; the report goes on to say
that 28ft. averaged 11 per cent. The deepest level (No.
4) hasn’t struck the lode yet, but driving is going on.
Like many other copper shows, New Einasleigh is in need
of fresh capital, and J. Bull will be asked to put it up.
Most of the ore is sil cions, so it is proposed to build a
concentrator to reduce transport and smelting costs.
* * * *
At the Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) meeting in
Melbourne the chairman said the ore reserves im the
Duchess have increased to 34,959 tons, valued at £308,898.
This is a pretty way of reckoning things ; but the actual
copper contents are very little over 5000 tons, and that
sounds less in connection with such a big co. Things
certainly are looking exceeding well at the 260 ft. level,
but there is a long list of Queensland copper shows that
were bonanzas above 260 ft. However, 30 per cent,
ore is splendid bait to entice shilling calls, so if the Hamp-
den lower levels are not now thoroughly explored it won t
be the fault of the upper levels.
* * * *
Mount Morgan (Q.) does its best for the Great
Fitzroy, and in the annual report credits the latter with
758 tons copper and 46910 z. gold derived from Fitzroy
matte. Average gold contents amounted to nearly £24
per ton of copper. Mount Morgan has also offered to
supply the Fitzroy with a few thousand tons of basic ore
when the railway to Many Peak 3 is completed. But
Fitzroy has recently struck a pyritic patch of its own;
so it is not known whether Mount Morgan’s offer will be
accepted. Smelting costs over 19s. per ton of ore, and is
made expensive by the use, every month, of 800 tons
of limestone and 300 tons of ironstone to 3000 tons of
ore Total costs of mining and reducing ore to matte
were 325. Bd. for June ; but it is thought they can be re-
duced to 275. #
The Mungana Co. sends ore to the Chilla-
goe smelters, and the co. is debited with the actual cost
of treatment and refining. Originally the agreement
gave Chillagoe a bonus on Mungana ore, but that has
lately not been enforced. Mungana’s output was 3/,231
tons (dry weight) for nine months. This returned 1281
tons copper, 4333 tons lead, and 446,0000 z. silver. The
co. only received back 245. per ton, and the cost of
mining, development, management, and depreciation
swallowed nearly the whole of this, leaving a nominal
profit of 7d. per ton. No doubt costs were higher than
usual, as the creep in the Lady Jane mine necessitated
extra work ; but both this report and the previous one
indicate that at recent prices the greater part of the ore
is too poor and complex to stand the heavy expenses of
trea'merit. Since the start 126,235 tons have been smelted
for practically no profit, The profits of one lot have been
swallowed by losses on the next, and the shareholders
have not gathered in a bean.
* * * *
The Chillagoe Co., having proved that its own
local mines are not to be depended on, is reaching out
after things atEinasleigh and Etheridge. The bagging of
the Teesdale has followed that of the Daintree, and the
co. has also got options on various shows past Einasleigh.
There are also some prospectors out for the co. Now it’s
said that the line may be extended from Charleston to
Mosquito Creek, a place that owns some so-far small
silver-lead shows, fairly good in silver. Some options
have been taken out Percy River and Grlberton way,
which is 45 or 50 miles south of Einasleigh and in pretty
rough country. The smelting co. that hasn’t got its own
mines to fall back on is bound to be squeezed sooner or-
later ; and Chillagoe knows it. Hence this hustle.
“ Melilla,” from N.Q.: Tommy Burns is doing
some jumping-jack tricks in the market. Floated at
£l2 10s., shares sprang to £2O with a£l div.; then they
slumped to £6 ; then a £1 div. (the second); then the
half-yearly m eting and a £5 div., and an advance of £22
or so, followed by a collapse to £5 or £6. But again
a £5 div. ; prices up again, to see a collapse again to £5.
Now scrip is again going up, about £l4 or so, with pro-
bably another div. in the wind. This sort of see-saw
business leaves a nasty taste in the mouth of the outside
investor, and sooner or later he will want to know if they
can’t handle the mine better. The writer said all along
that the public would be treated to a polka dance, and it
seems this is what the public is getting. A lode-tin
show in N.Q. is about the most uncertain thing in the
world, and if the home crowd wants to gamble with it
the outsider has Mr. Buckley’s chance.
» * • *
The East Indies Concessions, Ltd., is just now
the rage in Brisbane. About eight square miles of
porphyritic rock on the north arm of the island of
Celebes, just north of the Equator, has been proved to be
gold-bearing. At least, a Brisbane syndicate has satis-
fied itself that the prospects over a portion of it are good
enough to warrant a further expenditure in the examina-
tion of the whole. H. Walker, mining engineer, hasspent
some months out there on behalf of a Brisbane crowd,
mainlv the Oorries, Robert Philp and Jas. Clarke (of pearl
fame)! and about 100 samples systematically collected over
a considerable area gave an average value of over 3dwt.
This result, combined with the assurance that the con-
ditions of work would be more favorable than in any
other mine in the world, was considered good enough to
encourage speculators to fall over each other in putting up
the cash to equip a party to spend three or four months
in a more thorough examination of the whole concession.
This party will leave early next month. The : deposit is
about eight, miles from the coast by road, on the slopes
of Mount Pani, and about 2000 ft. above the sea. The
country is cut up into gorges and precipices ; and water-
falls will, it is claimed, supply all the necessary power.
One expert calculates that there will be no difficulty in
running 800 head of stampers with this power. The stone
has simply, he reports, to be quarried out of existing faces ;
and the black labor available costs fromsd. toBd. a day.
The report published by Walker compares the position
with that of the Alaska Treadwell, where, with ore worth
just over $2 in gross value, the treatment ef 2000 tons
daily provides an annual dividend of £150,000. The
prospect is alluring ; nevertheless, it would be better to
see the same amount of enthusiasm and capital put into
one or two low-grade propositions which exist nearer
home.
Henry .Tones, of Hobart jam and Tongkah tin,
took Melbourne Stock Exchange brokers by storm. They
hadn’t had such free fizz since the days of Billee Jones
and Staples. Freeman had them all at the Vienna, and
’Enery rose to the occasion. Even when the fizz gave
out they talked tin—tin on the door-mat, tin ni the
street, and tin in the tram. What struck everyone
was that Jones was in earnest, and that the crowd
who heard him believed him. So they went panting
into the market next morning, feeling that there
was a run for their money ahead. That being so, it
behov s Jones to be careful about the arrangement he
makes for Melbourne and Sydney directorates. The
broking element is fatal to most shows, so if he intends
to have Boards in those places, let him pick and chose
with care.
* * * *
Vandemonian; The Wild Cat has no time
for art union balance-sheets. Such documents call,
not for sober criticism, but for the contemptuous blanky
of dismissal.... A. O. St. G.: Too vague and wordy
W. Fraser: The Haymarket ... P.W.F.:(I) Last two
Melbourne Tram notices, 22/8/’O7 and 13/8/08. (2) C. B.
of A. Pref. shares are not redeemable, but they are
entitled to divs. up to 4 per cent.. .Pelorous : (1) Can t
find any record of such a reward. (2) Yes ; but there
are numerous reservations.... T.W.F.: (1) Yes; for
prospectors. (2) No; no facilities.... W.E. (Mt. Perry).
Can get no information C.A.M. : Ask C. 1. Courtney,
Sulphide Corporation, Broken Hill Aurora B.: Best
thing von can do is to turn up the last notices of the co.,
B. 31/i.O/’O7 and B. 29/10/’OB.
* * * *
One C. J. Rovle, of Sydney, went for a little
spec, in Star of the East, Ballarat on the strength of
a tip from a director and another official. Snares
flopped, and Rovle propped. He wanted tojtnow why he
had to prop. Ballarat, as usual, couldn t find a reason.
Royle bought more shares to average, but later found
that he hadn’t bit bottom even then. B llarat is 100
miles from Melbourne, and if scrip falls in both places the
ordinarv innocent doesn’t wait for a reason, especially
from Ballarat. He scoots. Royle, the director, and the
other official didn’t do this. The first they knew that the
bubble was pricked, was the smell of bad air. Roy le
poured out his little grievance in a letter to the Aegus.
What the director and the other official did hasn t been
publiclv told, but the man in the street guesses when he
sees half the staff sacked and the mine handed over to
tributors. If The Bulletin hadn’t repeatedly given its
opinion about the Star and its mining, it might feel
sorrier for the director, and Royle, and the other man
than it does.
, * • *
From the crop statistics one can’t, of course, tell
how much good wheat land there is in Westralia ; but up
to now the actual results have been remarkably good.
The Agricultural section of the States Register was
issued the olher dav. It shows that there has been a
steady increase in wheat crops from 75,032 acres in 1898-0
to 279,609 acres in 1907-8. Every year of the 10 saw a
bigger area under wheat than there was in the year
before, and the average yield hasn’t once got under 10
bushels. The evenness of the yearly averages is most
striking ; the minimum was 10‘5 and the maximum 13 6.
The last was unusual. In every other year the average
was between 10 and 12 bushels. Certainly the total area
under wheat is comparatively small as vet, and the aver-
age may come down as the farms spread out; but as they
stand the figures are as good as any agncultural atatistics
published anywhere in Australia, and far better than
most. * * *
The South Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.) was floated
off from the highly successful Mt. Boppy about three
years ago; the co. is in 150,000 shares, of which 10 000
were reserved, and Abraham Hoffnung is chairman of this
as well as of the parent co. The idea was to get down to
the rich Boppy lode, and £50,000 was provmed for the
purpose. Two shafts have been sunk— Hoffnung s and
Neshani’s. A good deal of driving, etc., has been
done from Neshani’s shaft on what is known as the
Canbelego lode ; but so far nothing big has been found.
In the parent mine the No. 2 main shaft Henry s is
going down to 600 or 700 ft. to try to cut the stone that
fs worked at 400 ft, and lately at 500 ft. in the other work-
ings This shaft is between these main workings and the
southern boundary; and if the management can get on
to the stone here at the deeper 1-vels, the South Boppy
will feel much better. This Henry s shaft is now.down
over 350 ft., and is less than 300 ft from the South s hound-
ary. Hoffnung’s shaft, now about 400 ft. deep, " P r °,'
bablv be opened out at 600 ft. The new mine superintendent
is keeping: things moving, and has lately got in
drills for the first time. Through his influence, it is
stated on the field, an English co. will probably soon take
over the Birthday, the Oanbelego King, and other leas
to the east of the township.
(“ Wild Cat” continued on page 30).


CHERRY
BRANDY.
PETER F. HEERING
Purveyor to the King
v of England.
“SILVASHEEN’
Women who have once bought it,
and who make their own dresses,
will never use any other lining.
If their dresses are being made for
them, they instruct the dressmakers
to be sure to use “SILVASHEEN.”
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
See “SILVASHEEN” name on selvedge.
5
1
rv\
iWYftf \t
W
-FiL.
Its great fun for me to watch
some of my competitors. When
they commence in business they
sell everything the public want,
but when they get on their feet a
bit “they begin to put on side’’
“hoighty toighty”—“they don’t
keep this” and won’t stock
that —just as if their customers
were all brainless idiots, with
no opinion of their own and
lucky to be supplied by them
at all.
I once had a shop close to
one of those fellows and one
of the lines he would’nt keep
was R ob u r tea —and my word
the number of customers of his
who used to come to my shop
to get it would surprise you, and
they used to buy other things
from me at the same time. I’m
an old stager at the game and
l take jolly good care to keep
whatever I’m asked for —talking
about R o bur —-it’s not my place
to boost it up—there isn’t enough
to be made out of it, for that—
but it’s really astonishing how
people grow to like it and how
hard it is to get them off it
once they get started.
I sell about as much of the
No. 2 Grade as 1 do of the No. 1.
They are both good, ahhough, of
course the latter is very much
the nicer of the two.
The Grocer.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ Sydney, July 20, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
The Chelmsford Excellencies—seen at short
range they look very young to be Excellent—went
to the ball in aid of the Seamen’s Mission last
ilriday. Beulah Flats was the place wherein the
ball spun in the dining-room, to be accurate —
and, to my 36 minutes’ view of the function, it
seemed to be a beautiful and pretty-girled whirl,
ihe committee contrived to mislay itself, and
wasn t upstairs to do the Kindly Light act to
their Exes.; but some affluent-looking men,
including the Admiral, were on deck;
so perhaps the correct, prearranged thing
car tied out. His Ex. threw himself
with great vigor upon the mass of tangled
programmes, and seemed to enjoy disentangling
one for himself and one for Her. And all the
time the muffled strains of the Anthem floated
up the stairs and lift shaft. The Lady’s Ex.’s
white charmeuse gown was the prettiest, simplest
thing of its kind. It was simple in the
sense of its fashioning, with buttons all the way
down the front and on the short sleeves —buttons
that may have been cut steel, but which put up
excellent bluff of being diamonds. Mrs.
Havilah ” White, the owner of the Beulah
place, had encircled her very tall slight self in
white brocade, and run cherry velvet through her
russet hair.
Mrs. Tom Hughes’ tangerine satin and grey
ninon did the ball proud. The latest W. P.
Manning girl, in moonlight blue satin and with
live lilies of the valley in her hair, was an
attractive circumstance. And there was a flaxen-
haired charmer—such a lot of hair—who had put
herself into a most lovely shade of brown—a cock-
roach brown. The cockroach’s color is the
piettiest brown I know. Mrs. Monty Severn did
the recording angel in hydrangea pink silk in the
Bridge room ; Mrs. Hotham was the diplomatic
hon. sec. Lady Poore sent all her maids to help
in the tiring rooms, but she herself was absent
through sickness.
lhat Mrs. Wright, the wife of the Archbishop-
elect of Sydney, has blood of the right lapis lazuli
1u . e ... prove a deep joy to Sydney’s old
nobility. Ihe lady was a daughter of the late
Colonel Ivo Fiennes, and grand-daughter of 13th
Laron Lord Saye and Sele. A Saye and Sele
was beheaded in Cheapside (London) in 1451, and
another was fatally assaulted with a battle-axe or
something at the Battle of Barnet by parties
who have not yet been arrested. To give her the
whole of the maiden surname which was hers,
she was Miss Twistleton-Wykeham-Fiennes. Two
hyphens ! When you meet her. and should you
have occasion to mention her gallant father’s
name, be sure you pronounce him Fynes, else
she 11 think you are of that poisonous member of
the mushroom family—the toadstool. No doubt
Mrs. Wright will prove a most desirable immigrant,
for she was a deaconess, and all the deaconesses
1 ve met were lovable creatures.
Sydneysider Alex. Moir (of the firm of Morgan
and binith) was one of the crowd of passengers on
the Assiniboia, that shot the lock (as if it were a
chute or a rapid) close by Lake Superior early last
month. In a letter to a friend here he tells that
the human freight had thrill enough to last it for
the rest of its joint and several life. One vessel
sphntered a gate of the lock and broke it open.
I he water inside the lock was many yards higher
than the water outside, and the tall water had
a whole lake behind it to shove it along. So it
just fell into the hole opened for it—fell a million
tons at a time—with ships and other goods on top
of it, and when the people on the ships that were
down in the hole saw a lake and a fleet spilling on
them they said things in their haste. Luckily the
first rush of the water washed the bottom ships
out of the way before the top ships fell on them.
One of the falling vessels was the several-thousand
tonner Assiniboia. As it shot forward its
stern was high in the air, and the big pro-
peller wheel out of the water. When it struck
the level the force of the current sent it over on
its beam ends, and it took in a heap of brine
through an open gangway. Our friends. Sir
'Li ry and Miss Rawson, were on board ; and
another Sydney passenger was Mr. Hayward, of
George-street. Miss Rawson and other ladies hadn’t
recovered from the shock when the letter was
written, on June 9, If the experience had lasted
longer than the two or three minutes into which
it was crammed, a lot of nervous wrecks would be
returned to various anxious relatives. The
Sydney man adds that the Australians are
getting more than their share of experiences. On
the Canadian railway journey they were stuck for
two days 150 miles out of Vancouver, and close to
the Rockies, by a, washaway on the line.
Mrs. Willie Kelly and the dimpled infant have
left for Melbourne, where the legislative husband
and father has taken a house. The Goulds are on
their way hither from foreign parts, hence the
Kellys had to quit Eynesburv.
Miss Leila Evans, one of the ewe lambs of the
ex-Premier of Tasmania, is squandering July in
our city. She is with the two Inglis Clark girls
(other Hobartians), out Kirribilli Pointward.
Maggie Papakura and a pretty niece like
a Neapolitan came from Maoriland with the
Maori footballers, and are staying at the Grosvenor.
A huge, over-manned reception was given to the
visitors at the Town Hall. Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan
welcomed them in the name of everything and
everyone, and said the exalted and exultant
thing about the noble Maori race. Many of
the team wore the native mats of their race
over their Dominion 1909 clothes. Maggie
and her niece were also matted, with the
greenstone tiki, and crimson handkerchiefs
on their heads. A Saxon-like person, Mr.
Hettitt, who was adorned with a stomacher com-
posed apparently of wooden matches, interpreted
when certain speakers used their own language.
A visitor to Sydney, Mr. Baume, K.C., of Auck-
land, shot some witty darts, and countered at his
interjectors with a nimble readiness. A dignified
old chief said, in his own tongue, that “we in-
tended taking that,” meaning the big silver cup
to be battled for, “back home.” A few ladies,
including Mrs. O'Sullivan and her youngest
daughter, were at the oratorical matinee.
Mrs. Chomley, widow of the Vic. Inspector-
General of Police, is .on a visit to our city this
shining, chilly time of July. Other sojourners for
a time are the Mahaffys and their two toddlers.
The Consett Stephens were amongst the Aus-
tralians at the wedding of the Myee Carring-
ton damosel, and Lord C. made special reference
to them in his speech. The late Alfred Stephen
supplied the bride’s name of Myee—which means
native-born.
Dr. Morton, of Edgcliff, was married last week
to .Nurse Witte, and the bridal pair left for
Colombo on Saturday.
Captain Leslie Wilson—once Sydney’s own
dear Captain Wilson—quitted the state of single
wickedness last month, when Miss Winifred Smith
became Mrs. Wilson. Nearly all the well-known
Svdney-side absentees vvere present at the
orange-blossoming, Burdekins, David Andersons,
Oswald Watts amongst them. The name of our
little friend, Mr. Robertson Clarke, does not blazon
on the list; but probably he was in Ireland, where
his bride-elect. Lady Beatrice Moore, blooms on
the family seat in County Kildare.
_ Weddings to occur shortly are those of Miss
Daisy Willis to Mr. Parbury; and Miss Eglantine
Campbell to Mr North, a naval man.
Lime is the newest new color in millinery and
frock materials. It is a pale greenery-yallery. It
is jaundice done into satin ribbon and shantung,
it must have been invented by an enemy of
womankind. In the coming spring, when the
young woman’s fancy light!v turns to thoughts of
bine, you must not tell her the truth, which is
that she is looking sickly ; but devise some guile-
ful statement which won’t bear close inspection.
One big George-street firm is showing its spring
millinery and frockery, and there is a big black
hat there wrapped around thecrown with lime satin
and supporting, as to brim, a mass of thesame hued
feathers. It is waiting for a woman with the moral
courage of a Joan of Arc to buy and wear it.
Much of the millinery is artistic and beautiful •
some is daring, some crazy. On a wide flattish
hat the originator has laid a quantity of gold
fisher net- laid it like a poultice—and then decked
the net with a huge bow of pink baby roses. Just
they twain—the net and the roses.
A cream straw motor bonnet has, besides its veil
just a single string of baby roses round thecrown’
Much tiny babes the roses are. One of the prettiest
hats in the exhibition is a black (light in texture)
straw, smothered in little pink flowers somethin” -
fike our Christmas roses, and a great flat bow of
prune velvet. The most artistic model is a dull
green coarse straw with jewelled garniture and
feathers, all of the same soft green hue. Then a
grey hat with long, grey ostrich plumes has small
pmk roses stuck down at intervals into the
feathers. You may in such hats discern symptoms
of desperation on the part of the London and
Jrans hattehnas. Their originality is petering
fur pie, pink, and white clover covers one
head-outfit, and an upstanding bunch of black
wallflowers adorns another.
In the model robe paddock a sapphire blue
crepe shantung with jet takes the eye. On the
cot sage, a jet-platter; at the back, between the
shoulder blades, another jet-platter. Presiding
authority gazes tenderly at this model. It cannot
be copied because of the jettery on it. Without
that it would lose its stamp of original merit, and
the ike jet to stamp another isn’t in the Common-
wealth. But the peach of the exhibits is a pink
charmeuse robe with an overdress of grey ninon
opening down the front. A wide garniture of
dull silver with big black blister pearls is laid on
over lead lace, and this precious garniture encircles
the robe around the bust and below the knees
“It is like buying jewellery,” remarks the
Mistress of the Robes, “to buy a gown like that.
Ihe garniture alone cost I forget the sum
mentioned, but several persons listening dropped
dead at the magnitude of the figure.
The fact that the new shantungs have a ribby
stripe must be pigeon-holed in a brain cell. A
dull cherry foulard street frock with a white stripe
had a coat of lace and foulard. And there’s a
deep cream robe length .of darned silk net waitin” -
to be made up. The feel of some of these
luxurious materials is sensuously attractive. I
longed to be a cat and roll on them. I feel as" if I
could get more pure joy out of rolling on darned
silk net ar.d foulard than in wearing them.
Talking of elegant frockery : Mrs. Tommy was
abroad on a day last week in autumnal-like cos-
tume of brown cloth, with black pipings, edgings
and the like. Her big cavalier hat carried the
champion ostrich brown feathers. The bird that
grew those plumes must have taken a real interest
m his work. ’The Burns’s still abide at the
Gunyah, but Mrs. is on a mad hunt for a suitable
furnished house with a grass plot and a garage.
Talking of eccentric millinery : Picture post-
cards fired at me from Paris in recent months
show the most amazing millinery. Since Rost-
and’s last play, “Chanticleer,” hecame the main
literary topic, it is quite usual to see a whole
rooster dominating, in a squatting position, a hat
His comb is done in red cloth, and his wings are
outspread from side to side across the brim.
, A returned Sydneysider mentions that when
she left the dismal French capital early last
month—this being the fashionable time for Paris
to be dismal—there were still some smart frockers
abroad. (This is encouraging.) At certain Sun-
day races she saw flannel frocks in black and
white, or grey and white stripes, with cute little
bodies scantily trimmed with empire-green satin
and metallic buttons.
As Rosalind, Miss Nellie Stewart nightly
will power. She must feel like doing
what Jaques invites someone to do—sit down
and rail against our mistress, the world and
all our misery. For her throat is so bad that it
must be a minor form of torture for her to tax it
with the long, trying role of the amorous, clamor-
ous female who goes into the forest to pursue the
wrestler. Her voice is never inaudible or indis-
tinct, but its production suggests that it rasps her
throat like broken oystershells. To have to say
all the supernally witty and wise Rosalind is ms
ana to caper like the kid, whose skin she wears as
a doublet, all with a wickedly-sore throat—“good
my complexion !” as she says in the play, it all
means earning very hard cash for Sweet Nell.
Miss Ada Ward has given two lectures here in
the Y.M.C.A. Hall, and has preached (on a Sun-
day inornmg) in the Rev. Mr. Percival’s church
in Bourke-street; but, according to her own
plaint, she has not made a financial success of
doing of the Lord’s work. Yet there is no reason
why she should not be nearly as successful as the
Alex.-Chaps. It is all a question of management,
xirst, she wants a stronger company. One essen-
tial is a male hymn singer with a nice voice, “a
way wid him,” and the ability to put up a good
nght on a platform—with the Devil, of course.
He would require to have a tale to tell of great
spiritual sufferings (“Doth the wild ass bray when
£ rass ’ or J ow eth the ox over his fodder ? ”),
as had the late gilded missioners. And above all
he should, like them, be a good business manager,
x air Ada is no business woman. Her manager
might run her as are incarnation of Deborah the
prophetess, who was once a judge (or judgess)
in Israel, and who dwelt under a palm tree on
Mount Ephraim.
Dressed in black, and wearing a black picture
hat, the “brand” told the story of her life, and
the unaccountable impulse that snatched her out
of the stove. She had two husbands (not simul-
taneously, of course) and has been for many years
a widow. Theatre-goers who knew Miss Ward in
her successful professional days mention her beau-
tiful hands. Ihat is her pictured hand that for
some 25 years has been on a hoarding poster
advertising a certain soap. The ring on the
pretty paw s third finger was the extremely
expensive jewel that the millionaire soap potentate
offered the artiste in token of engagement with a
view to matrimony. However, the engagement was
smashed. Miss Ward’s silence about this romantic
episode is a proof of her poor business ability.
According to Rev. Mr. Percival, who has be-
friended the lady, several scalps have fallen to her
evangelising. Some actors in Sydney have re-
pented and intend leaving the stage. Well some
actors in Sydney ought to leave the stage.
Meantime, Miss Tittell Brune, who is too
successful to see the error of the stage, abides in
Sydney, waiting and watching ever, longing and
lingering yet, whilst the plumping of her sub-
scription list goes on amongst her girl admirers.
As soon as the little souvenir is handed over,
Sunday Brune will depart.
. Sf TJ: ll „ T eves a S°- Messrs. Claude McKay (of
the J.C.W. official staff) and Cyril Mackay (of
the same entrepreneur’s dramatic co.) went to
sample Bentley’s “ Hamlet ” at the Criterion.
.Naturally they didn’t expect to pay, and the
runner of the Lentley show, Mr. Stanley McKay
was produced to admit them. They were ad-
mitted. That’s all. There isn’t any climax.
The humor of the thing lay in the three McKays
meeting, and two of them taking the third down
for seats.
The Mackay of the dramatic staff has all his
domestic belongings with him now, including his
mother, “Miss Nicholls,” who will play in “The
Flag Lieutenant.” Her brother, Harry Nicholls,
was for long the leading comic actor at
Drury Lane. When Miss Nicholls appeared at
rehearsal, Titheradge, senior, who had not previ-
ously met the lady, balanced up to her, exclaim-
ing, “How like Harry you are!” So cordial
relations were established.
lalking about the actor and his dramatic
maternal progenitor : Mr. Waller, who is here for
the “F.L.” tells how he. used to play man? parts
m the co. of his mother (Mrs. Lewis Waller).
Sometimes he was her husband, anon he was her
lover, or possibly her groom. But he used to
play under the name of Edmonde. Upon a
night, when on tour young Waller carried his
mother’s wraps to her room—they were abiding
at the same hotel —and stayed a while chatting to
her. Scandalised menials carried the fact to the
proprietor, and next day mother and son were
requested to quit. Which proves that one
shouldn’t leap at a conclusion without making
sure that the conclusion won’t hit back with all
its claws.
Loyal playgoers will be glad to learn that Miss
Emma Temple is in the cast of “ The Flag Lieu-
tenant.” She is a hyphened Mrs. of some im-
portance.
. Mrs. Gralvany, a Spaniard, just 28 years young,
is the latest Drury Lane prima donna, with whose
brilliant light soprano a melody-loving London is
enchanted. She sang before the Queen at the
shortest command notice on record—that counts as
a “ scalp ”in Britain. The Wales pair had heard
her sing at a private house, and next day they
whooped to Queen Alexandra about what she
had missed. “I’ll take a little good music
at three o clock,” said the Queen ; “ telephone
for this Juanita,” or words to that effect. It
was then two o’clock, and the message reached
Galvany as she was lunching hurriedly within an
hour of leaving England. She, sprinted to the
station where her trunks had gone, secured a
gown, hurried to a hairdresser’s, and then to a
hotel, where she dressed. So she was warbling to
the Queen, who can’t be as deaf as reported, by
the hour fixed.
The old foolish superstition that the wife was
fashioned to truckle to her hubby— to brew him
his morning tea when the maid goes on the tear,
bring medicaments for his head when he follows
the servitor’s cheery example, and at the same
time receive, with an air of blind faith, his un-
convincing accounts of how he spent the evening
is receiving a series of sharp, telling biffs these
days. As the New Theology has smitten certain
of the churches, so the New Sociology has smitten
certain homes. At the Mold (England) Presby-
terbin Church, according to London Daily Mail
(2/6/’O9), the word “obey” has been eliminated from
the marriage service. In the same issue of the same
paper Mr. H. R. Mansfield, M.P. for Spalding,
is made to refer to the “obey ” clause in the Church
of England marriage service as “ a barbaric piece
of medievalism.” “Everybody,” said the legis-
lator, amid much enthusiasm, “ knew that the pro-
mise to obey was one that was not, as a rule, strictly
observed in married life.” The movement is not
confined to the Cold Land. Here are the rules
drawn up by a maiden, described in the U.S.
press as “the daughter of a well-to-do broker, of
Montclair, New Jersey,” to be signed by her
prospective husband before a J.P. as a condition
of marriage:—
I solemnly promise, before a Justice of the Peace and
the woman I have asked to be my wife, to give her mv
pay every Saturday night. "
To be home every night by nine o’clock, unless my wife
is out with me. J
Never to go to balls or parties without her, and
then never to dance with anybody else without her per-
mission. H
To be kind always to her mother and her little brother.
Never to join any lodge that prohibits women, and not
then, unless she wishes to join too.
Never to smoke more than three cigars on a week-dav
and not more than five on Sunday.
Never to smoke cigarettes at all and never to use pro-
fane language. y
To beat the carpets every spring without grumbling.
to pack my own laundry each week.
Never to drink intoxicating liquors or beers, except at
the beginning of the annual spring house-cleaning, and
then only three glasses in the presence of my wife.
Never to keep a dog, and never to bring a dog home
and say I am to keep it just for a little while for a friend
who has gone out of town.
To do half the comforting and caring for thelchildren we
may have when they cry at night.
To fix the fire every morning and night in such a wav
the dampers^ 6 W ' U neV<?r have t 0 d ° an - ythin » but adjust
Not less surprising than the rules is the fact that
the author of them has got a wooer to subscribe
his name to them.
Do not forget the poster ball on August 10, in
aid of the Nurses’ Home. The Sword and Rose
Dance that proved such a success in the Muffs’
production of “ David Garrick ” will be repeated
by the same bunch of nice girls and boys.
Yours affectionately.
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
DIAMOND & GEM ORNAMENTS
THE LATEST
LONDON AND CONTINENTAL
DESIGNS.
VISITORS TO SVbNEY
ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE NEW SHOWROOMS.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
V.
1
S®
m
□L
WHEN the little folk have a party it’s a grand thing
to have some form of amusement that will interest
them all. That is exactly what the Edison Phono-
graph does. It is designed to interest, amuse and elevate.
There is such a variety in the Edison Records that it
is a simple matter to select items particularly suitable for
young people, and give them a real good time. Did you
ever know the Edison fail to draw 1 You can make the
home the most attractive spot on earth with an Edison
Phonograph, which will reproduce anything from a coon
song to a sparkling operatic selection.
It is a wise investment for all parents to purchase
one of these admirable entertainers. If YOU have never
heard a new model Edison, call on your nearest dealer
and ask him to let you hear a few of the four-minute
Amberol Records on one. We will forward his address on
request.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
DEPT. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney’s Model Suburb.
Bankstown, the present terminus of the Belmore Railway Extension, has been
described as Sydney’s Model Suburb. And GREENACRE PARK
ESTATE, which surrounds the Station, is the pick of Bankstown.
The lots are large—the land is rich —the air is pure and dry. ihe train
journey to town takes a very little while—the weekly tickets cost you less
than sd. a day.
Business Sites, from 355. a foot; Building Lots, £l6 10s. ; Acre Farmlets,
£3O. Terms, from £1 deposit and 10s. monthly. Plan and booklet free.
Make Money at Riverside Heights.
No investment in Sydney to-day is surer and safer than lots in RIVERSIDE
HEIGHTS ESTATE, Newington, Auburn. This estate adjoins the site
of the new abattoirs, on which the Government is spending a million sterling.
It is almost certain that big saleyards will be established there. Soon over
1000 families will be wanting homes near the abattoirs, and the most
convenient home sites are on Riverside Heights Estate. Values must go up.
Big lots adjoining the abattoir site, near Parramatta Road, Auburn, from £l4,
on such terms as 10s. down and ss. a month. Would you like a plan and
booklet ?
For Market Gardeners.
The demand for vegetables in
Sydney is enormous, and constantly
growing. Prices are high—profits
are good. At QUAKER’S
HILL ESTATE, next to
Quaker’s Hill Railway Station, just
24 miles from Sydney, the soil is
rich and deep. Market gardening
blocks of this good land are on offer
at £l3 per acre for 5-acre blocks
near the station. Terms are from
£2 deposit and £1 monthly. Better
investigate.
Will Double in Value.
Lots on RAILWAY
WORKS ESTATE,
CLYDE, must double in value
shortly. They are near Clyde
Railway Station, close to the big
reserve resumed by the Govern-
ment for railway works, and in
the centre of a manufacturing
district.
Deep building allotments, 40ft.
frontage, from 15s. per foot.
Terms—£l down, and 10s.
monthly.
ARTHUR RICKARD & Co. Ltd.,
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Auctioneers and Realty Specialists.
araraasan
mmm-' ■
~ „l Hr . T j
iijpi •'. liiiii ' , ‘ ,,l Ini
m
THE
A
FOP
MULSION


ALWAYS ORDER
Whisky and "Schweppe
(See Red Seal on Every Bottle.)
9 9
1
mn
i
a:=.
, T
,
“ If Women Only Knew ! ”
Or realised the immense importance of the
right corset for their particular style of
figure—there would be nothing heard of the
great discomfort and ill-health so prevalent
amongst them. The Corset is the foundation
of good dressing—without it, fashions would
lose their greatest essential to perfection
and popularity.
Royal “ P.D.”
Rustless Corsets
Are the Corsets that the most famous co«-
tumieres of the world choose, in order that
their most beautiful creations may be inter-
preted so as to bring out their most glorious
ideas. Every pair is so exquisitely con-
structed—and so designed on scientific and
hygienic lines, that comfort and health are
safeguarded. They have a system of boning,
too, which is so superior to all other Corsets
that they are more pliable—last longer—give
greater service—are more stylish. Prices
range from 5/11 upwards.
“ Ask Your Draper ! ”
TRADE
l 4?
7m>
MARK
mm KQDifi
TEA
Have you voted for the
KANDY KOOLA Com-
petition Giris yet 7
Watch the Voting
Returns.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 19, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik, —
Railway Commissioner Tait’s only chick has
lengthened her skirts and tucked up her hair, and
a proud parent “celebrated” with a dance.
Guido Baracchi, the one son of Victoria’s astrono-
mer, had the first two-step with the winsome little
lady, and later on at the supper responded to the
toast of her very great happiness. Which has
been duly noted by other mammas with a sigh.
For Guido inherits wealth from his lately-departed
mother, who was a Petty, besides much charm of
manner from his Italian father.
The opening of the Vic. Artists’ Show, ’way out
at Eastern Hill, was the usual social squash, with
no hope of seeing anything but Next-Door’s
shoulders and hat. The canvases were a mystical
quantity, invisible to the naked eye. The Car-
michael opened the show—a special thickness of
bee-swarm, moving slowly, showed his where-
abouts. Occasionally, the beset Governor man
squared his shoulders before a special bit of paint
and daub, and as the front layers of humanity
propped suddenly, the back layers almost top-
pled down stairs. The Carmichael lady may
have been there; but there was nothing tan-
gible to suggest the fact. The Guv’ment
House people arrived in streaks, anyhow. Before
three, Victor Hood, with worn and anxious mien,
stood on the steps of the red-brick building, like
Julius Napoleon on the rock, gazing over the
heads of pedestrians toward the high road of the
motored throng. No Governor ! Suddenly Car-
michael appeared at his feet— walking. What a
horribly unexpected freak for a Governor 1 The
orchestra suddenly began to blow “Gor Save”
backwards, and the reception committee dashed to
attention. The much-brayed-about Braytons,
with a bodyguard of Shakspearian co., struggled
wildly through the show. Gushers tried ener-
getically to make Shakspearian conversation, but
the co. won’t rise to the occasion—much to the
disgust of fashionables who have been “reading
up ’ with feverish haste. The trams and trains
in the subbubs have been lined with studious faces
poring over the “Life of Bacon,” and Mullens
sold out ” about 500 copies of “The Taming of
the Shrew. One youth of fashionable circles
said, “ Bai Jove, isn’t it ripping! The Evening
Wasii gave the whole story in plain English.”
I he committee eventually lassooed the theatricals
for tea (the Governor having escaped), and
valiantly kept the herd from rushing the
few square inches of committee room. Presi-
dent M'Cubbin’s missus hostessed in most
fashionable toggery of dark blue, plastered on and
fixed there with rows and rows of black buttons,
it was the only circumstance sartorial that hit
out of the crush, except the Brayton’s adorable
coat of squirrel. An extinguisher hat of silver-
grey hid the rest of the lady. Odd glimpses of
color on the -walls made one vow to return and
prowl around in comfort on an unsocial day.
A horrific thing happened at a recent swaggah
ball (not so swaggah but what one could buy a
ticket for half a sovereign) that has left its agonised
aftermath of scandal and gossip ever since. A
tea-room girl—-“my dear, a tea- room girl!’’
danced with an elevated gentleman of waxen ten-
hirsute direction. I don’t mean
that they danced in that direction—also please
understand that the gentleman wasn’t ele-
vated with drink but with rank. She (pre-
sumptuous gyurl) not only danced with this
ex Excellent gentleman, but danced in the
official set. the arrangement whereof sends dance
stewards off their pates and causes enough heart-
burning to spoil twelve months’ dinners. The
girl looked lovely (so all the men declared when
the cats were not near). She was the belle of the
ball. Her dress was irreproachable, and her
hair was like a poet’s dream. Someone
in authority dared to introduce her to the
exalted (and quite admiring) ex-Excellent one
and without waiting for the flag signal from the
infuriated stewards, the square dance of honor
the set—got going. “Who is she?” whispered
the pussies in the corner. When the fact trans-
pired, the rest of the set was cleared up in a shovel
and driven frantically in its motors to the nearest
hospital. They are all doing as well as can be
expected—but “the shock, my dear!” All the
victims of the shock seemed to take it quite
seriously, with the exception of a frivolous matron
who remarked, “ I admire Miss Tea Room. She’s
a good strong cup. The next time she serves me
with a scone I shall award it to her for her bravery
in action.”
Talking about the fashionable craze for nursing,
a smart private hospital in one of the suburbs has
an F. Nightingale (“F.” standsfor Fashionable—
not Florence) who is “ the limit,” to quote Gil-
bert. The maiden dwells with mamma (who is a
widow of sheepy wealth) at a swagger city tavern
Every morning she drives in a hansom keb to the
suburban mendingshop, accompanied by her maid.
She descends in irreproachable morning toggery,
with dainty shoes, and Fifine frocks her in ador-
able Nightingale garb (linen of wedgewood blue
to accent the heavenly tinge of her orbs), and
speckless cap and apron. Then Fifine departs
until it is time to gather up the eventide remains
of her mistress, who is so intent on being an angel
of mercy to the sick (the wealthy sick) and'an
interesting “ sister” to the doctor men.
Artist “Bill ” Dyson wassummoned to Govern-
ment House last week in order that .State Excel-
lency Carmichael might hold converse with him.
This particular Excellency knows more about Art
in several of its various branches than any pre-
vious occupant of the Vic. gubernatorial bench,
and his interest in the subject is profound. He
has expressed a wish to have Norman Lindsay led
to him when that sprightly youth strikes Mel-
bourne on his coming Fogland trip, and mean-
while has subscribed joyfully to the Li ml.say-
illustrated edition de luxe of Hugh McCrae’s
poems, which is to burst upon Australia shortly.
The Glassy Harem bursts forth on July 22, in a
brave carnival. Ihere has been so much doing
in social quarters that the Rink has not
got its usual swagger crowd—but folk are
rolling up in the frosty mornings to practise
for the carnival, and society in general is
holding its head with all its hands, thinking out
original “team ” frocks. Prizes will be given for
a dozen or so of the best—the best team, best
dress, best skating—pretty well everything except
the hardest fall. The rest of society will roll up
in its motor, and sit with its feet on the hot pipes
watching the Big Freeze—which is not the same
as a Great Frost.
“ Battie Bors,” writer, and one-time secretary
for the Alexandra Catt Club, is being heard of
from London. The poor lady almost went under
from nervous prostration during the wild and
frantic caterwaul, scat and meaow that happened
at the club’s former rooms on the Collins-street
corner. Awful sounds penetrated to the ears of
passsers-by, who ducked their heads and hurried
on, too terrified to attempt an inquiry or rescue.
The Cats, behind glued doors, spat and clawed
and elevated Cain among themselves. Outsiders
only saw a grim procession of Catesses dragging
their duds to new quarters (over the Gas Cham-
bers, of all places), and a secretary, practically
given up for dead, carried on a stretcher (or
thereabouts) to the nearest outgoing liner. She
seems to have recovered—poor Miss Bors ! Gay
news comes of her helping in the marrying of a
sister. There is a list of sassietv guests like a
Court Chronicle. The bride, Eda Bors,
daughter of the late J. K. Bors, of Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.), and Mrs. Bors, of Sydney, was
married at Ravenscar, Portinan Square, London,
to Mr. Henniker Wilson, of the Royal Welsh
Fusileers, son of the late Henniker Wilson,
King’s Dragoon Guards, and of Crofton Hall,
Wakefield, Yorkshire (the many “ of’s ” make for
much swaggerness).
Word comes from entertainer “Jules Henri,”
of the Steel Company. (We used to know him as
Lionel Macartney.) In his wanderings he had
been to a Malay wedding, which began at eight in
the morning and meandered on till eight at
night. The guests remained seated at the break-
fast tables aU the time, and mostly employed them-
selves singing a chant. Towards evening their
voices were—well, hardly thething! Theunmarried
girls present wore grand dresses and high head-
gear of orange blossoms and tinsel, with embroid-
ered tinsel veils hanging down their backs. They
all sat together at one end of the table. There
were five wedding cakes, but none of them were
cut till next day, when slices were sent around.
The bride wore three wedding dresses during the
day, one at eight o’clock when she arrived,
another which she put on at 12. and another
at five o’clock—a beautiful white satin one this last.
The bride took her seat at the table and stayed
till eight o’clock, when she was escorted by her
parents to the bridal chamber, where the bride-
groom was waiting. He, lucky man, did not
appear at the wedding at all. The bride is not
allowed to leave her room for a week, but friends
are permitted to go and see her, and give her hints
about taming Petruchio.
The Society push that is making a stunt of ex-
traordinary play-acting grabbed the Royal for a
night in the scramble between the departure of
Beatrice Holloway and the arrival of the Asche-
Brayton million tons of scenery. Valkmge the
Lean, with his wife, Sylvia, who is religiously
trying to follow his cult, were the leading culprits
in the “Society” theatricals. They had the
intelligence to select a bright piece—“ The Case
of Rebellious Susan,” of which the Brough co.
made such a success in days of old. Vallange, as
the barrister bachelor, had got so much “ex-
perience” from 20 years’ stage practice in the
Divorce Court that he was able to pour cynical
advice and blessings on the many marriageable
and married couples in the show. The Vallange
missus, Lady Sue, rose quite above amateur
status. She was natural enough, and por-
trayed a most-lovable, topsy-turvy, changeable
woman. She wore adorable frocks —clingsome
cashmere-satin garments, with a cute idea of
big soft bows padding up the middle dis-
tance of the skirt. One was blue and another
was white muslin, but the muslin was glorified by
a charmeuse groundwork.
Solictor Hector Macdonald, her erring husband,
was convincingly sulky, and “made it up” with
the real masculine abruptness that does so rile a
woman who has coddled and pampered a quarrel.
Tommy Cochrane, that gay young blood about
town, made a success of his part. He yearned
for the “ gentle, spirituelle atmosphere ” of a
dainty nest, and to that end married an aggres-
sive young suffragette (Miss Levey), who insisted
on inciting the post office and telephone maidens
of Clapham to revolt —like Boadicea, who was
fl°n£r ef l by the Romans—and to neglect their daily
business. Kendall and Mrs. Alf Cornish, a de-
voted admiral and his wife, made a foil to the
puling moderns. Ruby Madden did some excel-
lent posing in black as Sue’s maid, and Baby
Beatrice perpetrated a certain amount of walking
on as a parlor-maid. Young Dawe, who supplied
the spice of romance for Rebellious Susan, did a
good imitation of Kolker. Marjorie Levey lost
her voice in her shoes, but looked dainty. She
was Inez, a widow, the necessary complement to
the cynical bachelor, Sir Dick.
In the house the Carmichaels centre-circled
with an aide or so and a couple of tame guberna-
torial feminine visitors. Mrs. Carmichael
waved a stupendous aigrette in her hair, and
cuddled down into a cosy sealskin. The Frank
Maddens boxed, and the Cloyne madam helped
out the centre-circle with pink roses in her hair,
and she had the Chief Justice as a rubicund
background. The Mayoress Burston, who always
wears blue, studded her new blue coat with alarm-
ing buttons. Mrs. ex-Mayor Pleasance came
along without her lord and boss, who is very sick.
Mrs. Hogan snooded her curls in golden glory,
and wore grey. The house was packed with
sassiety that came to applaud its friends and put
its mite into the charity box. Girleens, with the
red cross on the sleeves of their spangly dresses,
raked in considerable coin for programmes and
sweets.
Two big First Nights on Saturday (Hugh Ward
and his well-known stars, and the Asche pair)
turned Bourke-street, from Theatre Royal to
Princess’s, into an avenue of motors. Every taxi
in the city was in row, and hansoms
were packed in branch rows down cross
streets. Everybody in Melbourne with the
price of a seat about his or her clothes
was out theatrically. At the Princess’s, layers of
laughing lunatics were scrambling over each other
to get a crack to peep through in the crowd behind
the circle. Mrs. Dick Stewart, spreading grey
glories of a gown, brought the small daughter who
rs copying “Aunty Nell.” The railway Taits
brought the blossomed budlet and her insepar-
able schoolboy pal. Mrs. Hugh Ward, wrapped
in the magnificence of a white silk kimono,
boxed with the Brennans. One box held two
of the company’s husbands—one very tall and the
other short. I consigned the tall one to little
Rosie Musgrove and the short one to big Celia
Glnloni. Savages of all tribes (fellow club men of
the popular Hugh J.) headed big parties of daintily-
frocked feminines. Dr. Boyd hung his cheerfully
shiny bald head over the circle. Pretty
Mrs. Wallach, in a blue frock, was with
hubby in the stalls—her first appearance after
her Sydney winter jaunt. The Palotta got her-
self into some glory togs. A black and white in-
tricacy of deliciousness is her “coming home”
dress after the runaway marriage. A blue crdpy
thing, with a hat all made of osprey and other
expensive fish, she puts on to run away again.
The top-notch is when she wears scarcely
any clothes at all. Her theatre garnishing
of Grecian costume shows a slenderness
of grace curves that appeals to others than her
bachelor husband. Rosie Musgrove, as the
Slavey, wears open-work hosiery—the open work
confined to the heels—a rakish cap and paper
curls, a striped apron and a Cockney accent. Celia
Ghiloni puts severe expression into a black gown,
while Hugh Ward wears a grey frock coat (and
etceteras) and his semi-bald wig.
At the Royal, the University came in one re-
splendent whole. Chief Justice Madden headed
his clan with Mrs. Madden. Mrs. Asche was
in the manager’s box to watch the triumph of her
son, and two Asche sisters and one brother-in-
law made a beaming background. Norman
Menzies with his small wife, clad in purple
velvet, were in the opposite box with sister
Menzies, who shouted her presence in cherry-
colored shiny satin. The two Whiting girls,
with their hair snooded in ribbons, boxed
with host Jack M’Comas ; while pa and ma
kept a chaperonic eye from the circle. Mrs.
Raleigh mourned her earlier first-night frocks in
black. Mrs. Fisken spread herself in all the glory
of a Solomon in a cloak of faded rose. Germany
turned up in full width and a strong lager support.
It lent the show a solid grand-opera atmosphere.
The Wertheims and the von Pinschofs were
no small potatoes in the circle. The Rorsdorfs
also gave the flavor of the Fatherland. Mrs.
Borsdorf wrapped herself in magnificence. Her
cloak was rich black and a bold gold de-
sign wandered arrogantly over its vast surface.
Sep Miller was in strong, beaming evidence with
a following of the clan. The Winter Irvings
were in the stalls. There did not appear to be
any Governor. Which reminds me of a woe.
r I his week the Carmichaels depart to visit with
the Dudleys in Brisbane, and Victoria is
left lamenting. Nary a Guv’ to shower the
light of his countenance upon us.
The color scheme in the Asche production
just knocks this town endways. It is the last
struggle in harmony, and withal highly ac-
curate in detail. Asche himself, as the
Italian, dangles big wheels of ear-rings in his
ears. Lily Brayton burst forth in so much
sartorial glory that the she-spectators banged
their foreheads on the floor in sheer envy. Her
frockitig could easily stand weeding out. There is
rather a feeling of over-dressing, especially in her
last gown—a scarlet and gold mass of drapery that
takes up as much room as five Lily Braytons on
its own. Also she sticks too many feathers in her
hat—she’s gained a lot, I know, but they might
be shown by degrees. The cutest part of that
elaborate dress was the plain rose-pink underskirt,
just showing a glimpse of gold silk ankles. The
wedding dress was cloth of gold—one might say it
was conspicuous. Women whispered fearfully
that the “ stuff ” cost 20 guineas a yard— hand
woven. The prettiest gown was her first—glow-
ing grass-green from head to foot with the
wearer’s pretty face and hair snooded in a green
silk bonnet.
Mrs. Carreno has fixed with Benno Scherek, of
the bushy white hair, to putin another Australian
tour under hismanagement in the coming year. Her
first tour served to make her beloved of the cog-
noscenti, and the fruits of her reputation as a
magnetic pianiste are to be gathered next time.
The outside public that was just beginning to
think about Carreno when she had completed her
flying trip will undoubtedly Want to hear her
when she returns. She herself is keen on renew-
ing her acquaintance with Australia. The country
has attractions for her, and the enthusiasm of her
audiences satisfied her artistic yearnings for sym-
pathy.
Buried in a Queen-street workshop is a huge
altar-piece, waiting for transmission to the Luth-
eran Church at Hamilton. Peter Hansen, a
Danish artist, has evolved the big scenic effect,
which is a daring conception or mysticism of
Christ floating over the world. The workshop
contains also a pulpit and woodwork linings for
the church walls. They are worked solidly out of
Australian blaekwood. One Nosky is the donor
of this magnificence. Hansen has just finished
the decoratio/) of St. Mary’s, in Melbourne, and
seems to be an Australian pioneer in artistic
timber church interiors.
“Rosna” writes with chilblained fingers from
Adelaide :
No wonder the townships along the line right away up
to Oodnadatta implored our Admiral Excellency to come
again and bring the girls with him. The twins are
sportively determined to have every experience that can
possibly be squeezed out of the gubernatorial business,
and tbeir energy is a thing.of joy wherever they go.
They had scarcely time to brush the dust of the h>ng
railway travel out of their hair before they were whisked
off to the Adelaide Club dance, and their toes didn’t
strike one note of the tired feeling.
The John Lewises, father and damsels, have been hav-
ing a merry time in the cold countries. They w'ent north
first, and a gentleman of Japan invited them to a dinner
at which the guests sat on the floor, w'here each soon
became an island surrounded by 12 kinds of soup; and
there were 11 other courses, with jugglers and geishas
meandering between them. In America, motors, guides
and similar trifles were thrust at the party (father is in
the Leg. Council, besides being in the fat-stock trade) ;
and from there they bad, at latest, escaped to Europe.
Dr. R. D. Kleeman, formerly an Adelaide student, but
now sucking knowledge out of Cambridge, has just
dashed past 45 other competitors and won the Royal
Society’s Mackinnon Studentship. There is more credit
behind the circumstance than you might suspect at first
glimpse, for Dr. Kleeman was formerly a mechanic at
Tanunda, with neither coin nor influence to give him a
shove up Parnassus. He got into correspondence with
Professor Bragg about abstruse things, and that radium
enthusiast persuaded him to come down to the ’Varsity
and plunge through the science course. Later he became
a lecturer at the ’Varsity, and joined the Professor in his
beloved experiments. They published some pamphlets
on the subject, whereupon the ’Varsity handed the young
scientist a research scholarship. The present triumph is
worth £TSO a year ; and the Tanunda mechanic can find
plenty of use for it.
Grace Palotta hurried through Adelaide on Thursday
on her way to Melbourne, accompanied by the old
heavenly smile and the new millinery. Celia Ghiloni,
Rose Musgrove and Hugh Ward also smiled upon us for a
few minutes, and then fled on to make others feel happy.
A well known Anglican cleric, Canon Sumter, passed
out in Adelaide the other day, after shepherding in St.
Paul’s, a big city church, for close on 19 years. He was
keen on education, was a governor of St. Peter’s College,
and gave sundry other schools a word of advice now and
then. The Canon, who was the most musical canon we
had, was twice married, his widow being a daughter of
the late Dr. Schomburgk, who formerly trained our
Botanic Gardens the way they should grow.
Another death was that of Mr. C. J. Supple, one of
Adelaide’s younger legal lights. He was a popular
man, and he passed out at the age of 32, when he should
have had all the world before him.
The sporting proclivities of the chiffony sex have at
last compelled the S.A.J.C. authorities to “ do something”
to the ss. tote at Morphettville, and the old accommoda-
tion is to be increased threefold. Hitherto you never
knew whether you would emerge from the struggle dead
or merely mangled, and you never got off without leaving
portions of your wardrobe and your character in the
claws of some other cat. But the blame isn’t all to be
presented to this sex. A large slice of it may be thrust
at mere man, who inveigles lovely woman into doing his
ss. commissions for him.
Jupiter of the Pump, who is a very persevering gentle-
man these days, did his worst to spoil the Home for In-
curables’ ball, at Unley, on Thursday evening. But he
was foiled, like the villain in the third act. Though it
had to swim to do it, the populace braved everything in
the cause of an excellent charity. The committee people
were headed by the Mayoral Lewises, of Unley, and
secretaried by Mr. A. R. Fuller ; and they decked the hall
with the colors of the district, which also happened to
belong to our Admiral. The Excellencies all decked the
scene, though his Ex. had to hurry along at 10 o’clock,
after finishing up the St. Peter’s Old Scholars’ revel at the
Exhibition. The twin damsels were in white and gold,
and there were several pretty Fuller girls and a party of
Lewis maidens, some Kelsh daughters and 579 more or so.
Which reminds me of the glad tidings that £225 will go
to the Seamen’s Mission as the result of the ball the
other week. And I believe some of the energetic com-
mittee people are out on the warpath again to gather in
shekels from other sources.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
A galleryite prophesies :
Premier Wade is protesting- too much that he is going
to stick to N.S. W. State politics. It is now believed that
he will yield to pressure and accept the puisne .Judgeship,
to become vacant by the retirement of George Bowen
Simpson in January next. Joe Carruthers will also yield
to pressure, and contest Wade's seat (Gordon), where
Deformers are thickly domiciled, and where the candi-
date needn’t shake the horny hand of Labor.


The subscription list
for the sale of the His=
torians’ History of the
World closes on Satur=
day, August 7.
Thereafter the History will no longer be
purchasable in Australia, it will be obtain-
able only from London at the higher price
already in force there, with freight and
charges at the purchaser’s expense.
TO-DAY
a single pay-
ment of only
7i*
secures delivery of all these
25 Volumes—
[Bookcase hft. high, 2ft. wide, Oin. deep.
Books 10\in. high, thick, 7in. wide.]
and purchase may be completed in monthly
payments of the same small amount.
Moreover, by this expenditure—which is so
light as to be scarcely noticeable—the
purchaser of the History not only secures
a possession which everyone ought to have,
but also makes an extraordinary bargain, for
the total price paid for the 25 volumes
amounts to less than one quarter of the
cash prices at which new books are
ordinarily sold.
UflT’ If you are one of those to
whom particulars have been sent,
please take this notice as being
especially addressed to you. It
would be matter for regret to “The
Times” if anyone who is interested
in the History failed to secure a
copy. There is only one way to
make sure of being in time,
namely, to use at once the form
of subscription you have received.
ON APRIL 17 The Times announced the opening
of the subscription list for the sale of the f
Historians’ History in Australia—for it was by
no means the intention of the publishers to limit the
subscription sale of the History to the United Kingdom.
Indeed, only by a distribution as wide as the English
language itself—a distribution taking place, as far as
possible, simultaneously and immediately upon publica-
tion—could The Times hope to achieve an object
that was incidental to the publication of the History.
This object was to demonstrate at how low a price a
new copyright book could be sold by a vendor standing
outside the combination formed by the Publishers’
Association.
Into the history of the disagreement between The
Times and the Publishers’ Association it is unnecessary
now to enter. Suffice it to say that, at the time when
the work of preparing the Historians’ History was
drawing to a finish, The Times found itself engaged in
a dispute with that body as to the prices ordinarily
charged for new copyright books. The Times roundly
declared these prices to be exorbitant, and in the
publication of its History welcomed the occasion of
demonstrating in practice what it had so strenuously
maintained in argument. Doubtless The Times
would in any circumstances have sold the History at a
low price ; but the extreme figure actually named by
The Times may be looked upon as a direct conse-
quence of the “Book War.” It was the studied inten-
tion of The Times that the price of the Historians’
History should register a record.
Of more interest, however, at this moment, than the
reason for the “record ” price is the manner in which
so radical a reduction was rendered possible. Of the
immense mass of new books issued in London every
year it may fairly be asserted that the manner of their
publication argues above all things a lack of confidence
in their marketable quality. In the case of a biography
or a book of travels (of which the size would be com-
parable to a volume of the History), the publisher
probably prints an edition of only a thousand copies.
It is easy to see that the book is thereby doomed to be
expensive, for the smallness of the edition increases the
expenses which the price of the book has to cover.
The capital cost, which embraces the expenses of pro-
ducing the manuscript and setting it up in type, is
obviously higher for each of a small number of copies
than if it can be divided up among a large number.
The cost of production (printing, paper, and binding),
again, varies according to the number produced. It is
expensive to print and bind a thousand copies ; it is
cheap to print and bind ten thousand. The high price
charged for new books is thus an inevitable consequence
of the principle upon which they are published.
The publication of the Historians’ History proceeded
from an entirely different starting point. The Times
had invested in the making of a book intended
to fill the most obvious want in English literature. No
history of the world for English readers had appeared
since the publication, in 1770, of Smollet’s Universal
History. The great English historians of the 19th
century, notably Freeman, Buckle, Lord Acton, had
indeed urged the truth that history is one and must be
read as a whole ; but their teaching resulted in nothing
comparable with the half dozen and more Weltges-
chichten which have rendered such reading possible and
easy among Germans.
The want has made itself felt more widely than
would at first sight appear, for in the absence of any
complete library of history, such as is now provided by
the Historians’ History, the reading of history in any
form has dropped to a very low ebb among English-
speaking peoples. The general reader knows nothing
of any “ foreign ” history. Yet the records of France,
of Germany, of Italy, Spain, Russia, Scandinavia, the
United States, are as much parts of human experience
as is British history, no less interesting, no less full of
instruction. But, indeed, in the absence of a history
suited to his needs, he must confess himself to be but
poorly read even in the history of his own people.
The Times was fully aware that in offering readers
of English their first world history, it was also offering
them their first history of France, of Germany, and of
the other European nations, of America, of Islam, of
the East, ancient and modern, and in the case of most
readers, their first adequate history of Great and Greater
Readers of The Bulletin are invited to call and see
the History at The Times shop in SYDNEY—II 3 King
Street; and in MELBOURNE —364 Collins Street.
Britain. Thus sensible of the great need to be filled
by the work which it had prepared with ever) 7 care as
to plan and detail, The Times confidently based its
price upon an edition not of one thousand, or of five
thousand, copies, but of fifty thousand, with the result
that the subscriber who pays only 7s. 6d. a month for
the History completes his purchase at a price which
is less than one-quarter of the cash price ordinarily
charged for new books.
The calculation upon a large sale,
however, is not the last word that can be
spoken by a publisher whose intention it is
to arrive at a “ record ” price. It is obvious
that if the large sale can take place within a
short time , the quicker return upon the
capital invested, and the economy effected
in many incidental expenses, will justify a
still further reduction in price.
The subscription price of “ The Times ”
History is calculated, then, upon a large
sale within a short time. The time limit
has already been reached in the United
Kingdom, and the price has been raised by
one third. On Saturday, August 7, the
subscription offer will likewise be withdrawn
in Australia. “The Times” believes that
it has never published an announcement of
the History without clearly referring to the
temporary nature of the terms upon which
it is offered. There are many, however, to
whom a statement, however downright, is
scarcely credible, if they do not understand
the grounds upon which it is made, and
this explanation of the method pursued in
the publication of the History is given at
some length to show that the limit of time
affixed to the sale of the History is no
arbitrary measure, but one of the factors
upon which the publishers reckoned in
naming for the first English world history
a price at which all can afford to purchase
it. If any reader of this announcement
has not yet received particulars of the
History, he should use the attached inquiry
form AT ONCE.
NOTE. Should you find that the Inquiry Form has
already been cut out by a previous reader of this copy of
The Bulletin, please address a postcard , asking for
information , to whichever of the offices of The limes is
nearest to you. The request should be made in some such
terms as these : “ Send 84-page prospectus of the His-
torians’ History of the World , with form of subscription
showing prices and terms until August 7, as advertised
in The Bulletin. Be sure to add your name and
address. Inquiries will receive immediate attention at
any of the three offices of The Times in Australia: —
Sydney: 7 O’Connell Street.
Melbourne: 75 Elizabeth Street.
Perth: Forrest Chambers, St. George’s Terr.
Inquiry Form. Address to any of the three
offices of The Times mentioned above.
Please send me 84-page prospectus of the His-
torians’ History of the World, with form of sub-
scription showing prices and terms until August 7.
Name
Y 4
Address .•


The Peril of our Time
Is lung disease. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and colds cures lung trouble. Small dose.
-Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining- Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
HOME FAT-REDUCER.
Works Rapidly and Safely—Necessitates no
Exercising and Allows You to Eat What
You Like—Cut This Out.
For the benefit of those who wish to reduce their
weight quickly and safely, we give the recipe of a
simple household remedy that can be obtained at
a moderate cost from any chemist, viz. One half-
ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of
Glyeyrrhiza, 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
8.P., and Peppermint Water to make six ounces
in all. All four ingredients are cheap and whole-
some. Either mix them at home or your chemist
will mix them for you. Take two teaspoonfuls
after each meal and at bedtime.
Follow these simple directions and you will have
the best fat-reducer that money can buy. It will
takeoff the flesh at the rate of at least two pounds
a week without disarranging the stomach or
causing wrinkles, while, best of all, no exercising
or dieting is required to assist the reducing process
You can get the best results, and, at the same
time, take things easy and eat what you like.*
“ These State Premiers’ Conferences,”
So we very often read,
“To a better understanding
May eventually lead.”
That they need some uriderst aiding
We are all of us agreed !
Alas ! ’tis true, though all, we’re sure,
Agree on Woods’Ureat Peppermint Cure.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kir mess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory. Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
RHEUMATISM
NIGHT AND DAY
Liniments and Embrocations of
no Avail ♦
«
This Man got no Relief until he
Drove the Rheumatic Poison
from his Blood.
To cure rheumatism you must get the acid in
the blood that causes rheumatism out of the
system. There’s no other cure known to medical
science. Rubbing and liniments may ease the
pain for the moment, but what chance have they
of reaching the trouble in the blood? A South
Australian man, Mr. A. W. Taylor, of Railway
Parade, Petersburg, was unfortunate enough to
go through a long siege of rheumatism, and he
knows all about the hopelessness of the rubbing
treatment. He rubbed until the skin was nearly
off, but lie didn’t get relief. He did get relief, and
he was finally cured, however, when he started
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. As rheumatism is
acid in the blood, the principle of the treatment
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is to build up and
renew the blood supply, and the various bodily
functions, until the poisonous acid is thrown off.
Scores of Australians have been cured in this way.
•‘About 18 months ago I began to have rheu-
matism in my back and down my legs, ’ said Mr.
Taylor. “It started w,ith'a dull aching pain that
kept on night and day. I could not got any ease
at all. Sometimes I had it so badly that I had to
use a stick to walk with. I had to leave off work.
When I went to bed at night I could not sleep
well because the pain kept me awake. I could
not get any rest no matter in which position I
laid. All night long I had the dull gnawing aching
in my back and legs, and often when walking
along they would come on and I had to stop until
they eased up a little. I got very weak and thin
and pale on it, and I thought I would never get
better, as I used all sorts of embrocations and
nearly rubbed the, skin off, but they did no good
at all. Then, chancing one day to pick up a little
hook about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I made up
my mind to try them, and I’m glad that I did.
The second box made me feel much better, as the
pains had eased up a lot, so I kept on, and six
boxes quite cured me, and for some months now I
have not had a rheumatic twinge.”
Remember only the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into taking something
said to be just as good. Of all dealers at 2s. 9d.
per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., or from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australia Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
isiheacmeofcomfort,made of
llie best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
•281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Cook, when in office, always was a whale on
minnow-likeeconomies. Ever since the Federation
started it has been the custom to allow the House
attendants their supper, including- a glass of beer,
when the sittings lasted beyond midnight; but
since Cook became a Minister the supper beer has
been knocked off, though the mysterious saveloy
and the enigmatic sandwich are still allowed.
Evidently Cook knows where he can get the
Dreadnought money from.
HERE GOES.
“ Don’t crowd round me. Gimme air!”
The Cabinet committee appointed by Vic-
torian Premier Murray to investigate the con-
ditions of Bent s Small Holdings has reported
that they are practically a failure—the land has
mostly been bought at too high a price, the con-
ditions are unsuitable, and the management is
incompetent. In fact, except in one or two in-
stances there is wreck and disaster all round
-Now Murray proposes to abolish the existing
Gloser Settlement Board and appoint a permanent
Trank of three to manage Closer Settlements,
Small Holdings, Village Settlements, etc., and
put them on a sound basis. How the Plank is to
do this Heaven only knows, but the plan will save
. lurray and co. the trouble of tackling the job
themselves. Meanwhile the simple, sensible plan
ot constituting every large landowner in the Com-
mon wealth a Settlement Board, by forcing' him to
cut up his lands and get farmers on to them some-
how, is held up.
The cold, calm Wade had a fine
chance to score, in a supercilious wav,
the other evening. Griffith fired at
him a series of questions to find out
whether the Perpetual Trustee Co.
(Sydney) hadn’t refused to allow the
Audit Department to inspect its
books so as to ascertain if there
were unclaimed trust balances in
its possession, notwithstanding that
such balances ought to be handed
to the Treasury every six months.
“No,” “yes,” “no.” snapped
Wade, as he knocked Griffith
out. As a matter of fact, it
wasn’t the Perpetual, but the
Permanent, Co. over which the
trouble occurried. So long ago
as the early part of 1906 the
Treasury wrote twice to the Per-
manent Co. asking about its un-
claimed balances, and got no
reply to either letter. Crown-
Solicitor Tillett was then ap-
pealed to, and he advised that,
though there was a provision to
the effect that balances must be
handed over, there was no pro-
vision at all whereby the Trea-
sury, could find out whether
any balances existed ; so he sug-
gested an amending law. But
that is over three years ago, and
nothing has been done yet,
though apparently the co. is still
laughing at the old law which
had made the usual ass of itself.
The Bulletin had just fin-
ished reading that N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner Johnson had been
preaching to the tramway men, and
expressing’ his sorrow that he didn’t have time to
be a Sunday-school superintendent now, when
this note arrived from Queensland :
The N.S.W. and Queensland Railway Departments are
still busy tearing at one another’s eyes. On the Queens-
land side a trial survey of the Moonie River railway ex-
tension is now being conducted ; the line will run almost
parallel to the border, and won’t anywhere be more than 80
miles from it. The idea is to stop traffic from goingover
intoN.S. Wales. Scratching back, the N.S. W. Department
1S hastening the permanent survey of a line from Moree
to Mungindi, a border town, also on the Moonie. One
of these railways must inevitably be run at a loss. In
pre-Federal days, Queensland was content merely to
charge £3 per ton border duty on all wool leaving the
State per team, and derived a big revenue that way. The
new railway is a more elaborate substitute for the frayed
old exodus-preventing statute. One railway out to the
Moonie may be justified ; but two represent the sort of
idiotic waste which apparently nothing will stop till
railways and railway building are put in the hands of the
Commonwealth.
“ Red Tape, Senior,” writes :
Re par. in last week’s Bulletin re Holliman and Neiten-
stem getting 15s. extra for working half an hour over-
time at the N.S.W. Tender Board on Mondays. It is now
whispered that Treasurer Waddell, with some horse-
sense, has refused to pay the men their hard-earned
wages. Premier Wade, as Minister directing the Public
Service Board, passed the regulations cutting down the
Tender Board from nine unpaid members to four at 15s. a
week ; but Waddell, at the 11th hour and 59th minute,
has informed the quartette that they must not expect
payment. Anyway, this is the story now current, and
the Public Service has got cold in its ear listening at
the keyhole for further particulars.
If the borrowing policy is the game it is
cracked up to be, how is it that, just as soon as a
hard-borrowing Government can’t borrow
any more, the country rises almost as one
man and cries for soup tickets ? Maoriland
has been diving into Cohen’s pocket in a
frenzied fashion, and last year topped all
its records by borrowing four and a half
millions ; yet to-day money is scarce,
business dull, and unemployment rife,
' while citizens are running relief funds,
and newspapers are soliciting contri-
butions to old clothes baskets. It is
said that in the one small city of
Wellington alone 1500 men are un-
employed, and many of them and
their families are in serious want.
A deputation asked Millar, Minis-
ter of Labor, to find work. He
said the Government was doing all
it could, but really it had not
the money to do more. And all
this happens in a country which
knows practically nothing of
drought or bad seasons, and
has a yield of over 46 bushels
of wheat to the acre. It looks as
though there would be serious
trouble even in Paradise if they
borrowed the gold to do the street-
paving with.
George Reid did a double yes-no during
the censure debate. George, it seems, holds that
“the time has come when all the big landed
estates must be transformed into holdings for
single families.” Then he gave his enthusiastic
support to the party which opposes the Labor
proposals for breaking up the big estates. Further-
more, George is in favor of taking over the
Northern Territory, but he objects to the building
of a transcontinental railway “from nowhere to
nowhere.” Now the only possible chance for the
North is to build a line to Now'here and give that
place an opportunity of becoming Somewhere ; so
the beautiful Reid theory ends in deadlock.
Furthermore, G.R. is “prepared to listen to any
arrangement for building a line in a Federal
point of view, but is opposed to building it for any
State purposes”—only as he failed to give his
definition of “a State purpose ” or “a Federal
point of view,” the fat gentleman may, for all the
world knows to the contrary, want to build the
transcontinental line from Port Darwin to Fre-
mantle, via Rockhampton, Derby, Goat Island and
Ballarat.
It is reported from England that, in a
House of Lords debate, the Archbishop of Canter-
bury protested strongly against the proposal to
supply the poor with cheaper means of divorce.
Well, if they can’t have that, why not let them
have a cheaper Archbishop ? They ought to have
something cheap, especially considering the present
awful price of bread.
W. H. Higgs, good White-Australian and
sound Protectionist, has been selected to battle
for the Capricorn seat at the next Federal elec-
tion. So Capricorn will have to judge between
Archer and Higgs—Archer, whom nobody ever
hears of ; and Higgs who, as a Senator, made such
a mark by his clear-headedness and fairness that
he would certainly have been elected President
had he remained in the House.
Webster, M.H.R., has discovered a new
objection to the transcontinental railway—it
would enable the Japs to pour south from Port
Darwin, and thus make the conquest of the South
easier. For the same reason, of course, Dread-
noughts make it much easier for Germany to in-
vade England, because Billhelm might seize the
ships and use them as transports; wherefore, it is
madness to build Dreadnoughts.
Premier Jack Weary, of Victoria, hasn’t
the cantankerousness of Wade, or the same belief
in the profundity of his own wisdom ; but he has
been bitten by the same mania for duplicating
Federal undertakings. He has already declined
to save some £15,000 by using the Federal elec-
toral rolls for the Victorian Assembly elections,
though Tasmania and Westralia have managed to
effect that economy; and now he proposes to set
up a State timber-seasoning yard, at an “esti-
mated ” cost of £l5OO, regardless of the fact that
the Home Affairs Department has already selected
sites in each State for a similar purpose, as
authorised by Parliament last year.
ON THE MAT. — STILL WAITING.
Canada, having made up its mind to get a
navy of its own, those Australian papers which
have been sooling the Commonwealth on to supply
Britain with Dreadnoughts have had to explain
things. The S. M. Herald, taking a cue from
an alleged cable, says Canada is “suspicious that
under a Radical-Socialist Government in Britain,
contributions of Dreadnoughts would lead to no
increase of naval strength.” It’s a beautiful ex-
planation ; and, if the Herald endorses it. it
simplv means that, unless the Australian and
Maoriland Dreadnoughts are to be thrown away,
they will have to be hidden in some creek where
Asquith can’t see them, and only be produced
when Germany starts firing.
A staggering thing happened last week ;
one of the Sydney morning' papers said “ the time
is now ripe.” Hitherto they have always said
that it wasn’t, and “ the time is not yet ripe ” has
become a shriek and a by-word.
Reid’s attack on Bill Lyne during the
Censure debate consisted of a long lamentation to
the effect that Bill has changed ; in all manner of
things he used to be Tory, and now he isn’t. In
other words, Reid complained that Bill had
improved, while he (Reid) hadn’t; and he wailed
that Bill had no right to improve. After all, the
only really consistent people are Bourbons, and
Bruce Smiths, and folk of the Sir Leicester Ded-
lock description, and persons who have been
imbecile from birth, and certain types of abori-
gines. And even they are inconsistent, for they
are 2ft. high one time, and later they are 4ft. or
sft. high ; and one time they are alive, and
another time they are dead, and there is no
stability in then).
THE VERY ABJECT HEATHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have seen the real British Fleet, as it is, and now
that I have seen it I begin to realise how extremely
foolish it is to think of setting up a little ocean-going
navy of our own. When we see the British Fleet as it is,
that idea shrinks to nothing. One of the things that
brought me here was that I might see a British battleship
as it really is. Many of us on the other side of the world
have never seen one. Now I can go back and tell my
friends that if they could see what I have seen the fleet
from the United States would become a mere pigmy be-
side that of our o.wn Empire.— F. W. Ward, of Sydney
Tklkgrafh.
See! I cheerfully kneel in the dust, and abjectly quaver
my praise!
From dense, intellectual darkness I mumble my cannibal
thanks ;
The glorious things you have shown will remain in mv
sight all mt' days !
Now I will get back to the island and dwell in my palace
of tanks.
The ink-doctor lof the tribe! Yet I bump my poor
brow in the mire ;
M.v spear I have broken in twain, and my shield is a
platter for pigs;
No more have I strength to uphold them ; for fighting I
feel no desire.
Now I will get back to my forest and preach to the fear-
stricken nigs.
The Zulu, the gay Afridi, and one or two others who’ve
fought you,
May look down on me ! I don't care ! Of my fear I am
terribly proud.
I will go back to my people and say what a great chief I
thought you,
And they will be very respectful, and every knee will be
bowed.
From thick, primal darkness I came with one or two
thoughts I’d collected ;
But these few' in your ash-bin I’ve thrown, and now' I am
mentally nude ;
But though in that shameful condition, I am not the least
bit dejected.
The heathen naked and guileless isn’t thought by the
world to be rude.
K.B.W.
THE TRIBAL SINGER.
THE HUNTING OF THE FUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With apologies to the shade of Lewis Carroll.)
Fusion Wins.—By Seven Votes,
“no-confidence” debate ended.
The division was taken just before 4 o’clock. There
were 27 ayes and 34 noes. — Sydney Telegraph, 17/7/’OH).
They fought it with speeches, they fought it with votes,
They assailed it with terrible facts ;
With sudden divisions they slashed at its throats,
As it crouched on a great heap of Acts.
They lashed it with tongues, and they smote it with jaws,
And one tried to shame it to death ;
It lay there and blinked with its heads on its paws,
So the shainers just wasted their breath.
“ If it blushes,” cried one, “ it cannot live long !
Tell it something and see if it will! ”
So one told it the truth and served it up strong.
But the truth wasn’t destined to kill.
“ Rake up its dead past,” another one said,
And then burn it in front of its nest !
When that is completed, if it isn’t dead,
As a Fuse-hunter I’ll give it best! ”
They raked up its past in a horrible heap
And they lit it with matches and care ;
The Fuse merety lay on its Acts half-asleep,
And inhaled without turning a hair !
“ No good ! ” cried a voice from the midst of the smoke,
“ Let us take the d d thing by surprise !
It’s enjoying itself whilst we gasp and we choke !
ALL TOGETHER ! . . . Look out for your Ayes! ”
Then they rushed on the Fuse as it crouched like a rat,
But they were too slow, I suppose ;
For it fled as one flees from the paws of the cat,
And escaped by the skin of its Noes !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


RONISGH
PIANOS.
RONiSCH PIANOS
have by sheer merit
won their way to the
heart of the Piano-
buying public.
Of their durability
we cannot speak too
highly.
Their tone quality
is delightfully full
and clear, and their
touch all that can be
desired.
We sell those Pianos
either for cash or on
easy terms, and
catalogues are free
for the asking.
PALING’S,
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
102
THOUSANDS OF
V3OLINS
AT
PALINGS
%
Boy’s Violin, wiih bow and
case 16/-
School Violin, with bow
and case 21/-
Student’s Violin, with bow
and case 31/6
Orchestral Violin, with
bow and case 42/-
Solo Violin, with bow and
case 67/6
Artist’s Violin, with bow
and case ... £7/7/-
Colin Mezin Violin, with
bow and case £l4
Louis Otto Violin, with
bow and case ... £24/10/-
All Post Free to Nearest
Railway Station.
Illustrated Catalogues Free
PALING’S
338 George St.,
Sydney.
11l
THE
CLAVIOLA
PIANO PLAYER
Is the latest and
best of all piano
players.
It has improve-
ments found in no
other make.
We have a
beautifully illus-
trated catalogue
describing these
i mprovements,
which we forward
post free on
application.
PALING’S,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
no
WITH THE
mm
1
SHEEP-BRANDiNGi
ft
Ha
&
m
KEMP’S PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
BLACK, RED
IS NOT AN OIL. fnd WILL
NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
and BLUE.
CASES containing two 4-Callon Tins,
4/- Gal:on ; or eight 1-Ca!lcn Tir.s,
4/S Gallon.
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd )
„ ADELAIDE (D. & J. Fowler Ltd.)
„ KINCSTON, S. A. (Dalgety Si Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
Agent!
; in ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety & Co Ltd )
TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
FREMANTLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co )
LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.)
AWARDED
if mm pm
AT THE
FRANCO -BBITISH EXHIBITION:


RIILUDS
KALYDOR
FOR »SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely-
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PlLES.—There is no more
painful complaint from which
than Piles. The most effect! veci
BALM. Certain in every case,
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
distressing and
you can suffer
re is BALLAS
Obtainable from
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
itching, blind, bleeding or protruding piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
TAPE WORM
Twenty Feet in Length Passed by a Little
Girl After Taking Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets.
Mrs. Olive Mclvor, 18 George Street, St.
Peters, Sydney, states: —“I have pleasure in
Ethel Mclvor.
relating ray experience
of the wonderful efficacy
of Comstock’s “ Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets.
One of my children,
Ethel, whose photo. I en-
close, was a great sufferer
from tape worm, but
after taking your remedy
she passed a tape worm
twenty feet in length.
The other children were
troubled with thread
worms, which a few doses
of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot ” Worm Pellets
quickly removed. I strongly recommend Com-
stocks’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, and you
have my consent to publish this evidence of their
value.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
obtainable at all chemists and stores, or will be
forwarded by post (postage paid) on receipt of re
mittance. Price Is. 6d. per box (six boxes Bs. 6d.).
The W. H. Comstock .Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ALE 8c LAdi€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCAROIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Evidently there is a revival of public interest in
sculling around Sydney, for on Saturday last the Pearce-
Mitchell contest on the Parramatta River drew a crowd
that would not have disgraced a world championship
meeting. Unfortunately for the scullers, but a mere per
centage of the crowd that looks at a race on the Parra-
matta is revenue-producing ; and on Saturday last there
was the unpleasant spectacle of “independent” boats
taking passengers to see the race while the official boats
had room and to spare. It’s a low business, and there
should be some way devised of preventing it. As it is,
the scullers divide only about £lOO between them,
whereas had everybody paid, the.y would have had quite
a nice little sum to pay them for the entertainment
they had supplied. The race itself was not par-
ticularly interesting. It was too one-sided. Mitchell
is a splendid sculler—when training; but under the
eyes of howling thousands he wilts. Stage fright grips
his innards—or something ; and he can’t row as he does
when there are only a few about. From the time the
first mile was left behind there was no doubt whose race
it was. Pearce was as collected as the beans in a Chap-
zander mission plate, sculling with an easy confident
stroke, and evidently capable of increasing his speed con-
siderably if called upon. But the man who toiled and
struggled along about t two lengths in the rear was
obviously doing his best, and doing it in a manner that
was foreign to those who had seen him working with
machine-like ease in his training. In the end Pearce
won with the greatest ease by four lengths, in 23min.
43sec.; w’hich, considering that the race was against wind
and tide, was good travelling.
» * * *
Unless the Sydney Metropolitan Union can
arrange for better play than graced most of its fields on
Saturday', it will cease to be the booming institution it is
at present. The performances were, with few exceptions,
deadly dull and far below the standard of the League.
With the exception of some smart work by the forwards,
the Glebe-Western Suburbs match was far from gay. The
Glebeites won by 14 to nil—they had the brawn and the
weight; and against the solid mass of heavy bone and
hardened meat the comparatively slim and fragile
Western Suburbs crumpled up. The demolition of St.
George by South Sydney, when the Dustmen won by 12
points to six, was also a dreary spectacle ; and
tainted by rough play and bad blood. One of
the men from the Illawarra line got his face
badly cut by a South Sydney boot in a scrum ;
and some of the men who profess to have seen the kick
administered declare it was wilful, malicious and de-
liberate. Anyhow, it is the sort of accident that should
be guarded against by the prompt retirement for life of
the kicker; he is either a bad lot or a bad shot. South
Sydney was fighting right on its line when the affair
occurred, and accidents that happen to any member of
the side that is just about to score are always worthy of
strict inquiry'. Eastern Suburbs downed North Sydney
in a dreary fashion at Hampden Park, by 11 points to
five, in an affair that was more a scramble than a foot-
ball match. Down at Manly the local ’bailers escorted
University to the ground, and the Students returned
their courtesy by pushing them on to their backs and
running over them to the tune of 16 points to five.
The result of this weary mix-up is to place
Glebe and South Sydney dead level in the front rank
with 18 points each. The Premier club, Newtown, gal-
lops alone in the second line with 17 ; so it is still within
striking distance. University is next with 12—a hideous
gap; and St. George and Western Suburbs have 10 each.
North Sydney’s position is peculiar. It is at the tail end,
and its record stands—played nine matches; lost nine;
drawn, nil; bye, one—competition points, two. Balmain
is almost as bad. It has scored a solitary victory, and
also had a bye; therefore, it scoffs at North Sydney from
the proud eminence of four points.
* * * *
The size of the crowds attending the League
matches increases steadily; and if the Union game
doesn’t buck up or bog in, or something to that
effect, it will find that the latest form of the game will be
tle first in popular favor. Newcastle ran over Western
Suburbs at Sydney' Agricultural Ground and at half-time
had piled up 28 points to nil. Then somehow, the coaly
men froze, or Western Suburbs pulled itself together, or
something. Anyhow, the Western defence became
sounder, and there were counter charges that shook New-
castle to the bottom of its coal mine. Only one of them
came off, however, and Newcastle emerged from the
struggle with 28 points to 5. For wild excitement and
wooll.y willingness, the Eastern Suburbs scrap with
Balmain would be hard to beat. It looked as though
both teams had been toned up on iron and stry'chnine for
a week beforehand, so eager were they. But their eager-
ness didn’t spoil their tactics, and both back machines
played magnificently, while the forwards worked like
tigers. In fact, the referee ordered five men off for
being too tigerish. It was the speed and skill with
which the Balmain forwards dribbled that turned
the scale in favor of the Tattered Suburb. Eastern
Suburbs responded with a series of beautiful passing
rushes; but the Balmaniacs pulled them down, and getting
the leather at the toe, swept away towards the Eastern
line again and again. Eastern Suburbs scored first with
a sudden rush ; but almost immediately play' was re-
sumed, Balmain equalised. The score was followed up by
a bitter attack by’ the Balmain forwards, and there was a
great struggle on the line. The Eastern Suburbs men
strove hard to break away, but were pulled down every
time, and the mSl6e surged back to the Eastern line tili,
with a mighty effort, Balmain broke through. This left
East three points to the bad. Large attempts on both
sides, brawny struggles, passing charges and splendid
dribbling rushes took the ball back and forwards till,
just before half-time, East kicked a penalty' goal and
ended the first half one point to the bad. The Easterners
opened the second spell with a series of passing charges
that were good to see, and though stopped often and
again, they at length broke through and made the score
10 to six in favor of East. The applause was still going
strong when Balmain suddenly rolled East right up,
pushed it back on to its line and over it. But
before it could down the leather, East rushed it
back again. Then out of a wild mix-up. on the
line Balmain started a quick series of short passes, which
baffled the Eastmen, and made the score 11 to 10 in favor
of Balmain. Kicked off, the Balmainers got possession,
and, with a notable rush, went right through the
Eastmen ; and the score was 16 to 10. This was the
turning point of the game. East scored another goal;
but Balmain responded with a goal and a try, and won
by 24 points to 15, after one of the most exciting games
ever seen in Sy'dney.
It was the League’s brilliant day. While
Balmain and Eastern Suburbs were raising the hair of the
spectators at the Agricultural Ground, North Sydney
and Newtown were doing likewise at Birchgrove Park,
and, moreover, doing it without kicking over the traces.
But for over-eagerness, North Sydney would have won ;
a couple of slips were penalised with free kicks, from
one of which a goal was scored. Practically ihe teams
were dead level, but North Sydney made the attack and
forced the pace. Newtown put up the defence, and a
very brilliant defence it was, but the game is always in
favor of the attacking side, and only for the penalty kicks
Newtown would have assuredly been in the soup. At
half-time the score was—Newtown five points, North
Sydney three. After the interval North Sydney again
attacked, and as usual, the aggressive policy told, for
North was presently leading by 10 points to five. Then
North’s condition seemed to give out, and Newtown
uttered a large roar and went down to the attack.
Charge after charge was repulsed, and the wearied
Northmen tried to follow up the repulse. It was
no use. Newtown came back with a series of
short passing rushes that were beautiful to watch.
North would suddenly rush en masse, down the
bearer of the leather, and getting the ball at the toe,
struggle towards the Newtown frontier. But the New-
towns picked up, and setting the back machine
in motion juggled it away across the field, and with
magnificent sweeps brought the leather once more to the
Northern line. This sort of thing went on till the tired
teams leaned up against each other—from sheer desire to
rest. Then it was that Newtown leaned more heavily
than the other fellows, and shouting in a tired whisper
they pushed their rivals (who hadn’t a shout left) across
the line, and Nightingale seized the ball and fell on it.
He nearly fell asleep on it. The points were added with
a last effort. After that the parties shambled about help-
lessly in the fading light till the whistle closed a drawn
game, the score being 10 points all. May they play many
more matches as vigorous as this one!
* * * •
In the Sydney Soccer competition Pyrmont has
increased its lead in the struggle for the Rawson Cup by
another point, and now heads the combined clubs with
23 points to Rozelle’s 18. Glebe and Balmain are together
in the third line with 16 points. It was the good luck of
Pyrmont, a veteran combination, to meet on Saturday the
baby club of the Soccer family. Naturally it won—by
five goals to nil; while Rozelle could only effect a score-
less draw with Western Suburbs. The result is to place
the already certain destination of the Rawson Cup still
further heyond doubt. Balmain and Glebe are hopelessly
out of it. The results of Saturday’s matches were that
Glebe beat Northern Suburbs by three to one ; Balmain
downed the H. M.S. Powerful by two points to nil ; Gran-
ville smashed Sydney by four to nil, and Ultimo received
a forfeit from Garden Island.
The rise and progress of the Newtown club has
been something very meritorious. A creation of the present
season, it has made excellent play right through. Truly
its score is one victory, two draws and nine defeats ; but
although beaten it has never been disgraced ; and the
spectacle of it making a really good stand against the
formidable Pyrmont suggests that at the close of next
season it will be among the first four at the very least.
Another surprise was the draw between Rozeile and
Western Suburbs. The first is second on the list, and
Western Suburbs is in the last rank with the same score
as Newtown. Its excellent showing on Saturday was due
to the skill of its goal-keeper. The Soccer competition is,
to writer’s mind, the most interesting sporting event that
rages in Sydney at the present time.
* * * *
It is hard to follow the games under Australian
rules : the patriotic form of football is sadly hampered
by having to play all its matches on the expanse of Moore
Park. At present Y.M.C.A. and North Shore are level
in the competition with 36 points each ; Paddington is in
the second line with 32, and Newtown close behind with
28. After that the figures are not' worth considering.
Sydney was once known as the City of splendid parks
and poverty. But at present, judging by the experi-
ence of the local football game, there are not nearly
enough parks. Perhaps the Metropolitan Rugby Union’s
monopoly has something to do with it.
» * » *
Though its week-end weather was consistently
dreadful, Melbourne has been vouchsafed some notable
football exhibitions this winter, and Saturday’s chief
encounter, between Carlton and ’Wood, was of the best.
After the sensational game of the week before, when the
Old Blues potted nine consecutive goals in the third
quarter while the mighty Southerners could score only
one skinnypoint, there were plenty who reckoned Carlton
already had the premiership “in the bag,’’and would make
mincemeat of ’Wood. The “ Carlton finish ” vims there all
right, butitchanced that the Magpies of Collingwood had
a finish also, and it was the bigger of the two. The first
quarter saw' both teams equal—eight points each. The
next term, the Blues set going the same series of rushes
that had carried them to victory against South, but
the Magpie backs were strong and refused to be bustled,
and at the interval the tally was: Carlton 34 points,
’Wood 16 —a heavy enough deficit on that sloppy
ground, but still within reach. On resuming, the
Magpies gave a repetition of the fierce struggle that a
fortnight before had staved off defeat on the Melbourne
ground, though this time it was keener and lasted longer.
The Blues were marking the better, and handling the ball
more cleanly ; but when the Magpies did get hold of it,
they passed it on with the certainty tha t baffles opponents.
One goal was added, then another, then two behinds ;
while Carlton stood still. At three-quarter time there
was still a deficit of four points, but the ball had hardly
been bounced ere one of them was wiped off.
The Blues u'oke up and rushed a behind, then another ;
then the Magpies set their teeth, and passed the ball
along methodically till the waiting forward sent
it through the goal. Yet the finest piece of
play was yet to come, when, in that last ten
minutes, Carlton massed its men on the ball forward,
and strove furiously for the point that meant a draw or
the goal that meant a win. But the ’Wood captain saw
the move, and called his men back, and though the ball
was thrice within a foot of the line, the dogged persist-
ence of the defence ever forced it away to the wings, and
Carlton’s last strenuous rally proved vain—Carlton, 36
points; ’Wood, 37. Of the other collisions only that
between South and Melbourne promised excitement; but
Melbourne is on thedowm grade at present, and “ Skinner’s
Hirelings ” won comfortably by 45 to 24 points. Es.sendon
travelled to Geelong, and once more rolled the seasiders
in their accustomed mud—Bo to 45 being the tally ; ’Var-
sity polished off the Saints with 80 points to 26; while
Fitzroy splashed the mud of defeat over Richmond with
68 splashes to Richmond’s 25.
The chief Vic. Association encounter, between
Williamstown and Essendon, provided as strenuous a
finish as that of Carlton and ’Wood, though the game
was more even throughout. The Tramway suburb had
the better of the play, but the worse of the'points— 32 to
’Town’s 33—a result due chiefly to lopsided kicking. Pres-
ton provided an afternoon’s sorrow for Port’s bai-rackers
by steadily accumulating 64 points to the other s 25 ;
P’ran likewise amused itself at ’Cote’s expense-
-80 to 27 being the measure thereof; and Brunswick
rejoiced in a hefty and friendly battle with
North, running out winners by 12 points—
-60 to 48. This was a considerable feat for North, though
its uprising is too late in the season to do it much good.
The local barrackers behaved themselves for once, being
persuaded to sw r eet reasonableness bv the presence of
several plain-clothes Johns; but the effort caused them
much internal suffering. The collision of ’Scray and
Brighton was anticipated with joy, both clubs having
semi-final chances, but the barracker who could have
forecasted the result would have been passed out as a
confirmed lunatic. Bent’s suburb has already beaten,
among others, ’Town, Brunswick and ’Scray itself; it
boasted four ex-leaguers, and it ploughed in all it knew,
.yet up to three-quarter time it had not once troubled the
scorer, though ’Scray had then four goals seven behinds
on the board. Even that discrepancy wouldn’t have
paralysed a team with a backbone, but apparently the
’bailers of Bent’s suburb resemble the great Bellower
himself in possessing an anaemic spine and a weakness of
the knees, also a great capacity for gas ; so the episode
closed with the record, ’Sera.v, 52points; Brighton, three.
It will take a lot of victories to wipe out the memory of
that catastrophe.
• • .... •. «•
There were no further disqualifications during
the week by either League or Ass. ; but the committee of
the Eastern Suburbs competition considered the lament-
able case of the “ Rose of - Camberwell ” club, which had
been comprehensively charged with “fouland dirty play,
punching and kicking players, tripping and hacking and
swearing at umpires and players." The sweetly-named
gang of muddied oafs had not as yet actually "slain an
umpire, but that was about the only offence of which
it was innocent; so, as it made practically no defence, it
was disqualified, wiped out, told to disband and desired
to get work.
» » * *,
Your footballer takes himself very seriously
nowadays, in fact so seriously that should he happen to
be playing when an enemy invades this country he will
probably continue bogging in till he “marks’’a bullet
with his stomach. The other day the Traralgon and
YVarragul (Vic.) teams were playing in the latter town
when a fire broke out in the main street. There being no
brigade, the local John rushed to the scene of battle for
assistance, and was speedily reinforced by most of the
spectators, but the ’bailers kept on ’balling while three
shops were burnt to the ground. It looks an unpleasant
episode, but possibly it was due to an excessive consci-.
entiousness. Having collected the “ gate ” the ’bailers
reckoned it a fair thing to give some play in return, even
though there was no one there to see it.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League officials paid a fleeting
visit to Victoria last week to spy out the land on which
to play a series of matches with the Maoris, with a view
to helping the much-harassed treasury. But not a strip
of earth was available till Sept. 9, which was too remote ;
so Melbourne will not see the Maoris on the job. Vice-.
President Knox, however, did not return absolutely
empty ; he brought back some news that a lot of Vic-
torians have been yearning to know—that the all-wool
amateurs there receive from £3 to £6 per week, according
to their booting skill. How long is this farce to con-
tinue ?
* * * *
A Maoriland professional Rugby team to raid
England is being worked up by a couple of moneyed
enthusiasts and a returned member of the League team..
Somebody is going to lose money..
• *
The efforts of supporters to give Rugby a push
along is meeting with mixed success in Melbourne.
Recently the University Rugby club asked for affiliation
from the University Sports Union, and, after a big sniff,
the Sports Union decided to enrol the club on condition
that the Union was not liable for any of the expenses, and
provided the club did not use the University Oval. Which
is tantamount to an order that Rugby must take up its
kit and “git’’from the'Varsity. All* the same, with a
view to giving Rugby a lift in Victoria, a Sydney Uni-
versity team will take a trip southwards in a couple of
weeks, whether the Melbourne University Sports Union
likes the visit or otherwise.
* * * *
The continued success of the crack Ponsonby
(M.L.) Rugby team has knocked football about Auckland
out of shape. Recently an opposing side was defeated by
61 points to nil. The team will arrive in Sydney early in
August to fill in a programme against Sydney club teams,
and some horrible examples can be looked for.
* • * •
N.S.W. Rugby Union is battling hard to teach
the youngsters how to play ; and, up to the end of last
week, 175 footballs had been sent to schools in the coun-
try. So there is much wear and tear of boots and the curses
of parents come back in a mighty howl.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association representatives
met the Trustees of the Sydney Cricket Ground, and
after much talk the Trust made a proposal which prac-
ticallv meant taking over the Association. It offered to
give the Association a fixed income of £1750 per annum
for inter-State matches. If this offer was not accepted
the Trustees would stick to the original figure—ls per
cent, of the gross takings and all ground charges to be
met by the Association. The Association said it would go
to Wentworth Park first. Percy McElhone proposed and
carried a resolution that the Association would accept no
arrangement that did not recognise its right to a share of
the ground members’ subscriptions. He pointed out that
every member of the A.J.C. has to pa.v Is. when entering
the ground ; and suggested that if the Trust made the
same charge to its ground members the difficulty would
be solved. The Trust wasn’t ready to make any reply to
that idea—it was caught between wind and water ; and
the affair was still on the knees of the gods when this
issue went to press.
* * * *
Who says we are a sport-mad community ?
There are quite a number of games prohibited by law,
and the latest caitiff to be dealt with was a miscreant
who was fined 20s. or 14 days’ gaol for trying to lure the
unwary to play “ doodleumbuck.” “ Doodleumbuck,” it
seems, is a game played with three pins and a ball, and it
causes annoyance to passengers. It is no relation to
‘f bumble-puppy.”
* * * *
Hitherto it has been the fool behind or in front
of the gun who has been responsible for the weekly shoot-
ing accident; but now', it seems, the dogs are taking a
hand. At Moree (N.S.W.) on Saturday last a half-caste
who had returned from hunting was skinning a wallaby
he had brought in, when a dog knocked his loaded rifle
from the tree against which it was leaning. As it fell it
exploded, and the bullet landed in Jacky’s ankle. This
reckless shooting by dogs will have to be suppressed.
mm m m
Record-breakers bob up out of all kinds of holes
nowadays. The other day at Lithgow (N.S.W.) W.
Eckardt upset all known rolier-skating records by keeping
a move on for 51 hours 36min., in which time over 382
miles were traversed. This latest weariness of the flesh
will no doubt bring about a horror akin to the club-
swinging awfulness which afflicted Australia last year.
Having roped in State Governor Chelmsfoid
and his lady, the lacrosse inter-State players had the
satisfaction of having a large and fashionable audience of
about 5000 people to watch the match between Queens-
land and N.S. YV. at Petersham, on Saturday. Tahmmy was
referee, and was not assaulted. N.S. W. started splendidly,
but it soon became apparent that the Queenslanders
possessed the better combination. When they gained an
advantage they held to it, and though the Walers played
a brilliant game, they were powerless against the
smoothly working machine opposed to them. So the
points soared up till, at the close of play, Queensland
had won by 16 goals to five.
* * * *
When the Australian XT. bad amassed 445 runs
for eight wickets against Gloucester, Captain Noble said;
“Enough!” And it was. Gloucester was wiped out for
230 and 210, so the XI. won by an innings and five runs.
Of Australia’s little lot Bardsley contributed 211.
* » „
“ B.B.” : W. W. Bardsley’s score of 211
against Gloucester last week, and his previous figures
against Essex when he pounded up 219, constitute a new
record for an Australian on his first visit to Bull Land.
Higher scores have been made, of course, notably Arm-
strong’s 303, Trumper’s 300, both not out, and Murdoch’s
236 not out, and Noble’s 284. But none of these were
made in the initial tour.
* * * *
Wicket-keeper H. Carter awoke to the serious-
ness of his position in the Australian XI. match against
Surrey, last week, and got rid of half of the team—three
being stumped and two caught. Throughout the tour
Carter has carried the bruntof the work, reserve stumper
Carkeek having an easy time.
Anthony Hordern and Sons have issued an ex-
cellent sheet, invaluable to followers of the game, “The
World’s Cricket Record,” compiled by the father of the
game,. “ Daddy ” Ironside ; and complete to Easter, 1909.
* * * *
The cycle race from Bathurst to Sydney
threatens to be something of a scratch aifair. The
“ trade ” is donating the prizes ; but stops short thereat.
The entrance fee has been reduced, but the riders have
to provision themselves : and that is just what the riders
are, in the nature of things, unable to do. So the chances
are that before the race is half through many competitors
will be hurrying along the road in the agonies of stomach
cramp.
* * * *
The Goulburn to Sydney bike race, promoted
by the Dunlop Rubber Co., is due for settlement on
September 18. This affair will be as well managed as it
has ever been. There are eight ordinary prizes, seven
special prizes ;. and bronze and enamel medals for all
riders who complete the course in 10 hours or less. No
outside pacing or coaching will be permitted ; the same
machine must be ridden from start to finish ;and the use
of single tyres is denounced by bell, book and candle.
“ Prog ” will be served out at Moss Vale (47 miles), Picton
(84), Campbelltown (104), and Liverpool (119) ; and cheap
fares and reduced hotel tariffs have been arranged for.
This is management 1 Nominationsclose with the Dunlop
people at 5 p.m., Monday, August 23. Handicaps will be
published on August 30, and acceptances (45.) close on
Septembers. Race will start at 7,30 a.m., and finish at
the Six Mile Post,, Ashfield.
While on the subject of road racing, it might
be worth mentioning to competitors that a piece of wire
across the back-stays at a height just sufficient to clear
the tyre, is an excellent device for keeping the wheel
clean. Not only does it shave off the mud, but very often
prevents punctures. A piece of glass or flint does not
puncture the tyre at the first contact:, it merely lodges
in the outer skin, and it is the subsequent pressue that
drives it through. The wire, if properly adjusted, will
remove the majority of these small penetrators on the
first time of passing. The same thing applies to the front
tyre ;• but as the most of the weight falls on it, it is the
back tyre that most often punctures.
Ski'd' that A.. J.. Clark will not represent Aus-.
tralia after all at the World’s Championships at Copen-,
hagen (Denmark) this .year. He has left Europe for the
United States on the ground that he can make more
money in the land of the dollar. It is a pity, as Clark
would stand a good chance of annexing the blue ribbon
were he to compete. So far it has never been won by an
Australian, although Ben Goodson made a gallant attempt
in 1899 at Montreal, Canada.
As Melbourne intends to hold a Marathon race
in two or three months, a bunch of the prominent Yarra-
side peds are taking to practice runs over more extended
distances.. Last Saturday, George Blake, the two Still-
wells, C. Naylor, A. W.. McMicken, and A. Curtis, all
intended entrants for the “ Marathon,” strode over 20
miles—out to Bulla and back. The road was in a con-
dition of misery and wet from too recent rains, but Blake
jogged over it without any apparent discomfort, covering
20 miles in about 2£ hours, and was the first to arrive.
Some time later Na.vlor came in, and then followed A. W..
McMicken and the others fairly close together.
A welter race at Caulfield last Saturday fell to
Kerlie, trained by Mat Ellis and thereby hangs a tale.
Kerlie was backed for £4OOO by his party to win a race at
Flemington on the previous Saturday, but the good
thing was upset by a rank outsider, belonging to old
Jimmy Wilson,, senior.. Now,. Jimmy Wilson and Mat
Ellis are allies, and the intention of the party was to win
the first race of the day with Kerlie aforesaid, and the
last race of the day with Wilson’s horse, which was
entered for both. Unfortunately, the veteran, who is
now very ancient, forgot to scratch his quadruped early
in the morning, as was intended, and when at last this
forgetfulness was discovered, it was too late for
the deed to be done. Jimmy Wilson wanted to
scratch his horse, but couldn’t. It went out
unbacked for the race, whilst Kerlie was a
hot favorite ; hut the dark outsider, strange to say, won
in a canter. So the “ party ” lost not only the £4OOO that
would have been won by Kerlie with the other horse out
of the way, but the other lump of cash which the other
horse would doubtless have won in the last race if old
Mr. Wilson’s forgetfulness hadn’t caused him to run in
the first race, and expose his “ form ” by winning it. The
victory of Kerlie at Caulfield was a poor consolation for
the awful misfortune that befel the stable a week
previously.
* * * *
“Snell”: Thebest production of the Vic. Amateur
Athletic Ass’s boxing competitions is an 18-year-old lad,
named Fnllalove, a hefty youth who is full of fight, and
who mopped up the middleweight and heavyweight
honors without turning a bristle. Fullulove drives it in
with two stunning hands, much as W. Squires did before
the disappearance of the late lamented punch, and he ate
up the heavies with as much ease as he disposed of the
middles, promptly outing his man every time. Another
bright particular star is young Robinson, the Ballarat
bantam, who whipped all the city competitors. He
is a clever lad, but lacks aggressiveness. He waits
for a lead, and scores with both his salary-hooks
through the opening offered. Copperwaite, another
Ballarat lad, scored over all the feathers without’showing
any distinguishing qualities. E. Sutherland, who
triumphed in the light brigade, is a tough primitive
sort of slogger, wanting in style, but willing to take three
in the hopes of landing one mighty swipe. Carrie, who
won the welter girdle, is a strong, earnest dealer in
stoush. All the lads were better men of war than pre-
vious exhibitors showed themselves to be. They should
have a loud sav in the disposing of Commonwealth
honors, especially Fullalove, if his punch doesn’t get
mislaid.
*■*!*•*
The Hackenschmidt and Gotch ’rastle in Mel-
bourne is either postponed, off. or dead in some way.
Gotch is down with illness and Hack is popularly reported
to be little better. How are the mighty gone bung !


TRUE FRIENDSHIP
like phosphorus, shows up best in the
darkest hour. A good cycle like the
B* and B . Model 3, for £ll,
is the best friend you could have—grandly
built—finest tyres—guaranteed 12 months.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-buildingr
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereag'h Street, Sydney.
PAPASEEA PLANTATIONS, LIMITED.
INCOEPOBATED UNDEE THE COMPANIES ACTS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
CAPITAL: £30,000, IN £1 SHARES.
OF WHICH 5000 ARE VENDORS’ SHARES.
PRESENT ISSUE, 17,000 SHARES AT PAR, PAYABLE BY EASY INSTALMENTS.
The Vendors’ Shares are not negotiable for two years, and do not carry dividend until the Con-
tributing Shares shall have been paid 10 per cent, dividend.
DIRECTORS
H. A. M. MEREYVETHER.
peter mcintosh.
0. M. YOUNG.
OTTO BAUER.
T. W. F. BUSBY.
FRANOIS HARMAN (Managing- Director), in Samoa.
This Company has been formed to acquire and develop a RUBBER and COCOA ESTATE in Samoa,
adjoining the weli-known “ Sliding Rock,” or “ Papaseea.”
The Estate possesses the only matured Rubber trees in the Islands. Samoa now produces the finest
Cocoa in the world, realising the highest price in the London market.
An immediate return of 10 per cent, is anticipated from the Cocoa trees now on the Estate, increasing in
course of time from the extension of Rubber and Cocoa cultivation now contemplated to 40 or 50 per cent.
This Company, combining a safe and remunerative investment in Cocoa with the prospect of large
profits from Rubber, offers exceptional advantages to investors.
Prospectuses and full particulars may be obtained from the Secretary, Mr. H. Y. RUSSELL,
14 Martin Place; the Solicitors, Messrs. LAURENCE and LAURENCE, Wynyard Street; or the
Managing Director, Mr. F. HARMAN, 257 A George Street, Sydney.
A T%
mm
K
ta.
Try Capillarine for Your Bare Lip.
CAPILLARINE will actually and positively produce a full-
grown moustache for any man who follows the simple direction
on the label. It is nice to use and absolutely undetectable.
PR.ICE 10/6 per Pot,
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
s
y
THE
Sim
STROKE
From Point to Heel
Or Heelto Point-
Pojyible
Only
WithJhe
MAIUC
Qians*
sniavhs jo snanoamv sara
yozva
GET A CURLEY SAFETY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
self ! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post Free.
Denyer Bros., 281 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
m
VA
«a
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 Tor IOJ-
j Black, White,
' Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tim Bulletin.] [5
i
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
| which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDIC AI OR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, ; Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO .
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
100 Songs for 6d.
Comic Songs, Ballads, Pantomime
Hits, Parodies. Fanny Stories.
‘Boomerang’ Songsters.
ALL THE LATEST HITS.
Only 7d, each post free or the 3 for 1/7.
The “Boomerang" Songsters contain the very
latest hits of tbe season. You could not possibly
get a better collection of popular songs (comic and
otherwise), ballads, panto hit"', gags, iokes, etc.,
than are given in these marvellous SIX-PENNY
productions. Think of almost any popular song
now being sung and you will find it in one of
these three Songsters. Only 7d. each post free
or the three for 1/7 post free.
BOOMERANG SONGSTER No. 5.
PORTION OF CONTENTS
Ain't you coming back to old
New Hamnshiie
Are you coming out to-night
Banquet in misery hall
Bull and Bush Coax me
Colleen Bawn Sister
Can’t you see I’m lonely
Down on the Farm
Dreaming Love of you
From your dear heart to mine
Good-bve sweet Marie
Harry Phydora’s origin, sayings
In the city of sighs and tears
I’m trying so hard to forget you
I want to be a soldier
I left because I love you
In the valley of Kentucky
In after years when I am old
Ida Ho Rosebud
It the man in the moon
Just across the bridge of gold
Meet me in St. Louis, Louis
Moving day Pal of mine
Mv loving Henry
When the harvest moon is
shining on the river
When you’re dreaming of me
Won't you wait Nellie dear
Waltz me around again Willie
When the whip-poor-will sings
Would you cate [Marguerite
Where the Swannee River
Yankee Doodle Boy [Flow*
You’re just the girl,- I
BOOMERANG SONGSTER No. 6.
PORTION OF CONTENTS
Am I downhearted, No !
And a liitle child shall lead them
Australia’s welcome to Uncle
B >nnie Jean [Sam
Captain Baby Bunting
Come back again 10 the silver
Gretchen (falls of Erin
-omic advertisements, &c.
Crossing the bar
•'are-thee-well my old Kentucky
forget me not
H'unny little bob-tail coat
roiden West
loney (iooo dol. prize winner)
l said good-bye love
If Capt. Cook should come to j
I'm tying the leaves [life
I’m going to sing a song
My Japloo Baby
Red wing
She wears an aching heart
Sleep, sailor sleep
Value for money
We parted on the shore
When I was in the chorous
When you know you’re not
Now laugh ! (forgotten
When the sheep are in the fold
When summer tells autumn
Your lips, your eyes, your hair
BOOMERANG SONGSTER No. 7.
PORTION OF CONTENTS
Always me Mixed melodies
Daddy’s little tomboy girl
Down in the depths
Dixie and the girl I love
Farewell, Mavourneen
Give my love to Sydney town
How Do-yer-do-di-day
Bound to come out in the wash
I’ll be waiting dearie
Just—Tit Bits
Light in the window
My hansom sirl
Meet me Kathleen
Oh ! It’s a terrible tale
Only an old fashioned cottage
Out went the gas
Sh—l jumped on the bus
She was a grand old lady
Stingy Truthful Bill
Theie s another picture
Take me down the harbour
When we iistened to the
When darling Bess [chiming
When the violets bloom
With you in eternity
You've changed the winter
7d. each, or the 3 for 1/7, post free.
A. J. SMITH & C 0„
14 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“KURLO”
produces beautiful curls or waves in
a few days without the aid of tongs or
pins. Makes the hair soft and silkv.
strengthens the roots* and prevent?
hair falling out Curls the straightest
hair if not cut too short Pleasant,
perfectly harmless. Not affected by
sea air, damp weather, or heated rooms
Price 2'6 PER BOTTLE
(Post Free anywhere, full directions)
Send Postal Note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
V
u
To Shearers—
Thousands of you now ride from Station to Station
on DUNLOP shod cycles, because you find these
are the ONLY TYRES that give satisfaction. We
have now issued a special strong and heavy Cover,
known as the “Thorn-proof,” which is splendidly
adapted for the riding you do. They cost a little
more, but they are well worth it.
DUNLOP
THORN PROOF
will practically ensure you against punctures, and will carry
you thousands of miles without trouble. We will be pleased to
forward you a section of this Cover upon receipt of your name
and address. These Covers can be obtained through any
reputable Cycle Agent They are branded “ Thorn-proof.” ■
DUNLOP RUBBER CO . Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane. Christchurch. N.Z?
Ui
L.
[/■if
n
Among the very few politicals who
attended the Walls of Derry and Flames of
Smithfield disturbance at Sydney Town Hall was
Soapy Gray, Senator. Of the weak Senate bunch
which is due for re-election in N.S.W. next year
Gray is the weakest, and his party is seriously
alarmed at his chances. Hence presumably Gray’s
elegy in the canine boneyard. It is necessary to
get solid with something, and the yelp of the
Yellow Pup is a straw, so to speak, at which he
clutches with both hands by the skin of his teeth,
if it may be put that way.
G. Bron writes :—
Streeton has painted Venice.
As long as the 1000-year-old place will hold up, the city
built on the open sewers, with the Adriatic front, will be a
sort of Mecca to the landscape man ; becoming probably
lovelier as it gets rottener, its foundations more and more
soaked, and its topside bizarre gorgeousness more and
more mellowed.
In Streeton’s show at the Guild Hall, Melbourne, we
have an echo of his late London exhibition.
Here are the old Ducal Palace, canals, Rialto, San
Marco and the rest in all their bewitchery and quaint
grandeur, their mystery and enchantment ; and it is
easy to understand the madness of the artist man for
such a fairyland.
What a place for a Saturday afternoon or a week end—
if it were just outside Brighton !
The familiarity of the points of view cannot be helped,
seeing that there was nothing to prevent the great men
of the past from selecting those best standpoints and
certainly no reason why Streeton should take worse ones !
If someone (Johnson, Burns, or even Bill Squires) had
only been at hand in the long ago to lay hands on Turner
and the others, and say “ Hold, there ! You are standing
exactly where Streeton is coming along in 50 or 70 or 80
years time to paint that very view, and if you draw a line
I’ll break your neck ! ” —all would have been well, and
this little show not only captivating' but original.
It is original now, of course, in so far as the subjects
are Streetonised—sufficiently so to show that Venice is a
Streeton theme, and that his treatment fits it.
Several of the largest pictures are about on a level.
It is hard to say which one likes best, but possibly St.
Mark’s with the Piazza may be singled out as strongest.
The fine stretch of shadow, alive with figures, in the
foreground, is a somewhat unusual, as well as effective,
adjunct in this scene, and serves well to throw up the
gilded magnificence of the Duomo beyond. Arid the
restraint shown in the hinting of this magnificence in-
stead of the unfolding of it, is on the right side—the sub-
duing of the whole—“ except in the one fold that admits
the perfect hue.”
The English critics have said complimentary things
about these pictures; but of course a Melbourne
man has let go a carp or two. One charges
carelessness. Certainly Streeton’s treatment of one
window made my blood boil on inspection, and in other
cases I would like to have seen more love bestowed on
architectural detail; butStreeton is an impressionist, and
is giving us his versions, going graphically for the spirit of
the matter, and—main thing —getting it 1
Someone (in the Argus) was unaccountably hypercriti-
cal about perspective, and wondered, poor man, "if all
the lines met on the horizontal.” He must be a theoso-
phist, or he would have seen that they reasonably do, as
far as makes any odds. The same critic gushes over
Turner and the rest—by comparison. Now. the
high priest of V netian landscape—Turner himself,
although he was for a time, oddly, teacher of perspective
at the Royal Academy, paid little attention to it in his
great canvases ; nor to topography either, as Ruskin is
never tired of reminding us.
One of the Sydney pictures Streeton painted last year
is in this show (lent)—a fine view of the harbor, with the
sunlit city beyond, looking as fine as ever, even sur-
rounded by old Venice—but that is nit Streeton’s fault.


OUR
CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird and Spray
Heart CHARM,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold CROSS, set Fine Pearls,
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
ii I /-
15ct. Gold, 40/; Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted,
'
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c:t. Gold Bee BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
£4.
All Pearls, £5.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED”
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
17
%
Sr
V 1
A
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES,
f-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
::<>/ •
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. With it you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/
All Diamonds, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls,
£4.
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open-face, Keyless
vl A i CHES, Short-wind, stein set, per-
fectly regulated,
, 10/-
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Garnet centre,
„ 10/«
Other styles, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, set O-al,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/4*
15ct. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/. 50/, 60/, 70/, SO/.
Oct. Gold Signet RING,
20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
ISct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, set
Fine White Pearls,
£4-
%
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, set
Fine Golden Sap-
phire, £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Pine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5.
Diamonds and Emeralds,
£l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4.
loot. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
£5-
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
a. Saunders.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/-
A. SAu-wJERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£l5.
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine,
Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS.
lSet. Gold EARRINGS, set
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Half-chased, with
Safety Chain attached,
£2/15/-
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
££}•
For Pierced or Unpierced Ears.
Other. Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots,
£2.
A. SAUNDJiKS.
18qt. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
*B/10/-
AII Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Pine Pearls and Amethyst,
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUADERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire.
£lO-
- Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier
£6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. ’
12/6, 15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, 30/. Any Special
£3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
Design of Albert to order.
Our System of Free Car-
riage on Goods to any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
With the exceptions of
Clocks and Ghinaware, we
send all Goods, Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
tralasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
( HARM
Amethyst
Thistle.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDEF3.
9et. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
12/6
15ct. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
SOLID
GOLD,
12/10/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
mmmM fi|M|
"v: .':■■■'
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, j-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, extra heavy case, liana-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/,' £2O.
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
■: I i
JL-i
ala
SA
witRS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all ; earls,
, .. £3/10/-
Ouvines, Rubier ""d Pearls, £4/10/.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2,
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
A. SAUJNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless
LEVER, |-plate movement, fully jewelled,
£2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6, and 7 \ ears.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


It is Fair Time at MARK FOY’S
In other words, AN OCCASION ALWAYS EAGERLY
LOOKED FOR by the great bulk of the shopping public.
r
sa
'! C
—i —' ) _ l n
! 5
br
4S
L -i ■
\
'Tk3
c3j
Q§
QO
LLJ
' v.v ..
V %
k-„
»
ffY-iy
T-.
3H°
A
' lt J
m
f/
r
V
x
1
I
. - - #
i
•‘ Why, we can't find ANYBODY at home!”
“ MARK FOY’S FAIR ”
is a household word in
Sydney and throughout
the State.
It is known AND AD-
MITTED to be the
greatest opportunity to
obtain the thousand-and-
one articles required by
men, women and children
at prices FAR U N DER
WHOLESALE COST.
Messrs. MARK FOY’S
always take the oppor-
tunity of CLEARING
THEIR ENTIRE
STOCK preparatory to
the new season.
NOTHING IS RE-
SERVED ; EVERY-
THING IS OFFER-
ED toTHE PUBLIC.
And, to state a fact, the
public invariably rises to
the occasion. You see,
LONG AND FAVOR-
ABLE EXPERI-
ENCE HAS CON-
VINCED IT !
LADIES and GENTLEMEN ! We shall be glad to welcome you to our FAIR. DO
NOT DELAY your coming ! Do not take our word for it, if you feel at all sceptical
—just come AND SEE FOR YOURSELVES.
What YOU will see —what WE are doing —THAT will convince you!
wm' TO OUR MANY COUNTRY FRIENDS AND CLIENTS. 'VE
We would ask you to note that during the FAIR all Country Mail Orders will he executed at Fair Prices.
MARK FOY’S particularly desire you, Ladies and Gentlemen, to
participate in the thousands of unusual and beautiful
BARGAINS that are and will be on offer.
Write and ask for patterns, prices and particulars of ANYTHING
you may require, and your inquiry will receive IMMEDIATE
and COMPLETE ATTENTION.
Do not delay, Ladies and Gentlemen, and do not hesitate to put us to
any trouble on your account ; that’s what we’re here for.
MARK
roY*s
Ask your Friends from Sydney what tkey know o/
MarK Foy’s Fair


Zaw Points
£or Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing your invention, enclosing’ a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLIIMAN, Patent Attorney,
“ Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,'
1 1nfluenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c D
•
s
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
Tung Tonic could not have been won,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
, remedy ever lcnown. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “ QWBRIDGE ~ '
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. l£d.,
2s yd.,4s 6d.,.&115.
Oxbridge
v fungTonfc
COPYRIGHT.
I
•a
288
G. & G.
u
IN
FLITE
T7EES
The best riders know that how-
ever good the machine they
ride, it is the better if fitted
with Flite Tyres. The flexi-
bility of the rubber ensures
easy pedalling—and more speed
with less fatigue, whilst the
guarantee of 12 months really
means an unimpaired tyre life
of several years.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
289-93 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
AND AT
Perth, Adelaide. Brisbane & Hobart.
ANDREW McGEE
These two first quality London made
yet cool smoking- companions of men
in Pipes. The Oval-shaped Bowls fit
4>
3 CO
.M. PIPES are sure to become warm friends,
ho appreciate the better and the “ different”
flatly in the vest pocket—the stems are of
Hand-cut Vulcanite, bent or straight, while the mounts are of Sterling Silver. 6/- each. 2nd Quality,
4/6 each. Post free.
Sydney’s Leading-
Tobacconist and
Gentlemen’s
Hairdresser.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY
WEDNESDAY.
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, near Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Price 35/-, POST FREE.
Don’t Suffer from
RHEUMATISM!
There’s absolutely NO need to make your
life miserable with this wretched com-
plaint. The relief is so easy to obtain.
JERDfIN’S
“HOME” BATTERY
Simple in its working, efficacious in its
results.
By applying its pain-relieving currents
to the affected parts, you obtain instant
relief. Persevere with the treatment, and
the result will more than gratify you.
Try it—we refund your money if it’s not
just as we say.
Let us send you the Free
Battery Booklet.
JORDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS
AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
English Watches
Prize Awards .-London 1851. Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
N
ROTHE RhAMS
LON DOfH
m
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
Zc
A COMFORTABLE SHAVE
Is ensured every day of the year by using- The PLUM
RAZOR, with its clean-cutting, easy-going, depend-
able blade that requires no grinding and very little
stropping. The secret of the splendid success of
The PLUM RAZOR is the steel. We will keep it
in good order one year free of charge.
PRICE
10/6.
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
The“ECHOPHONE”
ACCORDEON
fitted with
Phonograph Horn.
More than DOUBLE THE TONE POWER of an
Ordinary Accordeon.
The most striking hit ever put on the market in the
Aceordeon trade.
You will like them, no matter what make of instrument
you have used.
Something' new at last! Detachable Phonograph Horn of
Burnished Brass. They stand alone.
Size, Iljin. x 6Jin. 10 keys, 3 sets of reeds, double bellows, brass
corner protectors; ebonised case, leather straps, bone keys.
Reed plates laid on leather and screw fixed.
Price, £,2. Postage 3/6 extra.
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., Brisbane, Queensland.
■Jr
&
&
PRIZES Value £1 750
IN THE
8-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30,1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorkiiouse, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will he advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide)
To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Oct., 1903 .. £355 4A p.c. = £4lO £654
A pi., 1904 .. 429 4£ ~ ~ 414 £l5 669
Oct., 1904 ~ 401 4A „ ~ 367 34 703
Apl., 1905 .. 349 4| „ „ 331 18 721
Oct., 1905 .. 285 4A „ ~ 309 697
Apl., 1906 .. 300 4| „ ~ 317 680
Ocr,, 1906 .. 318 il „ „ 333 665
Apl., 1907 .. 333 4A „ „ 352 646
Oct., 1907 .. 316 4A ~ „ 335 627
Apl., 1908 .. 313 i „ „ 308 5 632
Oct., 1908 .. 322 4 „ ~ 326 628
Apl., 1909 .. 374 4 „ „ 329 45 673
The shade of an improvement is probably due to re-
coveries; and recoveries are traceable to the extra good
time Adelaide is having—though, as part of that “good
time ” is due to the large expenditure of borrowed money
on tramway and other public works, there is almost
bound to be a backwash presently. Generally speaking,
Adelaide isn’t a good hunting ground for the building
society, partly because the State Bank lends on all sorts
of real property, and partly because S. Australia is a very
economical State, which often starts housekeeping- in a
two-roomed humpy if it hasn’t the cash to at once
pay for a Queen Anne villa. This society therefore
doesn’t grow at all, and it isn’t large enough to be run at
a low cost. Hence dividends are small. Still, even
though its dividends are under sized, it does something
to encourage provident habits by stressing the fact that
if a small capitalist pays in 4s. a week for a year the
society will add another 4s. to the pile out of the earnings
of the money ; and there is very little doubt about the
safety of the principal.
* * * *
The Raymond Terrace Co-operative Dairy
and Produce Co. (Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.)
Sup- Writ-
pliers’ ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves
Apl., 1905.. JL 714
Oct., 1905.. £406 £204 916
Apl., 1906.. 409 10 p.c. = £l2l 238 966
Oct,, 1906.. 402 236 1132
Apl., 1907.. 1274 10 p.c. = £122 £472 258 1554
Oct., 1907.. 971 393 209 1923
Apl.. 1908.. 1566 10 p.c. = £l5l 682 201 2455
Oct., 1908.. 816 552 199 2520
Apl., 1909.. 1018 10 p.c. = £l7l 363 357 2647
The dividend is only paid yearly ; it works out, of course,
at 5 per cent, per annum. The capital, which is being
slowly increased, is now £3414. Liabilities (mostly to
suppliers for the last fortnight’s cream) total £4214 ;
against that book debts, cash and stocks total £3863, and
that was before paying the dividend and bonus. Therefore
a small part of the buildings and plant is still represented
by overdraft, which makes it desirable to go on strength-
ening the reserves. Assets appear to be well written down
(10 per cent, per annum), and generally the accounts are
satisfactory.
* • * *
Though it is only a very few years since it
started to turn the-metal to account, Australia is now
easily the second greatest producer of zinc in the world ;
and the position of even the United States, which stands
at the top, is being challenged. Unfortunately almost the
whole of the output is smelted in foreign countries,
mostly Belgium and Germany. The stuff is sent away in
the form of concentrates worth from 44 to 47 per cent,
zinc ; and the metal contained in these concentrates now
runs to over 130,000 tons a year. The Sulphide
Corporation alone turns out over 40,000 tons ; the
Zinc Corporation and the B. H. Prop, are large
producers; and the De Bavay co. is rapidly getting
into big figures. The past five years’ export of concen-
trates in tons has been : 1
1904 .. 57,602 1907 .. 236,251
1905 .. 103,532 1908 .. 275,932
1906 .. 102,664
The arrival of a new producer of this size must affect the
market, more especially as other big producers haven’t
eased off. In 1897 the world’s zinc harvest was reckoned
at 443,300 metric tons ; in 1906 it had gone up to 702,000
metric tons. In that time the U.S. had moved from
89,618 tons to 202,092 tons. The 702,000 tons includes,
say, 46,000 tons of Australian zinc ; and the Australian
output has since then nearly trebled. Yet it is a ,p m „rlc
able tact that in 1897 the average price was onlv £l7 9s
lOd while in 1906 it was £27 Is sd. That ought to mean
that, in spite of the very rapid increase in Droduction
there had been a still more rapid increase in consumption!
But the spelter market is subject to a lot of “ unnatural ”
influences. The bi? S pelter.producers are few and they
seem very good friends ; hence “ conventions” knd agree-
ments to limit output etc., are common. One such was
fixed up recently ; and though this may mean that prices
for the metal will be kept up, it will also probablv mean
that Australian producers may presently find a difficulty
in placing their concentrates at a fair price If the
smelters limit the output of the metal, and there' is more
than enough of the raw material offering then it is
quite certain that the smelters will only buy what
is offered at the lowest price; wherefore unless
they fix up a convention ” too, the Australian
producers of the raw material will no doubt be cordially
encouraged to fire away and cut their own throats if
the Australian producers had large smelting works of their
own they might argue with the European smelters • but
as long as they are in the hands of the foreigners the
“ convention ” to limit the output and maintain the price
of the metal isn’t going to help them as much as some
people think.
* * *
In their annual report on the Oroya-Brown Hill,
8., M. and 00.
They state that it is impossible to give even approximate
figures of the tonnage in sight, although from the faces
exposed on December 31 last they could see sufficient to
maintain the output of £16,000 per month for six months
from that time. The firm, however, believed that ex-
ploratory work would stave off the evil day a bit longer
but to what extent they couldn’t say. Despite the new
mines acquired and taken on appro., the co. is still very
busy making provision for the future. Another option
making the fourth secured during the last month or two’
has been taken on the Babiloma gold mine, Nicaragua
In a recent report on this property Herzig, ’formerly of
8., M. and Co.’s Australian staff, estimates that there is
£25,000 profit in sight, and that before the option expires
from 75,000 to 100,000 tons should be developed provided
the ore goes down.
* ■* * #
The question of raising further working capital
by the issue of preference shares cropped up at the
London and W. A. Exploration Co., and after Algernon
Moreing had assured shareholders that there were now
plenty of opportunities of making money, and making it
quickly, it was hurriedly decided to have a shot at it.
* • * *
Thus Chairman Gr. P. Doolette on the past
performances of the Great Boulder (W.A.) : “Since the
formation of the co. in 1895, and including the distribu-
tion on account of the sale of a portion of the property,
the shareholders have received a total of 1830 per cent.’,
representing the return of their capital more than 18
times in 13 years. The rate paid for each of the past four
years has been 150 per cent. This is a record which en-
titles the property to a prominent place among the
world’s great mines.” But when figures like these are
quoted, it is always well to remember that you can’t pay
divs. with the gold that is gone.
* * * *
Negotiations are proceeding in London for the
amalgamation of the Hannan’s Star and Boulder Deep
Levels. Manager Vail considers that the ore reserves of
the two mines and the prospects of further developments
fully justify the expenditure of £32,000 on a plant capable
of treating between 6000 and 7000 tons per month. He
claims that the amalgamation of the two properties is
necessary for economic working ; and, provided this is
done, he estimates that the ore in sight, will yield a profit
of £83,250. The expenditure of £15,000 in additional sur-
face equipment is also recommended.
* * * *
North Queensland tin shows consist of patches,
and just at the moment a number of them are working
much better patches than usual. The Gilmore, the
Stannary Hills, and Tommy Burns have all improved, and
there are 20 others, mostly worked by small parties, where
the same thing has happened. They are all right for
small cos. or syndicates ; the trouble starts when, on the
strength of one or two good patches, a co. is formed with
a big capital. In 19 cases out of 20 this is followed by
expensive trimmings, and then dividends are pushed
further into the distance. Of the public cos. Tommy
Burns is best off, because the shares, though boomed at
fi st, are still few in number ; and there is enough ore in
sight to pay another two or three tidy dividends, and
better arrangements have now been made for getting the
ore to the tniil.


Bcsilc
Grand Prix
London, 1908
Pianos.
DIPLOMA OF HONOR and TWO COLD MEDALS.
They are in the most diverse climates, and withstand them all.
BEALE PIANOS have been ordered and supplied exclusively for the magnificent
new STRAND PALACE HOTEL, LONDON, whose public rooms are second to
none in Europe, and which will be opened in September, d hey are in the aristocratic
watering place of LE TOUOUET, near Bologne, in the beautiful hostelry, “LE
HERMITAGE.” They are in MAURITIUS, CAPE COLONY, NATAL,
CEYLON, the TRANSVAAL, FIJI, TONGA, NEW GUINEA, NEW
CALEDONIA, PORT DARWIN, NEW ZEALAND, and in the furthermost
settlements of AUSTRALIA. From all these places we receive hearty and voluntary
letters of commendation.
Here are two of the letters, and of the like we have been favored with thousands.
IMPERIAL CHINESE RAILWAYS. SHANGHAI-NANKING RAILWAY.
Executive Engineer’s Office,
Penniu, May Bth, 1909.
Messrs. BEALE & CO. ... . . ,
Dear Sirs, —I do not know if you have sent pianos to China before or not, but I think it is only right to let you know ow
your pianos stand the climate over here. Perhaps you remember me buying the instrument at St. Arnaud, Vic., a few years ago.
We have since then brought it to China, and when I went to Australia a few years ago I took it with me, and not staying there as
T first intended, I brought it back again to China a couple of months ago, and, after all its travelling and rough usage by Chinese, it
is in splendid condition. Every time I go to it I cannot help feeling pleased with the sweet, full tone, which is very unusual m
pianos in China. We are in the interior, where we have the two extremes of heat and cold, which is very severe in its effects on
most pianos, but which has proved your instrument to stand all you said it would when I first bought it from you.
Yours very truly,
H. J. COLLIS,
Penniu, via Shanghai, China.
A CHIEF ENGINEER ON THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY’S ESTATES, LATE OF NAVUA, FIJI,
NOW OF MACKAY, QUEENSLAND.
The climate of that part of Fiji in which the Beale Piano was located was about the worst possible place that could be found
anywhere. I may state for your information that the main island of Fiji, “ Viti Levu,” is divided down the centre by a mountain
range, on one side of which it is nearly always raining, owing to the clouds being backed up against the mountains by the trade
winds. During the sixteen months that the Piano was at Navua I do not think there were two consecutive weeks of tine
weather. Under these conditions you will easily see that the instrument had a pretty severe test. It was always up to concert pitch,
however, thus proving your contention re the Beale-Vader Patent. I do not anticipate having any difficulty in keeping my lano in
good order in Queensland, although some little care will he required during the wet season. T beg to forward the name of
as being a likely purchaser of a Piano. I hope to be able to supply you with the names of likely purchasers from time to time.
° J . HUGH S. SIM.
BEALE ®. CO. Ltd.
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.;
291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only addfess in Brisbane), and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland;
Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, and Goulburn, N.S.W.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
BRANCHES AND TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE.
Direct from Factory to Family. Write for Catalogue , or for Representative to call.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee.
Repairs and Tuning. Old Pianos Allowed For.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Combination Couch and Bed.
BW'iJUlilUJMm———— mma—mm —— ——g
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
\a Amrsvy; Av \\\\AV\\\v
A x aA»
v
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BHD.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Cen only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Born 1820.
Still going
strong.
It’s a fallacy to
say you can’t
buy AGE and
EXPERIENCE
you CAN in
Born 1820.
Still going
strong
The Whisky with the
Little Label
and the
Big Reputation,
Safeguarded by a constant maturing reserve
stock of over 3g million gallons.
BILLIARDS LIMITED.
TEL. 1338
CITY.
PERPETUAL TOURNAMENTS FOR BONA FIDE AMATEURS.
ALL COMPETITORS TO BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF COMPANY
Prizes every fortnight, or as soon after as any Competition is won.
BILLIARDS : Break of 50, or biggest over 50 .. .. .. .. .. Order value £9 9°
Break of 51, or biggest over 51, off red ball .. Order’ mine
SNOOKER : Break of 30, or biggest over 30 " nJdeJ’ f 9
PYRAMIDS : Break of Bor over Urder > value 2s.
BILLIARDS LTD. NOVELTY SNOOKER*to be run monthly. S ‘
Three prizes—Orders value £2-25., £1 Is. and 10/6 for the largest breaks made during the month. Entrance fee 3d
Competition started 7th JULY. Morning, Afternoon and Evening Sessions. ’
Full particulars from HARRY GRAY, Manager, 630 George Street.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pr-iace Medals..
Works s Birmingnam, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Biotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
PROFIT to FLOCKMASTERS. NO TROUBLE to EXPERTS. EFFICIENCY and COMFORT for SHEARERS.
The FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING
MACHINES and GRINDERS are Unequalled.
YOUR PROFIT lies in utilising ELECTRICITY.
You need to realise the vital importance of
guarding against the loss of power in trans-
mission. Inefficient equipment means waste of
time and money.
Please write lor Catalogues and full particulars to
THE FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE CO., Head Office, Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 175 William Steeet, Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address: “ FALKINER-BOLL,” MELBOURNE. Code Word: “TRIUMPHANT.”
fiAßvWMlistr AL
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
imei.t, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P’ty. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
\T
■
mm
<*? M
mm.
m
STEVENS Small Bore Rifles are not intended for
Kangaroos and Big Game—for small game and
RECORD TARGET SHOTS they h?,VG no equal.
We manufacture Rifles, Shot Guns, Pistols, ?.'fle Telescopes
etc. All Progressive Dealers hantJ'.e STEVENS.
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.,
546 BROADWA'/,
CHICOPEE FALLS, MAS/J., U.S.A.
41
The Pen for YOU.
The “ Swan ” Fountpen is built for writing comfort—
it is not a toy—it has no pistons or valves, it works
automatically (if unconscious writing could be described as
working). The holder is made
to hold the maximum amount
of ink in the most comfortable
yet strong form of pen holder.
Our illustrated booklet tells
about the “ SWAN ” —write for
it to-day—post free.
—— o
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and Branches.
Australasian BranchJAS. A. BURKE, 15
Waltham Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
♦ —-
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
INSIST ON
The Bulletin Post Cards*
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... . . Gd
Packet of Ten od


Aiijs A^^lCle
A'js Fa l^
A'js
A .
\V^r4
AJip Rose
/ V 'la v t', Vine-
NVy K <l \ Au\ v
Joe
M r fW-V6jld
/^| r FJ4k/2<4 \<± T)^Sci\jW^^.
RoVqv, c? -
SOME CHARACTER STUDIES-'A BACHELOR’S HONEYMOON.”
Hugh Ward’s Comedy Co., at Melbourne Princess’s Theatre.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
MkljlKiurkk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Aniii.AinE & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Colonial mutual tife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.838,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wai.es :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hot.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
umi TED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, EC.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Oipital Paid-up .. .. .. '.. £405,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72,500 0 0
£731.601 0 n
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. " -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondent- thrnusrhont tlm W-wi.i
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S. "W .
(|)ontdepieteO.»li|.Co.,[til.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTX.EE.EAG-H ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE ctnd BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortjra<res) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Prate; Hon.
Thomas Skene; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manasrer.
FREDR. A. LANG, Assistant Manaser.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
ord
exrtscKer
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsnrpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £-2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.!)98
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Brig-lit & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€H L!H€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 4.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 1.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £.15 In 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Am'Mention.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
NOLIDAy
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
52 S
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining' a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending- settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being:
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
EORG£ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Wm. Atkins & Go. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St , Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to Hew South
Wales Government.
Banking.
The Bank of Jjustraiasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1535.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. ..£1,000,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)eui South (Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1.650,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. ~ 2,500,000 0 0
£6,650,000 0 0
Directors :
The lion. O. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lvt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Tiiomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Jambs Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucrland, Esq.
Richard Blnnik, Esq.
... j William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors : 'Siiepiieard Edgecliff Laidlby, Esq.
London Office— 64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures ; issues Letters of
Credit and Circular Notes negotiable throughout the
world; undertakes the Agency of other Banks; and
conducts all customary Banking business.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Shipping-.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
V;
S.S. Yongala, July 31 and
August 28.
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), August 6th,
calling at all N.-West
Ports to Derby.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norrh to Cairns.
S.S. Grantala, July 24.
S.S. Innamincka, July 31.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at tbe Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing-, the new twin-screw steamer, “ATUA,’
August 17, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
LAND, transhipping- at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ TOFUA.” leaving
Auckland on August 17 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” August
3, thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and
TAHITI, returning from the latter port to Wellington
per “ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 10 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving- Wellington, August 12,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 20 days, arriving at
Auckland September 23.
For further information
and descriptive booklet
apply—
to the various offices
in Australasia of
the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United Stated
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
£6O
INCLUDING HOTEL
EXPENSES.
£6O
For full particulars, apply—
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
'Mtuiatriutr A (rente, Georsre-soreet, Sydney.
3EB
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
'STTRA*
SPECIAL
Silver
Mounted
NoHiing Ever Like
Them Shown lr\
Australia Before
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS
lr
[ Unable to
Procure
Ah Local
} Apply At
Wholesale
Depot
231 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
CONTENTMENT
comes to the smoker of Lind’s
“No. 2” Aromatic Mixture.
Under its soothing, benign influence
man becomes a philosopher, content
with things as they are, content to
face the future, always content —so
long as lie has his “No. 2” Mixture,
or “ The Exchange.'’ 1
Plug or cut.
Obtainable in 2oz. and 4oz. tins, at
6d. per oz., from
E. F. LIND & CO., Tobacconists,
398 George Street, Sydney.
To enjoy these tobaccos thoroughly use
E.F.L. BRIAR PIPES.


• •
m
«
si
/ SI
c
cLiJCJ
.1
0*
S 3
t£b dJ
di
ti
C2m
Co
C 3
•fftk
ca
p
k®
wlUt?'
.
■•t •
T»
O
• A
m
%
m
M
m-
-0.15,.
m
sft*»
x>
o
A A
m Vtfi
i n
•«
II
:■! i
L 3
E
D
FLOC
P? CAI
r
; -1
V
k':
m
\ v
r
V ‘ >
(/
Adelaide Steamship Co.
Ltd.
S.S. GRANTALA S.S. WOLLOWRA
S.S. MARLOO S.S. INNAMINCKA
Australasian United Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
T. 5.5. WYREEMA S.S. WODONQA
5.5. WYANDRA S.S. ARAWATTA
Howard Smith Co
Ltd.
5.5. COOMA S.S. BOMBALA
5.5. PEREGRINE
♦T.S.S. MOURILYAN
♦T.S.S. KURANDA
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
From Melbourne to Cairns £l6 10 O
~ Sydney to Cairns ... 14 Q O
,» Brisbane to Cairns ... IO IO O
Adelaide to Cairns ... 210 0
Fremantle to Cairns 29 O O
99
* Between Tozvnsville and Cairns via intermediate ports.
For Full Particulars or Descriptive
Pamphlets' apply Agents at all Ports.


He tried Port Hacking 1 after fish,
But only caught a cold.
He said, “ Atchoo ! By Jove, I wish
I’d done as I was told.
This is indeed a hacking cough,
Good name it’s got, I’m sure ”;
But next day he was right enough
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
IN BANANA LAND
North. Queensland, and its Interest in the
Territory and the Straight Line.
It is now definitely understood that the Federal
Government’s proposals for ' taking over the
Northern Territory, and building the transconti-
nental line from Port Darwin to Oodnadatta and
Port Augusta, will be met with an amendment
demanding a deviation of the railway into West
Queensland. And after that there will probably
come further demands that the deviation shall be
extended into N.S.W., and finally into Victoria,
and that the transcontinental railway shall, in the
end, be a long, crooked, curved concern, extending
from the Far North to Melbourne, and connecting
with Brisbane and Sydney on the way. If all
idea of considering the interests of Australia as a
whole is abandoned, and it becomes merely a
blind, short-sighted struggle to advance the
claims of the three most populous States and
the ones with the biggest vote —to give to him
who hath, and to grease the stout hog, and
to bring the new population which the line will,
or ought to, create to the regions where there is
most population already—then the amendment
will probably be carried. And S.A. will refuse to
give up the Territory under such conditionsso
things will be back where they were, and in the
effort to grab everything the Eastern States will
have got nothing. Not only will the transfer of
the Territory to the Commonwealth be hung up
indefinitely, but the building of the line to Port
Darwin, and the opening up and settling of the
North, and the construction of the transcontinental
railway to Perth will be hung up for an unspecified
period. S.A. will ploddingly resume the con-
scruction of the Port Darwin railway on its own,
but it will be slow work. It will put all the money
it can raise, beg, borrow or steal into that enter-
prise. And its reason for refusing its consent to
the building of the Perth transcontinental railway
through its country will be that one-eleventh part
of the bill would fall on S.A., and if S.A. has to
connect with Port Darwin on its own it can’t
afford to pay one-eleventh part of any other bill.
Yet the advocates of the straightest possible
line from Port Darwin to Port Augusta have quite
a number of good reasons to advance in the inter-
ests of Australia for the faith that is in them.
Here are some of the reasons :
(1) It is by far the shortest road. Therefore it would
cost less money to build and less money to work than the
eastern deviation. (Incidentally Queensland would have
less to pay as its share of the work.)-
(2) It would open up the Northern Territory—of which
Queensland would be part owner—from end to end, and
make it a source of revenue, and Queensland would be
part owner of the revenue. To take over the Territory
and then build a line which made all possible haste to
>ret out of the Territory, so as to leave it undeveloped and
unprofitable, seems a strange, weird, unbusiness-like idea.
(3) The straight line would tend to bring population to
about the emptiest part of Australia, A deviation into
the Eastern States would be merely an effort—and pro-
bably an unsuccessful one—to bring population to the
already most thickly-peopled part of Australia.
(4) The straight line would go through the large well-
watered oasis which lies around the Macdonnell Ranges—
the only place in Central Australia adapted for closer
settlement on any large scale. It would also pass close
to a number of other ranges—Ashburton, Whittington,
Short, McDouall, Crawford, Murchison, Forster, Reynolds’
etc.—all of w'hich have some semblance of a rain-
fall. On the other hand, the proposed deviation into
West Queensland would pass through that south-
western region which the North Gregory Rabbit
Board recently described in a despairing fashion as
the driest country in this continent. Then if the line
went on at much length to Hergott Springs and Adelaide
it would strike the great Cooper’s Creek depression,
where there is drought for nine years and a flood 70
miles wide the tenth, and where it would be necessary to
build nearly 100 miles of embankment to keep the train
above water in flood times. Queensland would gain little
or nothing by having the line taken through the lament-
able country which the North Gregory Rabbit Board calls
the driest in this continent; and its share of the foolish,
needless bill for building embankments across the
Cooper's Creek depression would be considerable.
(5) Furthermore, the Port Darwin to Port Augusta line
would be Federal property right through, for Prime
Minister Deakin persuaded the S.A. people into agreeing
to sell their bit of the transcontinental railway, and also
to surrender Port Augusta, so that the port at each end of
the railway might be Federal property. On the other
hand, a deviation into the Eastern States would mean
divided management. It would probably mean the pre-
sentation to Queensland, and to any other State that hap-
pened to be interested, of a serious bill for the cost of the
bit of line which ran through Queensland, or any other
State; for though Australia in general might reasonably
pay the bill for a railway which ran wholly through
Federal property-through the Northern Territory and
the thin strip of S.A. which would be ceded along with the
railway—and which connected the Federal port of
Darwin with the Federal port of Augusta, it could hardly
be expected to pay for a railway through purely State
lands, especially if the line ended at a purely State port.
(6) Furthermore, a deviation of the transcontinental
railway into Western Queensland might end by raisirm a
question as to Queensland’s right to own the West.
Queensland formerly stopped short at the east side of
the Gulf of Carpentaria. The 116,200 square miles
which were added to it in 1861, and which carried
it westward to beyond the middle of the Gulf
were transferred to it, not by Act of Parliament, but by-
mere “letters patent.” Queensland, in the first place
holds the western fifth of its territory by the
same right as S.A. holds the Northern Territory—
“letters patent” form the title in each ease. But
in the second place, there is this difference: S.A. was
promised an absolute grant of the Territory as soon as it
had completed the railway to Port Darwin ; Queens-
land, so far as is known, has no guarantee of
any absolute grant whatever. In its case the matter
seems to have simply been forgotten, and as many
of its great copper deposits lie in tins Dubious Land
it is better for Queensland that the matter should remain
forgotten. To demand that Australia in general should
build a railway through that part of Queensland which
may really belong to Australia at large would only serve to
remind Australia of its claim to the property. Sup-
posing the deviation of the transcontinental railway into
West Queensland was sanctioned by S.A., the result
would depend upon circumstances. ‘lf Queensland paid
for that portion of the line which ran through “ the driest
country in Australia,” probably nothing would happen.
If all Australia paid for it, and yet Queensland claimed
some form of control, Australia would probably re-
member, in course of time, that all the Northern State
west of the Norman River is held by the Brisbane
Government on a title which is worth serious inspection.
But, .apart from these matters, it is a serious
question whether Queensland, viewing the affair
from a purely State standpoint, and taking no
account at all of the interests of Australia,
wouldn’t be cutting its own throat by advocating
the eastern deviation of the transcontinental rail"
way. If the line ran as nearly as possible due
north and south from Port Darwin to Port
Augusta, it would be the shortest and cheapest
line; therefore, as already mentioned, Queensland
would have the least money to pay for its share of
the work. The line would run through some fair
semblance of watered country—it would pass by
the Katherine, Roper, Finite, Walker, Todd,
Alherga, and other more or less alleged rivers,
and past a dozen well-defined ranges, nil of which
bring down a certain amount of rainfall and offer
large possibilities of water conservation. There-
fore, there would be a chance of population, and
profits and business growing up along it. That
fact would make it wmrth while to hasten the
Townsville-Cloncurry line westward to join it, and
then Townsville and Charters Towers, and the
North generally would have just about as short a
connection with Port Darwin as if the transconti-
nentallinehad been deviated into West Queensland.
And the fact that the Port Darwin-Port Augusta
railway lay along a track not too far away, and
one where population was possible, and where
there were people and money and business, would
be a reason why the Westralian Government
should extend its newest enterprise, the Port
Hedland-Marble Bar line, or some other
northern railway, eastward, and also con-
nect with the transcontinental. These two
lines would make a third - transcontinental
system, from Townsville on the east to Port
Hedland on the west —a far shorter track
across the continent than the one from Mel-
bourne to Fremantle—and would open a new
era of prosperity and enterprise in Northern
Australia. But the deviation through West,
Queensland would be a different proposition.
Instead of taking the shortest cut across the driest
country, it would run at great length through
the arid lands. The Queensland railways
might be extended to connect with this sort of
transcontinental road ; but when the Westralian
Government learned that it was 1400 miles from
Port Hedland to the railway, it would probably
reckon that the job of connecting was too large,
and that a track that ran through the dry
regions controlled by the North Gregory Rabbit
Board wasn’t worth connecting with. It would
rather aim at connecting with Port Darwin
direct. The most visible reason why there should
be, in any measurable number of years, a trans-
continental line from Port Hedland. or some
other north-western port, to Charters Towers
and Townsville is that it would intersect,
in the middle of its progress, a Ffederal line
DERELICTION OF DUTY.
BENNO (frantically): “S'help my oripes, I'll divorce that woman!”
MICKO : “ Wot’s she done? ”
BENNO : "Why , when I merely went ter give ’cr a plug in the eye she atcherly ’as the cheek to
step aside an’ make me spill three penn’orth o’ beer.”
which would connect these three places with Port
Darwin and the adjacent Asiatic ports on one side,
and with Port Augusta, Adelaide, Ballarat, Mel-
bourne, Kalgoorlie, Perth, and all intermediate
places on the other.
* * * *
In this matter the interests'of North Queens-
land and the places further south are hardly
The deviation into West Queensland
of the Federal line from Port Darwin would
certainly give Townsville, Rockhampton and
Brisbane direct communication with Port Darwin.
On the other hand, it might lead to Queens-
land having to meet the bill for a large
section of railway through a country where
the line would pay none too well; or as
an alternative it might raise the question of
Queensland’s right to the ownership of the West
that 116,200 square miles which are held
by letters patent. On the other hand, the direct
line, though it might not benefit Brisbane very
extensively, would, in all probability, give Towns-
ville and the North direct communication with
Port Darwin, supply them with a transcontinental
railway to Westralia, and furnish them with as
short a road as circumstances admit of to Adelaide
and the places in between. There are no places
in between just now, but with railway communi-
cation the oasis around the Macdonnell Ranges is
bound to carry a population ; and, as the crow
flies, the nearest sea outlets to that oasis are
l ort Darwin, Port Augusta, and Townsville. If
the Northern Territory becomes a Federal pos-
session and the transcontinental line is built
along the shortest route, then Northern Australia
B ill at last inherit its kingdom. Queensland and
Westralia will be able to build their railways up
to the Territory’s border, and, as part owners of
the Territory, they will be able to insist on a con-
nection which will make their lines into a great
northern transcontinental system extending from
east to west, and connecting also with the north
and south. On the other hand, if the negotiations
for the transfer of the Territory fall through, that
area will remain a purely State property. It will
probably, in course of time —perhaps a very
long time—have a purely State line from north to
south. The line will be administered on purely
State principles. Queensland and Westralia will
have no share in its control, and the idea of allowing
connections with Perth or Port Hedland or
Derby or Townsville or Rockhampton or Bris-
bane or Sydney will most likely be scouted on
purely selfish principles, as tending to divert trade
from South Australia’s purely State ports of Dar-
win, Augusta and Adelaide.
* * * *
Certain short-sighted or unduly hurried persons
hold that it is absurd for South Australia to make
conditions in the matter of the surrender of the
Northern Territory, because the Territory is a
losing speculation, and by reason of the loss S.A.
must surrender it sooner or later on any terms.
The theory hardly holds water. The Territory is
probably no worse a loss to S.A. than is the
northern part of its State to Westralia, the
neglected Western District to Victoria, the north-
west to N.S.W., Western Queensland and
the Gulf Country to the Government at
Brisbane, or Western Ireland and the North
of Scotland to Great Britain. It is merely
that separate accounts are kept for the Territory,
and consequently its loss is apparent, while in the
absence of separate accounts the other losses are
not apparent. Therefore, it is well to go into the
negotiation with an open mind and to look ahead.
The matter of a North Australian line from east
to west may seem like looking very far ahead, but
in reality it probably amounts to no more than
the forecast of a few years. Northern Australia,
despite some deserts and some drawbacks, is the
garden of this continent. It only requires a chance
to assert itself as one of the most desirable places
on earth. Its trouble is the lack of means of com-
munication on a large scale—not so mucli means of
communication with the congested cities of the
south as communication with itself. That chance
seems to be coming its way simply because accident
has made it the interest of the southern city of Ade-
laide to open up the Far North. It isn’t often that
southern interests lie in the Far North, but in
this one instance they do. And if the Far North
doesn’t reach out for the chance with both hands
it may live to regret its mistake.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 17, 1900.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
A story, which seems too good to be true, drifts
up from your sea-girt city. It concerns a dignified
nursing home in your midst, and the Chapzander
mission. It is alleged that the whole establish-
ment went mad upon the' glory trail, so that,
instead of three nurses being left to watch for the
wily patient, every one and the matron rushed off
to have their souls snatched from the hobs of
sulphur. The meeting proved inspiring, but
presently there was an interruption. The chief
performer stopped short, read a slip of paper
handed him by an assistant, and then demanded
in stentorian tones, “Nurse Smith—let Nurse
Smith rise.” Nurse S. nearly died of shock, and
hastily shook up her memory to see if any one of
her sins could possibly have found her out.
Coming to the conclusion that they couldn’t, she
rose meekly “all of a tremble. “ Nurse Smith,”
pronounced the prophet, “ you are urgently needed
for a case at the Gum-Tree Home. The Lord ex-
cuses you. Go.” And out among the multitude
went Smith. Then the Murrican missionary con-
tinued his discourse, but just as he reached an-
other striking point, a second slip of paper was
passed along and again he paused. “Nurse Brown ;
let her rise.” Brown riz hurriedly, and another
case being on tap the Lord excused her too, and
out went Brown. Nurses Jones, Robinson, Wat-
son, Johnson, and Hobson, were in turn called
upon, until at last only one ministering angel
remained to seek salvation, and she got hysterics
and had to be put under the tap and then sent
home to be dried.
The Dudley family means to make things gay
in the social line, if one can judge by the elaborate
preparations that are going forward among the
members of the household. The Countess has
had a telephone fixed to her boudoir, and the
party had hardly time to dry itself after the
official landing before that monument of tact,
Lord Richard, was down at Stewart’s making
arrangements for his Ex. to have his feet seen to.
Governor-Generals don’t have corns, mind you,
but there’s nothing infra dig in a course of pedi-
cure at the hands of a hoof expert who has enjoyed
vice-regal patronage for a quarter of a century.
The official landing aforesaid took the form of a
Neptune fdte. That is to say, there was more
water about it than anything else (if one excepts
the brush between the Mayor and the military
authorities). The Lieut.-Governor and his better
half, with a party which included another real
lady and a lot of Parliamentary shes, embarked
upon the Lucinda, in the early dawn and a torrent
of rain, to meet at Pinkinba the Japanese ship
that carried the visitors. The pea-soup atmo-
sphere outside, however, delayed the brown men for
an hour or more, and it was a shivery crew that
greeted the great ones.
When the first countess that has reached Queens-
land for two decades stepped down the gang-
plank, there was an amusing little effort to have
first grip of the exalted hand, and as none but the
swift secure the front seat, the wife of a certain
Cabinet Minister beat the unpushing Speakeress,
and ran home by a neck—her own “ neck.”
Lady Dudley appeared in a gown of lily white-
ness, adorned with many frillings and buttons,
and a white toque, the trimming of which would
have driven Alexandra of England grey, so heavily
weighted was it with that product of cruelty, the
osprey. Mrs. Hore-Ruthven clothed her attract-
ive form in ivory cloth and a blue headpiece that
suggested no slaughter. The Earl was a gorgeous
mass of gold lace and orders, and his five retainers
were likewise a treat. There was a tea and coffee
party in the saloon coming round the much bended
river, at which the piece dc resistance, was an ice
cream model of his Ex.’s charger Revenue. The
horse melted in about a minute.
On the Adelaide wharf—the stepping ashore
spot—there was a dripping marquee full of palms,
aldermen, and a few reckless feminines who had
donned their war paint in defiance of the elements
and other things. There was also the Mayor and his
town clerk, the Mayoress, the Naval Commander
and his wife (whose looks gave the gathering
C[uite a tone), and a host of military gentlefnen,
including the new and popular P.M.O. Mrs.
Mayoress having grasped the shapely hand of’her
liege lady, and the Mayor having done likewise
with the Earl, the inevitable address was read in
no worse fashion than usual, and responded to;
and the dripping guards of honor walked round.
Then, every reasonable excuse for giving the
visitors pneumonia being exhausted, they vvere
packed into three motors (two of their own and
Melba’s) and sent to the vice-regal lodge to be
wrung out and fed, a visit of ceremony in the
afternoon alone disturbing their piece of mind.
The little trouble between the chief magistrate
and the military folk was very funny. In their
usual lordly way the red coats decided to put
themselves in the forefront of the reception busi-
ness, and obligingly reserved a small space for his
Worship and wife and retinue in the far back-
ground. But when the critical time arrived his
Worship quietly pointed out that as chief magis-
trate in a city not under military rule, the call
was his, and he placed his municipal brethren just
where he liked, and kept them 1 there, leaving the
dogs of war to drift in wherever they could find
room, and bark in the background.
The coming week will see one of those out-
breaks of marrying and giving in marriage that
has puzzled philosophers from the time of
Adam. One contract already signed, sealed and
delivered was that of one Paterson, well known
to you in a social way, who arrived here on
Sunday, and on Wednesday took unto himself Miss
Dizney, an attractive American person who only
stepped off the Vancouver boat a day or so
previous. The Rev. Sweyn Macqueen, of Frackel-
ton case fame, did the joinery work, and the
newly-wed are now well on their way home.
The ladies of the Children’s Hospital have once
more got themselves into the glare of that light
which shines upon high places. They went one
day lately to our hard-worked Mayoress, and
gently intimated to her that they would be de-
lighted if she would organise a file to raise another
£BOO for their now nearly completed diphtheria
ward. The Mayoress said she would, and forth-
with called a meeting to get to business. Imagine
her feelings, as well as those of the intending
helpers, when not one of the committee women
turned up or offered to do a hand’s turn. They,
however, were careful to say that their best sym-
pathy was with the workers. That is to say, the
already over-burdened charity slaves are to be
undertake the toil and the dead lift while the
elegant committee-women sit back until the open-
ing, when they will graciously come and meet the
Dudley lady, and receive her thanks for their
good work.
The Government still struggles hard to hang on
to its unsteady job. Last week-end a wobbler was
caught and taken down the Bay schnappering,
it being understood that he was in danger of
associating with some Oppositionists between
Thursday and Tuesday. The party arranged in
his honor was strictly Kidstonian, but, unfor-
tunately, all on board, including the suspected
wobbler, were sorry sailors—and proceedings
were of a negative order. The guest was so ill,
and saw his friends in such a bad light when they
declined all food and begged the steward to throw
them overboard, that it is said he will resign, and
with him goes the Government majority of one.
To the deep regret of all who knew her. Mrs.
J. S. Badger, wife of the tramway man, passed
away last week. The deceased was one of the
most practical charity-workers in the city ; also
she had a kindly heart and a rare smile.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.


DEMOCRACY IN ACTION.
What Government of the people, by the people, for
the people means in Queensland.
Queensland uses the broadest franchise in
the world, and offers that franchise to
the immigrant from Britain who has
resided one year in the State.
A foreign immigrant who naturalises has
the same voting privilege as anyone else.
He can elect and be elected.
He has all property rights.
Women have a voting equality with men.
All positions are open to merit.
The legal system of Queensland has the simplest
forms of procedure in the Commonwealth.
The Statutes are handily consolidated.
The Courts are decentralised.
The forms of procedure were copied by the
High Court of Australia.
Queensland's Supreme Court gave a Chief Justice
to the Australian High Court of Appeal.
One of the acutest legal intellects in the British
Empire has left its mark upon the Queensland
Juridical system.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXIX.
FORMS OF GOVERNMENT.
(By J. D. FITSGERALD, Barrister-at-Law.)
It may not be unprofitable, in addressing readers in
Britain and the Continent of Europe, and attempt-
ing to draw their attention to the opportunities
which await them in Queensland, to describe, in
broad touches, some of the institutions of govern-
ment. It is a very vital thing to the prospective emi-
grant to know that the system of government which
exists in the new country to which he is turning
his steps, is more perfect—or, at all events, not
less perfect—than that of the country he is
leaving. Here are a few questions the
answers to which will be of special interest
to him—ls the form of Government adapted to
the rapid development of a virgin country? Is the
system of legal procedure elaborate or simple?
Does it favor the rich by complicated processes, or
do justice to the poor by a simple procedure?
What is the method of administration? Is it
centralised or distributed ? How is the voting
power allotted ? Above all, what has been done
in that vitally important sphere which is so highly
and scientifically dealt with in the European
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT RAILWAY WHARF, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.] (SHOWING ELECT RIG CRANE.)
TAMROOKUM GROSSING, BEAUDESERT, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
and British countries—viz., local government ?
On the broad issue upon which the European
will place a high value, a good deal can be com-
prised in this statement: There is no office
closed to a Queensland citizen. The career
is open to the talented. There is no hereditary
privilege ; there are no religious tests. There are
three forms of government in Queensland, each
operating within strictly defined legal limits—the
Commonwealth Government, the State Govern-
ment, and civic government. These are all
highly developed agencies of democracy. The first
is charged with safeguarding the interests of the
citizen in his relations (1) with his fellow-citizens
in the other States, (2) with the citizens of the rest
of the Empire, and (3) to some extent his rela-
tions with other nations in these seas. The Com-
monwealth Government looks to the defence of the
whole country, deals with postal and telegraphic
communication, navigation laws, trade and com-
merce, quarantine, deep-sea fisheries, census,
coinage, taxation of some sorts, naturalisation,
and provides a Court of appellate jurisdiction,
etc. The second—the State Government —deals
with development within the borders of the State
itself ; with lands, mines and railways. It pro-
vides hospitals, insane asylums, education, police,
prisons, Courts of Justice, from the magistrates’
Court through the District (or County) Court on
to the Supreme Court;.
The third—Local Government. This is pro-
vided for over the whole State by city and
town councils in the urban areas, and shire
councils in the larger areas outside.' The system
of local government in operation is one of the
most effective that exists in any of the Australian
States. It is in some respects the most effective
of any. It constitutes an admirable code, by
means of which the highest efficiency is secured
in the officers; public health is vigilantly con-
served ; the food of the people is rigidly inspected ;
their roads and means of local communication
carefully attended to ; their communal services
provided ; their civic finances safeguarded by pro-
fessional accountancy and a perfect system of
audit and supervision. The system is sufficiently
elastic to be adaptable to the conditions of
divisional areas as large as a European kingdom,
or to the complex problems of a great city like
Brisbane. In the extent of these areas we may
measure the vastness of Queensland’s territory.
Belyando, with 14,300 square miles, is nearly as
large as Servia or Denmark ; Aramac, 11,000
square miles, is as large as Belgium, which sup-
ports seven millions of inhabitants ; and Croydon
is a little larger. And these are merely divisions
for local government purposes.
The Governor-General represents the Sovereign
in Commonwealth affairs; the State Governor
represents King Edward in State matters.
Queensland is represented in the Common-
wealth Parliament by nine members in the
House of Representatives, and six in the Senate.
In the former Chamber the representation is on
a population basis. In the latter, all the States
have the same number of members. It must not
VIEW SHOWING MT. LARCOMBE, GLADSTONE, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
be supposed that, because Queensland has only
one-eighth the population of the Commonwealth,
that she is without influence in the counsels of
United Australia.
I may pause here to enforce, by one more ex-
ample, the practical nature of Queensland’s demo-
cracy. Mr. Andrew Fisher came, a young miner,
from Scotland, a few years ago. He went to work
on the mines at Gympie, Queensland ; became a
leader of the Labor Parliamentary movement,
waselected to the Queensland State Parliament (and
was for a brief period Minister for Railways and
Public Works). He sat there until the Common-
wealth was established. He was then elected to
the first Federal Parliament, and has sat con-
tinuously in that Parliament ever since. He
held the portfolio of Trade and Customs in the
first Federal Labor Ministry, under Mr. J. C.
Watson’s Prime Ministership, and, on its
defeat, was chosen as deputy-leader of the party.
On Mr. Watson’s regretted retirement, Mr. Fisher
was elected leader of his party; and, when the time
came for that party to take office again, he became
Prime Minister. The whirligig of politics
has again placed him in the position of leader
CROSSING MARY RIVER, KENILWORTH, N.C.R., QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
of the Opposition. Mr. Fisher is an admirable
product of the free institutions of Queensland.
He establishes the proof of the argument which has
run like a ground bass right through these
articles, that to a man possessed of energy and
natural ability, no office is closed.
The Queensland State Parliament consists of a
Legislative Council and a Legislative Assembly,
the former nominee and the latter elective. Every
citizen of Queensland over 21 years of age, and
whether male or female, if natural born or
naturalised,' and of 12 months’ residence, is
enti tied to enrolment as an elector, and every elec-
tor is entitled to become a candidate for election,
and to vote for the choice of a candidate. There
are exceptions—such as criminals, incorrigible
rogues and vagabonds, habitual convicted drunk-
ards, wife beaters, etc. It will be seen from this
exclusive list that Queensland democracy places
some value upon the franchise, and does not give
it to those who do not live up to its ideals of
citizenship. The strictest rules exist, and are
enforced against any interference with the purity
of elections. The secret ballot is the mode of
voting. The statutory duration of Parliament is
three years ; but under certain circumstances an
interim dissolution may take place. The Parlia-
ment now sitting is the seventeenth since the
establishment of Responsible Self-Government in
Queensland. Members of the Legislative Assembly
receive payment for their services at the rate of
£3OO per annum.
In the Federal sphere the franchise is just as
broad as in the State. It belongs to all
persons 21 years of age, whether male
or female, married or unmarried, who have
resided in Australia for six months’ con-
tinuously, and are natural born or naturalised.
In both franchises every man and every woman has
one vote and no more. It will be noted that the
Commonwealth law is more liberal to the im-
migrant than is the State law, with regard to
period of residence ; but the latter is more liberal
than the former in the matter of residence of can-
didates. A member’s qualification in the Federal
sphere includes a condition that he must have
been for three years at least a resident within the
limits of the Commonwealth ; while he may
become a member of the Queensland Parliament
after one year’s residence. A German, French,
Russian or Italian immigrant would be in a more
advantageous position with regard to the Very
vital matter of sharing the political power of the
new country in Queensland than he would any-
where else in the world. If these articles
were translated into the languages of the
nationalities named above, I venture to say,
from some personal knowledge of the countries
acquired by varied terms of residence in three of
them, that the political privileges openly offered
to foreigners, on naturalisation, would make as
strong, and even a stronger, appeal than the
splendid material opportunities for acquiring land
and wealth which have been noted in this series.
Nor must it be assumed that this equality of privi-
lege and political power is not deeply cherished by
the Queensland democrat, though it is now
commonplace to him, as most things possessed
become after possession, no matter how ardent the
pursuit. This broad franchise is valued because
it had to be fought for. A few years ago plural
voting and certain exclusions existed. They were
overthrown by the advances of democracy, and
the whole community has adjusted itself to the
change.
The judicial system of Queensland has, in the
same manner as the railways, been decentralised.
There is a Supreme Court, divided into three divi-
sions .(1) Brisbane, with a Chief Justice and
two puisne Judges; (2) the Central Supreme
Court atßockhampton with one puisne Judge; and
(3) the Northern Supreme Court at Townsville,
with one puisne Judge. The technical system is
a modification and simplification of the common
law procedure of N.S.W. and of the Judicature
system of England, the best of each having been
taken. An excellent criminal code exists also.
As in the political field, so in the judicial,
Queensland has taken a very high place. The
man chosen for the highest judicial position when'
the Commonwealth High Court of appellate juris-
diction was created was Sir Samuel Griffith,
formerly Premier, and afterwards Chief Justice,
of Queensland. As there were great problems in
Queensland politics and administration, so there
were giants in her political and legal ranks, -and
Sir Samuel’s influence has been felt in the history
of Australia in many ways ; and in none more
than in the pellucid clearness of the draftsmanship
of the Commonwealth Constitution. His work in
connection with consolidation and simplification
of statute law and the rules of procedure in
Queensland is not so widely known ; but lawyers
in Queensland appreciate it, while those in the
other States have endeavored to imitate it. It is
a tribute of the highest kind to the system of legal
procedure in use in Queensland that it has fur-
nished the model adopted in connection with the
forms of the High Court of Australia.
Besides the Supreme Courts in the three districts
for jury cases, in the civil and criminal jurisdictions,
and the Appeal Court in Brisbane (with a right of
appeal to the High Court of Australia, and in some
cases even to the Privy Council of England), there
are courts of subordinate jurisdiction, such as Dis-
trict Courts (also decentralised), apd magistrates’
courts. That constitutes the legal system of
Queensland, and it can fairly be said that it pro-
vides a system which is the simplest and the
freest from technicality and from centralisation
in the Commonwealth, if not in the world.
Few people recognise what an advantage the
absence of .technicality in a legal system is. The
few are inclined to cherish such an advantage, and
whether realised or not, Queensland democracy
has that advantage.
Queensland has had a local government system
since the year 18G4, and the system has been
applied universally over the whole territory ever
since the year 1879, while no large extension was
made in N.S.W. until the year 1905, when shires
were established ; the Western Division of
N.S.W., except a few municipal areas, is still
without local authorities. It may give the reader
some idea of the completeness of the local gov-
ernment law of Queensland when it is men-
tiqned that its main featur es were copied into the
up-to-date law of N.S.W.; and, wherever pos-
sible, the verbiage and classification. The writer
professionally drafted the Bill on which
the present N.S.W. local government law is
based, and, in an exhaustive search through the
British, Australian and Maori land statutes, he
found the best model in Queensland. Local
government, being nearest to the homes of the
people (as the skin is nearer the shirt), deserves a
special article to itself, as nothing shows a practi-
cal democracy off more than its methods of civic
government.
I think enough has been said to show the ad-
vanced position of sill the democratic agencies of
Queensland. But the Queensland democracy has
not made the principles of its system into
dogmas. Wherever a better system can be
shown, or an improvement on the present system,
a receptive Queensland democracy, anxious to get
the best, will cheerfully give it a trial. Immi-
grants who bring ideas with them based on their
experience in their old homes, will find ready ears
to hearken to them, and a Government not afraid
of experiment. Generally, the facts shown here
may be claimed as proof 'that the Queensland
system of government represents the latest word
in progressive government of the people, by the
people, for the people. ,


Spread Over Body and Face—Baby
Scratched and Rubbed Till It Bled
and Caused Great Pain and Agony
First Bath with Cuticura Soap
Brought Sleep—Cure Followed.
MOTHER FINDS GOOD
FRIEND IN CUTICURA
“I first started using Cuticura Soap
about two and a half years ago for my
little boy. When a few months old he
had teething rash very badly. It
spread all over his face and body which
made him very irritable, especially at
night. He used to scratch and rub un-
til he bled, causing him great pain and
agony. I tried different kinds of soap
and ointments all to no purpose. I
thought I would give Cuticura Soap a
trial. I bought a tablet and after my
baby’s first wash with Cuticura Soap
he seemed quite soothed and slept well.
I applied a little Cuticura Ointment
every night and after about a month’s
treatment with two tablets of Cuticura
Soap and one box of Cuticura Ointment
there was no sign of rash on any part
of his body or face. Ever since, I have
kept to Cuticura Soap and no other and
hope never to be without it. You will
be pleased to hear I use it for my other
little boy, now eight months old. whose
flesh is beautiful and smooth. My
husband finds Cuticura Soap excellent
for shaving and doesn’t find it so dry
and hard after shaving as other soaps.
Cuticura Soap leaves one so cool and
refreshed. Mrs. Emily Hine, 2, Myrtle
Villas, Bedfont, Middx., England, Nov.
4 and 29, 1905.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Itching
Devils
Are little patches of
eczema o n t h e skin,
scalp or hands which
are instantly relieved
and speedily cured, in
the majority of cases,
by warm baths with Cuticura Soap and
gentle anointings of Cuticura Ointment.
For rashes, itchings, irritations, inflam-
mations, dandruff, dry, thin and failing
hair, for sanative, antiseptic cleansing
and all purposes of the toilet, these pure,
sweet, gentle emollients are unrivaled.
Cuticura Remedies are sold wherever the British
Flag floats. Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co..
Sydney: U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston. esrPost free, 32-page book on care
and treatment of skin and scalp.
WANTED
EVERY NERVOUS MAN to trv the OLD
ENGLISH HOME REMEDY. Best in the
world for the speedy RELIEF and CURE of
NERVOUSNESS and allied troubles. WRITE
TO-DAY for Free Particulars.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCI,
Dept. 6, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES’
STYLISH SHOES.
This smart Derby Shoe is one of the
most stylish models in Glac6 Kid,
Pump Soles, with Patent Gaps and
Cuban Heels, in two grades.
Price, 10/6 and 12 6.
Postage 9d. extra in Victoria ; other States, 1/2.
If cleaned with Leeming’s Cazeka
Shoe Paste (6d. per tin).
SEND FOR PRICE LISTS—FREE.
LEEMING’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
eA@)
Glycerine and “Benzoe” Soaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps an 1
“ Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
•A®)
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
MOTHER -
SEIGELS
SYRUP
= cores =
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is made of
the extracts of certain roots, barks,
and leaves, which have been found
to exert a remarkable curative and
tonic effect on the stomach, liver and
bowels. Taken daily after meals it
regulates the bowels, aids digestion,
makes food nourish you and thus
cleanses and strengthens the whole
system. As a digestive tonic and
remedy for biliousness, indigestion
and other stomach and liver disorders,
Mother Seigel's Syrup has no equal.
INDIGESTION
AND MAKES FOOD NOURISH YOU.
BY APPOINTMENT TO H.M: THEMING
!CHE UN
TYRES
BARNET GLASS RUBBER <«L D
*
234 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY;
Swanston St., near Lonsdale
St., Melbourne ; 10 McHenry
St., Adelaide. And at
Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD."
CITTTAWC 290 & 292 Bourke Street,
3UIHJN3, Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than WIEN I
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman’s loveliness —
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with Lor maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
“Fatcure"
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant cond.tions. It is certain
and reliakle, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“ Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
«
King’s Norton
Cartridges
It’s not for Miniature Rifle
shooting alone that “King’s Norton"
cartridges excel. The hollow pointed
bullet is a splendid sporting cartridge.
Sold by all Ammunition Stores
Agents
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
A
ftr///sb /fade.
Get Prepared for the Winter.
m
Have tetter Light
with a Reduced
Carbide Bill by
using cur Burners.
We have about 30
different designs to
select from.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Sampie Dozen of Assorted
Makes, pest free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STR2ET,
SYDNEY.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and-Colds.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
'That Have Caught On!
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia —you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry ; price,
cloth, 1/6 ; postage 6(1.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/- ; posfajje 3d.
Iht
Surprising
Adventures
*3
: -f; ;■
Vn llridget
?;rs»r«,v
The Spring Cleaning,
by T. 15. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/- ; post-
age 3d.
(The above two com-
bined), price, cloth,
3/6 ; postage sd.
The Surprising Ad-
ventures of Mrs.
McSweeney, by T. 15.
Spencer ; price, paper,
1/- ; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by
T. 15. Spencer; price,
paper, 1/-1 postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by
Harry Tighe ; price,
paper, 1/-: postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf lirasch ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Ohas. White ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Por-
ter ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell
Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d,
The New Chum, by A.
11. Adams; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Barb of an Arrow,
by Roy Bridges ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d
“The Bulletin” Re-
citer, New Edition ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
RECITER
%
Harbor Guide, with Colored Maps; prise, paper-
ed. ; postage 3d. \
Guide to Sydney, with Colored Maps; price
paper, 1/- ; postage Sd.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
‘PLASMOW
INCREASES THE FOOD .
VALUE ENORMOUSLY 77
Lancet. «
is**
COCOA
?v
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
DIGESTIBLE
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert A Co., Manchester, Eng.
‘COAGULINE,’‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITIUE
—Cements for breakages, manufacturing' purposes, etc.
It is related of an elderly Victorian legis-
lator, who is bitterly opposed to female suffrage,
that, discovering upon his wife’s dressing-table
the newly-taken-out rights of herself and daugh-
ter, he tore at his extensive whiskers for a short
period, and then set to and utterly destroyed
both the blue papers before the eyes of the
wornenkind, who had assembled at the door on
hearing his angry lamentations. There must be a
lot of satisfaction in a definite act like this to a
man who is no believer in “ these ’ere noo-fangled
notions.” But it isn’t advisable for men to rush
in on a large scale and imitate his action. There
is a heavy penalty attached (gaol or some such
thing), and some women are impatient and short-
tempered.
“ Pindau ” meets an interesting old party
in the bush :
Have just got back to Wyndham (W. A.) after a big trip
through the Kimberley district. On the Old River X
struck the tracks of several horses, and, following them
up, found a white-whiskered, jovial chap sitting under a
bottle tree writing letters on the bottom of an upturned
tin-dish —the only thing available for a table. It was
Jimmy Isdell, a former member of the Westralian
Assembly, now a travelling inspector of aborigines, and
one of the pioneers of the Nor’-West. Long ago he took
up over a million acres of country in the vicinity of Roe-
buck Bay, and sank the first well close to the present
town of Broome. Leaving his partner in charge, he
started on an exploring expedition eastward, and was
away for several months, piercing the dry belt known as
Warburton’s desert, and narrowly escaping death from
hunger and thirst. Getting back to the coast, he found
his partner had died. Also the rent on the pastoral leases
had not been paid ; and, as it was generally believed that
Isdell had perished, the holding had reverted to the
Government. Then gold was found at Kimberley, and
Isdell was amongst the first to reach Hall’s Greek ; but
the field soon petered out. From there he went to
Marble Bar and Nullagine, and got into two or three
good shows, but the cost of working them was prohibi-
tive ; so he entered Parliament in order to boost up the
Pilbarra railway. That work was agreed to ; and then,
as city life didn’t suit the old prospector, he went for his
present billet,, and few men in Australia are better cut
out for it. When I met him he was making his way from
Wyndham, up the Ord River, to Hall’s Creek, and thence
was going round to Derby. That will be this year’s job.
Last year he went through every station, settlement and
many natives’ camps in West Kimberley, doing nearly
4000 miles on horseback, with three pack-saddles.
A descendant has handed over to the
Mitchell Library the judicial notes taken by
N.S.W. Justice Dowling in the course of his
judicial career. They are very old and faded
notes, and the plaintiff and defendant are both
dead, and the Judge is dead, and most of the
interest is dead. But the episode recalls the old
question : To whom do a Judge’s notes belong ? As
a matter of plain corhmon-sense, one would regard
them as documents belonging to the Department
of Justice. But Judges hold different views, and
cling to their notes, which may descend, like
locks of hair or tobacco-pouches, to relatives of
the third and fourth generation. There was once
a big row in N.S.W. Legislative Council over
this question. The late District Court Judge
McFarland declined to give up the notes taken
by him during the trial of a Chinamen named
On Ling. A Select Committee was appointed,
and did its best to secure the writings, but the
Judge repudiated all claims, and Simpson (now
Acting Chief) and the late W. H. Suttor sup-
ported him. It may be added that the notes
some Judges take are not worth fighting about,
and one or two sleepy Judges have failed to
decipher their own notes. There was once in
Australia an artistic Judge who made sketches
after the manner of the Aztec picture writing,
instead of written memoranda. His notes were
really interesting, especially in a certain case
about a drain and a bad smell.
Dr. Broughton, first Anglican Bishop of
Sydney (1838-’5?), was greatly concerned when
Dr. Folding returned from Borne as Archbishop
of Sydney. He protested, and lodged this divert-
ing document with the post office, or the atmo-
sphere, or something :
Protest: In the Name of God. Amen. We, William
Grant, by Divine permission, Bishop and Ordinary
Pastor of Australia, do protest publicly and explicitly, on
behalf of ourselves and our successors, Bishops of Aus-
tralia, on behalf of the clergy and all the faithful of the
same church and diocese, and also, on behalf of William,
by Divine Providence, Lord Archbishop of Canterbury,
Primate of all England and Metropolitan, and his succes-
sors, that the Bishop of Rome has not any right or
authority, according to the laws of God and the
canonical Order of the Church, to institute any episcopal
or arch-episcop d see or sees within the limit of the
diocese of Australia and the province of Canterbury
aforesaid ; and we do hereby publicly, and explicitly, anil
deliberately protest against, dissent from, and contra-
dict, any and every act of episcopal or metropolitan
authority done, or to be done, at any time, or by any
person whatever, by virtue of any right or title derived
from any assumed jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-
eminence or authority of the said Bishop of Rome,
enabling him to institute any episcopal see or sees within
the diocese and province hereinbefore named.
The Church took its gaiters very, very seriously
in those olden times. Nowadays it is sometimes
afflicted with an idea that its extremities are
rather humorous than otherwise, and that a fowl
would naturally lay eggs in its hat.
“ W.8.M.” tells how the Yellow Pup pro-
vided the money necessary to get Dan Demos-
thenes O’Connor made a Papal knight:—
Dan had found it necessary to float a loan for
electioneering purposes, and had discovered nn accommo-
dating Cohen in W. P. Crick. Dan was returned for
Phillip (Sydney), but proved refractory to the party
Crick belonged to. With the majestic independence of
an Irish king, he declared he would speak and vote as he
liked, and hot and angry language followed. Crick at last
requested repayment of the loap. Dan was not prepared
for this turn in the argument; so Crick got a ver-
dict, and was proceeding to have Dan declared a
bankrupt, which would have meant the forfeiture of his
seat. At this stage Dan put the case, with powerful
pathos, before his Parliamentary colleagues. John
Hurley, an Orangeman and an old friend, was profoundly
affected ; and good naturedly determined to see Dan
safe. He button-holed Orange brethren for donations
to get Dan free from Crick ; and as they parted guineas
and five-pound notes the liability was liquidated. Thus
Dan’s seat was saved ; whereat Crick, who was uncon-
cerned about the cash, was much disgusted. Dan, for
his part, was more fluent, fiery and independent than
ever, and talked at Crick at every opportunity. Crick
talked back at him at Tamworth, where there was no
Parliamentary privilege, and Dan promptly issued a
writ for defamation. Soon afterwards, in the Parlia-
mentary refreshment-room, a letter was handed to Dan.
It was from the Bishop of Armidale, and stated that
Letters Patent had arrived from Rome creating Dan a
Knight of St. Gregory; but before he could claim the
title, a fee of £lOO must be forwarded. That fee would
have spoiled the joy of anybody but Dan O’Connor, lie
turned pleasantly to John Hurley again and said,
persuasively, “ My boy, if you and your friends will see
to this little matter for me, I will be under an everlasting
obligation, and be a made man for life.” But John
Hurley was, this time, irresponsive. Thereupon Dan
saw Crick, and agreed to withdraw the action for defama-
tion if Crick would again hand out the £l4O which he had
originally lent, and which had been repaid out of the
Orangemen’s subscriptions. Crick, who knew he had
said too much about D in, was only too pleased to settle
the action. So, indirectly, it was good Yellow Pup money
which made Dunyell a Papal Knight.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
ro
Cl
✓
a
BIIXIARDSf 0 R
•
New fads and orazes come and go,
Out Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to bs placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 !5S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK<&Co.
, 537 GEORGE $T SYDNEY .
AND
mtunmti*
MELbOURHE.
Dee Are He Hay Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
£5O
Given away in sums of £l each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the /50 will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
WINCHESTER
■Look for the redi ,
Ilf
I TRADE MAAK I
[R&O.IN U. 3. PAT QmCE-l
When Buying Guns or Ammunition
This Winchester trade-mark is the hall-mark of guns and ammu-
nition as perfect as brains and experience, coupled with a com-
plete plant, can make them. The red Wis to guns, cartridges
and shotgun shells what the word “ Sterling” is to silverware.
For Your Protection “ Look for the Red W”
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Income for 1908 15 per
cent, increase on figures
for 1907.
47 per cent, of Total
Funds invested in Govern-
ment Securities.
Directors :
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L.K.Q.C.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.
General Manager :
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary:
FREEMAN J. EATON.
Principal Offices I
VICTORIA—I4B Queen Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH WALES—3O Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND —Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
The
“ Oval ”
Puzzle
Match Box.
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatly made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed this tricky
little box, which they struggle in ,va,in to open.
Quite easy to open when you are in the know. Full
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open,
use, also a superior
directions, 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
free anywhere.
&/>e
U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watch me n, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Hot liquids
poured intothis
flask retain their
heat for 24 hours in even
the coldest temperature
Cold liquids remain
cold in the very hottest
weather for many days
Everybody should
possess this Flask
No chemicals required—
no spirits—no attention
Cannot get out of order
lasts a lifetime.
Price ny In Beware of
from LllO imitations
(Infringers prosecuted) (
Of Jewellers, Silver-
smiths , Stores , Src.
(*;
£
iLf
Jl
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
M'TtrrS
Bird’s
Custard—! M
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Believes Astlnna and difficult breathing.
Hi!
nrm
w-
“T
s
f hi.l
hi
%
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
oup doctops to keep us ill. Theip prosperity depends not on oup health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS ! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system op accelerate the acMon of the heart. When he has done theso
things he has peached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
f-estion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
ody with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Or. MCLAUGHLIN'S ELECTRIC BEET
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It works wHile you. sleep* and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upoii the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It lias a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
withiii the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as &1 in many cases.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man! . . Send the COUPON to-dav.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co m
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagli and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH I. CORCORAN
Th© mclaughun co.,
Oept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


There are only two members of Peake’s
Liberal party in the S. Aus. Legislative Council,
and both are Ministers. So it was necessary that
one should move and the other second the Address-
in-Reply to the Governor’s opening speech. It.
shows the extraordinary tangle S. Aus. politics
have got into. Yet somehow, though obviously
two people can’t be the real rulers, which means
that the Butler and National Ass. people are, the
S. Aus. Tories have forgotten how shameful it
is to have power without responsibility—a thing
they used to remember every day when the Labor
party was keeping Deakin in office.
Another case of alleged attempted black-
mail has poked its way into the Melbourne papers.
One Forster, a city dentist, received a missive
demanding £5O, in pain of a picturesque and hor-
rible death. The blackmailer was a simple-
looking youth of 16 years, who admitted a
penchant for Deadwood Richard literature. He
also admitted the authorship of the threatening
letters, and declared that he badly wanted the
£5O to buy a biograph outfit. At which many
will be thankful that his fell ambition was nipped
in the bud.
Amusements.
V M.C.A. Hall, Bathurst Street, SYDNEY,
1 • SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1909.
PHILIP NEWBURY
AMY MURPHY KATHLEEN DORAIIY
CHAS. LARSEN MAUD WINGFIELD
CYRIL MONK GLADSTONE BELL
J. EDWARD SYKES ESTHER KAHN
On SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 31,
Young LIONEL LAWSON,
a Violin Prodigy of 9 Years, will appear.
All Tickets and Plan at Nicholson’s. 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
E. Lewis Scott, Director.
-J-OWIM HALL, SY DNEY.
THURSDAY and SATURDAY,
AUGUST 5 and 7.
The Home-Coming of Sydney’s Great Favorite
Contralto,
KATE ROONEY.
RE-APPEARANCE of the POPULAR AUSTRALIAN
VOCALIST AFTER A SUCCESSFUL CAREER OF
EIGHT YEARS IN GREAT BRITAIN and IRELAND.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s.
Plan at Paling’s. C. Reid Young, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 24,
•T. C. Williamson’s New Dramatic Company
in Major W. P. Drury and Mr. Leo Trevor’s
Successful Naval Comedy,
THE FLAG LIEUTENANT,
Depicting with all their JOLLITY, BREEZINESS and
ALLUREMENT the Doings of a Great Battleship.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
CANNOT BE DESCRIBED. MUST BE SEEN.
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
IN
THE GREAT RESCUE.
A Play the old folk? love and the young folks enjoy.
Australian Life and Character Admirably Portrayed.
Box Plans at Elvy’s.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. No Extra Charges.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors: Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 24,
THE OPERATIC PANTOMIME WHICH
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD,
CINDERELLA.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
JHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY-
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY
REAL ICiTsKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.m., 3to 5 p.m.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
only,''ls. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. , Dunbar Poolk, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor A Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATIN WHS WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician and Illusionist.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
THE THREE LAURELS, Leading Specialty Artists.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Specialty Artists.
STEWART and LORRAINE. Mr. TED KALMAN.
IDA BERRIDGE. HARRY LINDEN.
PRICES —3s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Greatest Juggler Living.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS.
LAWSON and NAMON, Trick Cyclists, Ball Punchers.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
VAUDE and VERNE. MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
TWO BELLS, Terpsichoreau Artists.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS. FRED BLUETT.
AUSTRALIA’S LITTLE TICH. WILL G. JAMES.
Plan at Allan’s. itST’ PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 24,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW OPERA
CO. in
HAVANA.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements
•pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Great Success of OSCAR ASCHE and
LILT BRAYTON in
The TAMING oe the SHREW
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
HUGH ■J. WARD and his Company- of
Comedians, including Miss Grace Palotta,
Miss Rose Musgrove and Miss Celia Ghiloni
—in —
A BACHELOR’S HONEYMOON.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Don’t throw good blades away
—get a razor that keeps its blade sharp.
The
Auto'Strop kAzoR
Stropskself
and is always sharp. Even the most inexperienced
can keep the Auto Strop Safety Razor in perfect
shaving condition. It is stropped and cleaned without
taking apart, and it pays for itself in a year by doing
away with the buying of new blades necessary with
all non-stropping razors.
The Standard Outfit
consists of quadruple
silver-plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen
tested lancet-steel blades :
one horsehide /
strop ; in leather
case, 2 in. by 3| in. NET.
Sold by all leading dealers.
Descriptive booklet free on
request to the
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Lamsosi Store Service Co., Ltd., T^nd R 2l t 2 a«lnU s k M sidne r y no
Jk&oS&Mp Safely Razor Go, ltd 61 New Oxford St., London, England.
Alto at Paris. New York and Montreal.
im
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in y?e London Dramatic Success,
A SAILOR’S SWEETHEART.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHENAUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees ... J. & N. TAIT.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
A Complete Change of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
CE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
GRAND ARCTIC DISPLAY
ON THE ICE,
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY, JULY 22),
at 8 p.m.
The Spectacle in Brilliancy and in Design will Surpass
Anything Hitherto Attempted.
ADMISSION TO ARCTIC DISPLAY, TWO SHILLINGS ;
Reserved Chairs, 2s. extra ; Reserved Gallery Seats,
Is. extra.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PTCTURES the^ e p s I LIj .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES:
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
*' AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, JBoots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(A .vl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now' well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc,, it
lis the “ Awl-you-want.” Threaa from the
reel (which maybe kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 lor 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
'Tin? QurPPk R/ICC Q A VC* “What I like about
IHh, On&U nUdO 0/1/0. this ‘Wolseley’-‘LH.C/
Shearing Outfit is that it keeps the men contented.
Fully ninety-five per cent, of shearers swear by the .
‘Wolseley’ Shears, but what a hundred per cent, of them
Vi
Itv
x
''XX
swear at is unreliable driving power.
Being paid by the number of sheep shorn,
instead of by the day, shearers naturally donT*
forget to growl about an engine that causes
them to lose time.
Now this 4 h.p. *IH.C.’ Engine is by far
thd smohMest worker Fve seen. )
Under or fyll load its power is always constant f
= 2| hen agmp it is so easy to handle, and takes such littfe
4oo%ing aft lk I
irting ims only a matter of a couple of turns of the i
L '~ig tipike a day is all the attention it needs.
V
ndmer^Wc
up inside the shed as outside, because \fherg m
smoke about it.
p uprises me is where it gets its power from,Minmng
as on so little fuel. \
\ 11 Ikndmtand from the manager that the complete Outfit—4
[/, ? \h.gi£ffX?/ t fingine, 8 stands Wolseley' Shears—withm neces-
the : memgoing; gives me Mr Jdss
cmbper and |lg cker than an e/ osl|r plaint fjfee s : " ' xW " v
over
> tf
<vw» ns;
-Si*.
V
V/
s s.
il
X
(276)
IH€
SL
°i>
Send to International Harvester
Company of America, Brisbane or
Sydney , for pamphlet giving full
particulars of remarkable Special
Terms Offer “Wolseley”“LHC”
Shearing Outfits .


A new imposition is being worked on credu-
lous Melbourne by a tall, sad, pale, seedymanina
black suit, and his small, frail wife, who looks
as if her funeral were to-morrow, though she is
really as tough as a bale of barbed wire. The
lady selects a nice, dry, convenient place in the
city or in a well-frequented suburban street, and
faints dead away. As a dead-away fainter she is
the supreme genius. Her dead-away faint imposes
on common men, police, lawyers, and the medical
faculty. While the lady sustains her faint the
elongated, seedy gentleman is broken hearted, and
declares in an agonised voice and with an air of
utter hopelessness that suffering- and want are
killing his beloved wife. Somewhere, hereabout,
the public contributions begin to roll in, and when
they have ceased rolling the lady recovers, the
gentleman helps her on to a tram, and the pair
pass on to work the same stunt on a distant beat.
Sample letter on the capital question in Syd-
ney Telegraph, showing to what a pass the anti-
Fcderal press has reduced its readers: —
Sir, —Permit me to ask two questions. The Consti-
tution provides that the Federal capital shall be within
r.lie State of New South Wales. Will that condition be
complied with if its territory borders on the sea? To be
“within” it must be “surrounded by.” Victoria was
within New South Wales. It is not so now, because it
has boundaries to another State and the sea. Has Parlia-
ment the power to give away to the Commonwealth 900
square miles of New South Wales territory? The area
contemplated by the Constitution was 100. It is now
proposed to make it 1000. To provide away into the
capital without passing New South Wales territory is
quite needless ; all the troops are Federal, and we are
following the example of .the United States, where every
State had its own troops, in establishing a Federal area
at all.—Yours, etc., E. S. S.
Apart from the weary lie about what was “con-
templated,” this particular lunatic is amusing.
He holds that Victoria, though it abutted on the
sea, was “within” N.S.W. in the days before
separation ; while the proposed Federal territory,
because it abuts on the sea, won’t be “within”
N.S.W. There is one consolation for this kind of
ass. N.S.W. extends three miles out to sea, so
any Federal port will still be “within” the
anguished Ma Province, and all will be well.
“ DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G.. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Gout
Pills
'S OUT t RHCUMA JJfi'
PSLLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUt and
m
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
&L AIR'S GOUT and
fcHEOMATIC PIUS elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
ai I/l>£ and 2/9.
BLAIR’S HAVE EV6O&
*HE TEST OP TIME.
1 LINSEED, COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
$
ft
™WI
g{OJS»
%
#
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND On Security OT Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Prooerties. or o
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
- ~ Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without-noticcor payment of any fine?
3 a
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Bali
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing:
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicagro, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co.. Liverpool.
RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
FOR 2 WORDS.
GAN YOU
HIT THE
WE DON’T REQUIRE TOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
intend to give away for correct answers to this
puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
words that the picture represents, write us at
ouce, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
are right we will aL once send you the prize.
If more than one correct answer is received
the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
for reply. Only one reply from a family
allowed. National Publishing Co., <F
PO Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
I
o
It aets like a charm in
DIARRH(EA.
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE, BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR '
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago. &c.
It is extensively used by Medical Men,'in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, why have yiven
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each.
WAR NING -Every bottle of the cenu!Ne frTe _ gh which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ‘ ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Puke man’s Ciilouodyne, Ltd., Loudon, S.E., England,
Mother sY\ou\&
sex\\i ox\ reooAes\-.
/tprogress/ve d/etary adapted to toe prowftg d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l
f/-o/7? 6/rfA to 3 mont/is
Milk Food N 92
fro/n 3 to 6mont/is
Malted Food N 93
from 6 moofrs upwards. >
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
&
O? AJA+ KINDS
are quickly cured by
BALSAM°'ANISEED
THE COUGH REMEDY
WITH THE
.BEST REPUTATION/
Of all Chemists and Stores. Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland—ELLlOTT BROS., SYDNEY &. BRISBANE.
*
BENQER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.iS.W.
tSha LEADING
HOUSE FOR.
Sporting' Goods
Fishing TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting; Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned < n inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
CAN
T
B
BEAT
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6| to b. £.3 15s.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Win dow Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handydook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiif, Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Ausi'. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind tiie Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s (id. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
Ini
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmf.rise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posced. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street 3 Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secrf.t History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITI
CURE.
Couerhs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
HQP nr\ Vi a +0 Ir/a-n 4- i r-> A-I „ _ i • . t _
aS»iS»SSS!fS?lSSTSss'? !i^,^?'* s ? 3!
tion'to r dt 0 e ?op and C?nsu^pnrfs th not W ln ‘where"" Coughs"hilTon theT/LT ASthma * cS^
” U e re i ?cert^. h ° USe * * M «‘. “* at »*** a or
Small Size, 26 j Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor W G HEARBE
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable localiy. ’
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machime on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
fiv“ vest vs.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Jlway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
l t ir~ practlcable wa y- W E MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friend s and home circles, using: our new and popular
recordsl and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is the onlv
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5 -vear guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will Wwarded
llee rrSn o ce? 0 C the PP Catlon ' We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.R.0., Sydney, p.s.W.
Jshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Po6t Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIM'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.


Note
Trade Mark.
fO
I
H
1
HABITUAL corstipatiohi
IMDRETS, UVER ARB BOWCU.
m
mmmm
OCRM fON CHUT Britain
?ASROR HILL LONDON It
Four Health Facts.
1. 111-health very often arises from a constipated
condition.
2. This condition is seriously aggravated by
purgatives, but easily overcome by the
natural influence of
3* California Syrup of Figs, “Nature’s Pleasant
Laxative,” gently, pleasantly, and promptly
rectifies the sluggish digestive organs, a T d
leaves them permanently benefited.
4* It especially suits delicate women and chil-
dren.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
You have a guarantee
of quality and durability
if you purchase
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS, LONG CLOTHS,
FLANNELETTES, CAMBRICS, Etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be sure the name HORROCKSES ”is on Selvedge g.&g.iso
Allcock^
Porous Piaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there Is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster. V
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica. &c. &o.
INSIST UPON HAVING
All cock's
For Rheumatism, or
Pains in Shoulders,
Elbows, or elsewhere,
or for Sprains,
Stiffness, etc., and for
AQhfng Feet. Plaster should be cut
size and shape required and applied to
part affected as shown above.
REMEMBER —Allcocks Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 6o years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
For Sale toy Druggists throughout the World.
Brand rath’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1751.
S. SMITH & SON’S (Ltd.)
WORLD-RENO WNED WA TOHES.
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in Solid Silver Cases,
£1 10 0
In Iron Clad Cases, £l.
M
/
S'
m
V.
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in fine Gold Cases,
£3 15 0
In Half-Hunting 18ct. Gold
Cases, £5 5 0
By Appointment to
H.M. The King.
Write for
New
Illustrated
Catalogues.
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,
Speed Indicators,
separate volumes.
Special Terms
to Shippers.
The “ Charing X, ” All-English Lever,
fully Jewelled, in Silver Case, £2.
/
S.SMITH R 6QMS
THE CHORINC-
M
V
The “Trafalgar,” All-English Lever,
in Iron Clad Case, £l.
THE “STRAND” ALL-ENGLISH GENTS’ LEVER, in massive 18ct. Gold Cases,
best quality obtainable. Crystal, £l3 15s. Full or Half Hunters, £l6 16s.
Watchmakers to the Admiralty, 9 STRAND, LONDON,
The Gargoyle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LOOK down from my parapet
And mark the shadows on the grass,
The pavements that the footsteps fret,
As all the drifting peoples pass;
I hear the ghosts of men go by,
Like shuffling of unnumbered wings,
With wind of many a human sigh,
And all the shadowy change of things.
Of old a cunning craftsman wrought,
And carved for me a sneer in stone—
My temples stung by wasps of thought—
He set me high and left me lone,
To stare a-down through storm and sun,
And watch the dreary pageant pass,
To see the human shadows run
Their transient courses on the grass.
The rains that beat about my brows,
The rays that strike me on the cheek,
Are guests in my restricted house
Who come about my ears, to speak
Of Life, that wakes to cope with Pain,
From fervid ferments in the dark.
Puts forth its leaves, and grows in vain,
And in the end is still and stark.
As here, from my high coign, I peer
Some purpose therein to descry,
I see, year in and out of year,
The new thingsjlive, the old things die.
The seasons cycle round my head ;
And hereabout my world I scan.
Wrought by the living hand and dead,
The painful mimicry of man.
As ever from my parapet
I watch the shadows on the grass
I hear new spirits wake and fret
Where all the drifting peoples pass ;
I mark full many a ghost go by,
Torn from the dust to which it clings ;
The wind of many a human sigh,
And all the shadowy change of things.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Toolpara Bank Robbery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JIM and I were travelling on the Mara-
noa, and had turned out for dinner, when a
tall, fair man with a close-cropped beard
and moustache, riding a good-looking brown colt
and leading another, rode up. We had our tucker
together and fraternised after the manner of bush-
men, and over our after-dinner pipes began the
usual swopping of lies.
Our talk happened on the certainty—or un-
certainty—of the discovery of crime. Jim inclined
to the belief that every crime will out, like the
proverbial murder, and I agreed with him. The
stranger took an opposite view, and maintained
that the larger proportion of crimes never are
discovered.
“ Anyway,” I said, “the commission of a crime
must entail a lot of mental suffering on the perpe-
trator. Of course, lam not talking of the habitual
criminal, but of the man who is led away, who
succumbs for the first time to temptation—who
sins, so to speak, involuntarily. He must suffer a
lot mentally when he realises what he has done,
even if he knows he is safe from discovery.”
“ My c’lonial,” assented Jim.
“ Not a bit of it,” said the stranger. “So long
as they know they are safe from discovery, nine
men out of ten who have slipped and fallen, as
you say, do not fret. For instance, I knew a
young fellowcalled—well, Dickson—working over-
seer on a large sheep-station at a salary of £2 per
week, who fell head over ears in love with Jessie
Harding, the daughter of a 20,000-acre grazing
farmer. Dickson fairly took Jessie’s heart by
storm. The one obstacle was money, or rather
the want of it, for Dickson had none, and old
Harding would not hear of allowing any engage-
ment until Dickson could show him that he could
support his daughter comfortably.
‘•‘lt’s no use fur yer to barney,’ he said.
' When you shows me you kin keep Jessie com-
fortable, you kin av ’er, if she ain’t married by
that time. But, till you kin do that, you carn’t
av ’er, no matter ’ow yer barricks, an’ that’s or!
erbout it.’
“ ‘ What do you call keeping her comfortably ?
How much shall I have to show you ? ’ Dickson
wanted to know.
“ ”Ow much d’ yer reckon you’d want ter take
up an’ stock 20,000 acres ? ’ said the old man, and
Dickson said about £2OOO would do it.
“ ‘ Jusso ! Now I’ll tell you what I’ll do,’ the
old man said. 1 1 reckon ’twould take £3OOO ter
fix yer comfortable. The nex’ s’lection to this yer
’as a perm’nent water frontage, is nettin’ fenced
with marsoople nettin’ atop ’f it—dog-proof,
It’s subdivided, an’ ’as an ’ouse on it an’ every
think kimplete. It’s forf’tid, y’ know, an’ old
Baker ’as it under occupation license, an’ thinks
no one’ll bother erbout it—’e thinks nobuddy
knows ’ow good it is but ’imself. ’E’ll find out
the diff’rence d’reckly. ’ls time’s near up. You
fine the money—£2ooo—an’ put in an application
fur the block—l kin work it orl rite, an’ I’ll fine
ernuther £lOOO, an’ you kin ’av’ Jessie an’ work in
erlonger me.’
“Dickson wanted to know how he was to find
£2OOO.
“The old man said he didn’t know, and he
wouldn’t ask any questions. It was Dickson’s
lookout.
“ Well, Dickson rode back to the station, think-
ing the matter over. At first he had an idea of
writing, or cabling, to his people, but he dis-
missed that as hopeless. His people had been
drawn blank too often. At last he evolved
a plan, simply from a conversation he had had
with Cobb and Co.’s driver a few days before,
during the course of which the driver had men-,
tioned that he had brought a heavy box of gold to
the local bank on his last trip.
“Dickson asked the station manager next
morning for a fortnight’s leave to go to Sydney,
and mentioned that he had received news of the
death of a relative by which he thought he’d
benefit. The manager congratulated him, and
granted the leave. Then Dickson paid a visit to
the storekeeper, and while saying good-bye to
him, and waiting for a list of commissions to be
executed in Sydney, he amused himself rummag-
ing in the station medicine chest, and, unob-
served, slipped a bottle from the chest into his
pocket. Then he drove into the township.
“He knew all the manners and customs of the
sleepy little hole. He was on intimate terms with
Price—the manager of the local bank—an under-
sized little manikin, who wasted the best part of
the day loafing from one pub to the other, and
had to make up his arrears of work by sitting up
half the night. Dickson had often seen Price at
work in the small hours when he was wandering
home from some shivoo, and had dropped in and
chaffed the manager, over a glass of whisky, on
the ease with which the bank could be stuck up.
But no one dreamed of such a thing as a bank
robbery in that dead town. Dickson was great
on amateur theatricals, and Price also had a
predilection that way, and was treasurer of the
local Dramatic Club and kept the club wardrobe,
properties and make-up box at the bank.
Arrived in the township, Dickson put up at
lattersall’s,’ as usual, and after a bath, a shave
and a change of clothes he went carefully over his
plan. He was astonished to find how simple it
all seemed. He went out and met his acquaint-
ances, and let it be understood he intended to pay
a visit to Sydney, and that he expected to benefit
by the death of a relative. He was starting by
coach next morning he said, and shouted freely—
drinking only soft stuff himself—and established
his reputation of a jolly good fellow on a firmer
basis than ever.
“After dinner, or tea, or whatever they call it
in that benighted hole, he pottered about the
township, and played a few games of billiards,
and about 10 o’clock went round to the bank to
say good-bye to Price and his wife, and make
financial arrangements for his trip. The streets
of the township were by that time dead—not a
soul to be seen. The only signs of life came from
the pubs. He saw Price, had a nip with him,
and noted the zinc-lined doors of the flimsy strong-
room open behind his chair, with the safe inside
also open ; he noted the bunch of keys lying on
the table beside Price, noted also that official’s
liquor-flushed face and shaky hands. He arranged
his business, and then said he would go in and see
Mrs. Price—he might be able to execute some
commissions for her in the city.
“‘All right,’ said Price, ‘you’ll be back again
before you go. ’
Then with the familiarity of close acquaintance-
ship he went into the Prices’ private quarters
through a little room—where Price kept the
Dramatic Club’s belongings—leading from the
bank into the quarters.
“He did not stay long with Mrs. Price. She
was tired, she told him ; and was going straight
to bed as soon as he left.
“Dickson went through the little room again,
and as he did so he softly pushed back the catch
of the window opening on to the verandah. Then
he went into the bank, yarned for a few minutes
with Price, and rose to take his departure. Price
promised to come round later on and join him at
the hotel.
“Dickson went out and walked to the corner
and looked carefully up and down the streets—the
bank stood on a corner. Not a soul was to be
seen. Quickly and quietly he walked along the
front of the building until he was opposite the
little room I have already mentioned. Then he
slipped off his boots, vaulted the low two-rail
fence, crossed the grass plot, climbed into the
verandah, noiselessly raised the window and
slipped inside. Five minutes afterwards a tall,
black-bearded man, dressed in white moles and a
Crimean shirt passed from the little room into the
bank, and before Price had time to do more than
gasp in astonishment, had him round the neck
with the left arm in a grip like a vice, and was
pressing a chloroformed handkerchief to his face
in such a manner that it was utterly impossible
for Price to utter a sound. Once Price was
completely insensible, Dickson lost no time in
transferring the gold from the safe to an old port-
manteau he brought from the little room, re-
placed the moles, Crimean shirt and false beard in
their places among the theatrical properties,
whence he’d taken them, re-dressed himself in
his own suit of dark grey, shut and hasped the
window, walked quietly through the bank and
out at the back door with his weighty burden,
round to the front for his boots, and then down to
Tattersall’s to his room, where he transferred the
gold to his own portmanteau, and disposed of
Price’s in an ancient cesspit in the back yard.”
“Bless my soul!” I said; “man with white
moles—Crimean shirt—black beard—close on
£3OOO in gold stolen—manager chloroformed !
Why, you’re describing the Toolpara bank rob-
bery ten years or so ago. I remember reading
about it. Police could make nothing of it then,
and haven’t, I believe, to this day.”
“Precisely,” said the stranger, though he
looked a little disconcerted. “ The whole tran-
saction, from Dickson’s entry into the little room
to his disposal of the portmanteau in which he had
brought away the swag, did not occupy more than
15 minutes. He next walked through the coffee
room and spoke to the P.M. and C.P.S., who
were there playing a rubber of cribbage, out into
the front street and round to the room behind the
bar. It was filled with a select company, which
included the sergeant of police and the constable
on duty. The fun grew fast and furious, toasts
were given and drunk, and speeches of the kind
usual at these shivoos were made, when someone
drew attention to the absence of Price, who was
always there on occasions of this sort. Dickson
said that he had left Price at the bank just before
he came down to the hotel, and that he would be
round presently.
After another quarter of an hour Dickson him-
self drew attention to Price’s continued non-
appearance, and suggested that two or three
should go round and dig him out. He volunteered
to make one of the number. The light was burn-
ing in the bank when they got round, but there
was no response to a call for Price. The back
door was open, so they walked in, and on the floor
in the manager’s office they found a very sick
Price. He was sitting up in a dazed condition,
just throwing off the effects of the drug which
had been administered to him. As soon as he
recovered sufficiently he described what had hap-
pened ; up to then, I am sorry to say, the com-
pany took it for a case of simple drunk ; the safe
was examined, and the gold found to be missing.
Price beat his head on the door- of the strong-
room, and was very miserable.
“‘You had hardly left, Dickson,’ he said,
‘ when the brute came in. He was as big as a
house and as strong as a horse. He came from
the little room there. Did you see anyone there
when you came through ? ’
“ ‘ There was no one there then, I’ll take my
oath,’ Dickson said. ‘He must have watched
Mrs. Price go to bed, and then come in through
the quarters. I have often told you you’d be
slipped up one of these nights. Haven’t I, old
man?’
“ ‘You have, Dickson ; and now I wish to God
I’d taken your advice. How big was he? Oh, a
huge brute. Bigger than anybody about here. A
perfect stranger to this district, I’ll swear.’
“ See how easily imagination will deceive a man.
The police were summoned at once, of course,
and Dickson gave them all the assistance in his
power; but they could make nothing of it, no
more could the detective the bank sent up from
Brisbane. They never even discovered Price’s
old portmanteau, though, to do them justice, they
had not the faintest idea the gold had been re-
moved in anything of the sort. I believe that to
this day they are looking for an enormously r big
man with a black beard, dressed in white moles
(Continued on next page.)


A Busy Housewife’s
Terrible Biliousness Banished.
Yellow, sallow skin means that yonr liver
is disordered, and left the bile floating in
your blood, slowly poisoning your whole
body, instead of aiding the natural action of
the bowels, as it should. Bile Beans alone
can save you, as the following evidence of
Mrs. A. Lovell, of Best Street, Wagga, N.S.W., conclusively proves.
“I am never without a box of Bile Beans in my house,” says Mrs. Lovell. “For a
number of years I suffered from biliousness and headaches. When the attacks came on I
would be compelled to go to bed. I could not bear the sight of food ; everything seemed to
be swimming about me ; and the least noise irritated me. I tried many so-called remedies
with a view of getting rid of my complaints, but without success. I was strongly advised to
give Bile Beans a trial. After taking a few doses of the Beans, I began, to feel benefited,
and, persevering, I was greatly surprised how well Bile Beans had done their work. I can
confidently recommend Bile Beans to anyone suffering from biliousness or headaches.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE
Rheumatism—lts Cause and Cure.
Rheumatism is directly due to bad digestion, which
pollutes the blood with acid impurities. Exposure to
wet, sleeping in damp beds, and sitting in, draughts,
bring the trouble to a head by crystallising the acid
in the joints or the muscles, thus localising the pain.
Plasters, rubbing, and liniments can. only dislodge the
pain. They do not remove the cause or cleanse the
blood. Bile Beans get right at the root of the trouble.
They first set the digestion right and stop the supply
of poisonous acid. Then they cleanse the whole
system of the accumulated poison in the blood, and
banish the rheumatism thoroughly and perfectly.
Bile Beans, the world’s
standard family medicine,
are singulai’ly suitable for
fortifying 1 the system to
cope with the demands made
upon it by the present
season. They ward off
coughs, colds, influenza,
rheumatism, lumbago,
sciatica, and speedily cure
indigestion, biliousness,
piles, headaches, anaemia,
and all liver ailments.
a>y--.
Of all
Chem-
ists and
Stores,
a t 1/1*
and 2/9
per box.
ONE
BEAN,
ONE.
BOSE.
Doctors Enthusiastic Over New Discovery.
DR. HARTMANN SOLVES NEURASTHENIC MYSTERY.
Explains the Brilliant Success of the New Treatment for Nerve Wrecks.
How Nervous Disorders are Cured by Brain Feeding.
“Neurasthenia has been the Central Africa of medicine
—an unexplored territory into which few men enter.”
These words are eloquent testimony to the great mystery
that surrounds the most common of human ailments.
We are able, however, to chronicle the fact that at
least one scientist has penetrated to the heart of that
mystery, and has brought us back a warning and—health.
There can be no more fascinating study than the study
of that great mysterious force the ordinary worker is
content to call “ the nervous system.” The hidden force
that guides our every action, that controls our hopes,
that decides our ambitions and aspirations—it is this
power that we desire chained down and shielded ; then
we “know'” our battle is over.
When it is remembered that the percentage of illness
grouped under “nervous weakness” or neurasthenia, is
higher than any other class of ailment, it will be realised
how serious a matter is dealt with here, and this will lend
an added greatness to Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant discovery.
The cure for neurasthenia, says Dr. Hartmann, is food
—brain food.
In these days of high-pressure living, with fierce social
and commercial competition, there is a strain put upon
the nervous system which not one man in a hundred can
healthily withstand.
The effect of the strain is shown either in extreme
irritability, lack of concentration, irresponsible thought,
and finally insanity. The story of the neurasthenic is,
perhaps, best told in the following chart, which shows
clearly the descent and how swiftly we are taken to the
end: —
Sensitiveness
Restlessness | Irritability
Melancholia j Nervousness | Pessimism
Hysteria I Fearfulness I Inaptitude for i Dizziness
| | Steady Work |
Memory j Weak j Lack of Mental
Weakness | Will Power | C larit ->'
' Brain Fag | Insomnia
Mental Derangement
Suicidal Tendency
Somewhere in that chart the trouble of nine out of
every ten men and women is placed. It is the neurasthenic
chart, and once a person can recognise his symptoms
thereon, he should know that within him is the worst of
all diseases, a disease that unchecked can but lead to one
end—total collapse.
Dr. Hartmann’s cure for the neurasthenic is brain-feed-
ing. That this treatment, under Dr. Hartmann’s
method, is effective is proved by the splendid testimony
voluntarily affirmed by medical men in the highest
position.
This method of treatment, that Dr. Hartmann has
proved to be truly successful, may be thus detailed.
Food, when taken into the body, is used In various
ways for general nourishment. Certain foods are used for
fat production, others for the manufacture of bone J and,
yet again, other parts of food are used Up in the produc-
tion of brain tissue. Now, since all nervous affections
arise in the brain, and are caused by malnutrition— i.e.,
its starvation—the cure for neurasthenia lies in the ques-
tion of supplying the nerve centre with proper food to
allow due strengthening.
Now, in all foods—in some more than others —there are
brain-forming materials. They are' scientifically known
as Mylene or Lecithine. Under natural conditions the
best food contains but a trace of this wonderful substance,
and, therefore, it is impossible in the ordinary way to
absorb into the system a sufficient quantity to effect an
appreciable improvement in a neurasthenic case.
“ It is, in brief, a question of administering a sufficient
supply of nerve-feeding elements to balance the rapid
waste of nerve tissue, caused by the unnatural strain of
present day life, by a rapid repair.”
The result of Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant experiments has
been to prepare a nerve food in which the brain-forming
element is sufficiently strong to at once have a beneficial
effect.
To his new discovery Dr. Hartmann has given the title
“ Antineurasthin,” and already most remarkable cures
have been effected by its administration.
Antineurasthin is a preparation which contains all the
nerve-building materials “Lecithine,” in a highly con-
centrated form ; it is easily assimilated, and the benefits
it confers are lasting. It has, therefore, nothing in com-
mon wirh medicines, drugs, or other stimulants it is
the natural nerve food which nourishes the nerve system
independently of the body. To everyone requiring a
genuine tonic—to the man whose nerves have become
unstrung through business worries, to the woman who
has become supersensitive' or morbid—this simple remedy
will prove an inestimable.benefit.
The following testimony will certainly interest those
who are nervous patients. It comes from one of the
most brilliant physicians in Europe—Dr. Guiseppe Lap-
poni, Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness the Pope
“Rome.
“Dear Sir,—l made trial in my private practice of
AntineurAsthih, and shall prescribe’it henceforward, as it
is an admirable agent for toning and strengthening the
nervous system. I take the liberty of congratulating
you on your discovery.
(Signed) “ Dr. GUISEPPE LAPPONI, „
“ Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness Pope Pius A.
This is praise indeed, and the most satisfactory feature
of Dr. Hartmann’s success is that the congratulation 0..
his medical confreres is overwhelmingly supported by the
testimony of actual users of Antineurasthin.
The fact cannot be too strongly impressed upon the
minds of readers that nervous disorder, no matter how-
slight, must not he neglected or played with. The smaL
WO rry of to-day becomes the morbid melancholia or break-
down of to-morrow. .It is useless to endeavor to seek
temporary stimulation in chemical or so-called tonics,
which can have but a serious after effect—a Loss oi
Nervous Force.
Nervous disorders must be cured, and if, on once
glancing at the chart given, you recognise your trouble,
we advise you to at onoe investigate the claims o,
On o sendfng'on e shilling in postal note or stamps of any
Australasian State to the wholesale distributor, B. a*
Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane, Queensland, a sampia
supply of Antineurasthin, and in addition a copy of an
interesting treatise on “Nervous Disorders, a* W*U
Dr. Kuhuer’s pamphlet, will be forwarded.
and a Crimean shirt. The tracker did good ser-
vice. At Dickson’s suggestion, he discovered
where the thief had tied his horse up under a
pepperina tree at the bank corner, and tracked
him for miles into the bush, only losing the tracks,
I believe, on the stony ridges about Bauhinia.
“Dickson went off next morning before day-
break, and was very careful no one handled one
of his portmanteaux but himself. The driver
laughingly remarked that it seemed as heavy as
if it contained the bank gold. Dickson said he
wished it did instead of a iot of rubbishing station
books, and a gun and a rifle he was taking down to
be overhauled.
“In due time his friends in the township
received intimation that Dickson had benefited by
his relative’s decease, and promised themselves a
high old time when he returned. They got it,
too. The manager of the station received notice
of the resignation of his overseer, and some time
afterwards Price received a draft for £2500 from a
Melbourne bank, with instructions to place it to
Dickson’s credit.
“ Well, ever since then Dickson has prospered
exceedingly, and is now in a fair way to become a
wealthy man. He and his wife are a, most devoted
couple, and they talk about a trip to England
next year. Of course, according to your theory,
he must have suffered intense montal agony after
committing his crime, but I can assure you he
hasn’t. He would rather not have had to do it;
but from his point of view the money was an
absolute necessity to him, and Providence showed
him how to obtain it. He never had the slightest
fear of being found out, so he suffered not at all
on that head. Then his conscience—we’ll call it
his conscience—argued that his action, was justifi-
able and did little harm to anyone. The bank
hardly felt the loss. Dickson worked up
public enthusiasm about the gallant effort Price
had made to defend the money, till the bank
really thought more of Price than before; you
see, the people liked a big sensation, and at last
came to believe the fight had been something tre-
mendous. Now, why should Dickson be in
mental distress on account of his crime ? . I don’t
see any reason.”
The stranger went after his horses while Jim
and I talked the yarn over. Just as he finished
saddling up, Jim was seized with a desire for
information.
“ Say, Mister, how do you know for certain this
yer Dicksing didn’t feel troubled about wot ’e’d
a-done ? ”
The stranger swung himself into the saddle.
“ How can I-tell? Why, because Dickson told
me so himself.” .
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.
Stewarding.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ T~ OIID, make us truly thankful for
1 i what we are about to receive ! ”
From each man the company .deducts
Is. Gd. per month for losses. The chief gets £l2 ;
second, £B. Barmen, bedrooms, saloon-waiters
get £6 (second saloon, £5). Pantrymen and bath-
room stewards, £5 ; general servants, £4—some-
times £3, all according to how the chief rates
them. And last of all comes the mess-room
steward ; he gets, at the highest, £3. When 1
was younger I was fool enough to sign on for £2— '
but that is past and gone.
That eighteenpence tax is a good thing—for the
steward is a careless dog, and he needs a check.
Often I saw the pantryman heave a . spoon
through the port because it was stained, or the
saloon men use a good face towel to scrub their
decks with ! Stock-taking day is a day of dread
with our class. They remember those things they
did away with, and fear the result. I have often
watched how the chief collects his debts from
those under him just before stock-taking. There
is generally a departure or two !
“Bunce ” figures well in our wages. “ Bunee ”
is the gentle little coin which the mean passenger
has to feel so low down in his trousers pocket for.
I wonder how many times I have watched him do
so, and withdraw his hand again—empty. Then
he nods, says “Thank you,” and passes on.
Others mention casually that they “have left
some of their trunks behind, and will call later
on.” But they don’t call; they send a cab with a
written order,
Sometimes the bedroom steward suspects this •
kind, and hides any little article of his that he
can lay hands hands oh. .If the passenger kicks
up a fuss his property will be “found” in some
corner (by accident apparently); and the finder is
generally —if he convinces his man—the happy
recipient of ss. But if he is timid he is sure to
forfeit his lawful rights.
On all ships the takings are put together, and
divided, according to the importance of the posi-
tions the stewards hold. Consequently, there is
always trouble. The men who handle, the most
money are just like bank clerks and solicitors—
they embezzle.
Stewards never buy clothes; neither do their
families. Real “bloods” always leave enough
wearing gear behind to last a man six months.
And ta see the bundles the--“ boys ” carry-ashore.
How they haunt the second-hand shops, and what
a haul the Ikey Mo’s must make !
Clothes are a big thing with us stewards,
as one chief remarked when our boat was being
docked for repairs. “Yes,” he said, “ when you
beggars came here first you had your kit. tied up
in a handkerchief; now you want a couple of
lorries to drag it away ! ” But for all that he’d on
a suit that I had seen upon a passenger !
A steward has to deal with his passengers just
the same as an hotelkeeper. There are rogues'
everywhere.
Remember once —it is a long time ago—a pas-
senger “stuck up” in drinks, between Melbourne
and Fremantle, about £lO. He always flashed
such a lot of jewellery that the chief decided to
trust him. We arrived at Fremantle, and this
gent, dropped a sovereign into the chief’s hand,
saying, “ I’ve left my luggage—it’ll be all right.
Divide that among the chaps' that looked after me.
I’ll be down later on to square up.”
He went —so did his boxes 1 How he managed
to get them away unobserved was a real mystery.
The chief —but for the one pound and a gold ring
that he annexed—stood the loss.
Next to the captain, the mess-room steward is
considered to be the most important'man on the'
steamer. He is supposed to know everything—
how many knots “she’s” going ; how many feet
of water “she’s” drawing; the exact locality
when asked ; how much coal is left in the bunkers
—in fact, all things within reason that are dis-
cussed at the officers’ meal-table.
He is never seen working, yet he does the most.
Always lolling about the galley or the pantry, and
mostly down the stokehole, yapping to the fire-
men. He’s the firemen’? pal—he steals tins of
marmalade for them. A mess-room steward must
have grit in him, for he has to meet a quantity of
rebuffs and a scarcity of tips. I treasure up the
memory of one, for although oufs is an humble
calling, we have our heroes.
It was the time when the Golden West was
booming, and bur ship was then the brack steamer
of the whole fleet. And we knew it, and each
steward tried his level best to hang to his job. Of
course, we got the richest passengers. But there
was one man’s job in which there was a fresh face
every trip, and - that was the job of messroom
steward. No one would stay. The reason of
this’ was that we had the most obstinate and
pudding-headed Scotch engineers that ever a
steamer turned a propeller for. They had got up
a reputation !It was all day long—and half the
night, too: “Steward, ye’ve na brooshed ma
coat ; nor cleanit ma cap ; an’ w’eer th 1 De’il’s th’
polish o’ ma boots gang ? Com’ ! wuk up ! wuk
up 1 ” and so forth.
But our boss steward didn’t like this, so he
thought hard one trip, and decided something.
When we got back to Melbourne he approached
the “ shore steward ” with his idea. “ Give me,”
he asked, “a man with fighting blood —one that
can hold his own against anybody, and I’ll guaran-
tee he’ll be a stayer.”
Now the providore was a man who loved gore,
and so fell in with the plan.
Next afternoon, just before starting hour, a
raw-looking youth appeared before the chief
steward and announced himself as the new “ mess
room.” His name was Joe.
The very next morning trouble began. Two
engineers and the second officer had squeezed
themselves into their scantily-roomed places at
the table, and Joe called for orders, “Chops,
steak, or Irish stew ? ”
The engineers looked up quickly, and one
started, “An’ w’eers ma coffee an’ buskets? Dom
it, gie us a bill a’ fare!” And the other fol-
lowed: “Yus. w’eer’s the bill? Ay wont ma
breakfast luk ony Christian ! Ay wont my coffee
an’ buskets, an’, by Gord, A’ wont ma porridge !”
Joe stood still.
“ Na, hurry oop, b’ quick, don’ keep us waiting.
A’y can see ye’ll na do f’r us. Ah wull, we get a
noo’un every time. Ye’ll be glad t’leave when
we get back!”
Joe rolled up his sleeves, and imitating the
Scotch dialect, gave vent : .
“ A’ll na b’ glad t’ leave, ye sons a’ Scotch pups.
A’ll see ye in Hull an’ blazes afore Ah go tae
oblige ye. De’il smite ye, ’twill be ye who will b’
glad - tae see me leave ! Take that, y’ cow—and
that—and that! ” And he smote like a hurricane.
The engineers were in a trap —they could barely
move, and if it hadn’t been for the interference of
the second officer there would have been no
engineer to resume duty at the next change of
watch. Even he—the second—got a black eye
and a bleeding nose.
Joe kept his eye open, and five minutes later he
knocked,the third officer down and.sat on him for
12 minutes for calling him a “ land-lout.”
Joe is now chief steward of an English mail-
boat, and he hasn’t had to knock down any
engineers since then.
BERTIE DRIPPING.
The Lost Brother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S stacks o' songs‘o’ prodigals wot
plough the distant main,
-L ’lgh ’aughty coves ’oo love the frownin’
forest or the plain ;
I’ve ’bard of “’ills of mystery,” the “ocean’s
ragin’foam,”
But poets don’t make poetas for the bloke wot
sticks at ’orae
’ Ome, ’ome,
’Appy ’ard-up ’ome!
Landlord comes termorrer, oh', and me ter pay ike
lot ! ' ’
Billy’s fixed in Papua and Dick's a dog to roam.
I work for shopmans wages, and the landlord gets
■ the pot.
They leaves their poor ole woman with ’er poor
ole rent to pay,
And only starts to"dream of ’ome when they’re
’ard up some day ;
They know the nest to wingrtorwhen they want to
cadge a bob,
They know their charnst is with the cove ’oo ’as
a reg’lar jbbj r ; >J n '*
They couldn’t stand a blanky boss, they couldn’t,
blow ’em tight !
But come ’ome with a foreign twang and sit
down ’ere and skite.
Oh, I’m the fambly “stick-at-home” ’oo kept the
’ome afloat,
But Dibit's an ’ero cleanin’ up a reeling coastal
boat.
Oh. oh,
Something’s goirig ter go !
Stooard lead, me to the bugle, dordt drop the baby
now!. . ,
The purser roots 'im in the tail if ’e gets tired or
' slow,
’E’s seen the bloomin' world ’e ’as, but this is mostly
’ow.
Oh, quiverin’ flanks of stallions wtjfc-sweep the
open road,
Oh, sweet ilarious bullocks with a' bog beneath
the load !
Oh, flappin’ of the jib-sail, oh; the 'sun-brown
rudder ’and, .
These is the things.a cove lijte me can’t never
understand. . '
A nomad or a wanderlust"or prodigal’s a coot
’Oo ’as no brain to'exercise so exercises boot;
’E goes beyond the splehdid sun, w’ere soft the
zephyr blows, . . ’ .
And never gets back ’ere ter pay ’is - mother wot
’e owes.
Gome ’otoe' and pay yer mother, John, come ’ome
and pay yer par,
Oh, sweetly chantin’ prodigal, where’er, where-
e’er yer are !
They paid out gilt and trouble in the days w’en
you was small,
But it’s never mind yer. mother w’en the ocean
billers call!
Come ’ome and pay yer brother ’stead of goin’ off
• alone, /
As if an’ouse was cruel and your mother’s’eart
was stone,
Your bush is moanin’ gentle and your seas is very
sweet, T
But you’ve left the fambly, brother, with the
fambly bills to meet!
i
’Ome, ’oyie, • i . ~ , ,
1 ’ ■ ’Appy, ’ard-up’ome! ■
All the bills and. nib the wood is waitin' there fer
me;' ‘ >
Oh, sing a pretty parlor song about the’earts wot
roam,
And 1 will chop .the mornin’ wood and light the fire
for tea,
An’ sing a little song about ’ow ’appy I must be /
VICTORIA.
FUHNLEY MAURICE.


THE OLDEST ■IS , TRONGEJ > T@ BExTT
m
M
For over
60 years Ayer's Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried/
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world—in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia,
Africa, or wherever you will —
there you will find this fam-
ily medicine ready®
to give relief.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. .1. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., IJ. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then *end lor particulars
o/ our perfectfitting
Automatic air Cushion appliance
The Best Ruptur- Appmanc • of the Century
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.. Melbourne,Vic
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND 1 for Coughs and Colds.
A POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH.
Price. 6d. The Bulletin Office.
’SUNTytf
fillD'ij
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
i rhc Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
SINBLETON'S EYE OlffTHEta.
In nee since 1696.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lain bold Load. London, Eng.
Wearne 8 Breaks pear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF .. x x STRONGROOM
SAFES. v Manufacturers D00 RS.
Government Contractors.
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
JL can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
THE
o om,
FLY SOILED
rt to ererv home-
all pi; ices where Hies
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
rot soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
13 r u gg i s t s,
Groce. s and
Hardware
Dealers,
ftiSorff wfimi irs -
Sydney —Anthony Hordern ASons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Ailport
Proprietary, O’Oonnell St. ; S. Hoffnung <k Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers. Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ' Stockport
Remedy’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years proven efficacy.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in doth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
The Original
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
,l/I£, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BROHCHITiS.
Acts like a charm in
DSARRH€HA f and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Gaffy’s Patent " Keen Blade ”
PRUNING SHEARS.
PRICE,
6s. Each.
Postage 6d. Extra.
PRICE,
> Each.
Postage 6d. Extra.
The merit of these Shears consists of Both Blades having Cutting Edges, hence a
perfectly dean cut of even stout twigs can be made. The bark is not crushed,
nor are the buds injured.
N,
VB 9
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
-;■ ;*r^r
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
44,
INDIGESTION ///donttafa
BEECHAMS PILLS
rr
□
f
vK
’
1
'-'i'frri
m
The Wind Whispers,
and the
“Steel Wings” Windmill,
responsive to its ever-ehangeful whim, moves
in accord with it; now fast, now slow, but
always evenly, easily and steadily—con-
sequent upon its large sail area and the
easy-running roller bearings on each side
of the wind wheel.
The biggest, the strongest, and the most
powerful mills in the world are supplied by
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO.. LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
We also build the “LITTLE TROJAN,”
a fixed tower mill, exceptionally good and
low in price. Fine Castings supplied.
Write to Dept. C for pictorial literature.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power,
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
ey
States,
Street,
, HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
-2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
Thk Bulletin Office, 214 George
insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE II
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on haviug NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. i). MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Huntbr-stbjset,
Sample bottles and full particulars, by post,
Is* 4d. (.stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
Brifisl)»flustralasiait
8*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
(\r\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advanoe, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Buitish-Aostralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
Price


Do You Need a Rug?
If you have much driving to
do you really do require a good
rug—one that will keep the
warmth in and the wet out.
Why nqt choose from our
splendid stock—a range that
very few places could equal
for variety of style and price ?
From 8/6 to 30/-you can
pick, and no matter what price
you pay, you’ll get solid value
for every penny you spend.
If in town we would like
you to call at the store, but
we will be glad to forward
our catalogue if it is not con-
venient to visit us.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney.
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
/
V
SOLE AGENT,
T.K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by uslngr
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
Write tor
“ B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
mHE BULLETIN
JL Series, IY.. V., VI.
Packet of Ten. sd.
POST GARDS—New
Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
A MAN FEELS AWFULLY PLEASED
when he finds out what
a good, useful, and
economical engine he
has purchased in the
OIL AS A DRIVING POWER IS NOW
FIRMLY ESTABLISHED.
ALSO
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery.
AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
Paxman Portable Steam Engines,
Kilgour Acetylene Generators.
SOLE ACENTS-
Oil Sheep Dip, General Shearing Supplies.
Oil £ngine
Agents: MOFFAT-ViRTUE LIMITED,
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at OURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE; MARGARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA, Q.
BLACKSTONE
PORTABLE
OIL ENGINE.
o
“ Hardwicke,” Yasa, New South Wales,
December 18, 1906.
Dear Sirs, —The Blackstone Oil Engine ran
without a hitch, steadily and smoothly,
giving not the least trouble, and would have
done twice the work required. It used very
little oil. lam very much pleased with it.
Yours truly,
H. CAMPBELL LANGTREE.
Albury, N.S.W.,
Dear Sirs,—The “ Blackstone ” Gil Engine
gave us complete satisfaction. The con-
sumption of oil was extremely light, and we
never had a hitch throughout our shearing.
Yours faithfully,
COLLINS <st MASON.
MERCHANT
Technical Staff.
Ltd.
ENGINEERS.
Electrical and Mechanical.
E. S.
BANK
KSNG & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY
*
ALLOW US TO GIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY
Agents for Attis Chalmers Go.
PLANTS.
Johnson & Phillips Cables (N.S.W.)
aj
Ferranti Ltd. "
Mill Omci •
IS bhoadway,
:
Mill ictmuis Orgww
41 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE.
ROCK DRILLS
)\ -f , .
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Tools, Coal Cutters,
41 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
COMPLETE
G.
TUNNELING AND
MACHINES
QUARRYING
EGAN STREET,
KALGOORLIE.
Pneumatic Tool Dept.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills,
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Caulking Hammers.
Complete Stocks, etc., kept In
Australia.
ions nos.
109 Pitt Street,
and at MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, and PERTH.
wm
#vw: ■
j»e r «h
o
i:?
Boiler Mountings.
LIKED THE LONE HAND special (Stage
Number for July?
You will be even more pleased witb the
coming issue for August.
Ybe question of Australian Defence is in the
air ; and the August issue, witb tbe strißing
Norman Lindsay cover, is devoted to tbis,important
subject.
No Australian can afford to overlooß tbis ques-
tion wbicb means tbat no Australian can afford
to miss tbe August issue of THE LONE HAND.
And, if tbere are any Australians who are not
interested in tbe defence of tbeir country, tbere
are articles, stories, and bumor to please tbe most
casual.
THE CLASS of READERS that THE LONE
HAND reaches is just the class of buyers that
the Australian Advertiser cannot reach by
any other medium.
1. They are patriotic, which means that they
are ready to purchase Australian manufac-
tures when these are attractively brought
to their notice.
2. They liKe a hig'h-class magazine, which
means that they can afford to purchase
high-grade goods.
3. They regularly read THE LONE HAND in the
home, which means that they can depend
upon no objectionable advertisements being
brought^to the notice of the family.
BATTERY SPARES.
Our “ Cam ” brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies are used by a great many mines in Australia and New Zealand, than which there can
** T n < 4 V i r /% be no higher testimony to their worth.
Lam brand Forged Steel Cams, Heads, etc. Strake Canvas, woven specially of best Flax.
Fortuna ” Punched Screens and Wire Screen of best quality.
tt
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
