

afsds
Distillers
to
śd
By Appointmen
H.M.The Kino.
f
R. 6. WATKINS SZ> CSO»,
107 .'Komt street, Sydm. oy\
' —FOR— ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
' EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and. GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. ——-~=r
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Korting
2 Cycle Gas Engine
See Wild Cat Column.
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne,
\ — —
Radley s Orient Hotel.
EEKIr
77
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY tf ELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ft
it
back
FintAppkßraad
HAMS ®
BACON.
df
FIRE
RESISTING
«
i K.iV/<S! i' v
A Gtaeral Purpose
Oil
The FAIRSANK-MORSE Oil
Engine may be used for every
duty. Sound in design, material
and construction, it is always a
practical success.
COOPER SHEEP-SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
Jf
u
THE SECRET OF /TS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES
W© make it a point of never being: out of anything.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts.
We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Your Orders solicited.
THE SIEVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET-
-SYDNEY.
DRINK
8
dsf
dsf
sf
HANSENS JUNKET Tablets.
WHOLESOME DELICIOUS JEJNKET
is made with these Tablets, and contains in itself the natural digestive principles
which enable it to be taken and ** retained when other foods are rejected/'
“Restores Health.” “Assists Mature.”
if
tJ unite t,
ƒds
śf
The roofing that is always
a friend to those who
use it.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
roofing
for warehouses, residences,
silos, etc.
HOPPER WAGGONS,
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY l."
dfs
f THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY I.' 1 '
Locomotive Builders,
General, lining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
CTKSS GAS ENGINES
PI.ANTS
M
9
C. A.
MacDONALD, G& FITT
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 19 06,
against all makers.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HEUDON SPA is the best Natural Mineral
Water on the market .
mm
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V 01.30 No. 1522.]
[Thursday, April 15, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Po3fc r a Newspaper.


BOOKS
ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write us f©r any Books you Require.
We Welcome Inquiries.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. Ltd.
71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
FOR THE VOICE ! THROAT! ! LUNGS! ! !
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
śfd
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young'.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, the;'
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or | /|S stamps .
Post Free on Receipt of */ ®
COMPANY, LTD., « ybrk street, sydn>.f.
THE RED PAGE
India.
THE recently cabled information that
John Morley had appointed an
Indian the Governor-General’s
Council, if it attracted any attention at
all in Australia, was quickly knocked
out of mind by the Dreadnoughts. It
is, however, a matter of much import-
ance to India, and indirectly to the
Empire, for it is one step on the way to
the redress of grievances which have
aroused a deep-seated feeling of unrest
throughout the Hindu population of
India. For some time t the Anglo-
Indian officials denied fhe existence
of any unrest; but when it manifested
itself in more than usually inflammatory
articles in the native press and a few
isolated outrages, they became frightened
that another Mutiny was incubating, and
cried for drastic action against anything
that smelt like sedition. The opinion of
a. competent observer who does not be-
long to the official class is given by Dr.
John P. Jones in India, its Life and
Thought (per George Robertson and
Co.): —“ The British were never more
firmly entrenched and possessed of more
power in India than at the present time.
... The Hindus themselves realise this
situation perfectly well.”
Unrest, however, is a large outstand-
ing fact. Blind race hatred may inspire
some few unscrupulous sedition-mongers ;
but they would be entirely harmless if
there were no substantial causes for gene-
ral discontent. These causes ai’e various—
religious, political and economic. The
awakening of the East by the victories of
Japan, the advance of education, and the
diffusion of European ideas are the
primary factors.
It may be as well to recall the fact that
the population of India and Burma (1901
census) is about 286 millions. Of these,
over 207 millions are Hindus, 63 millions
Mohammedans, 10 millions Buddhists, and
3 millions Christians. Dr. Jones gives a
very reasonable view of these religions and
their devotees from the orthodox Christian
standpoint. He regards the Hindus as
poetic, other-worldly and spiritually-
minded. Religion enters into every
detail of their life. Popular Hinduism
is not, however, the elevated faith of
ancient Brahminism; it is an amorphous
thing in which many creeds are mixed,
including devil-worship and fetichism
amongst the lower castes. The vast
majority of the people are ignorant;
only one in 10 is educated, of women
only six in 1000. Superstition pre-
vails amongst all but the highest classes.
People living on 2d. and 3d. a day
support millions of religious mendi-
cants, lazy, worthless humbugs who are
accepted as the highest types of piety.
A large amount of interesting informa-
tion is given in Prof. J. C. Oman’s Cults,
Customs and Superstitions of India
(Dymock’s Library), derived mainly from
personal observation, which shows how
difficult it is for an outsider to avoid
offence to a people so intensely religious
and superstitious as the Hindus. The
well-meant action of the British Govern-
ment in insisting upon examination and
segregation, at the time of the outbreak
of plague at Poona, led to riots and the
murder of the chairman of the plague
committee.
Prof. Oman devotes considerable space
to the Arya Samaj, founded in the Pun-
jab by Swami Dayanand about 30 years
ago, and now an influential organisation.
It is one of the results of the impact of
Western science and philosophy upon
Eastern intelligence. Its creed is mono-
theism based on the Vedas, and it aims
at the purification of Hinduism by wip-
ing out idolatry and a large portion of
the later scriptures which are incredibly
obscene. The society is hostile to the
Brahmin priesthood as a heavy and use-
less burden; it is anti-Christian (on the
defensive), and avowedly non-political.
Christian missionaries look upon it as
their worst enemy, and the Government
regards it with strong antagonism because
some of its members happen to be popular
leaders.
According to Henry W. Nevinson in
The New Spirit in India (Harpers), it is
not a political organisation, and its leaders
believe that it is absurd to look for politi-
cal regeneration while the character and
intellect of the people are unregenerate.
Nevinson, a Manchester Guardian Liberal,
has no illusions about the weakness of
character, the tendency to cringe, the
increasing cowardice of the subordinate
race. Dr. Jones thinks that they are at
present incapable of self-government be-
cause of their moral weakness and social
inadequacy, the lack of public spirit and
the boundless complications of caste. But
both Jones and Nevinson recognise the
growing arrogance of the dominant race,
their lust for deference and flattery,
their contempt for the subject face. The
average Britisher who becomes an Indian
official also becomes an unspeakable
bounder in his treatment of the natives.
“He tramples upon their sensibilities
and declines to learn any lessons of wis-
dom from them” (Dr. Jones). And at
his best, in humanitarian work, “ the
kindly zeal . . . the haste to do some-
thing, the utter inability to understand
another point of view, are alike charac-
teristic of our Government, and of the
elephant that sat on the orphaned eggs
to hatch them ” (Nevinson).
W
The bad manners of the Anglo-Indians,
in the one country of all countries where,
as Morley said, bad manners amount to
a political crime, are undoubtedly a con-
tributing fiause in the production of dis-
content. The overt act which brought
matters to a head was part of Curzon’s
policy of efficiency—the partition of Ben-
gal, which was done in flagrant disregard
of the feeling and opinion of the majority
of the people concerned.. It benefited to
some extent the Mohammedan minority,
but affronted the Hindus and deprived
them of many of the choicest plums of
office. They petitioned the British Parlia-
ment, but as Curzon had resigned on
account of Kitchener, the partition was
allowed to go through as a sop to his
wounded vanity. Then started the
Swadeshi (“Our own country ”) movement
for the exclusive use of native products.
Two prominent Indians, Gokhale and
Lala Lajpat Rai, went to Englaqd to put
their case before the British public, but
came back convinced that the B.P. was
too fully occupied with home affairs to
bother much about India. They saw
that the only hope of real reform was
from within. Gokhale founded at Poona
a semi-monastic order of teachers to in-
culcate sbcial reform. It is a frankly
political body, aiming at self-government
under British rule. Lajpat Rai, who was
arrested and deported as a blow at the
Arya Samaj, is the leaderof the moderates.
The extremists, under Tilak, seek the same
goal but advocate different methods. They
would extend the Swadeshi to a complete
boycott and adopt the policy of passive
resistance by disregarding the Seditious
Meetings Act. “Touch their pockets
and we’ll wake them up in England 15 ;
and if sufficient numbers are sent to gaol
they hope, like the suffragettes, to attract
attention to their wrongs.
The Bengal Nationalist party are also
Extremists, only more so. Since the time
of Macaulay’s essay on Warren Hastings,
the Bengali has come to be regarded
as the most cowardly race on earth.
Cowards became more cowardly under
the lash of the world’s scorn, and their
leaders regard the partition of Bengal as
a blessing in disguise, as it has brought
the people together, and shown them the
necessity of developing the manly virtues
which would fit them for self-government.
The new spirit in India makes for
courage and self-reliance. It is mainly
due to the large numbers of natives who
have received European training. Nearly
two thousand graduates are turned out
of the universities every year. They
have read Milton, Burke, Mill, and John
Morley, the poetry of Shelley and Swin-
burne, and the history of the long and
arduous struggle for freedom by the
British people. Not unreasonably they
desire a measure of self-government
similar to that possessed by Canada,
which includes a conquered race.
This is a long way off, but in
the meantime they ask for a larger
share of representation in the exist-
ing government, and freedom from
interference by a bureaucracy which is
despotic and alien, and refuses to attempt
to understand any other point of view
than its own. Even though the official
bounders may sow hatred, there is still a
strong belief amongst Indians in the jus-
tice of Britain. As the schoolboy said of
Dr. Temple, “ he is a beast, but a just
beast.” If the British at Downing-st. were
to disregard justice and right because of
ignorance and fear they would do more
to increase the unrest in India than any-
one else. With all its faults, Britain is
the only country that has tried to act
squarely with subject races. The greatest
danger to the Empire is that rampant
Imperialism should lead to placing the
Empire before justice. The appoint-
ment of Satyendra Sinha as an ordinary
member of the Gov.-General’s Council
shows that Morley, at any rate, is trying
to do the fair thing.
War.
“An Englishman’s Home” was built
before the war scare, but it was not up long
before The War Inevitable came—in fiction
form (per Angus and Robertson). The
author, Alan H. Burgoyne, is apparently a
new writer who thought he would catch the
Jingo while still hot, and he has done his
best to deserve success. The German Chan-
cellor is insulted when on a visit to Windsor,
and vows vengeance. While the Kaiser is
ill he plans a great attack upon England.
The Channel fleet is sunk in one act,
and an enormous host of Germans invade
England. Edouard Rex is greatly disturbed,
but keeps cool and sends for Kitchener :
“ Will you accept the appointment of gene-
ralissimo?” The general drew himself up
proudly and replied: “Your wish, Sire, is
my pleasure ” (one hears Kitchener making
such a banal reply). ... As the stalwart
form left the room, King Edward gave a
long-drawn sigh of infinite relief: “With
that man we may yet pull through,” he mut-
tered, and rose to meet his greatest admiral,
Sir John Angler.” Kitchener proclaims
martial law and out-Cromwells Oliver in his
great House of Commons act. The battle
rages loud and long, blood pours from every
•page, and the thunder rumbles from chapter
to chapter—and good old Kitch. pulls them
through, aided by the Japs and the colonials.
The author has no great gift of style, but is
possessed of considerable knowledge, of naval
matters, and has certainly manufactured a
sensational novel which is as good as any by
Louis Tracy or William Le Quex.
“ 9009,” by James Hopper and F. R.
Bechdolt (Heinemann), the brief but exciting
biography of an imaginary convict in an
American prison, is .stated in the preface to
be a Fact-Story— i.e., made up of incidents
which have really happened to some convicts
in some American prisons at some time. If
that is the case, the prisons referred to must
be quite as bad as those of Russia. Capital
punishment would be much decenter than
the gradual “breaking” of an ordinary
criminal, which turns him into a cruel and
relentless monster, as related in this book.
Robert W. Chambers, who gave us the
fascinating King in Yellow, the dainty lole,
The Maid at Arms, and even a good imita-
tion of the Ruritanian novel in A King and a
Few Dukes, is very much ‘ ■ a young man in
a hurry.” He now throws out Some Ladies /
in Haste (Constable), who are just what the
title describes, and slop-made at that.
A New York club man undergoes a course
of absent treatment by hypnotic sugges-
tion, and then experiments himself upon
some friends and strangers. The results
show that he is possessed of the power, and
that he has given ten unoffending citizens
and citizen esses overdoses of the treatment.
Their gambols are more absurd, but less
amusing, than the adventures of Ally Sloper.
It will be remembered that Dicky Le
Gallienne did once dip his little pewter-pot
into the numerous versions of the Rubaiyflt
and put his own brand on the mixture, and
since then he has claimed a kind of proprie-
tary interest in old Omar. Alas, poor
Richard! that “ youth's sweet-scented manu-
script should close he has become virtuous
and sworn off cakes and ale, and now steps
forward to testify against the Curse in a
metrical tract called Omar Repentant. He
warns the Young Man against the iniquity of
“ the jug of wine and Thou,” and calls upon
him to swear by the morning star that he
will be pure. And soon Richard will re-
nounce the world altogether and get himself
to a monkery.
Rats.
The rat and his attendant fleas are still
with us, distributing plague germs, so that
W. It. Boelter’s book on The Rat Problem
(Bale, Sons and Danielsson) is at any rate
timely. It may be commended to our health
officers as a “ Compleat Bat Catcher' I —a
history of the rat and methods of extermina-
tion, from the time of Ptolemy down to the
national campaign in Denmark conducted by
Emil Zuschlag under an Act which appor-
tions the cost between the State and the
local authorities. The little beastie is far
more deadly than the tiger or the cobra,
and far more destructive of property
than an earthquake. Boelter estimates that
there are 40 million rats in the British
Isles, and that they are responsible for an
annual loss of £15,000,000. After review-
ing all the methods of destruction, including
Dr. Danysz’s virus, he emphasises the useless-
ness of isolated or spasmodic action gn
account of the extraordinary fecundity of
the vermin, and urges systematic and com-
bined action in every State affected. While
we are busy about the destroyers destined
for the human enemy of an indefinite future,
we must not forget the other enemy within
our gates.
4
Ungrateful Albert Dorrington ! He com-
plains (Red Page, 11/2/’O9) : “I gained an
opening and held it for 14 months on a high-
class English magazine. My stuff was front-
paged ; the pictures were attended to by
Michael and Cuneo. Then came Wells with
his airships ; and away went my illustrators
to wash the big man’s gas-bags and air-
flappers ; away went my series to the middle
and finally to the end of the maga., when
Conrad tramped in with his usually excellent
Napoleonic serial.”
Exactly. A. D. went to London, was
allowed to cook his gum leaves in a Big»Pot,
and now cries because a handful of the
“cultured rich,” with seemingly imperish-
able reputations, have palisaded (with
pens) that Big Put which A. D. intended to
have for his own particular utensil. His
series, “ Stories of a South Sea Buccaneer,”
appeared in the Pall Mall Magazine, and
were undoubtedly good. The maga. first
gave him the services of Yedder, of whom
no story-writer could complain. They then
added to A. D. ’s literature a dash of Michael
and Cuneo. But these artists’ time was
booked far ahead, and they were called off
to prepare the black-and-white bang of the
“War in the Air,” and Yedder brought
Dorrington to a close.
All authors of magazine series experience
the joy of opening ; gulp in the champagne
air as they race their track of blaze and
glory, and suffer the ignominy of finish, with
big swelled heads, in the rubbish tip. The
English magazine keeps a long procession of
sensations in hand, the one ready to warm
up the already cooling shoes of the other.
It’s no good watching a spent storm when a
new disturbance is rapidly approaching.
Instance Rider Haggard’s “Ghost Kings,”
in Pearson’s, and Robert Barr’s “Young
Lord Stranleigh,” which first adorned the
glossy innards of the Windsor. What could
be more contemptuous than to wind up in
the rear, sandwiched between advertise-
ments ? Robert Barr, in an address to the
Idlers’ Club, advised unknown authors to
type as many copies as they can afford
and spread them over the face of the
earth. “Lightning seldom strikes twice in
the same place,” explains the canny Robert.
“Not unless good metal attracts it,” I
might reply.—H. E. R.
—-— ♦ — l—
THE HAMMERS.
Noise of hammers once I heard,
Many hammers, busy hammers,
Beating, shaping, night and day,
Shaping, beating dust and clay
To a palace ; saw it reared ;
Saw the hammers laid away.
And I listened, and I heard
Hammers beating, night and day,
In the palace newly reared, r
Beating it to dust and clay,
Other hammers, muffled hammers,
Silent hammers of decay.
Ralph Hodgson (in " The Saturday Review”).


A.
i
No. 1801 —Sterling Silver-
laoiinted Mirror, floral
design, cast border, 60s.
A
No. 1829C —Sterling Silver-
mounted Mirror, Cupid
design, 325. 6d.
HIGH-
GRADE
TOILET
REQUISITES
... AT ...
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 1882—Sterling Silver-
mounted Mirror, Bird
and Mask design,
No. 1802—Sterling- Silver-
mounted Mirror, Lily-
design, 325. 6d.
No. 1799—Tooth Brush Stand,
in Polished Nickel, with Crystal
Glass Base ; height width
4jin., 3s. 3d.
No. 1851—Lavender
Salts, in Sterling
Silver Case, ss. 9d.,
Bs. 6d., 13s.
i
No. 1803—Bathroom Wall Combination, com-
prising Tumbler in Nickel Rack and Clips
for Tooth Brushes, on polished Mahogany-
Board, Brushes not included, 6s. 6d.
No. 1829 A—Sterling Silver-mounted Mirror,
Oupid design, 18s. 6d., 265.
m
No. 1834—Silver-mounted Comb, Tortoise-
shell color, Os.
No. 1847 A.
te/j
No. 1847.
Silver-mounted Pyramid Bottles, 9£in. high,
Hobnail pattern (No. 1847 A.), 10s. 6d.;
Cane pattern (No. 1847), 10s. 6d.
No. 1823—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush
and Comb, in Satin-lined case, 125., 145.,
165., 18s. 6d., 20s. to 555.
No. 1802a —Gentlemen’s
Shaving Set, to hang or
stand, in fine polished
Nickel, comprising Re-
volving Mirror (bevelled
Glass), Hot Water Mug,
Opal-lined Bowl and
Shaving Brush, 245.
No. 1882a —Sterling Silver-Mounted Mirror,
Fancy Design, 10s. 6d., 235. 6d.
No. 1831a —Sterling Silver-mounted Military
Hair Brush, bird and mask design, 6s. 9d.,
10s. 6d„ 12s.
No. 1818b— Handsome Nickel
Stand, bevelled Swinging Mirror,
Brushes with black polished
wooden backs, nickel mounts,
28s. 6d.
iSTo. 1833—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush,
Cupid design, 10s. 6d., 15s.
No. 1826—Pair of Mili-
tary Hair Brushes and
Comb, Silver-mounted, in
handsome case, 17s. 6d.,
215., 255., 305., 355., 40s.
No. 1814—Travelling Shaving
Mirror, in Nickel, 6in. glass
revolving, one side bevelled,
the other magnifying, to stand
or hang, 12s.
No. 1874 —Sterling 1 Silver-mounted Hair
Brush, best bristles, Rose design, cast
border, 425. 6d.
Terms :
Spot Cash.
No. 1812—Nickel Shaving- Set,
adjustable Mirror, Badger
Brush, Nickel Bowl, with China
Pot, on round Polished Wood
Base, 12s. 6d.
No. 1864—Sterling Silver-mounted
Powder Boxes, Iris design, three
sizes, ss. 9d., Bs., 9s. 6d.
HiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiHiHiiiiiilHiHiiißiiiiiHfHK!!*:*?!!!!
iililiiilH
m
& i
A
m
m
IS
No. 1822 —Toilet Set, consisting of two Sterling
Silver-mounted Hair Brushes and Comb, 215.,
245. 6d., 30s. to 50s.
No. 1838 —Sterling Silver-mounted Oloth
Brush, Cupid design, Bs. 3d., 12s.
No. 1897 —Sterling Silver-
mounted Military Hair Brush,
plain design, 12s. 6d., 15s.
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS,
"'XV' ———
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
No. 1865—Sterling Silver-Mounted Powder Boxes,
Cupid design, 4 sizes, 4s. 9d., 6s. 6d., 95., 12s. 3d.
No. 1887—Silver-mounted Toilet Set, consisting
of two Hair Brushes, Mirror, Cloth and Hat
Brush and Comb, Bird and Mask design, £5.
Same design, only with Two Hair Brushes,
Mirror and Comb, £3 12s.


sfdsdf
AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.
Sydney's Leading Skin Salesmen -
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
aie carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
k () weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
. Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to "WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “G-HIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
WALSH'S POPULAR
HORSE 8 CATTLE
DOCTOR.
An invaluable treat-
ise on the various
Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms and
Treatment.
n-
-9
Post Free
1/2.
HAMILTON’S GREAT
STABLE MANUAL &
HORSE DOCTOR,
8/6, post free.
Dancing Without An
Instructor. Absolutely
the Best Guide to the
Ballroom ; gives all the
latest round and square
dances ; correct positions
of feet shown b.v illustra-
tions, 1/3. “M.C. Cards,”
4d. each, 3/- doz. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3'6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1 /-.
Let te r Writer, 1 /-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
ds
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying' and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no conferleraf.es and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
LOOK FOR THE RED
1
df
1
I TRADE HARK I
I REG. IN U.S. PAX OFFICE |
When Buying Guns or Ammunition
This Winchester trade-mark is the hall-mark of guns and ammu-
nition as perfect as brains and experience, coupled with a com-
plete plant, can make them, The red Wis to guns, cartridges
and shotgun shells what the word “ Sterling” is to silverware.
For Yoar Protection "Look for the Red W”
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATiNG
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMI j 3TITIOHT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYBMT33IT.
This MarK distinguishes
The Most Perfect Bicycle
in the World.
This can be secured to you by your having one built
to your order specifying that every component part
shall be
Genuine B.S.A. _
Do not, however, stop at specification—see that your instructions are carried out.
Make it an absolute condition that the trade mark of the “3 piled
rifles” shall appear on every part. We put it there for your protection.
Get a B.S.A. Handbook and read all about our latest Australasian model
fittings, the improved Eadie Coaster Hubs, Two-
Speed Gears, Free Wheels, &c. Then you will
be able to get a bicycle built for you that will embody
everything that is best in cycle construction, a bicycle,
in fact, that can justly be described as “the most perfect
in the World.”
Handbooks free from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, *
MELBOURNE.
TRADE * HARK
dfs
QUEENSLAND,
THE QUEEN STATE OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
‘MOUNT LARCOMBE” Estate
14,400 ACRES FREEHOLD,
IS NOW BEING SUBDIVIDED INTO AREAS TO SUIT PURCHASERS.
The public of Gladstone and surrounding' districts have for many years been anxious for the Government to
acquire this most famous estate for the purpose of closer settlement, and, although it has been in the occupancy of
practically One family for the last 46 years, we have now arranged to subdivide it into
RICH DAIRY AND AGRICULTURAL FARMS.
The secret of successful farming, with a view to making a fortune, is to be
IN THE HEAVY RAINFALL AREA.
“ MOUNT LARCOMBE ” is situated between Mount Alma, which is 2300 feet above sea level, and Mount
Larcombe, which is 2100 feet above sea level, and the property is only 6 miles from the coast.
The average rainfall is 43 inches per annum, and the property is watered most magnificently with
absolutely permanent running streams, to which every farm will have a frontage.
PRICES ARE ABSURDLY LOW. TERMS VERY EASY.
A Railway Station is on the property, and the township of Gladstone is only 21 miles distant.
“MOUNT LARCOMBE ’’ does not want booming, as it will sell itself. We are so satisfied with this fact that
we will pay the fare of purchasers from any part of the States.
No survey or residential conditions.
If you want a farm with Magnificent Soil, Rich Dairying Land, with flats suitable for Lucerne, Potato
growing and Maize, etc., great money producing land, and up amongst the rainfall, get a move on sharp, and
inspect “ MOUNT LARCOMBE.”
For further particulars apply to—
WEAVER & CLASSON, LIMITED,
COLONIAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS, 289 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Branches at TOOWOOMBA, PITTSWORTH, DALBY and CHARLEVILLE.
GENERAL
DEBILITATION
THE LIVER BLAMED*
Sincerity of conviction and directness of pur-
pose mark the action of Mr. Thomas Theak in
giving for publication the ensuing lines, which
were written at his home, No. 88 Botany Road,
Alexandria.
“I am one of the few people living in Sydney
who has never been out of it,” was Mr. Theak’s
initial remark, “not that it is anything to boast
about, but purely an uncommon circumstance.”
“Your business does not conduce to much
travelling, perhaps?” said the interviewer.
“I’m a painter by trade, and there has been
plenty of work to keep me here, without wasting
time looking for it in other parts. Yes ; I have
done fairly well from a business standpoint, but
from a health point of view I was not always so
fortunate. Let me give you, for example, the
time that I found it necessary to start taking
medicine, and I must have been pretty bad to
take that on, I tell you. It was because I was
much weaker than I should have been, conse-
quent, I firmly believe, on working too hard. I
had the unpleasant experience of never being able
to relish my food, no matter how daintily pre-
pared, for my appetite had fallen away to nothing.
I was also troubled with most uncomfortable feel-
ings, following upon the taking of foods, the
stomach filling with gases, and causing pain, be-
sides being oppressed with a dreariness of mind
which made it too much trouble to devote my
thoughts to anything. I felt fit for nothing but
to go and lie down after meals, and a person in a
healthy state should not be like that, you know.”
“That condition is a sure indication that some-
thing has gone wrong with the liver?”
“Precisely; and that’s what I was suffering
from. I went on ailing for a good length of time,
going from bad to worse, and wondering what on
earth would cure me and make my life a bit more
bearable, when a son of mine who had been using
Clements Tonic advised me to try some. Well,
that was the best introduction I have ever had,
because Clements Tonic has been a firm friend of
mine ever since. But before I get too far ahead
1 ' my story, let me tell you of the way I suffered
from headaches —so heavy and acute that I could
scarcely raise my head from the pillow, and mak-
ing me wish that I could leave this earth and all
its misery behind. A coated tongue and a vile
taste in the mouth started the day’s round of dis-
agreeable circumstances, and my sight got so dim
as to lead me to think that a skin was growing
over them. Then the giddy feelings—why, some-
times I almost dropped, through their sudden
visits, and my shoulders were so affected with
pain that it hurt me to move. Indeed, on one
occasion I was for a whole week and could not
raise my arms. The chest and stomach were also
out of gear, and on top of it all I was listless and
low-spirited to a marked degree. Each morning I
got up feeling that I did not care what happened,
always being more inclined to go back to bed
again than to dress myself. There was sufficient
evidence to show that my nervous system was feel-
ing the strain of my physical adversities, so you
will see there was a big contract in front of Clem-
ents Tonic when I made my first purchase of that
valuable remedy. But I found it very much up-
to-date, believe me. There was no taking of half-
a-dozen bottles, and feeling no better, as applies
to other medicines. Oh ! no; neither do I say that
I felt all right after taking one bottle of Clements
Tonic; yet I can truthfully assert that I felt some-
what relieved, and that by judiciously sticking to
that treatment I conquered in the end. Yes,
Clements Tonic gained a complete mastery over
each of my ailments, and left me in the happy
position of being able to eat and drink whatever
I liked, without experiencing any ill effects after-
wards. Its power over the nerves is extraordi-
nary, its appetising influences are unique, its value
as a promoter of sleep is unrivalled, and for curing
indigestion and building up one’s strength I’m
positive there is nothing to come within coo-ee of
Clements Tonic.”
“Well, we’ll print your remarks?”
“Do—in any form you like to mention, or de
cide upon.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, THOMAS THEAK, of 88 Botany Road, Alexandria,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure byClements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements —which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
111
W. A. POWELL. J.P-


śfd
sƒ
Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
Mger’s
'Chernf Pectoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
sďsf
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to ini one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try FByers
at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £B
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and DeSavemod
f feC to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Larue profit
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine. *
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ D e P ,2 B o LIVERPOOL.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
James Connors, Pennant
Hills, N.S.W., aged 14, had
become very thin and pale,
and was troubled with a
severe cough
His mother writes (August
1908) that
“After taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion for a short time he began
steadily to improve. He looked
much brighter, his appetite
was better, and he had gained
about 7 pounds in weight, in
' addition to which the cough
had almost gone. Now he is
quite well and strong, and in
better health than ever before.”
This sort of recovery has
convinced multitudes of pa-
rents of the superiority of
Scott’s
Emulsion
whose purity and strength pro-
vide a cure when everything
else and every other emulsion
prove insufficient. Every atom
of SCOTT’S digests and it
grows so upon the palate that
young people come to regard
it not as a medicine but as
a treat.
Of all
chemists
and
dealers
in
medicines.
sfd
The mark
by which
you
pick out
your
cure !
sfd
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BONNINGTON’S”
1/0 & 2/0.
ORUCK’S
, MALTED MILK
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL \+
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horllck’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
fast
time or
supper time
Horllck’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee .'.nd cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd., Slough, Bucks., Eng.
PERFECT
UIOHIEH
are not flat-chested
and thin-limbed.
Nature intended
every woman to be
decently developed,
with a full, well-
rounded bosom.
Don’t stay thin.
[5
MS
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH=FOOD ’
will increase your weight by as much as five
pounds a week, and will add inches to your
measurements. It is a scientific bust
developer, a medicated tissue food, harmless
and efficacious. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Descriptive Book.
FALLIERE
Dept. 5,
“ FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing 1 One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WHITE FOR PRICE LIST.
L'quitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
%
V"
\ WISH
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“Montserrat”
:: Sauce
the basis of which is
“ MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
€3 O CT\
burgeon
Thoughtful Treatment
of such everyday ailments as biliousness, sick headache and
indigestion, does not involve the added discomfort caused by
rash and drastic purgatives. Give Nature a chance.
Just try one or two Cockle’s Pills. They will give a fillip to the
sluggish liver. That, in nine cases out of ten, is the cause of all the
trouble. Physicians have prescribed Cockle’s Pills for more than one
hundred years,
Q
L
'O
m
PI LLS.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.,
Works r Birmingham, England,
sfsfd
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
S7?e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN. sd.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Imperial Tongue Tie.
A true imperialist am I;
I hold that English-speaking races
Should each to each be staunch ally
In fending—their respective places ;
Should foreign nation, in its lust
For foreign conquest, threaten danger
To Britain, then her people must
Imperially fight the stranger.
For we, who have from Britain sprung,
Expect the Mother-country, bless her !
To keep her dear old Mother tongue
From German or from Jap aggressor
Unsullied ; whilst on this our land,
Where English is the language spoken,
United in defence we stand
To keep the bond of speech unbroken.
We’ll do our best to rule our own
Australian piece of Empire rightly.
To Edward on his far-off throne
Our loyal words are : “Sit thee tightly!
Thy cause is ours, and ours is thine
And Canada’s ; in which connection
The grand Imperial design
Should be to foster self-protection.”
If Britain bend to foreign yoke,
Our sons will blush to tell the story,
Old songs concerning “hearts of oak”
Will not be warbled con amove ;
So I, imperialist at heart,
Wish Britain luck against all aliens,
Whilst we play loyally our part
And guard Australia for Australians.
VICTORIA.
E.F.
A Dream of Fat.
I dreamt I saw a gaily painted boat.
With trim sails set, and high hopes freighted
deep,
Upon a wide and sun-kissed ocean float
To a fair haven where all breezes sleep,
A port of cornlands, whence strong men may reap
Full harvest of the seeds their hands have sown,
Where longing with fulfilment tryst may keep,
And service share with freedom equal throne,
Each finding in his neighbor’s good his own.
And as I watched I saw a fierce storm rise,
A wild, green waste of wind-tormented sea,
White with whipped spume ; and fear was in the
eyes
Of all the crew. Then one said, “ Look on me !
Behold the bulwark of the brave and free
Is Fat. I lightly oil the troubled wave,
And all your hearts are glad. All dangers flee
Affrighted from my presence. Fat is brave,
And blubber still hath power to heal and save.”
Then sailed the staggered mariners, and came
Into a sea whose waves were all of oil.
An evil-smelling tide rolled smooth and tame
About a greasy shore. From the foul soil,
O’erspread with festering heaps of old sea-spoil,
Rose strange dull-dripping growths and reeking
trees,
And slow, fat serpents in their glittering coil
Slept, clogged in waxy mire. And every breeze
Bore heavy stenches to the rotting seas.
Dark horror lay on all the sickened crew,
Their painted bark deep-held in greasy sand,
The foul breeze in their pallid faces blew
With oily breath from off the oily land ;
Frail grew each arm and weak each sinewy hand,
And he who tamed the anger of the sea
Alone rejoiced amid that stricken band.
“ Behold,” he said, “ how all good things agree—
’Tis rich, fat peace that makes a people free.”
Swift at the sound a stronger purpose stirred
Their sinking hearts with fierce rebellious fire,
A huge disgust at that fat thing they heard
Filled all their souls with energy and ire ;
They dipped their oars deep in the greasy mire,
And with a mighty effort tore the sea ;
The light bark, leaping swift as their desire,
’Mid blobs of startled blubber floating free,
Raced towards the hope of better things to be.
They tossed the fat one lightly overboard,
And left the greasy eddy far behind ;
O’er seas uncharted, wide and unexplored,
Their dareful keel a way shall surely find.
I woke at the first breath of a sweet wind
That filled their sails. This only could I know,
Their far-sought haven they shall surely find,
The port that sages told of long ago,
The cornlands where the mightier harvests grow.
MAORILAND.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Fame.
Each day the narrow ways he trod,
And still his life was sweet,
For sometimes with a passing nod
A friend his face would greet.
At last there came to him a day
When in a carriage grim
Dumb strangers paused upon their way
To lift their hats to him.
And so upon my way I go
Amid the throng alone,
And, gladdened, catch a smile to show
I am not quite unknown.
But Time cannot that moment stay
When I shall famous be ;
And all I pass upon that day
Will lift their hats to me.
So you a-down the narrow street
Move to your narrow end,
Glad if your eyes may chance to meet
The swift smile of a friend.
Yet soon the world respect will pay;
The date is nearly due
When all will speed you on your way
And lift the hat to you !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


limiter
/
o
15-
.
\
B-W
▲
h
c.
&L V&
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of worhing out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not croch
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474. G.P.0., Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms!
243 COLLINS ST.
ESTAB?I7SO.
English (QWatches
*
N
ROTHE ?HAMS
o
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889.
London IB6Z. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue,
SOVVSI S3SSSIAI am.
l«3a'a-a3JA Jap«ll
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Oastlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINQS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., YI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... 6d
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
aiwaam
Bi
1 if'S lUld.-ll
HOTEL
BIETROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Perfection in Quality as well as in Name
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut U p in Tins, 2ozs. and 4oZS.
USE
< I ■„ ,
WELSBACH
MANTLES
WART DAWSON 8 CO.,
(AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Any of these Good Watches will be sent Free and Safe by Registered Post on receipt of Cash with Order.
The “ Princess ” Wnf.eh, 18ct. Gold
Hunting Gases, £5 10s. Open Face
style, £4 10s.
The Waltham Lever Watch, 10ct.,
£5 ; 14ut., £6 ; 18ct., £7.
Special Values these.
The “Nonpareil” Out Hunter, 18ct.
Gold Cases and Gold Dial, £8 10s.
it
w\ 1
1
The “Nonpareil,” Golrl Dial and
, ISct. Gold Case, £6 10s.
Full Hunters, £7 10s.
Special Adjusted 18ct. Waltham
Lever, £2l.
The 14ct. Gold-filled Elgin Lever,
worth half-a-dozen cheap Gold
Watches, £5.
The Waltham Lever, lOct. Gold Hunting’
Gases, £8 10s. ; j4ct. Gold, £lO ius.
The Waltham Cut Hunting- Lever,
18ct. Gold Cases, £l3 10s.
The Waltham Hunting Lever, 18cfc.
Gold Cases, £l4 10s.
“ Nicole Nielsen ” English Lever, 18ot.
Gold Cases, Engraved or Plain, £35.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
vo.so-n0. 152 ,
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1909.
PltlOK 6d
COMING EVENTS.
This picture represents the gentleman who gave £19,275 3s. 4d. towards the Dreadnought. After waiting in vain six years for his title he
disguises himself and turns into a Domain Anarchist. He is here shown demanding “Blood” and calling out, “Down with Everything! ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings, sterling you can have Tin? Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclicod, Managing Director.
llow to A ihlress Letters.
Correspondents to Tin? Bullktin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should' in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojiicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Spedul Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are. liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce, or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential
Tin? Bullktin ivill return all ’unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are, enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stana that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A milieurs in. IlhicJc anil White.
Anyone supplying to This Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of suflicient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any mterestiny photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messi’s. Gordon and.
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London , W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central Neivs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
Neivs Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
A i/ents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6siri. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ffuT^xxZlelz/ii.
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1909.
THE DUMPING EVIL, AND A MATTER
CONCERNING WOMEN’S CLO'.
Australia is up against the ruin of a great
industry, or it will be up against it unless some-
thing vigorous is done almost immediately—the
industry which deals with women’s woollen outer
clothing. It may not look a very important busi-
ness, yet it represents —or it did till the other day
—about £250,000 per annum of wages (mostly
girls’ wages) in Victoria alone, and the N,S. W.
figures are supposed to be not very much less,
while those of South Australia are also consider-
able. The causes of the downfall are the dump-
ing of foreign goods on this market at absurdly
low prices, insufficient Protection, and the folly
of a Labor party which sinks the fiscal issue with
one hand while it pushes up wages with the other,
the natural result being that the Australian manu-
facturer is at one and the same moment trying to
pay a living wage and struggling to compete with
English makers who still pay the salary men-
tioned in Hood’s “Song of the Shirt”—"a crust
of bread and rags.” He can’t do the two things
at once, so the history of the women’s outer-
clothing industry is divided into three chapters :
(1) Sweating wage; (2—a very short chapter)
Living wage; (3—promises to be a very long
chapter unless something vigorous is done) No
wage at all. In Sydney the manufacturers are put-
ting in their first “season” —as they call the busy
period, or what used to be the busy period, of the
year—under new wage conditions, and things
are already almost dead. Next year, if the
struggle to pay something like a fair wage, and
yet'to compete with countries which pay starva-
tion rates, is to continue, things will probably be
so dead that Julius C.-esar will seem like a
torchlight procession by comparison.
Despite some 25 or 30 per cent. Protection, the
woollen material for women’s costumes is hardly
manufactured at all in Australia. It should be,
but it isn't. One reason for this, though not a
very important one, is the smallness of the com-
munity. Women’s costume materials are things
of fashion, and fashions are like comets—they
arrive unexpectedly, travel fast, and don t stay
long. Also there are a very large number of
colors, patterns and devices in vogue at once.
The manufacturer has to find out what are going
to be the fashionable colors and devices for next
season, and so long as this fool community takes
its fashions from London and Paris lie can’t find
out in time. Then in order to catch the fleeting
season he has to manufacture at break-neck speed
specimens of all the goods in demand, and as a
community of 4,000,000 wants about as many
varieties as one of 80,000,000, it would be for a
time a costly, scrappy trade. Of course the trade
will come if it gets adequate Protection ; manu-
facturers will arise like those of Bradford, who will
specialise in certain lines, and Australia will learn
to devise its own fashions. It will learn much
sooner if the immense foot of an adequate tariff
is planted right down on the importing in-
dustry. The present duty of 30 per cent, on
foreign and 25 per cent, on British woollens
doesn’t give much help to the manufacture of raw
materials, in an industry where it is quite com-
mon for a woman’s coat, the mere cloth of
which cost at least 9s. in England, to be imported
here ready made, freight and duty paid, for
6s. lid. The reason of this marvel will be ex-
plained later.
So until lately there has been a great importa-
tion of raw' material to be made up in this
country. There isn’t so much importation now', for
the finished article is coming instead. The duties
on finished articles of women’s outer clothing are
35 per cent, on British and 40 per cent, on foreign.
That means that the Australian employer who
imports piece goods but makes them into clothes
here—the man whose industry stands for about
£500,000 a year of wages in two States alone—has
nominally from 5 to 10 per cent. Protection, as
against the man who imports the made-up clothes
—made up at starvation wages in the slums of
London and other big cities. It was miserably
inadequate at all times, but it is uoubly and
trebly inadequate in N.S.W. since the law forced
the manufacturer to pay a living wage, without
remembering at the same time that a living wage
costs money. In Sydney a male presser gets 555.
for a week of 48 hours, and overtime must be paid
for at the rate of 68s. 9d. per week (there is a good
deal of overtime in a trade which depends on
fashions and seasons). In England the same man
would work probably 56 or 60 hours for 205., and
get no overtime. The woman employed in the
trade in Sydney gets fully tw'ice as much as her
sister in England—sometimes four or six times as
much, for at the very bottom, or the tail-end, or the
Polish-Jew extremity of the English sweating
business the wage can hardly be seen with a
microscope save by a special dispensation of Provi-
dence—and the Sydney woman-worker’s overtime
counts as time and a half. The wages are far
from excessive, yet the difference between them
and the English figures are so stupendous that the
5 to 10 per cent, margin which the local maker-up
of imported cloth gets over the importer of ready-
made clo’isn’t even the beginning of a circum-
stance. And now the dumping process has pretty
well destroyed even that semblance of Protection.
The woman’s coat, which islanded here, freight and
duty paid, at 6s. lid., though the mere material
cost 9s. in England, is a proposition which knocks
Australia’s fool tariff endways. It was Victoria
which first hit the sweating evil hard with a
Minimum Wage Law. But Victoria had sense
enough to recognise the obvious fact that an em-
ployer who pays a wage on which a white woman
can lead something like a civilised existence, and
not be driven to supplement her crust by prosti-
tution, can’t compete on anything like even terms
with the remorseless sweater. So Victoria gave
that employer 40 per cent. Protection. It was
not till some years afterwards that the Victorian
tariff fell under the control of a foolish party with
a craze for sinking the fiscal issue, and with curious
traces of a longing after the goods of the foreign
nigger and the foreign sweater.
•* * * *
The dumping mystery as regards women’s gar-
ments isn’t much of a mystery after all. Unlike
boots, underclothing, belltoppers, inkbottles, and
such goods, these things can seldom be carried
over from one season to another. That sportive
animal Fashion gets in the way, and though last
summer’s clo’ may be far better than the clo’
which is the mode this summer, it is almost as
unsaleable in the big shops—like Dobson’s, where
Diana of the play hung out—as ice in the Antarctic
regions. In any case, the fashionable chiffon
dealer doesn’t want to keep it on the off-chance
of selling it next summer ; it would cost storage,
it might not sell after all, and, if it did, it would
only get in the way of the trade in newer goods
and give his frill emporium a bad name and
an old-fashioned aspect. He wants to get rid of,
the surplus, and to send it as far away as possible.
He could dispose of it to the humble drapers in
the poorer quarters of his own cities, but there
are two good reasons why he prefers to get a
worse market outside: (1) If,a fashionable cus-
tomer did by any chance discover that
an exact duplicate of the coat which she bought
in the West End of London for 80s. in May was
selling in September for 10s. down by the East
India Docks, she would begin to think that even
the change of seasons didn’t fully explain why she
paid 70s. extra—in fact, it would be a giving away
of the show ; also (2) even the fashionable cus-
tomer has to economise at times, and take a little
surreptitious wear out of last winter’s coat, and if
her own slavey or wash-lady had an exact dupli-
cate of it, bought for a song in the East End, she
couldn’t do that—she would fall down dead first.
Also she would probably change her draper, for
his well-worn but necessary lie to the effect that
the style was unique would be bowled out. There-
fore it is best, on the whole, to sell the surplus for
export at any price it will fetch. Of course it
must be sent south of the line so that the left-off
goods of the English winter can arrive just in time
for the other country’s winter ; otherwise it would
be impossible to make a prompt clearance. There
Australia fills the bill. Also it must go to a country
which either has a fool of a low tariff or else to a
country where a comparatively high tariff is counter-
balanced by high wages. There also Australia,
or the greater part of Australia, fills the bill.
Further, the goods must go to a country which
doesn’t wear the Spanish mantilla or other non-
English clo’, but which slavishly follows English
fashions. Again Australia fills the bill. It is
simply amazing—the extent to which Australia fills
the bill.
* * * *
The trade in cheap, ready-made last season’s
imported goods is a growing one. There are
various reasons for this. First, European fashions
change with great velocity nowadays, and the
more rapidly the fashions change the more stock
is left behind in the rush. Secondly, one
country after another has developed sense
enough to devise a tariff that will deal
with the curse, so Australia gets more and more
of the curse. Thirdly, whereas Australia once
got merely England’s last season’s goods, it now
gets consignments from France, Germany, and
possibly the United States also ; other people
besides Bull have dropped to the unwisdom of
the Australian tariff system. And there is a big
enough supply available to swamp the whole
Australian industry unless something of a strin-
gent nature is done. The supply varies, but it
never fails. When the coat of a lady of quality
can be made so cheaply on Song of the Shirt
principles that the whole affair costs, say, £l,
and it can be sold, while the season and the
fashion last, for, say, £3 or £4, it is better
to risk having a surplus which may have
to be sacrificed at 15s. loss than to risk not having
sufficient to meet the demand at 40s. or 60s. pro-
fit. The Bulletin has seen an elegant cos-
tume, the mere material of which cost at least
95., which was landed in Sydney at 6s. lid.,
after paying freight, duty, and insurance. It
wasn’t a solitary specimen, but one of a fairly
large consignment. The same article, under the
N.S.W. wage laws, would cost about 20s. Other
samples were ladies’ coats bought in London at
the end of Bull’s winter at ss. lid., and landed
here in time for our winter at Bs. lid. Still an-
other sample was landed at . 3s. 4|d. ; if made in
Melbourne under the Victorian wage laws —so an
expert declared—it would cost 21s. A black
cloth skirt, bought in London and landed here at
ss. 3d., had on it braid alone worth Is. 4Jd. But
it must not be supposed for a moment that the
retail buyer gets the benefit of these prices. The
woman’s coat which was bought in England at
ss. lid. and landed in Melbourne at Bs. lid. (the
one which would cost 21s. to produce in Mel-
bourne) is just now being retailed at 295. 6d. The
five-and-threepenny. skirt is on sale at 16s. 6d.
And in each of these two eases the shops
which do the retailing are owned by largely
British firms, and the profit on the transaction
mostly goes to London. Of course, in many cases,
the profits of such deals as these go to Australian-
owned firms, and the money is spent (or hoarded)
here, but that is poor consolation to the ruined
Australian manufacturer and the sacked work-girl.
The trade, no doubt, will become less profitable in
time; if the present fool tariff is maintained for
another year or so the Australian manufacturers
will perish, and when there is no fear of competi-
tion at this end the seller of Bull’s job lots will
stiffen his prices a little. But even then the trade
will be a paying one. Apart from the question of
the dumping of job lots, so long as the materials
for ladies’ woollen costumes are not made in Aus-
tralia, and the difference between the duty on the
piece goods and that on the finished clo’ runs as
low as 5 per cent., the sweaters of Brisbane are the
only people who seem to have the tenth part of a
hope of surviving. Brisbane is the home of the
sweater in Australia. In one factory there the
average wage is said to be 4s. 6d. per week, which
is an appalling circumstance to contemplate, and
one that makes the need for Federal industrial
legislation stick out like a bowsprit. Yet even
Brisbane hasn’t a hope against the dumping evil.
Hr * * *
This practical downfall of a big industry has
been just about as sudden as the sliding of an
avalanche. Increased wages at this end, and an
increase of the dumping practice at the other end,
combined probably with a decrease in the number
of markets in which dumping is permitted, have
done the deed almost in one act. The Australian
manufacturers in this particular line are now
mostly divided into three classes : those who are
going to ruin ; those —a richer class—who have
capital enough to turn importers and buy from
English makers; and a still richer few who are
opening, or propose to open, factories in England,
and who hire skin-and-bone of the Polish Jew
persuasion to do their work there for almost
nothing a week. One small Sydney manufacturer
is reported to keep a shadow of his old
business going by a very simple process :
he and his wife have turned workers, and toil per-
sonally 12 or 14 hours a day. They do this in the
hope that the tariff will be mended and things
will improve; if they didn’t adopt this method
they would have to sell out for a song, and would
have Ho plant to start with when things did
improve. “I have not an order in the place,”
says another, “so I am going to turn importer.”
“ I am sending a buyer to England for the first
time since this old firm started,” a Melbourne
manufacturer reports. A small maker with £2OO
worth of plant announces briefly: “I haven’t got an
order in the place, nor a girl employed.” Bui the
men who have shifted to London are on a good
wicket. One Melbourne person already has his
London factory in full work, and his first consign-
ment to this country consisted of 7000 ulsters.
He reports that the work which cost him £1 in
wages when he was in Melbourne only represents
ss. in London, and under these conditions he
doesn’t care a hang for the foolish tariff. And the
discrepancy in wages is really greater than it looks,
for in London this individual can drive his white
niggersall the time, and get good value for his ss. all
the time, making goods for the English season at one
period of the year and for the Australian season at
another ; while in Australia, working only for the
local market, there are dull spells when the
summer goods are finished and the winter orders
haven’t begun to come in—periods when it is im-
possible to sack serviceable employees because
they might be hard to find again when wanted in
a hurry, and yet periods when it is impossible to
grind out of them the fullest value for the afore-
mentioned £l. Then, in addition, the man in
London is on the spot to buy up for Australia the
cheap remnants of the fashionable rag emporiums
of all Europe. Between the goods he makes
and the job lots things are much pleasanter for
the Australian women’s clo’ person who has
shifted to London than for the one who remained
here, or for the latter’s work-people.
* * * *
Two measures are obviously wanted in this
connection. One is an increase in the duty on
made-up goods to about 70 per cent., in order to
put it a reasonable distance ahead of the duty on
imported raw material. The other is a law under
which the four-and-elevenpenny last season’s cos-
tume will pay an additional duty as a dumped
article, such additional duty to vary according to
the price of the article, but to be warranted in
every case to raise the price to 5 or 10 per cent,
above the cost of making a similar product locally.
It might require a 300 per cent, duty to
do the trick, but that doesn’t matter. And
to prevent the passing of bogus invoices to
defeat this strenuous provision the price of the
sham invoice should be gaol—plain, whitewashed
gaol —and confiscation of the goods.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Carruthers on the Splendid Climate of the
Proposed Dalgety Capital.
From Sydney Telegraph (3/4/’O9) :
COOMA, Friday.—A deputation, representing the
residents of Jindabyne, Dalgety, Berridale, and vicinity,
waited upon Mr. Perry, Minister for Agriculture, asking
for a line of railway to Jindabyne. Mr. Joseph Car-
ruthers represented the views of the deputation, and
said that if the railway were constructed there would be
10,000 visitors. The climate was far better than that of
Tasmania, where thousands went every year.
It is instructive to note how Joe Carruthers, as
a private, unbiassed individual, gives the lie (1) to
Joe Carruthers, State Frights Premier, and
(2) to his former colleagues in the present N.S.W.
State Frights Ministry. The only serious argu-
ment that was levelled against the Dalgety dis-
trict site by the advocates of a Federal capital in
close proximity to the Sydney daily paper offices,
was that it had a forbidding climate. The
Herald argued that legislators would expire like
flies if they were subjected to the bleak, wild
blasts of the Monaro tableland. The Telegraph
feared the older and frailer M’s.P. must perish
of cold in so Arctic a spot. The incomparable
water supply of Dalgety was admitted, also its
scenic beauties, likewise its suitability, owing to
its granite formation as a spot where the. founda-
tion of a modern city might be laid at a moderate
cost. But against all these advantages the Sydney
dailies placed the climate, and that allegedly hope-
less disability put Dalgety out of court. If Joe
Carruthers had said in the latter part of
last year that “the Monaro climate was far
better than that of Tasmania,” the Sydney dailies
would have denounced him as a liar and a traitor
to Sydney, and would have asked his constituents
for his political head on a soup plate or some-
thing. Now he is allowed to tell the truth
unrebuked, for the need for mendacity is con-
sidered to be past.
-♦
An Incredible Freetrade Female.
The N.S.W. Child Study Association is a deserv-
ing charity, but it badly wants a new secretary
now that the old one begins to sign “ D. Izett,
Hon. Sec. C.S. Ass.,” to demented S. M.
Herald letters headed “Protection Produces
Poverty.” Izett has been explaining that a lady
(no name or address given) lately came back from
the U.S., and that she is shocked at the condition
of the people there. Owing to Protection, D. Izett
says, all the best products are exported “and
sold at a 100 per cent, less than the inferior pro-
ducts are retailed to the American people.” The
grammar is awful, and the statement is a palpa-
ble lie, for, according to all the rules of arith-
metic, it means that the exported products are
given away for nothing. Then D. Izett says wildly
that in the U.S. “8,000,000 children go hungry
every day, ” which is rather a large order in a
country of only 80,000,000 people all told. If by
“children” are meant those below working
age, and still of school age, this C.S. person
is trying to assert that about half of the
kiddies are starving without anybody outside
the country having known of it until the
anonymous lady came and broke the news to D.
Izett. How a country in such a fearful and un-
paralleled condition attracts immigrants Heaven
only knows. Izett says that “we read in the
statistics of that great country ” that these
8,000,000 children are suffering from daily hunger.
That is curious, for the PTnited States is so care-
less in the matter of social statistics that it doesn’t
even have any complete system for the registra-
tion of births, marriages and deaths. Where are
the “statistics” that Izett talks about? After
this preamble, Izett starts to denounce Federa-
tion and Protection in Australia, and is mean
enough to grind the axe of Anti-Federalism and
the tomahawk of a silly fiscal superstition on the
doorstep of an honorable charity. The amazing
Izett yarn tells of a “half-demented mother” who
came to the Child Study office with her wasting
infant, who was told that the child wanted more
nourishment, and who then uttered a cry of
despair (all owing to Federation and Protection).
This, according to D. Izett, was the cry :
If that is all you can do there is no hope for my baby.
My husband earns £2 ss. in the city, ltent and fares are
13s, 6d. Out of that he must be respectably dressed.
WIS HAVK NINE CHILDREN UNDER ELEVEN YEARS. By the
time I have fed all and clothed them for school I could
never honestly obtain what you prescribe in diet for
myself.
That would be remarkable enough if it were an
isolated case, but Izett declares that it is merely
given “as an example of hundreds of others.”
And, on the strength of this, “D. Izett, Hon. Sec.
Child Study Association,” cries out wildly,
“Fathers and mothers of young Australia, which
is it to be —Freetrade or Protection ? ” It is very
beautiful, no doubt, but—
(l) Does Izett really know any “ half-demented mother”
with nine children, all under 11 years, and all of whom
have to be “clothed for school”? At what age does the
half-demented mother send her partially-demented young-
est child to school? Is it possible to produce any mother,
whether she sends all her children to school or not, who
has “ nine children under 11 years,” let alone hundreds of
such mothers? And how does the census so persistently
fail to get on the track of these amazingly numerous and
prolific mothers? Is Izett sure the mother wasn’t a
rabbit ?
(2) Does Izett know any Freetrade country where a city
employee (apparently a clerk, for he “ must be respect-
ably dressed ”) can earn enough to properly support
himself, his “ half-demented ” wife and nine children, all
under the age of 11, and all going to school?
(3) Does Izett mean to say that it could be done in Sydney
during the alleged Freetrade period of 1896-1901 —the
time when N.S.W. got nearer to Freetrade than ever
before since the convict days?
(4) Does Izett reckon that rents and tram-fares(which are
specially quoted) are increased by Protection and Federa-
tion? Putting fares at Is., and rent at 12s. 6d. —what
was the weekly cost in N.S.W.’s alleged Freetrade days
of a house that would shelter 11 people? And what
would the weekly cost be if we had Freetrade now ?
(5) Isn’t the whole thing just a fabrication, an inven-
tion, and a miserable attempt to drag the name of a noble
charity in the mud to serve the interests of a crowd of
greedy, low-wage paying importers ?
The Bulletin asks this last question particularly
for the following reasonsln 1898, in the middle
of N.S.W.’s glorious alleged Freetrade period, out
of every 1000 children aged less than one year 121
died ; in 1906 (writer has no later figures by him),
under Protection, the deaths were down to 74.
In 1898 (alleged Freetrade) 6288 N.S.W. children
died before reaching the age of five years ; in 1906
(Protection) despite the fact that population had
greatly increased in the interim, only 4048 died.
Apparently the Child Study person regards the
grinding of the importer’s axe as so much more
important than the preservation of child life that
it is worth while to get back to these days of
child slaughter, and to the system which
brought about the poverty under which such
conditions were inevitable. And D. Izett
doesn’t hesitate (1) to allege that the U.S. people
are forced, through Protection, to use only their
inferior products, the better class ones being sent
abroad and given away for nothiny; (2) to quote
as an evidence against Protection, a female, said
to be “an example of hundreds,” with nine
children, all under the age of 11 and all attending
school. (Presumably, as the baby couldn’t attend
school, it wasn’t included, so in that case there
would be an amazing family of 10 children, all
under the age of 11.) The Child Study Associa-
tion plainly wants a new hon. sec. The present
one is liable to greatly interfere with the flow of
subscriptions, by creating an impression that
Child Study is only a cloak, and that the real
business is to agitate for the destruction of Aus-
tralian industries in the interests of the foreign
importer.
The Hopeless Volunteer System.
Sydney Telegraph, as the organ of local anti-
defence, greets (12/4/’O9) “An Englishman’s
Home,” which was staged for the first time at
the Theatre Royal last week, with sour words.
The Telegraph doesn’t like “An English-


man’s Home.” It considers that the play is
“sketchy,” “fragmentary,” and “even in-
artistic”; also that it is “melodrama” and
that it is full of “exaggeration,” and
“ crudities.” And then with a desperate burst of
dishonesty, it sets out to prove that this play,
which admittedly was written solely to demon-
strate the idiocy of the volunteer system, and the
hopelessness of a nation getting any sort of effect-
ive land force unless by compulsory service, is
in reality an argument against compulsory ser-
vice, and/or the grotesque volunteer arrangement
which it satirises. The Telegraph bases its
amazing theory on the fact that, as a
result of the presentment of the drama in
London, Haldane’s Territorial battalions have
filled up considerably. But it doesn’t mention the
lesson which every prominent British soldier,
from Lord Roberts downwards, drew from the
play; it doesn’t quote Lord Esher, Chair-
man cf the War Office Reconstitution
Committee (1904), who, with scores of
other war-knowled gable civilians, hailed the
drama as a fair picture of the volunteer forces,
and an unanswerable plea for compulsory service ;
and it makes no reference to the lesson 90 per-
cent. of the British dailies and Reviews held that
it taught. The fact is “An Englishman’s Home ”
is an even deadlier shaft at Australian defence con-
ditions than at defence conditionsin the Cold Land.
The Telegraph realises that, and is annoyed. If an
invasion calamity of the sort depicted by Major DU
Maurier is likely to happen in England, it is about
1400 times more likely to happen here ; and our
chances of dealing with it to our satisfaction are
about 1400 times less. Thus, if it is possible for a
hostile force to break through the mighty collec-
tion of warships and forts that surround the
British coasts, it would, with infinitely more ease,
break through the warships and forts that mostly
don’t surround our coasts. If, as the military
writer of “An Englishman’s Home” plainly
considers, the veteran Regulars supplemented by
the Territorials of the United Kingdom
would have a hard job with a possible invader,
how many times more difficult would be
Australia's task in attempting to combat
trained foreign troops with comic opera
warriors of the Jawbone Neild sort, the which
are, practically speaking, all this country
possesses ? There would be but one comforting
feature about an invasion of Australia as at
present defended—viz., the trouble would be
almost bloodless. No one would get slain to
speak of, as hardly anyone carries any other
weapon of defence than a cheque-book. An
Australian Home wouldn’t be bombarded except
in rare cases. It would be just taken, and if the
owners were rude or offensive about the matter,
they would probably be soundly spanked. The
play should have something of an influence on
those Australians who see it. But it won’t be the
sort of influence the Telegraph suggests. To
expect that were tantamount to accusing local
theatrical audiences of being half-witted.
+
Notice to Quit—or What ?
Ip ex-Prime Minister Deakin produced any defi-
nite result by his speech in Sydney last week it
was that he demonstrated effectively the paralysis
which comes of the Party Government system
which Australia borrowed from England without
any attempt to discover whether the garment was
a misfit or not. Deakin’s words did not amount
to an absolutely definite notice that the Fisher
Government should quit, but they came close
enough to it for all practical purposes. He
objected to almost everything that the Fisher
Ministi y had done, and almost everything that it
hadn’t dune. He complained that the Prime
Minister hadn’t declared strongly for Protection
and preferential trade with Britain—yet that
would seem a very poor reason for even a temporary
alliance on Deakin’s side with the Cook party,
which professes to be definitely against Pro-
tection in every shape and form. He ob-
jected because the Fisher Government wasn’t
pushing on immigration, yet it seems that Australia
is getting about the same number of immigrants
under Fisher as it did under Deakin. But the
first essential of an immigration policy is the
cutting up of the big estates to provide land for
immigrants; and Alfred Deakin, curiously
enough, objects to the Fisher Government’s pro-
posal to make room for immigrants by imposing a
progressive land-tax, and thus causing the break-
age of great unused, unpeopled estates. His
reason for objecting is that the progressive land-
tax won’t bring in money fast enough to meet the
claims on the Treasury. It is a hesitating sort of
impost, which only gets fairly to work after a slow
and weary process of land valuation and assess-
ment. That statement is quite true, but even the
slowest impost will get there sometime if it is only
allowed to start; and as Deakin didn’t start it,
I isher or somebody else must do so. The process
of breaking up the big estates and the influx
of land-tax revenue will probably not begin on
any large scale for two years after the passing of
the Progressive Land-Tax Act, which simply
means that if Alfred Deakin had done his duty
in 1906 the financial evil which Alfred Deakin
complains of in 1909 would not be here. Deakin
reckons, and probably he is right, that Fisher is
rushing headlong to a deficit, and he denounces
Fisher for not supplying Britain with a Dread-
nought, and thus rushing more furiously to a far
bigger deficit. Quite justifiably, Deakin com-
plains of the bleak silence which the Fisher
Government has maintained in the matter of the
taking over of the Northern Territory, and the
building of the two transcontinental lines, but it
must be remembered that his own velocity in
these matters wasn’t very great. And on the
lederal capital fraud and swindle and infamy,
some remedy for which ought to have a place in
every political programme, Deakin’s silence is
just as silent as Fisher’s silence. Amid all this
confusion, and many other confusions —where do
the people come in ? Let a few of the urgent
questions of the day be considered, and see how
things stand :
Progressive Federal Land-Tax : For —Fisher party
and the Lyne section of the Deakin party. Fur ,
but inclined to 'postponement —Deakin and a few
followers. Against— Cook party.
Australian Defence: For —Fisiikr party and Deakin
party. Against— Cook party.
Transfer of N. Territory : For —Deakin party and
(but much less earnestly) Fisher party. Against
(or.blankly indifferent)— Cook party.
Transcontinental Railways : For —Deakin party
Other parties divided.
Dreadnought Folly- : For —Cook party and portion
of Deakin party. Against— Fisher party and
part of Deakin party.
And so on ad lib. With all this mixture of
parties, the people and the interests of Australia
get a look in occasionally, but not often. Just
when the nation is nearly getting the progressive
land-tax which it so badly wants, the Govern-
ment which offers the measure is liable to go out
on a Dreadnought matter, or some similar folly."
Later on, probably, when some Ministry is
trying to fix the Northern Territory matter at
last and to start the two railways, a combination
will manage to throw it out on some question of
Defence; and the Defence Government which
comes in next will do nothing for Defence because,
before it can do anything, a combination will put
it out on a matter concerning the Progressive
Land-Tax, which will then be about due to re-
appear. There is no finality anywhere, and on
most of the questions that the community has at
heart it has been found impossible, as yet, to even
get a vote taken. (As a case in point, it seems
probable that there won’t even be a chance to find
out whether Parliament favors the Fisher
Ministry’s proposed land-tax or not, badly as the
country wants to know; judging by Alfred
Deakin’s attitude, it seems likely to go out over
the Dreadnought job before it has time even to
make a coherent remark.) Yet there is a plain,
definite majority for or against every matter
that can possibly be put before the House;
the trouble is that that majority hasn’t a chance
to keep its eye long enough on one problem to
produce any results. But it would have that
chance if Australia enjoyed the advantage of
an Elective Ministry, fixed in office for the
term of Parliament. Then there would be a
saving of all the time that is wasted (1) in con-
spiring to throw out the Ministry ; (2) in struggling
to keep the Ministry from being thrown out; (3)
in combinations, dodges, schemes, and jobs
to prevent the men in office doing any-
thing so that the discredit arising from their
failure may simplify the work of heaving out the
Ministry; (4) in keeping Parliament shut up for
fear a majority should be waiting to bounce out
the Ministry ; (5) in ejecting the Ministry ; (6) in
forming the new Ministry ; (7) in adjourning so
that the new Ministry may have time to formu-
late its policy ; (8 to 14) in doing all these things
all over again. Such proceedings enrich a country
with the bones of dead Ministries, but they don’t
help along the nation’s business.
Anti-Sosh Attends the Show.
During the official luncheon at the Sydney Agri-
cultural Show, last week, State Premier C. G.
Wade rose and made moan long and bitterly
about the wrongs that the Ma State was alleged
to be suffering at the hands of the Labor Govern-
ment. Joe Cook denounced the Government’s
Defence policy; and finally Allen Taylor, with
the lust of knighthood gleaming in both eyes,
shrilled wildly about his Dreadnought fund and
the criminal folly of the Government in dis-
regarding the same. The Fisher Government,
in fact, was handed a serpent and a plateful of
devils. Moreover it was wept upon, and told it
was ruining the empire, and implored not to do it
again. And through the whole deplorable and
dreary foolishness Governor-General Dudley,
who, in an unwary moment had accepted the
Show authorities’ invitation to the luncheon under
the justifiable delusion that politics wouldn’t be
talked there, sat in deep silence. When the up-
roar had died down, and Wade had exhausted
himself, and Allen Taylor had wiped the per-
spiration from his tremendous brow, the exas-
perated Governor-General proceeded, with some
firmness, “to emphasise,” as the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald (8/4/’O9) put it—
The necessity of omitting for the future all political
allusions from speeches made at social gatherings at
which he was present..
He said :
I wish to point out that the great thing to remember
on occasions like this is to avoid placing anyone in a diffi-
cult position. When allusions of a strong political char-
acter are made in regard to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, I have no difficulty in seeing my position. The
Ministers are my advisers, and if the business of this
country is to be properly conducted, the principal essen-
tial must be to maintain complete confidence between the
Government and the Governor-General.
If on occasions of this kind allusions of a political
character relating to the advisers of the Governor-
General are made, it puts one of your guests at least in a
difficult position. I therefore hope that such allusions
either to the State or Federal Governments will be
omitted as far as possible. I want to make it clear that
at this, the very outset of my career in the Common-
wealth, I can only consent to be present at gatherings
where that rule is observed.
It was in the nature of an appeal to whatever
common decency the Tory party might be ex-
pected to possess. The wild political and contro-
versial jamboree on which Wade, Cook and Allen
Taylor embarked was in as execrably bad taste,
in the circumstances, as though, at an entertain-
ment whereat a parson was present, the occasion
had been taken to retail improper anecdotes. It
amounted to asking a business man to dinner for
the express purpose of abusing his absent partners.
And there is another aspect of the matter. These
shows at which the parish-minded crowd regu-
larly attends in great numbers with the object
of blithering about the evil pranks of “ Socialism”
would fall dead if they practised the principles of
the folk who run them. The State keeps them
going with huge annual subsidies, for the good of
the State, and not at all as stumps on which push-
ing citizens may air their Anti-Labor view’s. At
the recent Bathurst Show State Premier Wade
assailed the Fisher policy at length, to the
intense gratification of the land monopolists of the
district, who unite whole-heartedly in managing
the local show and strangling the prosperity of
the local business people, and make no charge for
either service. Carr, Federal Labor member for
the Macquarie, in which constituency Bathurst is
included, approached the show authorities and
asked for the same facilities to answer Wade as
Wade had been accorded to attack his party. He
was rebuffed with contumely, and given to under-
stand that if he polluted the Socialistic and State-
subsidised A., H. and P. premises with his
noisome explanations, he would be instantly
scotched as a disorderly person, or something.
Ultimately Carr had to seek a stand in the
town and give the Labor side of the case from it.
It is time action was taken in Parliament to check
this sort of thing. The Anti-Socialist politician
needs to be told that he must content himself with
a free feed at these shows, to whose upkeep the
public, Tory and Democrat alike, subscribes. He
must not be allowed to use them as cheap substi-
tutes for pub balconies. This is desirable, not so
much to save Governor-Generals from worry and
audiences from boredom, as to wipe away the
anomaly of having Anti-Socialism discoursed at an
institution that is kept alive by the aid of Social-
ism, and in the midst of the products of industries
which are wont to make the heaviest and most
frequent claims on the thing the Show magnates
say is equivalent to Sheol. However, the time
must needs come when the Labor party will be in
office in N.S. W. And then, if it is only human,
it will stop the subsidies of the Agricultural
Shows, which serve chiefly as outlets for Tory
abuse, and go carefully into their back accounts
to see how past subsidies were spent.
♦
Again the Sydney “Central” Railway
Station.
On the endless subject of Sydney’s “Central”
railway station, the Owe’Sullivan writes once ■
more:—
I had hopes that your contributor with the bee in his
bonnet in favor of removing my Central Railway Station
to Wynyard Square, or some other site nearer to Circular
Quay, had left the country, or shrunk into his hermetic
shell to ponder over some other eccentric proposition ;
but lo ! here he is again, after the manner of a clown in
a circus, trotting out the same frigid and fossilised idea.
In the name of common sense what does your contributor
mean when he talks about having the Central Railway
Station in the centre of the city? Does he speak of 1909,
or 10 or 20 years hence. The Central Railway Station is
in the vicinity of where the centre of the city will be
within a few years. That is shown by the palatial ware-
houses and shops erected by Anthony Hordern and Co.,
by Mark Foy, by Marcus Clark, and of at least half-a-
dozen other large firms in the neighborhood. The whole
trend of traffic is in the direction of my Central Railway
Station, and that trend will get stronger every day. In
preparing for the station I thought, not of to-day,
but of 30 years hence, and it is well that I did so. Fancv a
Central Railway Station being built about Wynyard-
square, on the top of a ridge, with a splendid steep ascent
on both sides for the heavy-laden drays, carts and
waggons to climb ! The writer or speaker who supports
such a proposition ought to have his eyes brushed, so
that be may see clearer into the future. As to Mr.
Norman Selfe’s proposals to improve the Central Railway
Station, Ido not object to them. They are to improve,
not to remove, the Central Station. As a matter of fact,
Mr. Selfe has many times referred to my Central Railway
Station in eulogistic terms, and I am quite certain that,
now the station has been erected, he would be the last to
remove it, although, as an admirer of the same, he would
like to make the structure and surroundings more attract-
ive. So would I. lam on the Royal Commission for
the Improvementof Sydney with Mr. Selfe, and therefore
I know what I am writing about. Your contributor is
merely giving his own shallow views, not those of Mr.
Selfe.
This sort of thing becomes a weariness. Sydney
doesn’t want a railway that stops dead in the
centre of the city even if the present station hap-
pened to be in the centre (which it isn’t), any
more than it wants the tramcar from Newtown
to stop in the same alleged centre of the city, or
desires its transcontinental railway to stop in the
centre of Australia, or Mr. Owe’Sullivan
to stop in the middle of his speech, or of the great
African desert. It wants, and it has wanted for
more than 40 years, a railway right through, such
as every other well-managed city possesses. Even
Chinamen and Japanese can notice a small point
like that. And, instead, the N.S.W. metropolis
got a renewal, thanks to the Owe’Sullivan, of
the old folly which had been recognised as a folly
for so very long. If the edge of Redfern is the
right place for Sydney’s main railway station,
then almost everybody in Sydney, save Mr.
Owe’Sullivan, had been a fool ever since the
’6o’s, and Mr. Owe’Sullivan is almost the only
wise man even now. Having decided to per-
petuate the trouble that had afflicted the city
for two generations or so, the Owe’Sulli-
VAN Government borrowed money to make a
great artificial hump or mound—not one like that
at Wynyard-square which leads gradually up to
the best place for a high-level bridge (though at
the time the railway station was built a bridge
was generally regarded as the most probable way
of crossing the harbor), but a hump which ends in
a fool of a precipice. The great apparent advan-
tage of this uupaid-for precipice is that it makes
the extension of the railway towards the busiest
part of Sydney practically impossible without
pulling the great costly disaster all to pieces.
Of the people who come into the Owe’Sullivan
station, about 90 per cent, want to go a mile or so
further on. That is why they leap wildly for the
tramcars, which fill at the station and only begin
to empty about King-street. At the busy
hours of the day feeble, elderly persons often
have to struggle at the doors of six successive
cars before they can get a seat. If
the Owe’Sullivan believed that the ’ ideal
means of conveyance was one which left
the traveller at what he calls the centre of the
city, he presumably wouldn’t have had these cars
at all. I hey are there to serve as a clumsy patch
upon or apology for the wretched station, and to
partly repair the absurdity of that aboriginal pro-
ceeding. The news that the structure was devised
to suit the needs of 10 or 20 years hence is even
more ridiculous than the structure itself. Sydney
has already outgrown the inadequate system
which finishes at a dead-end on a remote artificial
hump built with borrowed money, and in 10 or 20
years it; will have outgrown that system twice
over. There is just one great streak of luck in
the whole business—that Owe’Sullivan, in his
desire to find the exact centre of the metropolis
and plant his terminus there, so that the railway
would traverse one-half of Sydney’s diameter and
leave the other half with no line at all, didn’t
look 50 years ahead instead of only 10 or 20. If
he had he would almost certainly have stopped
the line short at Macdonaldtown on the ground
that that will probably be the centre of the
greatly enlarged Sydney of the year 1960 or so.
+
The British Subject—Does He Amount
to Anything ?
Sydney has a Zoo where the smellful wild animal
hangs out; and the Zoo has a committee; and
the committee consists mainly of elderly and pro-
foundly respectable gentlemen of a profoundly
“loyal” cast of mind. And this is a time of pro-
found “loyalty,” when the Dreadnought trouble
is very bad, and when elderly gentlemen are much
moved about the necessity for all British subjects
to stand together against the alleged German
peril, and to “make sacrifices.” Having taken
up this attitude, the Zoo authorities hired a Ger-
man band to play “God Save the King” to the
British Governor-General on his recent visit to
the institution. They didn’t even inquire if a
band of British subjects was available—they just
hired the Germans off-hand. Then trouble natu-
rally arose, like a strong-armed man. The members
of the Professional Musicians’ Union grew
angry. They are being invited, like other
citizens, to subscribe to the cost of a Dreadnought
with which to help to suppress the German
danger, and if the very same sort of people who
make the appeal take the bread out of the
mouths of the local fiddler and cornet-blower to
give it to Germans, the local cornet-blower and
bugler can’t very well subscribe—moreover, they
probably won’t want to. In their wrath the local
musicians sent out a band to play the Anthem
gratis—by way of protest—after the Germans were
done with it (this is the Sydney morning paper
report), and afterwards to give three cheers for
the Governor-General. There is nothing in the
daily paper account to even hint that these
British citizens proposed to do anything worse
than this. Nevertheless the police rallied up to
prevent certain law-abiding and loyal British
subjects—many of them old British soldiers—
from playing their own National Anthem at all,
the Germans having a lien upon it. The situation
seems to have a wild sort of humor about it; but
apparently the Zoo people don’t see it. A vague
and more or less authentic explanation which has
been wandering round the city like a homeless
ghost is to the effect that the Zoo folic didn’t know
that any musical subjects of Ed. VII. were avail-
able. That may be so, but it sets one wondering
where on earth they imagine that Sydney gets its
music for theatres, social entertainments, pro-
cessions, concerts and such like. Also, it suggests
that they take mighty little interest in King
Edward’s loyal subjects if they didn’t trouble to
know a little thing like that. And the ease with
which it was discovered that Germans were avail-
able when no oner could find out that the other
people were available, was marvellous. Possibly
the fact that the Germans were willing to blow at
non-union rates had something to do with the
matter. Possibly the muddle was partly based on
the steady conviction of elderly “loyal” gentle-
men that nothing is any good if it is made or done
by Ed. Vll. ’s subjects in Australia, and that a
thing must be imported, even from an allegedly
hostile country, before it is of any value. Possibly
there was some other explanation. Anyhow, the
story that the police were called upon in British
territory to prevent British subjects asking God
to save a British Sovereign is calculated to
make the German shriek over his beer in Berlin
and make ribald jests in Magdeburg.
o
Tait’s Trains.
There has been so much bloodshed latterly on
Tait’s railways that Billson —who is Minister
for Juggernauts in Victoria—has asked the Com-
missioners to supply him with a few figures, to
enable him to see if the rails of other systems are
littered with remains to the same extent as they
are in Victoria. The Melbourne Age, of April 5,
contained about a column and a quarter of
railway fatalities, comprising in all five grisly
items. Kegarding three of the corpses there was
nothing to show that the Department was to
blame. One might have been a suicide ; another
was an instance of the rarely unlucky drunk ;
and the third victim was a gatekeeper
who was struggling to close his gate
against a high wind when an engine cut
him down. The same three accidents might
have happened on a railway that wasn’t run
by Tait —though it is probable that they could
happen more easily on a system that had the
advantage of Tait’s cheese-paring management.
However, the blood of the other two was
red upon the Departmental wheels, and
in one case the Coronef hastily closed down
the inquiry after remarking that he objected to
evidence in his Court being used to establish a
civil action for damages. A verdict of accident-
ally killed was recorded with neatness and de-
spatch. In connection with the death of an 18-
year-old booking clerk, who was stunned and
knocked under the wheels of a moving train
whilst trying to close the doors, the evidence of
his fellow-workers made painful reading. Some
extracts:—
Wli. Geo. Ritter, porter at East Richmond, stated that
he was on duty on the opposite platform when he heard
of the accident. It was part of deceased’s duty, in the
absence of the porter, at busy times to attend to the
train and shut the doors. Witness could just manage to
get through his own work, but he could not do it as it
should be done ; he had not the time. He was kept going
every minute he was on duty, and that day he went on at
1 p.m.
The stationmasteratEast Richmond, George m Brock,
stated that deceased had to act as porter as well as book-
ing clerk. He was not supposed to leave his office till
the train was stopped. He then had to shut the barrier
gate and close every door that was open. The train only
stayed 20sec. at the platform.
Asked by Mr. Newman whether -20 sec. was sufficient for
the boy to do this work, witness, advised by the Coroner,
declined to reply. Deceased had also to hand parcels to
the guard. The dangerous risk of such pressure of work
would be relieved by a porter being engaged. Deceased
was not allowed any time off for Sunday work, and some-
times he had to work double shift when other clerks had
been sick. Witness had applied to the Department for
assistance, and been refused. The closing of the doors
on a moving train was very dangerous work.
At the conclusion of the evidence, the Coroner
is reported to have said —prior to announcing the
usual finding of “accidental death”—that “he
knew from personal observation that porters ran
risks, but he saw no evidence of undermanning in
this case.” With all due deference, the writer
suggests that, on his next spare afternoon, the
Coroner should repair to a busy suburban railway
station and consider the gyrations of the harried
youth on duty. The writer knows the Melbourne
A Word in Season.
The newly-appointed secretary and interpreter to the
Chinese Consulate in Melbourne stated that “ Australia
had nothin!}' to fear from the Chinese, and he could not
understand why the Yellow Peril cry should be raised at
all in Australia.”—Argus, 20131’09.
Sit down and go on with your beer. Brother
White, and think on the future no more,
Nor attend to the tale that the timid ones tell, for
that tale has been told us before ;
But, when you have scoffed at the croakers
enough, and you’ve laughed the false prophets
to scorn,
When weary you are of the tremulous fool who is
blowing his war-warning horn.
When you’ve planted your gun where the spiders
abound—sit down and go on with your beer ;
Australia has nothing to fear !
Oh, sit down and lap up your beer, Brother White,
and the tale of the ages forget !
Prepare for a thorough good rest from alarms in
the long years ahead of you yet.
The secret is ours—yes, the cat of Celestial diplo-
macy’s out of the bag,
So put on your rubber-soled sneakers, and light
up your comforting thrippenny fag,
And go for a good football game with the boys,
with these beautiful words in your ear :
“ Australia has nothing to fear ! ”
But the millions of Chow may slop over someday,
and Australia be out in the damp ?
Ah, never again let Black Care be your guest
in the sweet little house where you camp.
In the cool of the morn, as you rattle the mower
across your immaculate lawn,
Don’t dwell, with your turbulent heart in your
mouth, on a distant and gore-drabbled dawn.
Nor shudder and squirm in your seat on the tram
when the neighborly Mongol is near—
Australia has nothing to fear !
When the front door is locked, with the doormat
inside and the cat turned foot-loose for the
night,
What possible reason for worry is here, what
chance of alarm or affright ?
When the hotwater-bottle is warm at your feet,
and your nightcap is properly fixed
On your right-thinking brow, when the clock has
struck 10, and your sleep-bringing posset is
mixed,
No more need you start and sit up in a sweat at
the funny night-noises you hear—
Australia has nothing to fear !
Ah, though the awakened Celestial may rage, and
go racketing, armed to the teeth,
Defiant all through, with a magazine gun tucked
firmly his elbow beneath,
You then will remember with confident joy that
his word has been given to us—
Yes, Australia can simply sit back and drink beer
when old China starts making a fuss.
A cheer for the Chow ! Get up, Brother White
Man—get up, with your hat off, and cheer !
Australia has nothing to fear !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
for HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
boor. We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
J
m
m
1818
Eshab.
By Special Tlppointment to
J iiis-MajestyHie King.
suburban system well; he has travelled on it and
cursed at its diabolical slowness for years; conse-
quently, he has had many opportunities of wit-
nessing the acrobatic performances and feats of
daring that are gone through by the Department’s
hard-driven troupe in the ordinary course of a
day’s duty. The usual 20sec. stop of the
suburban train allows just about enough time for
the slowest passenger to gather up his or her
parcels and stumble out; and as it is the excep-
tional passenger that closes the carriage door the
train usually jolts forward on its journey with
anything from five to 20 doors swinging open.
The guard closes as many as he can towards
the rear end of the train; and the
cadet at the forward end of the platform,
whilst taking tickets with one hand, hits doors to
with the other as they glide past him. The doors
at the middle of the train approach him at almost
half-speed, and here he gets in some good work,
jumping on the footboard, slamming them to, and
leaping off again. Now and again, when tired
out by hours’ hard work —as this boy was —he
makes a miscalculation and is bowled over. Then
there is an inquest and a verdict of “accidental
death.” Why not “accidental murder”? It
would be a new verdict, yet there would be points
about it. “Accidental murder” might be defined
as the process of so fixing things that somebody
must be killed sometime or other, and then leaving
it to accident to decide who will be killed, and
when.
♦
Anti-Defence v. Expert British. Opinion.
One of the diverting features of the Anti-Defence
party is the cocksure fashion in which its mem-
bers butt against the well-considered and expert
opinion of naval authorities in the place the Big
Navy comes from. It is recognised in Britain
that Australia’s best hope of remaining an integral
part of the empire lies in its being able, within a
short time, to defend itself. Also it is accepted as
an absolute axiom amongst prominent writers on
naval subjects in the Cold Land that whatever
subsidy the Commonwealth pays Britain, how-
ever many Dreadnoughts it buys that country,
however passionately it talks and sings and orates
and howls about the Flag, nevertheless the
burden is going to be on it very soon indeed,
for the sake of'its own self-interest, of itself assist-
ing in the protection of its huge sea-borne trade.
That is a job that in tune of stress the already-
harassed old Mother Land won’t, and shouldn’t
be expected to, undertake unaided. About the
only considerable body in Australia, or else-
where, that doesn’t hold that it is a worthier and
sounder policy to set about the task of rendering
this part of the empire self-defensive than to hire
a country on the other side of the earth to ward
off undesirables for the price of an annual subsidy
and the occasional possibility of a presentation
Dreadnought or contingent, is the local Anti-
Defence party. This is how Joe Cook, the
Anti-Defence party’s mouthpiece, was reported in
the Sydney Telegraph (5/4/’O9)
He was most certainly against such “ twaddle ” as was
spoken by Mr. Husnus. Let them take this sentence :
“They were putting forward a scheme of defence which
would enable Australia to, at any rate, protect her own
commerce, patrol her own coasts, and be of assistance to
the warships of Great Britain, if at any time these seas
should be the scene of a naval engagement. ’’ It was an
absurd and ignorant statement. In the first place, Mr.
Hughes said they would be able to protect their own
commerce. How could an Australian navy follow Aus-
tralian commerce to its destination to protect it? (Hear,
hear.)
Then their second purpose, according to “ Admiral”
Hughes, was “ to patrol our coasts.” Patrol was not
defence. Mr. Hughes ought to know that a big ship,
with quick-firing guns, could blow such small craft out of
the water.
Take the next choice bit of naval strategy, Mr. Cook
continued. He says we can be.of assistance to the .war-
ships of Great Britain, “ if at any time these seas should
be the scene of a naval engagement.”
Of what use would be the small flotilla proposed to
check the great Behemoths which are to bear the brunt
of the next naval battle?
It is becoming daily more clear that the Government
has.no adequate conception of what proper naval defence
means.
Against the first of Joe Cook’s objections, viz.,
that it is hopeless for Australia to try to protect
its commerce, The Bulletin hereby cites the
leading Service paper in the United Kingdom.
The Naval and Military Record (18/2/’O9), in
an editorial headed “Australian Defence,” con-
demns the views of Colonel Foster, which
were presented to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment last December, solely on the grounds
that they make no provision for the protection by
Australia of its own commerce. Says the big
British authority :
The weak point in Colonel Foster’s defence scheme is
its lack of provision for the protection of the coast trade.
And again :
There is not a word in all this to indicate that Colonel
Foster is alive to the importance of defending the coast
trade. Touching upon the scheme of local naval defence,
Colonel Foster contends that the effect of torpedoes is
much over-rated by the public, and he quotes Admiral
Sir Cyprian Bridge as drawing that lesson from Tsushima.
The failure of the Japanese destroyers after Tsushima
cannot be denied, but our torpedo specialists have not
drawn the same lesson as Admiral Bridge, and all the
maritime Powers continue to build destroyers. Colonel
Foster sums up by saying: “The people of Australia can
defend their country most effectually, not by measures
of local defence, which contemplate some of the ills of
invasion, but by averting that danger before it comes to
them.” Not a word is said, be it observ ed, about the de-
fence of the coast, trade, worth £170,000,000, except, in-
deed, a passing reference to the desirability of capturing
the enemy’s coaling stations in the South Pacific. How
these are to be captured by the citizen army is not ex-
plained.
And finally
But whatever view one adopts on that question, it can-
not be denied logically that the possession op a local
NAVY WOULD HELP MATERIALLY TO SAFEGUARD THE COAST
trade op Australia.
As to Cook’s discredited old yarn that an Austra-
lian flotilla must be impotent to defend the coasts
of Australia, and useless for the purpose of assist-
ing the warships of Great Britain, the senti-
ments of Admiral Poore, Commander-in-Chief
on the Australian station, may be again quoted
with advantage. He said (Sydney Telegraph,
10/1P08): —
When one spoke of naval matters one was brought face
to face with the question of an Australian navy
What he would like to see was a flotilla manned entirely
by Australians, exercised all round th> coast line in a
squadron. (Applause.) That flotilla would, in time of
war, be of most excellent assistance to the Imperial forces.
Naval and military men do not take seriously
people of the Cook type—worthy men, who know
all about little Bethels (and are for that reason
regularly returned to Parliament), but nothing to
speak of concerning big national issues.. Nor do
they pay attention to such State prototypes of
Cook as C. G. Wade— the comic-opera Premier,
who, on hearing that the destroyers which the
Australian Government had ordered were of “the
River class,” complained bitterly that “the
vessels would only be able to operate in smooth
waters,” as who should say that a cruiser by the
name of “ Tiger ” would be useless except in a
jungle. It is a sad truth, however, that unin-
formed electors are liable to be impressed by the
dogmatic fashion in which these people hand
out their remarks. Wherefore, it is worth
checking them from time to time with profes-
sional opinions from the land they prate about so
loudly.
♦
The refusal of Redfern Council to amalgamate
with Sydney recently led the Telegraph to preach
a sermon to the effect that the Greater Sydney
idea must be recast. The Telegraph now advo-
cates a kind of municipal federation —a Greater
Sydney Council to look after matters of general
concern, and the present 40-odd local councils to
attend to purely local items of Bumbledom. It is
a foolish idea, for the municipal affairs which
require to be under one central authority are so
many—they include water supply, sewerage,
trams, road-making (in order to get the
highways in a straight line with each other
and prevent them shooting off at strange
angles every time they cross a municipal
boundary), lighting (you can make money out
of one big municipal electric lighting scheme
but not out of 40 small ones), finance (Greater
Sydney could probably consolidate its debts at 3?>
per cent., while some of the small, wild-kitten
municipalities of disunited Sydney are paying up
to 6 per cent). —that there would really be nothing
left for the 40-odd sets of local aldermen to do.
The Telegraph’s idea is that the progress of
Sydney should be hampered and retarded and its
interests sacrificed in order to avoid damaging the
petty vanity of those 40-odd sets of local aldermen.
The idea might be worth considering as a last
resort if the Greater Sydney scheme had failed ;
but seeing that it hasn’t even been tried, the pro-
posed back-down and abandonment is premature.
There has been no referendum of the citizens
to decide whether the suburbs and the
city will amalgamate or not. No proposal
has been submitted for popular acceptance or
rejection. Nobody at all bas been asked to con-
sider the Greater Sydney question except some
aldermen, and they are naturally against it. Even
an alderman doesn’t care to vote that he is useless
and not ornamental—-also that he is superfluous.
But no one in his senses imagined that the estab-
lishment of a Greater Sydney was to depend
wholly on the willingness of the suburban mayors,
and so on, to vote for their own extinction, or that
the idea was to be given up unless the 40-odd
local town clerks were willing to commit official
suicide.
Melbourne Argus, a paper whose respectability
nobody can deny, recently devoted a shocked
sub-leader to the Tottie question, and it was an
awful example of a distraught old lady who knows
she is expected to say something, but is too ner-
vous and flurried to do anything except cluck
with her tongue and quaver “Shame!” After
beating herself into a state of tearful indignation
with her brolly, the perfectly respectable Old
Lady of Collins-street miserably concluded
It-would be idle to expect ail absolute social purity that
has been found impossible of attainment in every part
and in every age of the world, but it is surely not too
much to ask that this excrescence on the life of every
community should be kept within some bounds. Un-
philosophic harshness has been found to do more harm
than good in this as in most other things ; but many
communities have dealt with the problem on lines that
have proved fairly effective, and it is time that we should
look it squarely in the face. It is a matter that urgently
demands the attention of the Government with a view to
new legislation being proposed.
And then, instead of looking the awful question
“squarely in the face,” the Argus scuttled away
inside, and slammed the front door on the subject.
It doesn’t name the communities that have
“ dealt with the problem ” ; nor does it hint what
are “the lines that have proved fairly effective.”
The Government is practically told that it must
do something about it; but the Argus refuses to
commit itself—no doubt with the idea of being
able to scream “Wrong!” if the Government
happens to shock that tender plant, the public
conscience, by some too-daring proposal. A cat
leaping on hot bricks is a calm, reposeful sight
compared to the spectacle of a very old, nervous,
and respectable newspaper dealing with Tottie.
Just a year after the disastrous Sunshine (Vic.)
collision, wherein 44 persons were hurried into
eternity, and after a Coroner’s Court had sent the
two engine-drivers, the guard and the station-
master for trial, and after a Supreme Court jury
had acquitted them of the manslaughter with
which they were charged, the Vic. Railways De-
partmental Board held its little inquiry and
decided that the blame lay with the driver of the
first engine (Milbcrn), and to some extent with
the station-master (Kendall). Just here it may
be pointed out that, inasmuch as Milburn’s and
Kendall’s alleged errors caused death, they are
guilty of manslaughter or nothing, and a jury
has already decided that it was nothing. Any-
how, the Board dismisses both men, but accords
Kendall a recommendation to mercy should he
appeal. Probably the Department reckons it has
now cleared its character by apportioning the blame
where it says it belongs, but the public is scarcely
so sure. That public has, during this last year,
noticed that, notwithstanding the Sunshine warn-
ing, accidents on the railways, mostly isolated
fatalities, have been more frequent than ever
before, and that whenever the system is subjected
to the slightest strain —as at holiday time—it
breaks down somewhere. The night of the King’s
Birthday holiday saw the narrowest of escapes of an
excursion train at Spencer-street; the iSew Yea,r
saw another “skin of the teeth” escape near Bal-
larat ; A.N. A. day saw another ; and even while
the Board was passing sentence on Milburn and
Kendall at Spencer-street two engines collided
violently not a hundred yards away, and the four
employees thereon had to be rushed off to the
hospital. As regards all its many recent acci-
dents the Department preserves a mysterious
silenoe. It holds an “ inquiry,” fines or sacks the
handiest employee, and assumes an immaculate
cast of countenance. But the frequency of these
accidents —especially their frequency under holi-
day strain—proves that the system is under-
manned and the employees are overworked. That
undermanning threatens another Sunshine, or
worse ; and there are men in the department who
confidently indicate the weakest spots—where
the record smash will probably come.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “An Englishman’s Home.”
Criterion. “ The Hypocrites.”
Palace “ Queen of the Night.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
George-st. West Wirth’s Circus.
.MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl of the Golden West.”
King’s “ The Mariners of England.”
Theatre Royal “ The Girl Behind the Counter.”
Princess’s ............ “ Sweet Kitty Bellairs.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium. . ........ Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
“An Englishman’s Home,” which was
produced at Sydney Royal on Saturday, affords
yet another example of the deadly work the
mummer puts in when he starts tinkering with
sincere dramatic stuff. We know, from the puffs
preliminary of this play that, as originally written,
it ended with the shooting; of Mr. Brown. That
was the obvious place for it to end. Every inci-
dent, every line of dialogue, every bit of “busi-
ness” combines during three acts to insist on the
capacity of the invaders and the utter incompetence
of the invaded. In a scene as convincing as is
conceivable on any stage the hard-headed British
officer of Regularsorderstheabandonmentof Myrtle
Villa. The tragedy of the villa’s magnificently
courageous proprietor is enacted. And then the
actor-producer dashes into the breach lusting to
“send the audience home in a good temper.” He
directs a heterogeneous crew, consisting of two
Highlanders, a Jack-tar, and half a dozen of the
grotesquely undisciplined volunteers, who retired
in disorder a few minutes earlier, to materialise.
Prince Yoland and his men cower before them in
abject terror. The band strikes up “Rule
Britannia.” All is gratification and uproar and
fustian. It is something more than bad art, and
an insult to the intelligence of the spectators. It
is as though, in a production of “ Rosmerholm,”
Rebecca and Rosmer were to decide at the end of
Act IV. that they wouldn’t face the music of
the mill-race after all, but, instead, would
cheer up the gallery by slipping round to
the nearest registry-office and getting re-
spectably married. The interpolation of a
song and dance turn at the end of “Hamlet”
couldn’t be more banal. For the rest, the play
presents a perfect stage picture of a class of
English suburbanite —one known to every one
who knows his London, and whom George
Gissing has portrayed in a host of fine novels
for the benefit of those who don’t personally
know him. It is startlingly suggestive and
original. It makes good in decisive fashion with-
out hero or villain or heroine, or love-interest.
The thought occurs that “An Englishman’s
Home” is possibly a nail in the coffin of many a
time-worn dramatic convention.
* * *
Brown is the immemorial Englishman, the pro-
duct of centuries of reliance on his Government,
and on his paid soldiers and sailois, and of count-
less miles of daily-paper articles emphasising the
inviolability of the United Kingdom, the futility
of mere foreigners attempting to stand up against
the Lion i>i a roused state, and the consequent
folly of Britain taking any new defence step. He
is tiie doggedly illogical type who, with 12,000,000
of semi-paupers on his hands, and his every pub-
lic park and open space teeming with unem-
ployed, clings to the doctrine of Freetrade. His
conservatism and narrow-mindedness are as stu-
pendous as his pluck. Brown’s children and their
friends are as Brown doubtless was before age
mellowed and moulded him. Like him, they
are concerned only with trivialities ; and, like
him, their faith in the power of the British forces
to ward off unpleasantness is supreme. They can-
not realise for a long time that the occupiers of
their home are not elaborate practical jokers.
When the fighting begins their uselessness is
pathetic. Myrtle Villa is bombarded. All retreat
except Brown. He is executed for fighting while
in civilian clothes. He learns for the first time,
as he is led away to die, that none but a soldier
has the privilege of using a lethal weapon on his
country’s behalf.
9 B * •
This is a play without “ fat ” parts.
Eardley Turner plays Mr. Brown. The old
man’s bland fatuity before the war-storm breaks,
and his rage afterwards, are excellently done.
Cyril Mackay (“Geoff” Smith) supplies an ex-
quisite portrait of a Cockney Briton who swarms in
every “city” tube and ’bus, and on every London
cricket or football ground. Henry Kolker as
Paul Robinson has one purple acting patch, and
he makes tine use of it. The Maggie Brown of
Miss Ola Humphrey is appropriately harmless
and' futile and missish. Her solitary moving
scene—that m which she urges Paul to leave her
to die with her father—is powerfully acted. E.
Catnbourne’s Finch is a depressingly life-like Cap-
tain of Volunteers. Harry Plimmer makes an im-
pressive Prince Yoland, and Miss Gleeson and
Miss Kelly provide clever character sketches of
British maidens of the villa-dwelling genus.
** * *
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) has had 10 days
of country cousin. He arrived on the first night
of “ Jack and Jill,” and has held the fort ever
since. And he isn’t the country cousin we used
to know. In older days, when wheat was half-a-
crown and wool about fivepence, the city cousin
used to take the two country cousins and shove
him and her furtively into a back seat somewhere.
Now, with wool at anything up to lGd. and wheat
at 4s. 6d., the male country cousin is expected to
do the shoving—and nine cases out of 10 he
comes up to expectations. Also the writer
observes that in the past two years 125,416,224
rabbit-skins have been exported from Sydney, and
sold for somewhere about £520,000 ; so that if Bill
has only been rabbitin’ he mostly has the price of
a couple of dress-circle seats about him. So far,
anyway, the house part of a “ Jack and Jill ” has
been almost like an Agricultural Show. But
things will begin to settle down now, and Sydney
itself will start out to see the pantomime that
made Melbourne laugh on 101 consecutive
occasions.
“Queen of the Night” still goes on her
relentless way at Sydney Palace like a species of
demented Lady Macbeth ; and the gentle shep-
herd from the station who witnesses it will pro-
bably pack his bag and entrain for the untaxed
solitudes of his employer, thanking Heaven that
his £1 a week and keep put him beyond the ken
of she-demons of the Paulina type. A melo-
drama that would put vividly before the station-
worker the yelling necessity for a progressive
land-tax, and that would send him back to Lonely
Downs thinking hard why the day-long paddocks
were not thriving farms, and the faint, winding
buggy tracks solid highways, would do a consider-
able service to the Commonwealth, and be of some
practical use to the guileless bush boy down for a
holiday. If we can preach patriotism from the
stage, why not land reform ? Meanwhile “Queen
of the Night” continues to die without profit in
the limelight.
¥£ ■sfr
Miss Marjorie Tempest gave a bright,
classical concert on Saturday evening ; but the
Easter fever, which prevents people sitting out
serious or classical programmes, made the house
smaller than the work deserved. Plenty of fire,
however, came from the worshippers, and the
attractive singer, who was encored for every song,
scored a fine success. Mr. L. G. Smith proved
the usual artistic and sympathetic aider, and
played splendidly.
* * *
The Commonwealth Eisteddfod, inaugu-
rated as it was in an excited time of many counter-
attractions —Dreadnoughts, Agricultural Show,
races, the Swashbuckle War Drama, the death of
the giraffe, and the arrival of the Dudleys—
did not arouse the enthusiasm or interest that
might otherwise have been its happy lot. A week
of competitive work in vocal and instrumental
music, dancing, recitations, and physical culture
is so big an order that the j udges and promoters
have not found the task very malleable clay in the
hands of themselves, acting as potters. They
could not be expected to accomplish at the first
effort what it has taken Ballarat 20 years to
achieve. A big concert on Saturday night at the
Town Hall will end the festival.
7K
“The Hypocrites” continue to shock
patrons of Sydney Criterion with their canting
and immoral ways. Many of the characters in
this play are —though British to the back-teeth —
so worthless otherwise that the average self-
respecting Australian mayor would hesitate about
pawning his staff of office to buy them a Dread-
nought. Destructive criticism can no further go.
The contrast between the cynical naughtiness of
these people and our own virtue is extremely
soothing ; and so, at the Criterion, packed houses
are the order not only of the night, but likewise of
bi-weekly matinees.
** * *
Chung Ling Soo, the Chinaman who is
accused of being American, materialised at Sydney
Tivoli on Easter Saturday, and amazed the
bronzed, silent men from Outback, fresh from the
realities of the Agricultural Show and the finan-
cial tragedies of the races. Chung’s performance
is so extensive and varied that it requires to be
seen at least twice to be fully taken in. The eye
and brain of the beholder become rather jaded
after about 19 obvious impossibilities have come
to pass, and he thinks to himself, “Let me see
these things done again ! I have been taken by
surprise this time. Next time I’ll know what’s
coming.” A good conjurer or juggler always
draws a proportion of his crowd twice —once for
amazement, and twice to see if they can detect the
machinery of the trick. Soo may be depended on
to draw the faithful patron within the portal
at least two times. Tom Woottwell, Yeotha and
Captain Grade, Cull Pitt, the Two Bells, Irving
Sayles, and Baby Watson are the other principal
entertainers. The one gloomy thing about the
present show is that a booked seat costs an
extra shilling. The writer would not feel so
bad about it if the management would only cut
out the Scotch haka which the Tivoli retainers
perform to Mozart’s music.
** * *
After four calendar months of “Cinder-
ella,” it was up to the management at Melbourne
Royal to change the bill. “Cinderella” retires
from the scene on Saturday, and “The Girl
Behind the Counter ” takes its place. Those
members of the “Hook of Holland” co. who
lapsed into panto, are to appear in the new musi-
cal comedy, and the co. will be reinforced by
Harold Thorlev, the tall and tuneful baritone of
the Williamson co. of yore, John Paulton (for-
merly of the Brough co.), and Miss Daisy Bel-
more, who hasn’t been seen on the stage since the
late Wilson Barrett departed this hemisphere,
ifc * * *
“The Girl of the Golden West” is still
inciting the impressionable road-agent to reach
out at Her Melbourne Majesty’s. Miss Tittell
Brune is boosting the drama through its third
week, and her services will be required behind
the bar of her amazing pub for another week,
anyway.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Cdol, pleasant weather and Eastertide are
usually inseparable eampanions. And pleasant
weather is as essential to holiday enjoyment as the
exhilaratinginfluenceof D.C.L. Whisky. The wise,
he who seeks brightness of mind from the sunshine
of D.C.L., is assured of a genial mental climate in
all climes ; and a holiday spirit for all times,*
Beginning with a series of polite frivolities,
the comedy-drama of “Sweet Kitty Bellairs”
(just unpacked at Melbourne Princess’s) ends in the
picture of a sorrowful heroine contemplating the
dreariness of a cold wet world. When accounts
are balanced there is found to be more trouble
than joy in Belasco’s gaudy fiction. The char-
acters are mostly looking for pleasure all the time,
but nobody arrives at happiness. One feels that
the gay social life of Bath has petered out by the
time its late visitors, the officahs of the Inniskill-
ing Regiment, have embarked at Bristol for
Spain, or elsewhere. Kitty Bellairs is in a state
of depression; the soldiers, whose red coats
were essential to the local color scheme,
have gone away to get killed or intoxi-
cated in a foreign land ; the giddy baronet, Sir
Jasper Standish, has been ignominiously defeated
by his doleful lawful wife in an attempt to elope
with the unfortunate Lady Flyte; a contemptible
captain named Spicer is left without a male
supporter or female accomplice; and the afore-
said dismal Lady Standish stands convicted of
cowardly treachery to her friend the heroine. As
for Kitty’s lover, Lord Verney, the one irre-
proachable person in the story—well, he is likely
to return from the wars with a wooden leg, if he
ever returns at all, in which case his chance of
marrying Kitty will be poor. She married her
first husband for money, she says, so she couldn’t
be expected tb pair off with a mutilated admirer
for the sake of romance. If she did, it wouldn’t
matter. Neither the present nor the future of the
people one meets at Bath is worth much sympa-
thetic consideration. They are sufficiently amus-
ing; their costumes and manners are striking
features in a number of pretty stage effects, but
they fail to impress one as realities.
In the forefront of such pictures Nellie
Stewart is well placed. She looks the charming
young coquette of a period—say 90 years ago—
when society women’s airs and graces were more
frankly artificial than they are to-day, and the
sexes played at decorative flirtation as laboriously
as they now play tennis or golf. All her art as a
sprightly comedienne in the lighter scenes, and
as an experienced actress in exacting emotional
situations, is fully displayed. She fills the part
with all-round capacity, and if she doesn’t make
Kitty Bellairs more than a theatrical creation the
fault is mostly the dramatist’s. An actress whose
forte is simple naturalness—a Miss Anglin for
instance—would be out of place in this play,
whereas Nellie Stewart is thoroughly at home in
it. Although there are more than 30 others on
the bill, all of them ornately clothed, not more
than half a dozen or so have any individual
importance. Claude King, a newcomer, is quietly
forcible as the dignified, unfaithful husband of the
doleful lady, that weeping matron being moder-
ately-well impersonated by Miss Rosslyn Vane.
Miss Meredith, another newcomer, presents Lady
Flyte, the ex-belle of Bath, as a hard, repellent
sinner whose vanished attractions have left
few traces behind them. Langhorne Burton,
the respectable young lover of the piece,
amounts to much the same thing as
Harcourt Beatty in the present instance.
His gestures, deportment, and vocal inflections
are similar to Beatty’s, but apart from these points
of resemblance to somebody else he has no per-
sonality to speak of. Frederick Moyes, Templar
Powell, Conway Wingfield (what names these
actors carry !) and Miss French have useful parts
to play, and Miss Marjorie Chard comes into
picturesque prominence at the outset, by speaking
a prologue in imitation of old-time custom. Some
inevitable pruning of “Sweet Kitty Bellairs”
should vastly improve the scenes that dragged
on Saturday night, when the performance was
fully half an hour too long.
* * * *
The fact that Miss Duggan is about to
leave for Britain and elsewhere accounts for a
forthcoming change of bill at Melbourne King’s.
On Friday night she will make a farewell appear-
ance in the impressive raiment of “ The French
Spy,” and a souvenir of the occasion will be
thrust upon as many of Anderson’s patrons as
have crowded into the house. On Saturday the
thoughtful Anderson will endeavor to catch the
fugitive Dreadnought spirit of the community
and nail it to the mast ere it has quite evapo-
rated. A revival of “ The Mariners of England ”
is to re-endear the Union Jack to the
heart of every Union Jill, and waft across
the footlights an odor of brine from the
ocean that Britannia has hitherto dominated. It
was as Nelson in “The Mariners” that the long
invalided H. O. Willard earned an honorable
wreath of seaweed some years ago. Willard,
The Bulletin is glad to hear, is slowly recovering
from his protracted illness. The recovery will be
hastened by a matinee-benefit to the sufferer on
lhursday. This announcement will come too
late to assist the takings at the doors, but the
rules of complimentary benefit performances
admit of tickets being purchased after the event,
and anyone desirous of paying a compliment to
Willard—a hard-working actor who immortalised
himself as the Face at the Window—may hand it
forthwith to the treasurer of the fund at the
King’s Theatre.
AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
("A French Spy.”)
Enter LAURENOE
DUNBAR like the
“snake in the grass”
he is.
TEMPLE
HARRISON.
“ The Return of Ulysses ” is the new art
film at Melbourne Olympia, and is almost a start-
ling improvement on other films of the series.
The miming in it is peculiarly rational, and, in
comparison to the work in former pictures,
looks like a skilful feat of conjuring.
Other attractions in West’s show on Satur-
day were scenes in Tunis and Marseilles,
besides a goodly stack of mirth-quakes and other
unnatural convulsions. Tait’s entertainment at
the Glaciarium included the generously-tinted
adventures of “A Bohemian Girl,” pictures of
Russian Cavalry and North Borneo, and “The
Welcome Burglar,” which gives some aspects of a
condition that seems to be just a wink or an innu-
endo short of perfect bigamy. At the Bijou, the
programme consists of the exploits of Ben Hur, the
deathless marvel; of Ice Racing at St. Moritz ;of
the Himalaya Railway ; and of sundry things and
circumstances like “ Jessica’s First Prayer” and
“The Prodigal Son.”
* * *- *
At Melbourne Opera House, the Chinese
magician, who was all the better for not being a
Chow, has been succeeded by the two Japanese
wrestlers, whose names are as genuine as their
jiu-jitsu. Their methods of whacking one another
upon the floor, and taking hold of one another’s
limbs in a hurt-as-you-please contest, are interest-
ing studies in national character ; but, after all, a
dog fight reveals greater possibilities in animal
savagery. A white audience doesn’t bring a jiu-
jitsu mind to bear on the spectacle of Shima up-
setting Kameda, or vice versa. Its sporting in-
stincts are not appealed to. Also a fresh
“turn” is G. W. Hunter, eight years older
than when he chanted other songs and
told other yarns in Melbourne. Hunter
was a mellow monologuist aforetime, and
he is not yet over-ripe. A sleight-of-hand lady is
likewise an acceptable item. Oissie Curlette con-
tinues to hold her own, and the partnership of
Dale and O’Malley is a droll, well-sustained con-
trast of types—an old idea worked out in a new
way. For the rest, there are Ida Berridge,
Stewart and Loraine, and a dozen people who do
their best. If some of them did their worst the
results would be dreadful.
** * *
Adelaide’s long-talked-of new theatre is
open at last. It is called the New Empire, and is
a kind of successor to the old Hippodrome. It
stands a little off the usual beat of amusement
houses, but close to Victoria Square, which, under
the new tramway scheme, seems likely to become
the centre of the city, socially as well as geographi-
cally. Lennon, Hyman and Lennon run the new
venture, which is to give low-priced “vaudeville” :
dress circle, 2s. ; back stalls, 6d. It is a comfort-
able and finely-appointed house. Julius Knight
is at the Royal in “The Duke’s Motto,” taking on
all-comers with the cheerful courage which natu-
rally belongs to the Best Swordsman in Europe.
This kind of work is a trifle out of Miss Beatrice
Day’s line; but she is too fine an artist to be
found greatly wanting. Rickards has passed
through, on his way to Europe for more stars ; he
promises a steady succession for the Tivoli of all
the best things he has in Australia. Fred Graham
and Miss Dent are there now, also Fred Bluett,
whose popularity is so great as to be almost
burdensome at times. Tait’s pictures are at the
Town Hall)
* * *- *
There is bad news for Westralia. Rick-
ards said in Adelaide last week that he has
“finished with Kalgoorlie for ever,” He has sent
it Burns and Johnson, and Cinquevalli, and so on,
and the response has not paid him for the heavy
expenses and loss of artists’ time. He has also
“serious thoughts of cutting out Berth,”and run-
ning his attractions between Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide without waste of more than one
night or so on journeys. When the transconti-
nental railway is built, Henry will see matters in
a new light.
“N.F.”: George Cross, at Sydney Palace, shouts dis-
tressfully: “ I am a man, and I cannot see a woman
drown.” What’s he hollerin’ at? He’s only got to go
down to Manly in dirty weather and he can see it almost
any day in his life.
SWEET KITTY BELLAIRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet Widow Bellairs was the Beauty of Bath,
The adored of all beaux in the city,
And was therefore a matter for feminine wrath—
Shure, the women were jealous of Kitty.
The Lady Bab Flyte
Bore a viperish spite
To her rival O lud ! what a pity !
Now Kitty fell somewhat in love wid a lord,
Being- Irish, and full of emotion.
He was booked for a duel with pistol or sword,
And her soul took alarm at the notion,
So she wint to his place
With a mask on her face, #
And her visit produced a commotion.
Lud ! her char-alc-ter suffered because she was there,
For her presence she had to discover ;
Suspicion falls hard on a widow who’s fair,
Be she pure as the hivins above her.
The Lady Bah Flyte,
Set a scandal alight,
And declared the bold minx had a lover.
In most beautiful raiment she went to a dance,
Where her rivals took measures to cut her ;
She invited a smile ; they replied with a glance,
Just as though she were dirt in the gutter.
So the most of the men,
Who’d “ said things ” up to then,
Kissed her hand and were softer than butter.
The lord would have married Sweet Kitty, bedad 1
All his passion for Glory restraining,
But she urged him to go to the Wars, gallant lad !
When he ruefully talked of remaining.
Yet she wept on the day
When the troops got away,
And the tears from her eyes corresponded in size
With the drops that the heavens were raining,
VICTORIA.
E.F.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Charles Tait, of the Tait brethren, from Italy: Italian
opera audiences utier their candid criticisms aloud. The
other night, at the Politeana Nationale in Florence, one
of the items of a great benefit performance for the Fund
Messina was an act of Rigoletto. The baritone who
played the'Jester was a wonderful actor, but he sang flat,
and nearly everybody told him so. When he sang more
flat, everybody told him so ; and he bowed his head to
the storm. An act of “Un Ballo ” was a great treat.
Those carpers who say that the Italian opera of 50years ago
is old foolishness, are too Wagnerian entirely. The same
old story with new' singers (of good class) is always inter-
esting. But the chorus 1 O, ye gods! the chorus is
shockingly clothed. The principals are arrayed in all the
giory of the original Medici ; but the poor old chorus
looks as though it had bought its togs at so much a
bundle. Evidently the chorus is supplemented by a local
choir. It was grotesquely humorous to see the local
Signora and Signorina Browmsi, Jonesi, Smithetti, etc.,
doing a gambol in stage costume, but with their ordinary,
everyday “ bun ” on their heads.
William Roupell, news of whose death was lately
cabled from London, was, in all likelihood, the original
“Jim the Penman.” He possessed the three essential
qualifications of being an M.P., an expert forger, and a
well-known figure in society. Either his relatives pro-
vided him with an income, or he had laid by something
against the day he regained his freedom, for after his
release he lived many years in an affluent-looking- villa
near Abingdon (Oxon). He was said to be one of the vic-
tims of the Jabez Balfour swindles. If so, it was rough
that Jabez should take William down. Dog should not
eat dog—especially raw.
“ Harrison O.” : The more I see of these Wild West
shows, the more convinced do I become that I will be
able to exist for a lengthy period without seeing another.
“The Squaw Man” was not good, “Sunday” was bad,
and “ The Girl of the Golden West ”is damnbad. The
jaded theatre-goer has become sick unto death of the
Wild Western Wetgoods Emporium, the loud-voiced cow-
boys, the interminable games of cards, the execrable
revolver-shooting, and the inevitable “pewer gyurrl,”
w'ho says “damn” and “hell.” The beatific influence
which the “ pewer ” girl invariably exerts over the hard-
drinking, hard-cursing cowboys is as remarkable and im-
possible as would be the sight of a company of moa-birds
walking down Coliins-street on a Sunday afternoon. A
new and gigantic absurdity is introduced into “ The Girl
of the Golden West,” when in the fourth act (justly de-
scribed by The Bulletin’s Adelaide dramatic critic as
“the most unnecessary fourth act ever seen on any
stage ”) the astonishing damsel is represented as teaching
a horde of cowboys their kindergarten lessons, and rap-
ping them across the knuckles for imbibing whisky
during school hours. The inroads which a scene such as
this makes upon common-sense are appalling. It seems a
pity that plays like “The Girl of the Golden West”
should be inflicted upon a long-suffering public merely to
give Miss T. Brime the opportunity of saying “ Damn.”
“S.S.”: I observe that “ The Girl of the Golden
West,” the latest sample of American dramatic wares
opened here, starts its wild career in a bar-room. What,
I ask, ails the American play that it must almost in-
evitably commence operations in a “saloon”? On the
few occasions when the drama of the Woolly West
(woolly, I presume, because of its long-haired operatives
and the slathers of buffalo hide ornamenting their nether
garments) does not start in a pub, it drifts into the cock-
tail factory in Act 11., or thereabouts. True, we have no
right to complain, since nine out of ten Australian
dramas are afflicted with the same shanty. Come to
think of it, I am myself now writing a play which starts
in a pub.
Aleck Mayne went over to Melbourne the other week to
act as locum tenens for Fred Aydon at the Rickards
theatre in that city, what time the absentee is managing
for Cinquevalli and co. in Maoriland. Aydon, by the
way, had a great send-off from a number of his friends.
They pressed a purse of sovereigns upon his acceptance,
and made speeches about him, one of the spokesmen
(Reynell, of the S. M. Herald) laying stress on the fact
that the saturnine Fred is all right—and even more than
merely all right—when you know him, but you’ve got to
know him first. It seems a pity to say all these nice
things of the Opera House manager to his relentless face.
He’ll begin to think it is up to him to be frankly and
openly good-natured, and then his terrible old individu-
ality will be softened out of recognition.
“ 0.K.” : Mrs. Marcus Clarke’s claim for roj'alty on Bill
Anderson’s recent production of “ For the Term of His
Natural Life,” seems to be based on the fact that the late
Alfred Dampier at the outset paid her a royalty on this par-
ticular dramatisation of her husband’s novel. In later years
he could only afford to owe the money. Or is it that the
copyright law has been altered since Dampier staged the
play? His payment to Clarke’s widow was understood
to be merely a matter of kindly courtesy—not an
admission of any lawful claim on her part. There bad
been previous dramatisations of the story from which the
copyright holder derived no fees. Anyway, Anderson
didn’t get this drama for nothing. He leased it from the
widow or executors of Alfred Dampier. But the question
as to the legal bearings of the new Copyright Act (intro-
duced years after the drama was first produced) on the
Andersonian revival has nothing to do with Dampier’s
concession to Mrs. Marcus Clarke.’ Apparently there is
matter for much interesting- legal argument in the action
which Mrs. Clarke has started, and which Anderson is pre-
pared to fight. He has filed his answer to the statement
of claim, and is awaiting the issue.
Writes Will Dyson : Your statement that I collabo-
rated with Randolph Bedford in writing “For Australia”
is something of an injustice to Mr. Bedford. lam given
to understand that I am the model from which he has
drawn the character of Jack Macquarie ; but beyond this
my share in the drama was chiefly the arduous task of
reading a part in Mr. Bedford’s handwriting at the copy-
right performance.
“ K.”: I picked up an English paper recently and read
a thrilling account of the old convict hulk Success, which
is apparently not yet broken up, though the evil-minded
ruin has over 100 mis-spent years to its discredit. The
gruesome old craft was never actually a convict-carrier,
as many people imagine ; it was bought by the Govern-
ment in 1853, after the crew had abandoned it and rushed
off to the diggings, and it was moored off Williamstown as
one of the fleet of floating Gehennas in these waters. The
Success was showing in Sydney in the ’nineties, and has
since been travelling round the shores of Bull. It and
the Stinking Fish part}- are two of the fine, smellful
advertisements that nullify the efforts of Agents-general,
and a capable High Commissioner ought to scuttle them
in the night.
It was quite seriously stated the other day that old Bob
Fitzsimmons had announced his intention to return to
the prize ring and tackle Johnson. And the story was
quite seriously commented on by people who seemingly
thought of Bob as an old war horse grazing in a paddock
and requiring only a few gallops to get him fit for the
fray. He was merely bidding for an advt. Bob Fitz-
simmons these times is a music-hall showman. He
popped up at the Oxford (London) the other week in a
dull dualogue entertainment, his wife being the other
dualoguer. That is to say, she sang several ballads, and
Bob’s share of the incidental conversation led up to an
exhibition of ball punching. Mrs. Fitz. was a professional
vocalist when the ex-champion married her.
Australians who pay only ss. to hear Melba sing pro-
bably think they are getting things dirt cheap ; but in
England it is possible to hear her for sixpence. This
can be done at the Winter Gardens, Blackpool, where
Melba sometimes sings on Sunday evenings. One doesn’t
get a seat for his sixpence, certainly ; he has to take it
standing. And singers not quite as good as Melba —
Albani, for instance—can be heard for nothing by those
who haven’t got sixpence. This is on Sunday afternoons at
the Royal Albert Hall, London, where part of one gallery
is reserved for the stony-broke.
“ Busk ” : Comyns Carr, in his just-issued recollections,
mentions that he supped with Irving, Ellen Terry, Sarah
Bernhardt, and a distinguished company in the beefsteak
room at the Lyceum after a performance. Irving had
some thought of reviving “Hamlet.” “Ah,”said Miss
Terry, “I am too old for Ophelia.” “My darling,” said
Bernhardt, “ there are two peoples who age never—y> u
and me.” “ True for you,” sighed Ellen. Coquelin, in a
gloomy mood, was predicting once, at rehearsal, how the
actors and actresses would end their careers. “ What
will I come to?” asked Bernhardt, sweetly. Said
Coquelin : “ You will be a box-opener. Yes, the gentle-
men will give you a franc apiece, and you’ll be deuced
glad to get it.” Mdlle. Georgeo, the resplendent
original of Hugo’s Lucretia Borgia, was the Bern-
hardt of her time. She took charge of the umbrellas
at the Paris Exhibition of 1567. Denvil, the fiist Man-
fred in Byron’s play, at Drury Lane, took checks at the
pit door when Phelps acted Manfred there, long after-
wards. Worthy Charley Burford will be remembered as
a stage door-keeper in Sydney. He acted Oassio, at the
Melbourne Queen’s, when Brooke first appeared there,
as Othello. Burford likewise acted Joseph Surface in
“The School For Scandal,” on the opening night of
Melbourne Royal. In the Bancrofts’ production of
“ Masks and Faces,” in London, there was a lady super
of aristocratic appearance, beautifully made up, rouged
and costumed. A lady of the nobility called on Mrs.
Bancroft next day and asked “ Who was that quite dis-
tinguished personage?” “There she is,” replied Mrs.
8., pointing- to a charwoman who was scrubbing the
floor. Beauchamp, once a stage door-keeper at the
Melbourne Theatre Royal, returned to that city as a
Mormon elder.
“ M.U.D.” : I do not claim to be the possessor of an
artistic temperament, but the crying need of beauty
(artificial or otherwise) was brought home to me most
forcibly not long since. I watched a vaudeville troupe
alight, in the full glare of the sun, from a railway
carriage, and fell 1 down partly dead when I considered
the large amount of ugliness and age scattered broadcast
among its constituents. This clinched an idea that had
long been growing in my mind —viz., the ordinary vaude-
ville manager subordinates youth and good appearance to
some quality or qualities unknown. It makes me posi-
tively ill to hear an angular, emaciated elderly lady ask a
suffering audience “How’d you like to spoon with me?”
Can The Bulletin’s financial editor explain why it is that
ambitious, capable youngsters of good appearance cannot
compete in vaudeville with the previous-generation
derelicts?
(Continued on page 28.)
HARRY’S ARDUOUS TASK—AND OURS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Harry Rickards sails for England by the Asturias.
His return to Europe is with the object of securing new
attractions beyond Easter, 1910, up to which date im-
portant contracts were signed during his recent visit.
After a rest, the entrepreneur will enter upon his arduous
task of attending the great variety theatres in London
and the provincial centres, and more especially at Black-
pool, where vaudeville artists from all parts of Europe
may be seen. — News item.
Sometimes when to the playhouse I’ve repaired,
And hearkened to the ancient jests, and stared
With weary eyes upon the dismal fun,
I’ve wondered, Henry, if you knew—or cared.
Often I’ve raged, thinking I had to spend
Three silver shillings ere my way I’d wend
Thro’ your illuminated door. I may
Have been a patron —but I was no friend.
Frequent I’ve sat and chewed the acid cud
Of savage thought, when a ferocious thud
Proclaimed to all one foolish Brother had
Joyously kicked his stooping flesh and blood.
The top-boot dancer of the Long Ago,
Who rattles on occasionally. Oh !
I’ve often wondered if it was her heels
Or the dead past that clacked and clattered so.
Then the strange Sisters —grouped in twos and threes,
Who dance with care in skirts that reach their knees,
And shout their love songs to the grinning gods !
Where lurk these loud, barbaric families l
The smirking coon who opes his inky jaws
And sings, with rolling eyes and waving paws,
White love songs ! Ah ! I yearn to kick the fools
Who give the sable insult loud applause !
The female balladist whose notes are wrong,
And who intones the illustrated song !
By purple graves and homesteads pink and, green
Iloiv long is she to stay ? HENRY, now long?
The London funny man, who’s grown too old
In London’s service, doth his tales unfold,
And lo ! they are the same amazing ones
The rude forefathers of the hamlet told!
Comedy teams—invariably pairs—
Seek to amuse by overturning chairs,
And shrieking at each other. ’Tis their bread.
(A sad and maniacal calling theirs !)
For corner men (if old) I’ll spare some tears ;
But to the young men, whom the flying years
Have not as yet made blackened tragedies,
I’d say : “ Pa Time at aged jesters sneers l ”
The vain strong man, all smirk and strain and meat,
Who breaks enormous anchors with his feet,
And skips and poses like a coy old maid,
Should be presented to the Zoo—to eat.
And the “ child artiste ” ! Oh, what Goths among
The dancing thousands tutor thus their young,
Putting the babble of the serio
Upon the poor deluded infant’s tongue ?
Sometimes when to the playhouse I’ve repaired,
And sat it out unto the end, and stared
With wearied eyes upon the whole, blamed show,
I’ve wondered if you personally cared —
Or if you thought it arduous. I see
That’s just how you regard it. Henery*,
I’ve watched the show and paid for thirteen years !
Just estimate how much you’re owing me !
n.s. w.
KODAK.
The Unification and Reconstruction
Movement.
The National Committee requests all people who
have lists of signatures to the petition requesting
the Federal Parliament to take a referendum on
the abolition of the States as at present consti-
tuted, and their reconstruction on sane principles,
to forward them to headquarters, 192 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. Incidentally, all good
Australians who have not yet signed this petition
should write at once to Mr. J. B. Steel at the
above address. The petition requests that the
Australian Parliament will take a vote of the
people of the continent on the question of giving
power to the Commonwealth to abolish the pre-
sent States and take over all their powers, assets,
liabilities—everything. Then the Commonwealth
is to create, for the purpose of local government,
a number of smaller States, with their boundaries
laid out as Nature intended they should be. The.
Legislatures of these States will derive their
authority from the Australian Parliament. It is
the only solution of the never-ending wrangle over
the alleged infringement of State Rights, and the
one way in which the complete government of
Australia can be acquired by the people of
Australia.


-;■'
m
S SS
'Vfifev-
sWfe&SSiV/.
Ss
Msm
Mrm-
:; ■ “-V-
-' ;;
fIH
! « ::"
SSMM&I
»!«ssis(W.>
mlwSk*
mm
IlSi
Stt#
■
latiitt
lllliii
raw
A COOP OVERCOAT at 25f-
IT is not too early to think of your Winter
Overcoat. This Overcoat, as the illustra-
tion shows, is fashionably cut, and, being
made of closely-woven Tweed, it is
warm fnd cosy, as well as showerproof.
The Tweeds have a rough surface, and the
stripe effects include some smart Purples,
Greens and Browns. The coat is lined
and has gauntlet cuffs. In all sizes.
PRICE - - 25 -
If possible, we should like you to call in and
see the quality of this coat. If this is in-
convenient, we send it carriage paid through-
out the Commonwealth, on the understanding
that, should it not prove entirely satisfactory,
it may be returned, and purchase money
will be cheerfully refunded.
David Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
A FIELD CAMERA for 75/
JFt
<2075'
THE
“EMPRESS”
Triple Extension, half-plate
size “Ensign” Rapid Sym-
metrical Lens, f/8 Thornton-
Pielsard Shutter, turn-table
Tripod Stand.
THIS HAS NO EQUAL.
The “VICTOR” No. 1 Hand
Camera is still the most popu-
lar 30/- Camera in Australasia.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street (near G.P.O ), SYDNEY.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
I LAY! I LAY! I LAY!
We wish to direct the attention of the police to some
■ eroings on at the recent tea meeting of the Evangelical
. Society in Melbourne. For instance, Mr. J. Griffiths
said: “There is a cheque on the table for anyone that
• can prove, etc. etc., by the New Testament, and I make
' the same offer myself to anyone who can produce a single
• text that means,” etc,, etc., etc.
Two notable public performers died re-
cently—Modjeska and the giraffe at Wirth
Brothers’ Circus. The end of the latter was
mysterious. The Polar bear at the circus perished
a little while ago, and the monkeys—who were on
affable terms with the large bleak animal, and
always nodded to it in passing, and remarked that
the weather looked like rain—blamed the giraffe.
There was no possible proof against that amazingly
long and rambling animal, but the giraffe was to
the monkeys like Rome to Dill Macky, and they
blamed it for everything. In fact, the monkey
organ—the Daily Apk— even charged the giraffe
with being the hireling of Romish superstition,
and expressed the opinion that the Polar bear had
been basely undermined because it came from
Greenland, which is under Lutheran rule. An
ominous silence was maintained for a while.
Then one night there arose a fearsome clamor and
screams of great terror ; and the attendant, rush-
ing in with a dark lantern in one hand and a
dark suspicion in the other, found the giraffe
dead and tied up in a knot. Apparently it
had been fainting in coils just before it
passed out. The attendant remembered a murky
form that sneaked past him out of the giraffe’s
premises as he went in (the door was somehow
open), and he thought he remembered afterwards
that it wore gaiters and a clerical hat and a tail.
Inquiry showed that the giraffe died from heart
disease, but whether its end was hastened bv
terror, theological controversy and violence there
is no evidence to show. The strangely doubled-up
state of the deceased and the way the remains
were tied in a knot suggest underhand proceed-
ings.
* * * *
Joseph Cook made a naval pronouncement
recently which the country would do well to
consider :
Mr. Hughes says we can be of assistance to the
warships of Great Britain, “if at any time these
sens should be the scene of a naval engage-
ment.” Does Mr. Hughes not know that the de-
cisive engagement which would test the supremacy
of our empire would not be in these seas at all? It would
be in the North Sea or in the Pacific. Everybody but
Mr. Hughes knows what use our small boats would be in
an engagement 10,000 miles away. A naval engagement
in these seas would only be possible after the naval power
of the empire had been broken.
This makes two things clear. One is that the
seas which wash past Sydney and Brisbane are
not the Pacific at all, despite all maps to the con-
trary ; the Pacific is “10,000 miles away.’’ The
second is that Cook is a prophet, and knows
exactly where the great naval battle will be
fought. It is a splendid thing to have a naval
prophet—a sort of sea-Cook or foreseeing-Oook—
about the house. If Nelson had had Cook to tell
him that the naval battle which was to stop the
projected invasion of England by the French
wouldn’t be fought in the Straits of Dover, as
might be expected, but many hundreds of
miles away, close to the African coast, it would
have saved Nelson a lot of trouble. Nelson, not
being so prescient as Cook, had just to go groping
round for his enemy. And if Cook had told the
Russian Government, not so very long ago, that
its great marine smash wouldn’t happen in the
Baltic, nor anywhere near the seat of its power,
but some 16,000 miles away —but, after all, these
are idle speculations. The thing to do is to listen
now to Cook, the All-Wise—Cook, the prophet.
Cook, knows.
* * * *
A new idea in the art of getting a living
without sweating for it has just been causing
trouble in Victoria. The inventor first found out
that a man whose usual address is Euroa was
serving a sentence in Pentridge ; so, pretending to
be the man in Pentridge, the inventor wrote to the
man’s wife urging her to send money to reward
one McPherson, ostensibly a gaol official, for
many kindnesses received. The letters were
sopping with praise of Mr. McPherson and grati-
tude, but they never failed to exhort the good and
gullible wife to translate the gratitude into cash,
to be forwarded to Mr. McPherson at certain post-
office addresses. This she did with the thought
of softening her husband’s lot; but at length her
“husband’s” importunities became so trouble-
some that she grew suspicious both of him and
McPherson. Then, on inquiry, the simple and
trustful dame learnt that her husband was
still leading a severe life in the G ov^
boarding-house, that he had never written to
her, and that he had never heard of McPher-
son. Some brilliant police intelligence was poured
on to the problem. It was concluded that the
bogus husband and McPherson were one and the
same man. Accordingly, when that individual
wrote for another £2O or so, the lady, acting
under police instructions, forwarded to him two
cronk £lO bank notes, and, at the same time,
dropped a private line to the police ; so when a
quiet, shifty character called at the Bourlce-street
P.O. for a letter addressed to Mr. McPherson, he
was immediately apprehended on suspicion. Un-
fortunately he also, it is alleged, offered the two
tenners to the arresting John as a bribe to let him
go, and the argument he will presently have with
the authorities is likely to be more strenuous on
that account.
“ Old Soldier ” : Strange that “ Billy T.,”
falling foul of fat soldiers (“ the mass of military
corpulence which remains passive on top of a dis-
consolate horse B. 18/3/’O9) does not quote, or
seem to be aware of, the strenuous Roosevelt’s
parting pronouncement on that very subject. He
enacted that every officer remaining on the active
list must, within three consecutive days, either
(1) walk 50 miles, (2) ride 90 miles on horseback,
or (3) ride 100 miles on a bicycle. As whatever
Roosevelt says “ goes ” with Taft, Uncle Sam’s
men are likely to have to show their paces. And
it was quite time. One of the biggest commanders
—in every sense—in the Cuban campaign had to
be carried everywhere in a sort of litter. He was
too fat, soft, and generally unhealthy even for
horseback exercise.
THE LATEST NOVELTY.
“ F.H.” speaketh a piece :
In its attempt to dam the stream of public sentiment
which is rising in favor of a progressive land-tax, the
futile Melbourne Argus (30/3/’O9) has thrown a sieve-like
simile into the breach by likening the Victorian farmer of
the future unto the tribe of Issachar, which was (accord-
ing to the Argus) “ a strong ass crouching down between
two burdens.” Apart from the fact that every Little
Willie knows that the poor farmer has no practical interest
in any progressive land-tax proposal unle-s he owns
a large amount of land, and is not a poor
farmer at all, the Argus has made a grievous
muddle of Jacob’s dying benediction. Issachar,
if Jamieson’s commentary on the Old Testament is
to be believed, “ was established in lower Galilee—a
‘good land’ —settling down in the midst of the Canaan-
ites.” In any case, Issachar crouched no crouch. As the
Scripture saith (Genesis xlix., 14) : “ Issachar is a strong
ass, couching down between two burdens.” Furthermore,
the revised version of the same Scripture-Section blows
the Argus clean out to the hinder side of Jfericho by its
more precise translation: “Issachar is a strong, ass,
couching down between the sheep-folds”—out of the
wind and having a good time. He chose to plant him-
self there in order to make a home for Little Bill Issachar
and Mrs. Issachar ; and he had three rectangular meals a
day, and slept in a good bed, and his burdens were light
enough, and his yoke easy, in spite of what the Argus
suggests to the contrary. * And even thus shall it be with
the small farmer who arrives with the aid of a progressive
land-tax in the Canaan of Victoria’s squatter-hogged
Western District.
HOME WITH THE MILK.
JONES (spotting the poker): “Bun quick, my
dear, you've forgotten to leave out the jug! ”
The judicial humorist broke loose with a
shameless pun in Melbourne the other clay. It
was being pointed out by a witness that the
reluctant wife had promised to forgive her
husband if he would pay for a much-coveted
cardinal silk evening frock. “Ah,” murmured
His Honor, “I see. She wanted red-dress.”
Smythesdale, a Victorian village of 464
inhabitants, with just 108 inhabited dwellings
and a few more hanging on to the fringe, got
into the fierce light that beats about a police-
court the other dtty, when the local butcher
wearied of asking for “a trifle off the account.”
Apparently Smythesdale is extra long-winded, or
the flesher is a hasty person ; anyhow, on the last
day of March he sued 98 residents, past and pre-
sent, for money due, and got orders for £350.
Also Costs annexed another £lOO, wherefore
Smythesdale isn’t feeling any too good just at pre-
sent. Even the ten just householders who presum-
ably did pay, or else were vegetarians, couldn’t save
Sodom—that is to say, Smythesdale—from the
wrath of the butcher.
“Shay”: The floating of a Sydney
cookery concern into a big company calls attention
to the increasing consumption of factory-cooked
victuals by town-dwellers. Hundreds of
tea-shops and restaurants are flourishing
on collective or Socialistic cookery.
Then there are the ham-and-beef
and small-goods shops. Hordes of
city workers carry home their
evening meal or supper ready
cooked, and limit their own
cooking to boiling an egg or
1 making a cup of tea. The
Socialistic breakfast-table also
flourishes. Big factories turn
out huge batches or boilings of
ready-cooked breakfast food,
which only require the addition
of boiling water or milk to make
them more or less fit to eat. It
is a question worth considering
whether the decay of personal food
preparation, which ensures fresh-
ness, will tend to improve the phy-
sique of the city dweller. Writer does
not think it will ; speaking from a varied
experience, he believes that a diet of
patent porridge, sausage, and jam tart
does not conduce to either physical or
mental superiority. Another phase of the
subject suggests the possibility of a patent
porridge trust, or a pie, scone, and tart trust,
or a sausage trust. Further combination would
result in a cooked-food combine, controlling
the manufacture and sale of all prepared and
cooked edibles. Knowing how trusts behave,
public necessity would then call for nationalisation
of the monopoly. Then would arrive the Socialis-
tic kitchens, which Reid and Cook and their
friends now laugh at as everlasting impossibilities.
Great is the precision of the Law ! In a
Sydney suburban police court, the other day, an
alleged motor-hog was charged with driving at a
murderous speed across “ the intersection ” of two
streets named in the information. the person
didn’t bother about the truth of the complaint,
but laid his finger, with great vehemence, on the
information, and then produced a map showing
that the two streets didn’t “intersect ” within the
meaning of the dictionary, as intersect means to
“ cut off,” and the two streets didn’t cross each
other, and therefore didn’t cut each other off—one
merely ran as far as the other and then stopped.
The Law positively beamed on this objection, and
cast out the case with a heavy thud. A Court
which is such a whale for accuracy as that is liable
to find the English language full of pitfalls. For
instance, when the bobby, arresting a man for
furious driving, says that he saw the malefactor run
into a tramcar, the Court will, no doubt, pull him
up and tell him that he did nothing of the sort—
that one vehicle’s exterior surface merely came
into contact with the exterior surface of the other
object.
The office mariner writes :
The barque Blenheim staggered into Port Phillip (Vio.)
I last week, and reported that she had been struggling for a
whole fortnight with some insane weather which was
illegal]} 7 ' at large in Bass Straits. Instead of making one
single passage from Devonport (Tasmania) she had made
three. For fourteen days she had been blowing backwards
and forwards between Victoria and Tasmania like a dis-
tracted fowl on a slippery roof, and three times she
had to dig all her claws into the sea to prevent herself
being smashed on the hard Tasmanian coast. The wind
only seems to have eased off when she had reached the
■ extreme edge of the agitated strip of brine, and when
another blast or two would have finished the windy game.
i According to the captain’s story, the Blenheim stole out
of Devonport on March 24, in a calm that was so ill
as to be next door to dead. Two hours later, with
her feathers all turned the wrong way, she was trying
s to scratch off a bad lee shore at Flinders Island. _ A
ii slight change in the wind saved her, and, after heating
3 for four davs, she fought her way across until within
3 sight of the Schank. A course was set for the Heads, but
; the wind suddenly noticed what she was doing, and,
rushing round in front of her, blew her hack to Tasmania
7 with such fury that some of the sails were reduced to
3 remnants and flapped as if 35 insane drapers were
attached to the end of each strip of rag. Two days
of staggering 1 backwards, and once more trie
Blenheim was trying her darndest not to trip
over«the rocks at Flinders Island. She clawed off sonie-
-1 how, and then followed an awful period of seven days, when
all the winds there are lay down like a heap of partially-
fried snakes on the floor of the sea and had convulsions.
There was no use putting up canvas or trying to go any-
where while the fits were on, so the Blenheim people sat
tight in the bucking ship and waited for a sane interval.
Afterwards there was another narrow escape from wreck
on the coast near Launceston, and a long, desperate light
across until Port Phillip Heads were once more in sight.
The captain was actually looking out for the pilot in the
spray and haze, when the wind once more charged down
on the battered Blenheim, and blaster! away until the
coast of Tasmania was again imminent. Through some niis-
understanding with itself, the wind then took a turn for
the better and blew so long in the right direction that the
Blenheim was enabled to rush into Port Phillip and throw
down her anchor before the lunatic element could correct
its mistake.
ONLY A WOMAN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Barnett: Are you the lady who used the horse-
whip? j
Witness (sternly): Yes, lam ; and I'm not a lady. I’m
only a woman.
—Daily paper.
Only a woman ! What pathos dwells
In those simple words ! In yards and ells
Of silks and satins a lady goes,
Rings on her fingers, and openwork hose
On the limbs that terminate in toes ;
She scorns Ihe Woman—
The Female She in the sailor hat,
The Wife and Daughter ! The hussies that
Frisk thro’ life in work-a-day blouses,
How a Lady their rage arouses !
(Oh 1 it makes gloom in poor men’s houses
When a Grand Lady
Sweeps with a madd’ning rustle and swish
Past a Plain Woman, who can but wish,
And thirst, and fume, and worry, and hope
For gorgeous “ things ’’ as she wields the soap ;
She would sell a king or pawn the Pope,
Would the Best Woman,
If her clothes are mean, and a Lady goes
Past her in satin and silken hose !)
Clothes are Women !
And Women are Clothes 1
(“ Only a Woman ” !)
Only a Woman ! Just flesh and blood
Willing to smite with a mighty thud
In the cause of Right. No frocks or frills,
Jewellery, scandals, or unpaid bills.
(’Tis the cheap hat and the broom that kills
The heart in woman /)
Oh ! the clothes they dream, and the hats they think,
As they mop and souse the dismal sink !
Costumes they see as they sweep the hall
Would make La Pompadour reel and fall.
You give her a ten-pound note, that's all!
Then see your Lady !
She’ll show the way to the Smartest Set—
If they want to go that way. You let
Your wife or daughter get off the chain—
She’s got it planned in her busy brain—
If she’s a Woman !
But leave her to cook, and sweep, and dust
Without the money, ah! then she just—
(Clothes are Woman —
And Woman is Clothes)
Remains a Woman. .
N.S.W.
THE DELIRIOUS DRAPER.


Women’s Labour Union.
One hour of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlignt way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the remits, and you
will surely join the Women’s Sunlight
Lrbour Ur : or\
I
Price
16/6
Add 1/- for freight, and
state size when order-
ing: by post.
A Splendid Boot for Winter
THE very best recommendation we can offer
for this serviceable boot is the continuous
repeat orders we receive. The shape is
fashionable, but still not too extreme to displease
conservative dressers. It has the medium width
toe, with slightly extended soles, and is built to
give comfort to the last degree. The material is
Black Box Calf, which polishes brilliantly and
gives all the effect of a bespoke boot.
We can supply in Derby lacing if desired, and
in any size from 5 to 10.
Altogether it is a boot of attractive and correct
Xjroportions and good value at the price.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
A cheerful feature of the recent activity of
the Clerks’ Union in Sydney is the impetus it has
given to the organisation of the clerk in the other
centres of Australasia. One of the first acts
of the Sydney union when it began to feel
its feet was to shove along kindred organi-
sations all over the Commonwealth. It
was a rather heart-breaking business ; but the
recent publication of the Clerks’ Union report,
followed by the wide discussion in the papers, put
vigor into the movement; and during the past few
weeks the union has been rushed with letters
from various corners of Australia announcing the
rapid growth of existing unions, or the intention
of immediately starting new ones. The first letter
of the sort came from Auckland (M.L.); and joy-
ful cheers have been floating in from the country-
town clerks ever since the/newspaper notice taken
of the matter proved that the movement was a
live one.
THE WEAK SPOT.
HATTER: “ Why did that customer walk out? Did
you offend him ?”
ASSISTANT: “No. He asked me to show him a
hat to suit him , and I showed him a soft one.”
“ D.M.W.” writes about the melancholy
sinltage of the steamship Penguin outside Wel-
lington harbor (M.L.) :
“ Landsman ” (B. 4/3/’O9) is misleading in his re-
marks about the Penguin. She was in first-class order,
thoroughly seaworthy, and a favorite boat with those
who knew her best. She had been more than once so
altered and increased in size that there was little left of
the original vessel of 45 years ago, but what little re-
mained was of such good material that she was reckoned
right for another score of years. Many newer boats
were far older than she. With regard to the wreck itself
there is a growing conviction that the Penguin bumped
on a derelict ship, or a snag* or a floating packing-case,
or something in mid-straits. An iron barque has been
seen floating bottom up in various places round the coast,
and as likely as not it was off Terawhiti on the fatal
night. Only in this way can the time taken by the rafts
to drift ashore be accounted for. Assisted by a strong
wind and a powerful current they were several hours
reaching the breakers.
A tale of a mean street wandered into the
South Melbourne Court lately for about the
twentieth time. Years ago a lady who dwells in
Little Page-street conceived herself insulted by a
cabby-neighbor, and the horse-whipping she
handed out was subsequently valued by the Bench
at 10s., or thereabouts. Since then there have
been innumerable court cases between cabby, his
wife, his relations, her relations, and various partis-
ans on one side, and the lady of the whip, her hubby,
his connections, her connections, and sundry bar-
rackers and apologists on the other. In fact, it
looks as though most of Small Page-street dwelt
permanently on its doorstep waiting for any of
the opposing party that happens along. Last
week the cabby faced the Bench as complainant
ina “ language ” case, and his brother-in-law as
defendant in another, and all parties were eventu-
ally run out in disgust and told to pay their own
costs. The police think it may be necessary to
build a wall down the middle of the street to
avoid bloodshed ; but a better pian might be to
erect a stadium round Small Page-street, and sool
both pushes on to a Kilkenny-cat conclusion.
After that the area might be burnt off, and the
landlords told to build a decent avenue thereon,
at their own cost.
* * •* *
The moral reflections of “ Poleaxe ” :
Past the gloomy Sydney office where I spill ink for a
mighty king and an attenuated salary, there comes daily
the Biloela express. Every afternoon the monotonous
rattle of the typewriter and the prattle of the typiste
are broken by the song of the choir invisible. Carefully
protected from prying eyes and the rain which falleth
alike on the drunk and the undrunk, the well-known
shape of Black Maria lumbers down to Fort Macquarie,
and lurches up against the launch which puffingly awaits
its daily cargo of female frailty. The regular, old
“ mother,” who recognises every wave on the journey, and
who, knowing shame, feareth it not; the demi-mon-
daine in her novitiate of corrective methods, who hut
yester-year, with the vine leaves in her hair, seemed a very
Daphne to the young rou&; the poor wretch who<-e hands
but obeyed the dictates of her hunger, and (as Proudhon
would have it) but forcibly restored her own—all these,
and types in plenty more, lift up their voices in song as
the van rolls along. In through my window comes the
sound, and with it comes the question : Of what use ?
Of what use the powers of Wade’s Bills ? Of what use
the Court which grinds round its course, churning out
its unseeing verdicts like a very sausage machine?
What a lesson is conveyed to a thinking mind by the
daily van, the daily singing, the daily journey to the
brick wall! And to-morrow the car will rumble, and the
choir invisible will chant its “Annie Laurie” once more.
* ■* * *
“ Trotters ” writes
Sydney to Melbourne in 12 hours ! The train called tlie
C6te d'Azur Rapide, of the Paris-Lyons-Mediterranean,
goes over 600 miles at an average of 50 miles an hour.
Claimed to be the fastest long-distance express in the
world. I have not the latest figures of the New York and
Chicago lines. The Paris-Bordeaux express averages 5G
miles an hour. The trains of the International Sleeping
Car Cos. wait at Calais and Ostend. Acme of comfort and
luxury. Exclusively of dining, sleeping, and saloon cars
for only first-class. There are 22 of these expresses de luxe
running on the Continent. Passengers restricted to 80 in a
train. Newest cars 70ft. long', weighing 50 tons. Outside
of teak, inside mahogany. Luxuriously fitted, equal to
the best hotels. Hot or cold water. Electric lighting
from a dynamo driven by one of the axles, but gas seems
to be preferred in the most recent. Luggage examined
by Customs officers on the train while running. No
occasion to alight. The most famed of such trains are
the Paris-Berlin-St. Petersburg-Moscow, the Paris-Vienna-
Constantinople, the Berlin-Vienna-Nice-Cannes, the Mos-
cow-Vladivostock, the Paris-Madrid-Lisbon, the Amster-
dam-Berlin-Riviera, the Calais-Riviera, and the Paris-
Rome. The highest Continental speed is in France, where
one of these trains will dash along with a weight of 240
tons. From Paris to St. Quentin, 55 miles, the average
speed is over 60 miles an hour, with the De Bousquet
French locomotives.
» * * *
Melbourne Eight Hours’ Fete committee
is reviving this year the old “Art Union ’’lottery
on the understanding that the profits from the fete
will be divided among the public hospitals.
Apparently the f£te, divested of the lottery, was
a waning attraction. The public
doesn’t rush the shilling tickets of
admission to the show per se, but
will buy them rpadily enough when
the infinitesimal chance of a £SOO
prize is included in the “bob”
investment. Besides there is a
chance, somewhat less infinitesi-
mal, of capturing a smaller prize.
The alternative to the main golden
inducement is a “12 months’trip
round the world, all expenses paid,
and £IOO in cash for incidentals,”
and all that one need do to obtain
this choice of benefits is to buy the
winning ticket for a shilling. Ad-
mission to the Eight Hours’ I)ay fes-
tival is thrown into the bargain, as it
were. Tickets are obtainable from
agents throughout Victoria, or direct
from the secretary of the art union, Mr.
Theo. Heide, of 49 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, who remarks cheerfully that a man
never knows his luck.
“Harrison O.” upon tarts, etc. :
The way of a man with a maid is of infinitely less in-
terest to me than the manner of a bloke with a tart.
When a young man’s fancy turns to woman, he behaves
in much the same manner, whether the said woman is a
tart or a girl. Once, at a swell Society crush at which I
was employed to assist in handing around the ices, I saw
a chap chase a dashing brunette (that is a female who was
born with, or has since acquired, black hair, etc.)
for about an hour until he got the chance to remark :
“Beastly crush, haw, what?" He hoped that this would
be considered equivalent to an introduction. It was
rather unfortunate that the brunette happened to be the
daughter of the hostess.
In much the same way have I seen Henry and Albert
(who barrack for “ Sowth ”) walking the streets together,
in the rear of Elizabeth and Ermyntrude; making the
while witty observations and rapturous ejaculations in
the hope of attracting the attention . of the alluring
feminine goods. In the end, the ladies (after struggling
vainly to repress their laughter at the witty sallies of the
humorists in the rear, who are bent upon “hooking”
them) generally throw up the sponge and throw down the
glove simultaneously, so to speak, by saucily observing,
“Cheese it J” Having been thus formally introduced,
Henry pairs off with Elizabeth, and Albert with Ermyn-
trude, and life for them is, for a time, made up of
chocolate" creams, picture postcards, and endearing
adjectives. Often, though, the maid is the hooker and
the man t>c-hooked. At another high-class function, at
which T was employed as doorkeeper, I saw an ing&nue
(which is French, and means a kissable little bit of goods
with fluffy yellow hair) deliberately drop her handker-
chief so that a man, whom she was desirous of annexing,
was forced to pick it up—which incident expanded itself
into a betrothal, a breach-of-promise suit, and a music-
hall engagement.
The Collingwood tart who wishes to be hooked is every
hit as subtle as the Toorak damsel, who, when annexed
and married, often turns out to be a sell. Liza’s method
is to bump violently into the male of her choice, and
apologise for so doing. There is really nothing that so
quickly leads to intimacy as an artistic apology. I once
knew a tart whose apology was always worth “ two bob ”
of Blandolt, a tram ride, and a bottle of scent to her,
and the best part of a week’s wages to the person whom
she had bumped and apologised to.
It is most important that anything in the
nature of food should be manufactured amidst
the cleanest and most healthy conditions obtain-
able. This fact is fully realised by Messrs.
Cadbury, who have built at Bournville a
model village and factory in which to prepare
“Bournville” Cocoa, the purest and best of
liquid foods.*
The usual illegal practitioner has just been
sentenced, at Adelaide, .to five years’ imprison-
ment, with tough labor, for “using a certain
instrument” on a girl. It is impossible to feel
any sympathy for the clumsy, illegal, and often
illpaid lout who “ uses a certain instrument,” but
when it is noted that he was convicted solely on
the evidence of the girl who had asked him to do
the deed, one feels that she didn’t “play the
game.” The two elements in such a case are the girl
who asks that a certain illegal thing shall be done
and the person who does it. She is demand and
he is supply. She pays a comparatively small
sum and he risks his comparatively useless neck.
It is a conspiracy, but one conspirator is punish-
able and the other isn’t. It would be 1000 times
simpler if the State furnished a maternity home
at which the prospective mother would be
received without any questions asked, and where
(unless she chose to volunteer information) she
would be simply put down as Mrs. Smith, except
when she preferred to call herself something else;
and if the State supplied an orphanage where her
child would be received, if the mother couldn’t
take it away with her, and where, also, no ques-
tions would be asked. Such an arrangement
would at least tend to save the cost of five years’
board and lodging for the unpleasant parasite upon
society who “ uses a certain instrument.”
* •* * *
“F.” writes:—
You say (B. S/4/’O9) that “ Sydney is one of the most
dangerous places on earth for pedestrians.” Surely the
writer of that statement cannot have been in either
Christchurch or Wellington (M.L.), or he’d never have put
Sydney anywhere near (let alone in) the front rank of
dangerous cities. In these two places every hobbledehoy,
every second leggy girl and one-half of the male toilers
ride bikes, and one-third, at least, of the business men
run about in motor-cars. So ever-present is the danger
from the sneaking, silent, insidious bike that' a
Maorilander can be picked out, even in a Syd-
ney crowd, by the furtive trick he has acquired
of looking swiftly and apprehensively over his
shoulder as he steps off a kerb to cross a road. In Wel-
lington the wheels swarm, but in Christchurch they are
countless, and at the hours when the workers are rushing
to or from business the streets cannot be crossed with
anv degree of safety. Elderly people, cripples and old
ladies often have to wait many minutes for a chance to
ford the rushing stream, and nervous folk actually refuse
to go out into the streets at all during- the rush hours.
“ John Tar ” writes :
The infernal racket like unto a mixture of stage-
thunderstorm and Chinese New Yeag that happened or*
Sydney Harbor on a recent morning was explained by
S. M. Herald in its next issue. The flagship Pa’h’f’l, it.
seems, had returned from somewhere or other, and the-
row meant that the forts and the visiting French
warship Kersaint were saluting the British Admiral’s
flag. The Herald further recorded that the German ship
Condor also saluted Admiral Poore’s tablecloth—but
added darkly that it did so “after considerable delay.”
Put that way, the episode looked decidedly ominous, and
Heaven only , nows what might have happened to those
placid old gem.-men who write the Dreadnought letters
if the bottom ha- n’t suddenly tumbled out of the seem-
ing “ insult to Britain.” It appears that under the inter-
nationally-observed naval regulations a warship only
salutes a foreign Admiral’s flag once during the same com-
mission, and as the Condor blazed off courteously at
Admiral Poore’s bit of calico some time last year, it just
can’t waste any more powder on the same subject at
present. The bombardment which the Condor performed
“ after considerable delay” therefore wasn’t a salute to
Admiral Poore’s flag at all (as the Herald thought);
it was a personal salute to the Admiral himself, when,
after getting his own anchor down and sprucing him-
self up a bit after his voyage, he came aboard to say a
friendly “howdy” to the German commander. But.
the Herald didn’t know.
m * * *
Melbourne is having a little building boom—
mostly of the persuasion thatis Queen Anne in froirs
and King Jeremiah at the back. No less than 750
new premises have been registered with the Board
of Works during the first three months of this
year. If they were to be occupied by newcomers
to the State it would be something to be joyful
about (even the King Jeremiah back might be
overlooked in that case) ; but, unfortunately, the
majority of the new arrivals are merely driven in
by the big landlord from the country, or by the
depression from the goldfields, and;thus an already
overcrowded city is becoming more overcrowded,
and the State is growing more like a tadpole than
ever.
Gentlemen who wish to look; smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs' entrance from
George or King Streets).*
QUEUE AND CUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr Won«•, Chinese Consul in Wellington, addressed the
Methodist "Conference this afternoon.— Maoriland press
item,.
The Methodist Conference .views with alarm the in-
creasing number of billiard saloons throughout the
Dominion. — Ibid.
The Methodist Conference views with alarm the kiss of
the white and red,
The dark green cloth and the chalky cue are things of
shame and dread ;
Rut never a hint of wrath or fear, or a shadow of coming
wrong,
Is felt when the Methodist whiskers wag in a welcome to
Mr. Wong.
The Methodist Conference views with joy the kiss of the
yellow arid whjte,
And the swing of a Christian pigtail fills its soul with a
deep delight ;
Celestial visions before its eyes, the heaven it sighs for
now
Is a pavement of gold ’neath the pleasant shade of the
wings of an angel Chow.
An awful thing is a billiard-room, and a dreadful weapon
the cue,
Sie how the bolt of wrath is hurled, one ball to cannon
on two,
Observe how the greedy pocket gapes like the very
mouth of Hell,
And the Sheol-smoke of a cheap cigar is full of the brim-
stone smell.
A beautiful thing is a Mr. Wong, with his eloquent,
saffron smile,
Ilis queue is a token of holy joy with never a hint of
guile ;
But hack of the beautiful speech he makes is a dream of
the Hying shell,
Hard-bound for the porch of the Methodist Church, with
a different tale to tell.
Oh, strange are the methods of Methodist men in weigh-
ing the queue and cue.
Though old as folly and half as wise are , the things they
say and do ;
'While they strain at the gnat of a white man’s game and
swallow the camel whole,
'Fooled with the thinnest of Asian wiles in their dream of
a pig-tailed soul.
'Some day will your Methodist chin-mats wag in the hour
of Hell and hate,
And the burthen of all your prayers shall be, “ May the
White Man’s guns shoot straight! ”
/When the dreams ye dreamt are quenched in blood, and
the hopes ye hoped go wrong,
Ye shall think of the beautiful afternoon when ye list-
ened to Mr. Wong.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
SHIPS THAT PASS INTER NICHT
[For The Bulletin.]
/If the furrowed tracks of the grey old globe
v-V They drift in the casual view,
With the scented sweep of a silken robe.
And the click of a high-heeled shoe;
Where the arc-lamps mock the sorrowing stars,
With a fierce relentless light.
They breast the tide of the city bars —
The ships that pass in the night.
N.s.W.
The dainty frigate , in filmy lace,
With a rosebud at her throat;
The heavy "tramp” with an evil face
That plies in the paths remote ;
The cruiser belted in shining gold,
With her clean run lines and slight;
The derelict battered and worn and old —
The ships that pass in the night.
HORACE HALLORAN.


The Bulltin.
'to
down
oj- Course
V_£
ft«CA“Se porfAielb Cpu*tti| rejected K,e offer of ainumber of tnoported
lv«|>vSf|?/’ < WZ-"- -y,V
Km&* XW K' 6 ®', : //dk\ X X
DutonO* Hie wsh«cJlVe fme s
e >) ** offence of «>*
flllltln . S e y
»* s‘'^'" Y, es % r «* 4r /
W of *>*
U/*y,\ fcJX
*r
"Th«v could "hakve bee*i sef"u|j
► iV» the
ssye Hie yourfis fr«">
out' of /
fi'e s i d>vj \ - w l^P'
" j c&h undent' nr >^ v » ri* rm 1
or ) 1?Mt" Sch*<*frfrS>
II
Ik c v^ e ri
life re\ \
'to I>e N
S''V)M.? i f VTe6«S |
A\iui°n .
Yav.
"ll&d iTie+' > v>
!l op Tjjt V r ie.r ( >r'ijvn Homec,
fill I \or w'oh Id r> t"
T?ee>-> discover*
dsoic-ing o*> "in* Koop'
\ Of"
<!?UHi!2 Vs " i s w ' sV,,+
"Eityty west'A.ugt? scbool-lM
boys a^re
'tow*' line. £^ler«7
S'fa'tei . s
" isn't" *
Mk,
f&,»- I i nK
Y/h*+- is \
*- A *•
soi>>e jf>eopU Ij&y'e-'
bee»> very ■/O'y
k fc&re, sorry -por if"►7®'*', jflj
■V V7<?
do s° y*
illßlV *1 cr ’ ,? ' JjH m
, !\(ut^U
Qo*
Dudley
"t^mKs
2°° •$ t lo'T”
| "to be.
I wor-Hfy °p dv
BhKe
>ydney
Avi d.
b I o|-
1/ spet’wjeiij
.... wtofr'T’nj
''fi’jev'e V’*' A dojcn
(\ wif?j *io <^ 6
SOME REASONS WHY PARLIAMENT SHOULD MEET AT ONCE.


Try a
“WOLFE”
The beverage
that benefits.
and Soda.
“Fx&R” Watch
Unrivalled.
We received the following last week about one of our
“Fx & R ” Watches:—“l bought a watch from you
about nine years ago. It might interest you to know the
result. It went the whole nine years without stopping.
The hands were set right once a year only. It was never
live minutes’ wrong in the whole time. It lost just two
minutes during the last 12 months. With these facts
comments would be superfluous.”
These watches are specially made to meet Australian
wear.
They are jewelled throughout (15 jewels).
They are f-plate Levers.
They have expansion balances.
We unhesitatingly say they are the strongest and most
profoundly accurate Watch the world produces at a
low price.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures!
Cash. J
23 Hunter Street
InGent.’sOxi-
dised Metal
Open Pace
Case, Lever
movement,
.t***Od f
(.ONOON
15 jewels,
33/=
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“XXX”: In B. 11/3/’O9 “F.C.” asks
about indigenous shade trees. My vote goes
solidly for the currajong. It is a compact little
tree, and owns a straight trunk and a beautiful
bunchy top. It can be obtained anywhere almost.
It grows well and quickly if pulled out by the
roots while young, and bears transplantation. Its
uniformity in growth renders it a magnificent
avenue tree, and it is an evergreen.
A SAD CASE.
“Eat? I’ve ’ad nothin’ to eat for a week. My
wife’s a brute. I got her three places to wash at,
and I'm d-d if she’ll do a thing!”
“D.M.W.”: I don’t believe in.“ Agr-
icola’s ” theory of sea-breeding eels (B. 4/3/’O9).
Years ago I found eels as small and thin as a
Freetrader’s argument side by side with others as
big as the noise the Freetrader makes, and this
was many miles from the sea. That the very
small ones, much less than 3in. in length, should
have travelled a long distance before burying
themselves a foot deep in inland mud, I shouldn’t
believe if old Herodotus came and said it again.
Accuracy of observation wasn’t a strong point
with Herodotus, anyhow, and though as a Dago
he should have known something of fish, who is
to say that eels haven’t learned a thing or two
during the 20-odd centuries the old pagan hasn’t
been watching? They ought to have. Will
“ Agricola” kindly nominate some place that, in
the eel sense, is not in communication with the
sea. If I say that they increase and multiply in a
small inland pool, some mighty liar will be ready
to swear that he saw swarms of them walking over
from the ocean one evening after tea.
“Dandalup” : In reply to “Milky White”
(B. 25/3/’O9) re the speed of bush fires. As I
pointed out in a previous par, the speed of a fire,
especially where there is dense green under-
growth, is mainly along the tops of the trees,
which, in comparison with the aforesaid under-
growth, have become like tinder under the blaze
of a Gippsland summer sun. I again asseverate
that the speed of a fire in green bush is at
from half to three-quarters the velocity of the
impelling breeze. Were I in front of such a
travelling crematorium, where the undergrowth
is as green and as dense as the State’s Deform
party, I would scarcely care to amble cheerfully
ahead at the stupendous velocity of three miles in
two hours ! In conclusion, allow me to solemnly
point out to “ Milky White ” that a hot wind has
no more effect on the speed of a fire than a Polar
blizzard. I have seen a fire travelling at over 40
miles an hour through silver-grass country (W.A.),
propelled by a breeze or gale or zephyr that was
capable of freezing Iceberg Irvine into a real
berg, and coating Cook’s whiskers with eternal
icicles.
* * * *
“ Snake ” : In reply to H. Stockdale
(B. 28/l/’O9). I got the carved stick which I
described at Kookynie (Westralia) from a mem-
ber of the Pendinnie tribe. I have since inquired
as to the origin of the symbol. It is called locally
the “mummy-mummy,” and is used (according
to the nigs.) at the man-making ceremony, which
takes place when the candidate to be initiated
attains the age of 25. How it is used the heathen
don’t explain. The ends of my implement were
bluntly rounded, and there was no hole in it, so it
could not have been a whirler. The stick had
been buried without any covering, as it was
covered with red dirt, a circumstance which led to
its identification by the colored deputation. In
connection with the five snakes carved on one
side, you have only to stand in front of a gin and
make a pass with the fingers describing the curve
of the snakes, and whisper the words “ bulli
bulli,” and that ebony beguiler will think of an
important engagement elsewhere. The words
“bulli bulli” lend color to the idea that the
“ mummy mummy ” is a relative of the bull-
roarer. Since reading H. Stockdale’s reply I
have tried to find another member of our black
brotherhood who is open to corruption, but appar-
ently there are no more sacred implements in the
market.
* * • *
“ Henry Phelthatt ” : Pension day in the
worn-out mining localities generally reveals some
queer old characters. At a village near here one
ancient fossicker turns up at the post office at
three in the morning. He explains that in 1853
he missed a good claim at Hargraves through
being a bit late, and he isn’t taking any more
risks. Another presents himself with bowyangs,
pick, shovel, and dish, and Matilda in all her
splendor. “ The old lady hates bein’ left in the
hut be herself,” he says. A third always pro-
duces an old family Bible, which contains a state-
ment that he (or somebody else) was born in 1837,
and is, therefore, over 65. One poor old fellow,
who has been afflicted with mulgamania, regu-
larly leaves a small parcel of carved sticks, to be
forwarded to the Government in return for its
generosity. The queerest of them all, though, is
the old chap who is, or imagines he is, a Mason,
and thinks the fraternity provides his 10s. a week.
He carries the artisan’s square and compass with
him, and, in gratitude, has the symbol of the
brotherhood worked on his clothing.
* * * *
“ Alpar ” : A Jamberoo (N.S. W.) gentle-
man was out rather late the other night, and, re-
turning to the giddy township, he was
horrified to find, lying on the road ahead of
his moke and trap, an outsize in tigers. It
“sprang into the air,” turned a couple of
somersaults, and behaved altogether in
a disorderly fashion calculated to cause
a breach of the peace. The fact has
been duly recorded in the S. M. Herald,
and the people of the Illawarra district
are more badly scared than when they
heard that Germany had designs on the
British Empire. The gentleman, who is
religious, swears that the beast he saw was
a tiger; but certain sceptics reckon it
must have been somebody’s fatted calf out
on the burst (nothing is more terrible than
a calf on the burst), or the spirit of the
late Terragong Swamp bull, which is
known to return nightly to that reclaimed
part of the Commonwealth to shed tears of
sorrow for the good old times when he,
with his many wives, wallowed there-
abouts. Other low-down individuals talk
freely of distilleries and such-like. So
much ridicule is generally levelled at
gentlemen who see tigers, that, when my
turn comes, I shall certainly not mention
the animal to any body. And yet, if a
man finds a herd of wild elephants tear-
ing up Redfern, or anything like that, it
is his bounden duty to warn his neighbors.
Really, one never knows just what it is
best to do under certain circumstances.
Victoria’s irrigation expert, Elwood Mead,
lately found four men at Castlemaine who set a shin-
ing example to landholders in the Northern irri-
gated districts, and who might also serve as a text
for Prime Minister Fish er when he preaches hisland -
tax sermon. These four battlers cultivate the
barren hillsides of the old goldfield by means of
water from existing races, for which they pay
255. per foot-acre. One has seven, one nine, one
12, and the other 18 acres under cultivation, and
they are not only maintaining themselves and
their families, but also giving employment to six
or seven men. By manuring and intense cultiva-
tion they grow three crops a year—maize, millet,
potatoes, lucerne, cabbages, carrots, etc. The
18-acre man started nine years ago with a month’s
wages as capital. To-day he has a brick house and
an improved property, and the size of the improve-
ments can be partly judged by the fact that he has
£7OO worth of irrigation pipes. Meanwhile, the
Rodney landowners won’t use the water the State
has brought them—at 20s. per foot-acre—and the
Western district landlords won’t cultivate their
land, or let anyone else do it, even though it
doesn’t need any artificial watering.
“Pick”: Wire-netting is not the only
obstruction which acts as a death-trap to birds,
any more than it is the only thing Deform poli-
ticians will steal. At Gobarralong, on theMurrum-
bidgee, wild ducks are often killed by collision
with the telegraph wires. The blacks from
Brungle Aborigines Station observed this, and
clutched a wrinkle therefrom. Helping them-
selves from any handy fence, they fasten wires
from tree to tree across the Big Trickle. Then,
when a mob of ducks approaches on the wing,
they imitate the cry of a hawk and whirl
boomerangs on high, and thus cause the birds to
swoop into the wires. Afterwards they gather
the dead, and dine.
BUSH HOSPITALITY.
MRS. BOOLIGAL: “ Won’t
you come inside an’ sit down?
There’s only Billy at home.”
“ Nomadic ” writes from Alice Springs, in
the innards of this great country :
Re the piece of carved mulga mentioned by “ Snake ”
and Harry Stockdale (B. 7 and 28/l/’O9). The churinga
of Central Australian blacks is not nearly the size
(18in. x 4Jin.) mentioned by “ Snake.” His implement is
probably some corroboree symbol, but is certainly not the
roarer of the Central Australian blacks. A specimen
which I send to Tiie Bulletin is 9in. x lin. x Jin., and is
the only article of the roarer type used by the bucks in
intimidating the gins. It certainly sounds weird to the
camper when heard in the silence of the night, in the
region of Central Mount Stuart, where my specimen came
from. My instructions from the buck who presented it
to me were whispered; it was for male observance only.
Something unheard of would happen to the gin that
caught a glimpse of it. I have shown it to many gins,
and they still survive. There are many Abo. articles that
gins must not see, notably the kladytcha boots worn
bv the bucks when they are on a murdering expedition.
These are made, for the top part, of hair and ’possum fur,
and for the bottom part of emu down. It is impossible
to track a nigger who is wearing these boots. If Mr.
“ Snake ” or Mr. Stockdale would care for a specimen of
a real roarer, decorated with human hair, I will be pleased
to forward him one, especially if he lives in Brighton
(Vic.). He could then try to drown the roar of Bent.
Directions for use are : Take hold of the string and swing
the stick round in the air, with a quick downward motion,
each time increasing the momentum. Then the thing will
roar.
* * * *
“ 00100 ” ; “ Polstan ” and I, whilst on a
shooting expedition, emptied the few drops of
Australian beer that we could spare in the neigh-
borhood of a regiment of ants that had come to
clean up after our lunch. About one-tenth of a
second served to make that sWarm the most
deplorably drunken community I ever saw. The
first to fall was a big, raw-boned chap—a Scotch-
man, I think. He made a feeble pretence of
sobriety. He was solemn, and stopped in his
wanderings every now and then to rebuke other
ants for whistling. Another ant was hilarious.
He brandished a small stick in his tentacles, and
said he had a brother who was a priest. Judkins
was there, and kept running in and out of the
drunks, and smelling in all the gutters. He
was organising a group of Wesleyan ants into
“spotters” in front of a piece of bread that had
been soaked in beer, when my dissolute com-
panion picked him up on a twig and dropped him
into the beer. He came out very chastened, and
took about 40 steps (that is giving him 10 legs,
which may be more or less), and then he dropped
dead. A big Cornish ant (still sober, as he had
just come out of the mine) picked up the deceased
and carted him home. Whether it was for pure
charity or for the beer smell neither “Polstan”
nor I could decide. This yarn may look tall, but
it is all true, except that I can’t be certain of the
name of Judkins. Neither of us thought of ask-
ing until it was too late.
“Fraulein”: “Janor” is astray anent
the black cockatoo’s weather-predicting methods,
It is only when the sable fowl takes long flights in
certain directions, and screeches as it goes, that
bushmen assert that rain is nigh. I learned this
first one shearing time, many years ago. We
were at dinner, and a flock of cockatoos flew past
dreadnoughting wildly. Straightway half the
diners rushed out. They returned, observing,
“ It’s all right; the black cockatoos are flying
south. Bound to be fine.” And it was. When
they fly north, look out for squalls. It is only
black cockatoos who know anything about the
weather. White ones are in this regard hopeless
ignoramuses.
The Australasian Leather Trades
Review for this March reproduces four interest-
ing photos, of an alligator farm in California.
One shows the artificial hatchery; another an
alligator shooting the chute which is provided for
the recreation of the scaly ones. The third photo,
shows a young lady feeding old Joe, a pet 15ft.
long, and supposed to be 200 years old. The
fourth picture reveals the young lady standing
right in the midst of about a dozen live alligators
ready for the market, and between sft. and 6ft.
long. The alligators are variously sold. Some
are for parks and gardens. In regard to the dead
specimens, alligator furniture has developed into
a flourishing trade, the stuffed creature being
deftly fashioned into quaint articles. The skins
and teeth are utilised in many ways. The egg-
incubator is similar to that used for chickens, but
on a much greater scale. The temperature is
maintained to 80 degrees. Hardly any of the
eggs fail. The reptiles are fed with waste meat
from the packing yards.
DESPERATION.
“ Hello, Maud, you seem worried this mornin’.”
“Yes, I’m financially embarrassed, an don’t
know whether to pawn my diamonds or marry
for money.”
JUST OFF THE ICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lieutenant Shackleton expresses a profound admiration
for Professor David’s work. He had the greatest trouble
to restrain him from doing too much, and during the long
Antarctic nights the Professor denied himself sleep in
order to have more time to devote to specimens. He
cheerfully took his share in performing the menial tasks,
and was always optimistic and cheerful. —One daily paper.
It was some minutes before the cheering subsided suf-
ficiently for Professor David to respond. He thanked
them for the welcome accorded him, discounted his
bravery, and paid a high tribute to Lieutenant Shackleton.
Lieutenant Shackleton was a scientist as well as a
geographer. On one occasion, when observations could
not be taken by one of the party, he read them at
great risk to himself. In every way he was an ideal
leader, never sparing himself. His 99 miles in three
days on a sledge showed what a heroic man he was—
indeed, heroic was too tame ; it was divine.— Another
daily paper.
"Just o£E the ice, the compliments are passed
Backwards and forwards o’er the festive board,
When brave adventurers come home at last
And to a joyous people are restored.
When in the ice, Professor David faced
(Says Shackleton) the daily tasks and mean,
And wrestled manfully in that drear waste
With soap and candles, tea and kerosene.
The daily problem of the billy he
Solved with dry sticks, and unremitting care,
Until, Cold Reader, by that frozen sea
A heap of flames amazed the roving bear.
Sometimes, when blizzards blizzed, there’d come a shout
From Shackleton—snow-bound within a cave—
And drowsy seals would, in Antarctic doubt,
Pause when they heard, “ Don’t wash those plates up,
Dave!”
Of course, Dave did. His nature ’twas to do
His work, where’er he was. “I do not crave
A comrade more reliable or true ! ”
(This summarises Shackleton on Dave.)
(Now this is Dave on Shackleton): “To say
He is a hero is too tame. Indeed!
He is divine 1 He showed us all the way.
An ideal man to cheer, command and lead 1
“He never spared himself. He always set
A good example. As an Oxford Don,
I really think that Shackleton will yet
Be canonised.” (Thus Dave on Shackleton.)
Hurrah 1 frank heroes from the berg and pack,
Who, with flushed cheeks, and honest, sparkling eyes,
Keep pounding on each other’s noble back !
We love this gay Antarctic exercise !
N.S.W
THE BULLETIN'S RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Hotel
A u&trnlin —,
TARIFF :
From 12/6 per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of. air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.'.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for .Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND (COLD WATER in all rooms day
and'night.,'
LIFTS run nib" day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
fds
ś
f
YOU CAN CLIMB
TO THE TOP!
where there's always ‘plenty
ol . room," by equipping
yourself with our courses of
POSTAL Instruction
in Shorthand, Bookkeeping,
Penmanship, Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching is thorough, no
stereotyped methods; every-
thing made simple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
Irom the most capable
experts in Australasia.
Send lor " H 01 "* Study,’
dfs
STOTT &i HOARDS
BUSINESS COLLEGE
No need any more to be. ill,
Because there’s a wonderful Pill,
Ever-growing in fame.
Laxo-Tonic its name,
The summit of medical fame.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10M. and Is. 6d,'
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties,' Bull
Fights, Aragonese
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain)*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“Leo Lear” : Re the silting of the
Glenelg River, in Victoria (B. 11/3/’O9). Any
person who travels through the Wanhon District
can see the cause of the damage. I refer to the
wash-outs in the rich black-soil gullies. It is not
so many years since there was hardly a single
wash-out in any of the watercourses. Then sheep
made small pads, which in wet weather became
natural drains. Once the crust of the soil was
disturbed, it commenced to break away faster
than the average Victorian politician deserted
Bent in the days when the fat man was sinking,
and in the course of a few years an immense wash-.
out took the place of good grass. Some of these
chasms—you can call them by no other name—
are enormous, and the earth shifted must run into
thousands of cubic feet. You can see this process
going on at the present day. Now all this silt runs
into the Glenelg, and no wonder the deep holes
are filling up. During the winter mojnths I have
seen the ocean discolored off Capes Bridgewater
and Nelson (near Portland) from the flood waters
of the Glenelg. Victoria is not only losing men
but valuable soil through sheep. In fact, it is
losing itself. Probably it is only a question of
time and enough sheep, and all Victoria will wash
away, and the ocean will come right up to Echuca
and Albury.
RATHER LIKED THE LOOK OF IT.
THE WEARY ONE (thoughtfully): “ Well , there
must be worse games than soldiering, after
all. Them fellers has been lying there most
of the day.”
THE QUALITY OF MERCY.
NEIGHBOR: “ Bless me, remember he's your husband. Show the poor man some consideration,
Mrs. Brash."
MRS. BRASH: “ And ain’t I showin' him some consideration? Ain’t I only usin’ the handle?”
“ Dandalup ” : “ Gilrooney’s ” remarks
(B. 18/3/’O9) re luck in gold-prospecting remind
me of how some of Westralia’s fields were dis-
covered. Thirty-one years ago, at Mallina, a boy
named Witbnall picked up a stone to throw at a
crow. Something glittered in the sun ; and the
boy guessed gold. He told his brother, with the
result that two reefs were found. A rush set in,
and that’s how Pilbarra came to life. Withnall
was rewarded by the Government for the accident.
It was only want of grass and water for their
horses that made Bayley and Ford turn
out of their tracks towards a native well—
Coolgardie—where they accidentally picked
up some rich slugs, and afterwards discovered
a reef which plunged a good deal of the
world into excitement. Then Kalgoorlie—
Pat Hannan and Tom Flannagan set out
from Coolgardie for Mount Youle with a
party of prospectors. They had not gone
far when the scarcity of water began to be
felt The party camped while the teams
went back for water; and for two days
they were squatting on top of the richest
bit of earth in Westralia. Meantime
heavy rain fell, and the men, minus
Hannan and Flannagan, who stayed behind,
pushed on towards their destination. Their
horses had strayed, so Flannagan went to
look for them. While doing so, he picked
up several nuggets. He induced Hannan
to stay and try his luck, and in a few
months the world began to talk about the
wealth of the “ Golden Mile.” The greatest
sensation of those strenuous days was the
finding of the Londonderry by six weary
prospectors, returning to Coolgardie after
having been out for months without raising
a color. They camped together—as they ex-
pected, for the last time—about 11 miles
from the town. Next morning the unex-
pected happened. One of the mates stumbled
over a quartz outcrop. In one day they got
IGOOoz. ; in' a week 50000 z., including “Big
Ben 2401 b. of almost solid gold. The
claim was afterwards sold to Lord Fingall
for £lBO,OOO and one-sixth interest. It was
floated in London with a capital of £700,000;
was jumped ; then wprjced, but without success,
as the “good gold” suddenly cut out. Such-is
the luck of the game.
“Pole-axe”: “Agricola” says eels only
occur where the sea has access to their swampy
habitat. If “ Agrie.” had been out at the Sydney
suburban racecourse now called Victoria Park
when it was in process of formation, he could have
had his stock of information and eels largely aug-
mented. Practically half this course was a good
specimen of the Irish bog. On top was the real
peat, varying in thickness from 4in. or sin. (that’s
where you fell in) to perhaps 4ft. Underneath
was ooze, and therein, far away from the sea and
away from,all else, there dwelt thousands of eels.
Bushels of them were taken away during the
draining operations, and eel was on tap in the
whole district of Zetland every evening at the
vesper meal. Can my friend the Husbandman
crawl over this upsetting fact ?
The river Murray is absolutely shut up at
present. Two light-draught steamers that got
up to Renmark lately are stuck there, waiting for
a talked-of rise far away up the Darling. There
are bags of wheat almost uncountable lying about
on the Murray banks in S.A.. and the reason for
that State’s fierce support of Navigation as against
Irrigation begins to be obvious. But even South
Australia’s present hardship doesn’t alter the fact
that railways are an effective substitute for navi-
gation, while no effective substitute at all has yet
been discovered for irrigation in the Australian
inlands. Navigation implies a tremendous volume
of water running out to waste itself in the sea ;
and Australia hasn’t so much water that it can
spare any for that sort of tiling.
“ S.S.S.” (who is a girl of Carpentaria) :
The stone fish is a Fearsome Thing. It is rather
less than the size of a man’s hand, with embryonic
horns and a body fledged with bristles. It lurks
gruesomely in shallow reef pools, and sears un-
wary feet like to the pains of Hell. The Jap man
is something of a stoic, but I’ve heard him howl
in utter agony for hours after a stone fish had
stung him. One of our local aboriginal sports is
snake-spearing. It is sudden and full of thrill.
Last year I stayed at Trubanaman, in the Carpen-
taria country. One dawn ten embryonic bucks,
bristling with little hunting darts, clutched me by
the skirt and led me, unsuspeetant, to the lagoon
edge. They gave me a weapon and showed me
how to search the reed tussocks. I thought we
were after water-fowl, or alligatdr eggs, and so I
thrust, thriftily. Suddenly a father of snakes
shot out, and simultaneously got spiked. Snake
was the reason of our expedition. The murky
kiddies wanted snake for breakfast. I didn’t. It
was hot. I went home.
* * » *
“B.” : The mofcor-canoes that make the first
stage of the trip from Tautnaranui to Wanganui
(Maoriland), down the Wanganui River, are re-
markable passenger craft. They are actually Maori
wakas (dug-outs) with clinker sides. These wakas
hold out where a modern boat would go to pieces.
One of the dug-outs in question is said to be over
100 years old—the oldest Maori inhabitant of Tau-
maranui says it was on the river when his great-
grandfather was thereabouts. It is claimed that
the Tilikum, the Canadian dug-out brought to
Australasia by Captain Voss, and now in England,
converted into a motor-canoe, is the first motor-
canoe in the world. However, when Voss was
actually on the Wanganui in his Tilikum, long
before its conversion, Harris, of Tautnaranui,
launched a motor-canoe with an engine of 3h.p.,
so the Tilikum’s claim is a long way off the mark.
The only kuri dug-out on the river is the Paranui,
and how it came on the Wanganui is a mystery,
because there is no kuri timber in the locality.
These wakas are fully sin. thick in the part that
strikes the river bed when negotiating rapids.
For the everyday work on the Wanganui the
ancient creation of the Maori absolutely licks the
modern boat ought of sight. However, unless the
white man takes it into his. head to make dug-outs
on similar lines to the Maori’s work, the art will
become entirely extinct,-because the present day
Maori has already lost it along with other arts and
crafts. The Maori is quite content to sit and
watch the white man toil. “ Pakeha, him dam fool,
make road, railway, me ride on him ” -these
are Jack Maori’s sentiments.
DROUGHT.'
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For a whole week no rain has fallen.— Maoriland news
item.
Monday was fine o’er all our sun-parched shore,
We said, “ A drought is on the shimmering plain.
Must we be liquidless for evermore?”
Alas, no rain, no rain !
Tuesday was hot; the flowers were parched and sere,
We saw the pumpkins languish in slow pain,
There scarce was moisture left to shed a tear—
Alas, no rain, no fain !
On Wednesday did the trees begin to pine,
The willows by the shrunken stream were slain,
Fiercely unwinking did the white sun shine—
Alas, no rain, no rain !
On Thursday we betook ourselves to prayer—
Our eyes and hands we lifted up in vain.
The (ields were brown, the mountains burnt and bare—
Alas, no rain, no rain !
On Friday all the wells at last went dry,
And fiery vapors hid the circling main ;
The fishes in the lakes began to fry—
Alas, no rain, no rain !
On Saturday we washed ourselves in beer—
Tlie little beer that did to us remain ;
And over all the land was deadly fear—
Alas, no rain, no rain !
On Sunday hope was dead within the breast,
The burden of our plaint was heard again,
The thickly-uttered cry from throats oppressed—
“ Alas, no rain, no rain ! ”
Oh, for a foot of liquid clear and bright
To flush the pipes arid fill the gurgling well—
Hoorah ! Our prayers are answered, and to-night
It’s going to rain like Hell.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A r o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name o.nd
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.YV.P. : The story that ends with the old
device of the tale-teller’s wife digging him in the ribs,
and asking him what horrible things he is dreaming
about, suffers under a heavy handicap. The other doesn’t
read true... Rata Vine: Doesn’t climb high enough.
And that particular bard is a real bush bard, anyhow.
... Aus. Navy : Thanks; but you’ll see the matter has
been dealt with by stronger hands Flamingo : Very
tame and untidy—more like Moulting Hen, in fact....
M.E.11.P.: No good at riddles, so give your poem up.
.... Jesmond : Yes, but you shouldn’t have tried to rhyme
“jaw” and “door” when The Bulletin once answered
you with the word of sweetness... .Louis M. : Graceful,
but hackneyed.... Kelpie : “Outback” doesn’t score;
but keep going—you’ve got good rhyming qualities....
Newsboy : You’ve got little hope until you can put into
one line what now crawls laboriously through a dozen....
Ally E. : Jest re “baby boy” is, like most humorous
efforts on this topic, very, very old M. Twang: You
are not a new humorist. Far from it. Your style was
employed by the patter comedians of the time of
Psammeticus, of Egypt.... G.B.H. : “ Round the Coast ”
is good geography, but indifferent verse... F.R. : “ Auld
Lang Syne ” is not the sort of poem we like ; there are
too many heart throbs in it A.L.Y.: Your friend
Murphy is but a variant on Mr. Dooley. He spits more
than Dooley; on the other hand, he is less amusing
D. Kellock : Go and get your eyes read. So far as State
Parliaments are concerned, this paper swears at the very
thing you say it swears, by.... T.W.F. : There is always a
market here for fresh-laid jokes suitable for illustration.
Bromide : Good arguments, but like a heap of other
good things they are 01d.... J.K.S. :“ In Love ”is warm,
but bumpy- as to its metre. “ Blue Eyes and Brown ”is
warmer and also bumpier Nawsj : Doggerel
F.H.R. : We admire your sentiments and forgive your
verses... .A. W. (Cairns): Thanks. “An Englishman’s
Home "is now being produced in Australia... .H.J.W :
There have been many articles on that subject. Make a
search at the nearest library-... .N.B.McP. : “ Trick of the
Trade ” has some features about it, but not enough
J. McT. : Only- one fault to find with your statement that
y-ou are “ a starving poet, without a banking account ”
viz., that you are no poet ...Wasp: We are torn and
racked with doubt as to whether, of the last batch, “ The
Two Brothers ” or “ The Brighton Tragedy ” is the piece
that Milton would be most jealous of. So we toss for it,
and “ The Tragedy ” goes in :
....H.C.G.: “ The Commercial, Traveller ” shall never
appear in this paper. Notfrom Bill Shakspeare himself
would we accept a 30-stanza poem anent bagmen,...
A.L.J. : One verse makes good owing to its intrinsic
truthfulness:
So you see we’ve really nothing in the wide world for to
fear,
The words are not my own, they’re from a politician
seer.
Dear Old England would send out the ships built with
our borrowed pelf
If she hadn’t at the same time lots to do to mind her-
self.
... .Embassy B. : A painful subject that doesn’t call for
advertisement... .N.F. : Tramp old-lady jokes are off.
The tramp has scored so often and so severely
over the parsimonious female oldster in the last
20 years that his sallies have lost their pristine gloss
Lorenz: Have decided to drop the subject of “ Arms and
the Man.” Wish it had never started S.S. : A certain
jaggedness of metre got the “Nocturne” down and
worried it Embassy B. : Even as topical verse it’s a
notch or two under the mark.... Nix: Ditto. Still it
was no bore, as.you dreaded it would be.... Starlight:
Mere bargain-counter jingle—about ljd. per yard
P.A. : We have waded through your picture-puzzle
answers and so have become further confirmed in the
view that these competitions are the most damphoolish
time-wasters extant..,. .Boyne Valley: Can’t place
“After the Honeymoon.” J.M. : “Clancy’s Shil-
ling” has been melted down in a great furnace
Madge K. : Rather crude, but very promising Carl-
cobur : Quite hopeless... .J.B.C. : You submitted that
years ago, and we told you it was picturesque but un-
satisfactory. Same now... .Ash le B. : Your sketch also
has been here before. We told you that it was funny,
but washable to be taken forasectarian slur.. .W.R.8.H.:
Benefit of First Offenders’ Act... .Beatrice B. : Sorry they
don’t suit. You have much to learn at verse-making
Flat Head : Two things are inexplicable to us in connec-
tion with your “ Song of the Fat to the Thin,” viz. (1) the
song, and (2) your’reason for sending it on nine separate
and narrow slips of paper.... Jocamo : Merely a bald nar-
rative of how a man got drunk in a Central Q. pub while
carrying in a sugar-bag over his shoulder a dead infant.
It is not cheery enough.. . .Fred J. N. : The story of
“Rats” is an old story, and even when it was new it was
only an anecdote... 6. W. : Not enough in “ Rondeau of
Waiting.” R.D. : Too brutal. Even if Liz pur-
sued the most ancient profession on earth,
the fact mig-ht be indicated in a milder fashion
S.H. W.: The life-or-death bush ride has been so often
done that it requires a much stronger hand than yours.
W.F.N.: Rather clever, but too far-fetched
Toolooa : We have never known a story, apparently in
good health, to drop dead so suddenly Oscar W.:
You appear to be trembling on the verge of good work.
Ku Klux : Didn’t quite hook 0n... C.S.U. : Rather
slack in places, but the end almost redeemed it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Pan : It may be new or it may be old ; anyhow, it’s
darned p00r... 11. D. Bexhill: Jokes are paid for (1) if
they are original ; (2) if they can be illustrated. But
yours is too microscopic... .Swindells: Picture no good
at all (in fact, we should say your pictures will never be
any good), and you have the front to attach to it as
original a joke which Norman Lindsay illustrated in this
paper only a few months ago ...Constance: The idea
doesn’t appeal to us J. Jones: “ Positions Vacant ”
suggests vacancy of the mind more than of the stomach.
After having-despatched his
Two children and wife,
A demented Husband destroyed
His own wretched life.
An horrid spectacle greeted—
The police officers’ sight,
When they entered the house —
After the dawn of daylight,
Battered and unrecognisable—
The bodies of the J)ead,
Lie huddled together in
A double-bed,
While the assassin lie stretched
Near the bedroom door,
With a deep gash in his throat —
And bespattered with gore.'


THE PROHIBITED CHOW PEST.
AUSTRALIA: “I’LL HAVE TO GET THESE CRACKS SEEN TO!”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
TO be or not be, that is
the question, whether
’tis better to go about
with dull, dirty boots, or have
a shine on them that will re-
flect credit on you. When you
use CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH you have a beautiful,
bright shine that will please
you.
Leading dealers sell large
tins at 3d. and 6d. You will
find it very good. Write us if you cannot get supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, P
śfďsf
Cures
Coughs
Angler’s Emulsion is unequalled for
coughs, bronchitis and all lung affec-
tions. By its soothing and healing
effects it stops the cough, allays inflam-
mation, improves the
breathing and makes
expectoration easy. At
the same time it keeps
the digestive organs
healthy and has a won-
derfully invigorating
influence upon the
general health. One
day’s trial will convince
you of its soothing,
cough - allaying, lun g-
healing power. Forfree
samplesend4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
ANOIERS
Emulsion,
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
JTfte Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St.,Sydneyj
52
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Sir William Macgregor, Bananaland’s
new Governor, would seem to be, by trade, three
parts doctor and one part viceroy. He has spent
most of his life being either Resident Physician
or Government Medical Officer or Chief Medical
Officer or plain Governor at all sorts of places,
from the Royal Lunatic Asylum, Aberdeen, to
the Seychelles, Mauritius, and Fiji. He has
faced, in the execution of his duty, all sorts of
climates, from the hot and malaria-pervaded
brand that Lagos owns to the freezing sort
which whistles and howls over the snow-capped
chimney-pots of Newfoundland. There is nothing
that Macgregor does not know. He supplies in-
formation on all points in the purest Aberdeen
(N. 8.) accent. He makes a hobby of saving life
at sea, and holds a medal for persistent efforts in
this line. His wife is a Fijian—that is to say,
her white parents were living in that nigger-
infested spot when she was born. Early training
has given William Mac. a shrewd eye for
maniacs, wherefore Deadhorsers, Flag-wavers and
other purveyors of whirling words will be ad-
vised, when in his presence, to go slow.
With the passing of Julian Salomons,
C. E. Pilcher becomes senior man at the N.S.W.
Bar. Acting-C. J. Simpson was, however, wear-
ing horsehair nine years before Pilcher ; and
Rogers, of the District Court, arrived midway
between them. “Little Brown Jug” Docker is
a contemporary of Pilcher’s ; both were admitted
in ’67.
One William J. Beer, who was born in
1840, lately wrote to Melbourne Herald, surmis-
ing that he was the oldest Australian native ;
whereupon that harmless family paper invited
competitors to come forth and put Beer down.
They came—in shoals. Natives dating back to
’23 and ’24 were heard from ; then Robert Beames,
of Timboon, Gippsland, who was born in the
Sleepy Isle in ’lB, looked like carrying off the
Great Age Stakes, till Mrs. John Blay put in her
claim. That lady declares that to the best of her
belief she first drew breath in Hobart (Tas.) in
1817; she was married at New Norfolk in ’34,
came to Melbourne in ’3B, and in ’45 gravitated to
Portland (Vic.), where she has lived ever since.
Of her 14 children, 11 still survive, three being
older than Beer aforesaid. Wherefore Beer may
consider himself put down, even to the last drop.
“ Snell ” : In a recent Bulletin Minister
Hughes was credited with having extinguished the
dreadful Peacock laugh. Mr. Hughes has done
the State some service, but the human kooka-
burra has not been silenced by him or anybody
else. Its strident cackle can still be heard on calm
evenings, usually, just before rain. Peacock’s
laugh was a startling feature of the American
fleet festivities in Melbourne, and I have heard it
three times since. Aleck will never stop till an
Act is carried for the prevention of intolerable
noises. A Kansas officer next me at a Govern-
ment dinner nearly fell into his soup when our
great statesman laughed. “Me Gard ! ” lie said,
“what is ut?” I told him it was the Australian
kookaburra or laughing jackass. He looked at
me sadly. “I understood you had no singin’
bur-r-ds,” he said.
Deceased bookie Joe Thompson was once
driving to the Caulfield (Vic.) races by way of St.
Kilda-road, when he dropped a pocket-book con-
taining a wad of £5OO in notes out of his breast
pocket. The pocket-book was picked up by a
carter, who chased the fast-vanishing sulky with
stentorian roars that might have been heard at
the Red Bluff. Joe heard, saw the pursuing
figure, and pulled up impatiently. “ What in
blazes do you want ? ” he asked, as the poor but
honest carter came thundering up. “If you
p-please, s-sir, you dropped this,” gasped the
noblest work of God, holding up the pocket-book.
Joe pouched the property which he had not
missed, and looked at the honest fellow with some
emotion. “ What are you, my man?” he asked
at length. “ I’m a brick carter,” replied theflesh
and blood manifestation of the o)d proverb. “ And
that s all you are fit to be. you fool,” replied
Solomon. “Here, go and have a drink, and give
me your name and address.” Next day’ Joe set
the man up with a horse and dray of his own.
Sachse, the hurtful Victorian M.L.C.,
joining in a fresh outcry for niggers for the North,
said lately : “ It is unchristian to attempt to set
up the white race as the elect of the world. No
white man can wear clothes and trash sugar-
cane in the tropics.” Yet until the white man
has degenerated to the level of the coolie and the
Chow, he will hold fast to the conviction that his
color is the only color for the highest human type,
even if he has to sacrifice as much Christianity in
doing it as some of Sachse’s friends sacrifice in
money-grabbing. And as for the white man being
unable to wear clothes and trash cane in the
tropics, the simple answer is that he does it,
even though it is very doubtful whether trash-
ing is necessary ; anyhow, scores of most
successful growers don’t do it. Sachse
may not know it, but that is only Sachse’s
miserable, wretched ignorance. And his igno-
rance on this point suggests that he may be igno-
rant on others also. For instance, he may not
know what is Christian and what isn’t.
A DIFFICULT SITUATION.
JOHN BULL: “ Here , quick, sonny, gimme that
gun o’ yours. I want to help you against the
Germans.”
LITTLE BOY : "My troubles about the Germans!
I want this ’un for a little Japanese-shooting
on my own account.”
Sands and MacDougall, the old Melbourne
printing and stationery firm, has lost by death its
managing director, James MacDougall. He was
a Greenock lad, and with some other Scotch boys
came to Australia in the early ’fifties, at a time
when the Melbourne business of Sands and Kenny
was managed by Mr. Kenny, an alderman, and
the most copious snuff-taker in all Australia.
Young MacDougall got a job from Kenny between
sneezes, and never left the old shop. Some years
later, the Sands family decided to concentrate
themselves in the Sydney business; and a limited
liability co. took over the Melbourne concern, but
MacDougall remained its mainspring.
Gates the plucky N. Sydney (N.S.W.)
plain-clothes constable, who nabbed an early-
morning prowler recently, and had a hot time
while doing it. was absolutely the worst man his
prey could have met. He is the Carbine of the
N.S.W. force, and has effected other arrests solely
owing to his swiftness of foot. Until the steam
or electric policeman is invented the Gates kind of
man promises to hold the record.
APROPOS OF A REGENT CHAMPIONSHIP.
NICE OLD LADY (who takes an intelligent interest in sport): “But surely you men are not
going to allow a black man to remain champion.”
Lord G-wydyr, “Father of the House of
Lords,” whose death is reported by cable,
was a sort of grandfather to Sydney Even
Noose. The old lord, who pegged out his im-
mortal claim when close on his hundredth year,
married twice. His son, Hon. Willoughby
Burrell, was also married twice. The aged person
who has just passed out had only the one son, and
his son had only one daughter. This daughter
married the eldest son of J. Henniker Heaton,
who years ago married the daughter of old Sam
Bennett. And Sam Bennett was father of the
Town and Country and stepfather of the Even
Noose.
The death of Julian Salomons reduces by
one the growing Australian list, of that most
cheap of imperial titles —the miserable K.B. l)r.
Ren wick dropped out the other day, which also
made a K.B. the less; but there’s still a lot of the
tribe in N.S.W.—among others Patrick Manning,
James R. Fairfax, Mat Harris, Jimmie Graham,
Sam McCaughey, and a couple of ex-Judges.
The K.B. title was sold over the counter in
England, often going at 10 guineas for the
diploma—about what a Yankee University
charges for a bogus degree as Bachelor of Legal
Botany.
It is not generally known that Napper
Tandy, whose name was so frequently in the
mouths of last Patrick’s Hay orators, was at one
time very nearly becoming a resident of Australia.
Napper, who organised the patriots in Dublin in
1793, and afterwards headed a Napoleonic inva-
sion of Ireland, was captured, tried, and sen-
tenced to death. Napoleon, however, intervened,
claiming that Napper was a French general, and
Pitt, after some argument, gave up the idea of
hanging and quartering, and substituted transpor-
tation Botany Bay. Before the convict ship
were more diplomatic complications
about and the worried Pitt struck a com-
promise. He,loudly refused to consider Tandy’s
status as a French citizen, or any other features
of his case, but he provided means of escape, and
the hero with the pantomime name took leg bail,
and didn’t even leave his recognisances behind
him.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant: —
Sydney’s “ well-informed ” newspapers are sadly mixed
up over J. E. Salomons’ acceptance of the Chief-
Justiceship in 1886. One paper stated that on the retire-
ment of Chief Justice William Manning, Mr. Salomons was
offered theposition. As a matter of fact, Manning was never
Chief Justice. Then another chipped in with the infor-
mation that Attorney-General Dailey, after Mr. Darley had
refused, offered the post to Salomons. As a matter
again of fact Dailey was not in office at the time. Jack
Want was Attorney-General. The circumstances attend-
ing the appointm. r.t were these: On Martin’s death,
Premier Jennings offered the Chief Justiceship to Dailey,
who refused ; he never did hanker after a Judgeship.
Mr. Wm. Owen was then on a visit to England, and
an offer of the position was cabled to him, but
he had left England on his return, and the message
didn’t find him till it was too late. Then Jennings
offered the billet to Parley, iwho on consideration
declined; he was earning more than the Chief
Judicial salary at the Bar. Next Salomons was
approached and he accepted. A confused and ribald tale
wen ground to the effect that the strong-minded Want
over bore his easy-going chief, who didn’t care for
Salomons, and declared that if Salomons didn’t get the
offer he (Want) would demand the Chief Justiceship
himself. Oblivious .altogether of the etiquette of the
position the little Hebrew waited upon the Judges to
ask their opinions of his fitness. Windeyer, who thought
he had claims on the office, was simply brutal, and
after 12 days of irresolution and without being sworn
in Salomons resigned. Then Dailey took a hand.
He wrote Dark", pointing out that his clear
duty was to accept the post and not allow’ such a high
office to go a-begging, and Darley, after £9OO had been
added to the existing salary of £2600, accepted. Dailey’s
anxiety that Darley should be Chief Justice did not arise
out of any love for Darley, but out of his desire to
keep Windeyer and Innes out. Dailey had a very poor
opinion of both men.
Ifc may be quoted as an evidence of the
healthiness of politics that Henry B T Strang-
wayS, who was Premier of S A from November
1868 to May, 1870, still lives in Somerset (Eng-
land). He is the author of the Strangways Laml
Act. which created agricultural areas and permit-
ted the sale of State lands on credit It is 57,
years since he first entered the S A Parliament
and 38 years since he left for England
The Oldest Inhabitant lights his pipe, and
sits in the sun, and discourses generally
Mr. W. A. Long (B. 25/3/’O9), who has gone to England
for good, and who renounced Mr. J. S, Smith’s bequest of
£30,000 in favor of his friend Sparke, is now' reaping the
reward of his generosity in so far that Sparke left him an
•annuity of £5OO a year. Mr. Jack Smith, who originally
left the legacy, was, like Mr. Long, a Sydney native. His
father was a solicitor in the ’forties of last century (John
Smith, of O’Cormell-street). Jack represented Wellington
for some years in the JSI.S.W. Legislative Assembly, and
owned the historic property known as “ Mamre,” on
South Greek, originally a grant to Parson Marsden, who
named the place. Jack Smith married the pretty Sydney
actress* Kate Corcoran, who adopted the stage as a pro-
fession under very peculiar circumstances. G. V. Brooke
■was playing at the old Prince of Wales, in Castlereagh-
street. Corcoran, the father, was a shoemaker, living in
Brougham-place (now Rowe-street). He (Corcoran) went
to see Brooke as Lear, and fell asleep in the gallery.
The house emptied, and was closed up without anyone
discovering the sleeping man, in the morning the care-
taker found him lying dead across the seats in the pit; he
had evidently fallen from the gallery while seeking to
make his exit. Brooke sent for the Corcoran family, and
practically adopted the whole- lot. He eventually "found
theatrical engagements for the. three girls, but only
Kate made a hit. The others married early and retired.
Kate was good in burlesque and farce, and would have
made a fine position for herself but for her want of bal-
last. She died as the guest of Mrs. Hicks, of the Old
Women’s Asylum, Hyde Park (the Law-square now),
about the time that her husband (Smith) died in Eng-
land, leaving his money to Sparke, who left part of it to
“ Bill ” Long ; and “ Bill ” Long can do with some money
these days.
There is trouble in Yic. A.N.A. circles
because the Chief President at the recent confer-
ence succeeded in securing’ the withdrawal of a
motion advocating the abolition of State Govern-
ors on the ground that the present State Governor
“is friendly to the Association.” Governor Car-
michael is an entomologist, and is friendly to all
rare beetles.
THE NATION-BUILDERS’ INCUBUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are a vast number of things to be done in Aus-
tralia. .. but Joseph Cook knows nought of these matters
.... Joseph Cook is partly a jest and partly a disaster.
He has apparently no constructive policy himself, and he
objects to any other person having one. Therefore, when
Australia wants to construct anything it has always to
wait until Cook and his party have talked themselves
into a state of exhaustion before it can proceed.—
Bulletin (25/3/’O9).
There's that garrulous old party cornin' round this way
again !
Now I wonder who and what the thunder is he l
Won’t someone stop his noisy interfering with the men ?
Oo away, my little man, we’re very busy.
We're as busy as can be,
As you ottght to darn well see ;
And your jaw is apt to turn the workmen dizzy.
There’s a funny little josser hangs around the works all
day,
On the nation-buildin’ job where we are toilin’;
And he doesn’t do a hand’s-turn, though he has a lot to
say,
And he always seems to be intent on spoilin’.
For, without a minute’s pause,
He jaws and jaws and jaws
Until he has our fellows fairly boilin’.
He doesn’t know the diff’rence ’tween a plumb-bob and a
pick ;
And he couldn’t tell a door-frame from a rafter ;
But the sight of coves at work appears to hurt him to the
quick;
And he seems to hate to see an honest grafter.
And he’s yellin’ all along
That the buildin’s goin’ wrong ;
Yet he doesn’t seem to know just what he’s after.
He has a sort of mania for shoutin’ “ That’s all rot! ”
And at times he’ll stop to ask a silly question ;
And when he gets an answer he goes fanti on the spot,
But you never hear him offer a suggestion.
Ju«t yells, with all his mignt,
“ Full it down ! It isn’t right ! ”
It’s enough to give a feller indigestion.
We can’t put up a scaffold-pole or lay a blessed brick
But first he wants a lengthy explanation.
And, if he ain’t consulted ’fore a fellow swings a pick,
His eyeballs fairly bulge with indignation.
And before we drive each nail
He wants to pitch a tale,
And stop between each stroke for conversation.
The sight of layin’brick on brick appears to drive him
mad ;
And buildin’ things he makes his pet aversion.
A day’s work done in any day he looks upon as bad
And a case of most unnecess’ry exertion.
And he reckons, in effect,
Work’s accomplished l>y neglect;
And he holds that all construction is subversion.
We don’t quite grasp his theory—he’s misty at the best;
But his scheme for buildin’ houses or a nation
Appears to be to lean against the scaffold-poles and rest,
And indulge in vitriolic conversation.
And he reckons, by a long way,
That ev’ry way’s the wrong- way,
And there isn’t any right way in creation.
A feller can’t help laughin’ at this funny little cuss.
In a measure he is certainly amusin’;
But tho’ he’s on the wages-sheet, he don’t belong to us,
An’ the chaps are gettin’ sick of his abusin’.
For the job is kept behind
While he gets things off his mind ;
And the contract can’t afford the time we’re losin’.
We’ve laughed at him and snubbed him ; he’s been kicked
and he’s been biffed ;
But he don’t know how to take a decent lickin’.
He’s a sticky sort of incubus, extremely hard to shift,
And tenacious in the manner of his stickin’.
But should we get a slant
For to kick him off the plant—
Well, I know a lot prepared to do the kickin’.
Here’s that garrulous old gramaphone around the works
again !. . .
Now, do go 'way, old chap. We’re very busy.
You mustn't hang about here interruptin' all the men;
They’re complainin' that your chatter makes ’em dizzy. ...
He says he’s gain’ to—tv hat 1
Pull down .the blessed lot!
Groin' to stop the bloomin’ contract !. . . Eh ?
What? .... Is hel
VICTORIA.
DEN.


oo
vSave • -
‘matador”
and • « *
“fIANSA”
Bands %
dsf
Make
•Smoking
& Profit" as well
ens ax. Pleasure.
R
HF Instead of the ordinary costly advertising methods, the
proprietors of the famous “ Hansa” and "Matador** Cigars
have decided to spend the money in providing free gifts for
the smoKers of these popular brands, as explained below.
All you have to do is to save the little red "Hansa**
bands or the little green "Matador** bands until you have
a sufficient number to secure your own choice of the
handsome gifts illustrated on this page.
" Hansas ** and " Matadors ** are the finest 3d. cig'ars
sold in Australia. Their reputation has been built up on
quality, and will be maintained on quality. THEY HAVE
BY FAR THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY 3d. CIGARS
SOLD IN AUSTRALIA.
Fora
CUT GLASS BOTTLE OF
FINEST QUALITY "LAROONA »'
PERFUME (Violet Odor)
Collect
250 Hansa Bands, or
250 Matador Bands.
For a
GENT. ’S WATCH
(GUNMETAL NON -
MA GNETIC-LEVER)
X If
A \ A
Collect
400 Hansa Bands, or
400 Matador Bands.
For a
LARGE SIZE FINE
QUALITY DARK MOROCCO
PEGGY BAG
Collect
300 Hans a Bands, or
300 Matador Bands.
For a
“PIRATE” ALARM
CLOCK
Collect
300 Hansel Bantls, or
300 Matador Bands.
For a
HALL-MARKED SILVER
PHOTO. FRAME
a
Collect
250 Hansa Rands, or
2SO Matador Bands.
For a
LADY’S GOOD-
QUALITY GUN-
METAL WATCH
Collect
4-00 Hansci Bands
or
400 Matador
Bands.
For a
FIRST QUALITY PAIR OF
BLECKMANN’S SCISSORS
Collect
SO Hansa Bands, or
SO Matador Bands.
For a
PAIR OF FOWNES’ REAL
FRENCH KID GLOVES (brown
color, sixes 6± or 6±)
Collect
200 Hansa Bands, or
200 Matador Bands.
For a
LADY'S LEATHER WATCH.
WRISTLET
Collect
150 Ha ns a Bands, or
150 Matador Bands.
For a
HALL-MARKED SILVER PENCIL
CASE
Collect
100 Hansa Bands, or
100 Matador Bands.
For a
“ MODEL ” FOUNTAIN PEN
(WITH 14ct. GOLD NIB)
Collect
200 Hans a Bands, or
200 Matador Bands.
For a pair of
GENT.’S MILITARY (EBONISED)
HAIR BRUSHES
m
Collect
400 Hansa Bands, or
400 Matador Bands.
For a
HALL-MARKED SILVER
SHOEHORN
Collect
150 Hansa Bands, or
150 Matador Bands.
For a
I JUDY’S HALL-MARKED SILVER
HAIR BRUSH
Collect
500 Hansa Bands, or
500 Matador Banda ,
For a
LADY’S E.P. SILVER HAND
MIRROR
Collect
500 Hansa Bands, or
500 Matador Bands.
For a First Quality
TWO-BLADE NICKEL (“HAVE-
LOCK”) POCKET KNIFE
Collect
50 Hansa Bands, or
50 Matador Bands.
Fora
FIRST QUALITY “MATCH /#."
FOOTBALL (with Macintosh
Bladder)
Collect
750 Hansa Bands, or
750 Matador Bands.
DIRECTIONS.
Send or Post the Bands to any of the undermentioned firms, and WRITE YOUR OWN
NAME and ADDRESS, ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE PACKAGE; also advise, in
SEPARATE LETTER,, the number of Bands forwarded and which gift you desire.
The Gifts can be obtained on personal application to, or free through the post, from: —
H. PEEMOLLER, 40 COOPER STREET, SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY;
STATES TOBACCO CO., 46 a'BECKETT STREET, MELBOURNE; or
KRONHEIMER LTD., 153 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE; 113 GRENFELL
STREET, ADELAIDE; or 380 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR LEAFLET GIVING COLORED
ILLUSTRATIONS OF ALL THE GIFTS.
For a
DUKE’S No. 3 P.K.D.
FIRST QUALITY
CRICKET BALL
Collect
SOO Hansa Bands, or
500 Matador Bands.
“ Let him now smoke who never smoked before,
And he who smoked before now smoke the more.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT (made in England.)
Royal Agricultural Sooiety’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLDMEDAL 0 ™ 6 ™ the
"NATIONAL » ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. y Circular Quay East, Sydney,
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold Gold Estates,
BODANGORA,
N.S.W.
This magnificent Plant has been purchased by us from the Liquidators in the Estate of the late
JAS. DICK, and comprises practically new complete 40-Head Tubular Frame Stamper Battery of 10001 b.
Stamps, Compound Surface Condensing: Corliss Engine, First Motion Winding Engine Double Hin.
Cylinders, and Three High-Pressure Cornish Boilers, all by Thompson, of Castlemaine. Three large Air
Compressors, Stonebreakers, and enormous lot of miscellaneous Mining Plant. Complete Catalogues in course
of preparation, and will be sent post free on application. CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Nine months of the States’ financial year have
passed, and there isn’t anything' in the figures that might
not have been reasonably expected. That is to say, in
every case but one the State has got less revenue, partlv
because the previous year was on the wave of a boom and
partly because at that time the Commonwealth was still
starving itself, with most unfortunate consequences. As
far as they are available the figures for the first nine
months of the past two years show up as follows:
Nine Months’ States’ Revenue.
N. S. Wales.. £10,660,402 £10,151,796 Dec. £508,606
Victoria .. 6,312,495 6,113,276 Dec. 199,219
Queensland .. 3,283,012 3,395,326 Inc. 112,314
S. Australia .. 2,705,789 2,576,926 Dec. 128,863
Westralia .. 2,485,396 2,343,706 Dec. 141,690
Tasmania is having a general election, so things over
there are disorganised, and the last month’s returns have
not been made available. To the end of February (eight
months) this year’s collections totalled £623,033, as
against £679,022 in the same two-thirds of the previous
year.
Of N. S. Wales’ decrease of £508,606 the falling-
off in Commonwealth payments accounts for £471,607 ;
and, as mentioned above, that is the sort of experience
that was inevitable. Quite apart from the matter of
Defence, with the consequent construction of transcon-
tinental railways, the commotion in the Post Office shows
how badly the Commonwealth services have been starved.
Yet, though a diminished revenue was inevitable, the
State Government has gone on piling up the expenditure.
Independent of transfers to Public Works and Closer
Settlement funds, the nine months’ outgoings have been
£10,019,940, as against £9,235,992 in 1907-8. And on
top of that there is an addition of no less than £572,854 to
the_ Loan expenditure : in the first three quarters of
1907-8 N.S. W. spent £1,606,421 on this account, and
in the past nine months the total has soared to
£2,179,275, or at the rate of £2,905,700 a year. The
excess of revenue over expenditure (apart from loans) was
£1,424,410 as at March 31, 1908; at the same date this
year it was only £131,856. Deduct that from the amount
of loan money spent, and it will be seen that in the nine
months N. S. Wales has got rid of £2,047,419 more than it
has received. Though metals have slumped, wheat has been
a phenomenal price, and the wool market has been strong,
while the harvests of both staples were large ; and, con-
sidering these things, the record of the Wade-Waddell
administration is disgraceful. At the end of the financial
year 1907 the Loan account was £557,025 in credit. On
March 31 it was overdrawn to the extent of £2,919,926.
That means that, though the State has been lashing out
in loan expenditure, it hasn’t been game to go on
the market for the money’, but has pulled through
by getting temporary accommodation. And when it did
the other day’ ask for £1,500,000 to partly square up this
£2,919,926 of an overdraft, it found .itself landed with a
punch in the eye. It is obvious that financially the
Wade-Waddell Government is muddling through anyr-
bow ; and there is trouble ahead.
Victoria has suffered much worse than N. S.
Wales from shrinkage in Commonwealth refunds. The
State’s own receipts were £407,733 better than they were
last year, but £606,951 less came from Customs, etc.,
leaving a net shortage of £199,218. No expenditure
figures are published ; but Treasurer Watt says : “ If the
Commonwealth revenue shows any elasticity for the last
quarter, I hope to come out on the right side, but even
then the margin must necessarily be small.” If so, it is
quite certain that next year’s estimates will have to be
drafted very’ differently from those of the current year.
For next year the State will certainly get even less from
the Commonwealth, while it can’t reiy upon getting- such
another harvest as it has just reaped—a harvest
twice as big as that of the previous year. So far, the
railway revenue alone is £243,786 ahead of that for the
same fraction of 1907-8 ; and it is that accident which has
saved the situation.
S. Australia has had a very good harvest too,
and the price of wheat is phenomenal: 4s. Bd. was quoted
in Adelaide the other day’, whereas the average export
prices (chat is, the average prices in the principal
markets of the Commonwealth) for the six years covered
by the only issue so far of the Commonwealth Year Book
were:—
1901 .. .. 2s. 9d. I 1904 .. .. 3s. 2d.
3902.. .. 3s. Id. 1905 .. .. 3s. sd.
1903 .. .. 3s. Id. I 1906.. .. 3s. 3d.
Unfortunately, though S. Aus. has had that streak of
luck, it is hit hard by the troubles at Broken Hill; for,
apart from the fact that Broken Hill is the State’s best
customer, ti:e Barrier traffic in good times is nearly 40
per cent, of the total, and it is by far the most profitable
40 per cent. Of the shrinkage of £128,863 the decline in
railway revenue accounts for £57,912. Expenditure
figures are not published.
Queensland is gaining by the tight grip of the
southern big landlord upon his estates; and by vigorous
administration it his made itself the fashion. Little
by little the southern person finds that he was
most abominably’ humbugged by the old black-and-tan
labor party’, which always pictured the northern State
as a country where ordinary white toil was out of the
question. Now, however, the northern State almost
sweeps the board in the dairy section at the great Sydney
Agricultural Show, although 10 years ago, if the possi-
bility’ of making good butter in Queensland had been
hinted, the idea would have been scoffed at as a particu-
larly absurd outbreak of madness. The whole explana-
tion is that this butter business was a new industry in
Queensland, and Queensland saw to it that it was put on
a good basis from the start. There are two principal
competitions at the Sydney Show—one for “ unsalted for
export,” the other for salted ; and Queensland factories
won both. “A few years ago,” said the S. M. Herald,
“the Queensland product was not to be compared
to that of this State ; to-day, probably as the
result of grading and proper supervision, it is of verv
line quality.” Yet no doubt the S. M. Herald will go on
picturing Socialism as a destructive monster. The
Queensland railway revenue has gone up from £1,454,597
last year to £1,556,912 this y’ear ; and the total revenue
for this year is greater than for last year—the one in-
crease among all the returns. The nine months’ expendi-
ture was £3,080,636, as against £2,706,443 ; the loan expen-
diture was £828,255, as against £762,063. The growth of
these last figures is the least satisfactory feature of the
case.
The Westralian drift continues, though the
March returns improved the position a trifle. The accu-
mulated deficit is now £295,497, of which £84,448 belongs
to this year. The State revenue goes on shrinking, the
State expenditure goes on growing, and the loan expen-
diture goes on keeping itself in the dark.
* * * *
Amid the cries of the Fatmen that every
sensible person nowadays must be an Imperialist, one
hears an odd faint inquiry about the Fatman’s own
attitude towards the Pacific cable. There are very few
British Imperial institutions, but this is one of them.
The money for it (£2,000,000) was put up by Great Britain,
and the expenses, interest, sinking fund, etc., are
g-uaranteed by Britain (5-18ths), Canada (5-lSths), and
N.S.YV., Vic., Queensland, and Maoriland (2-18ths each).
The cable was mooted in the first place because it was
clearly’ undesirable that Australia should be under an
obligation to a foreign power when it wanted to hold
communication with the head of the empire. Nothing,
however, was done until N. S. Wales and another State
undertook to pay a subsidy to the French Government if
it would lay a cable to New Caledonia. Then the Im-
periahsts woke up, and the Colonial Office told the N. S.
Wales State Government that what it was doing' might
be good though short-sighted business, but it was
shockingly bad Imperialism : in fact, the Colonial Office
had some doubts whether it wasn’t shockingly bad
patriotism. After that the British Government took
mi )ch more * n^eres t m the laying of the Pacific, all-British
cable, and the business was completed in 1902 on the
terms mentioned above.
And then, of course, the Imperialists—that is to
say, practically the whole of the merchants and importers
and brokers and bankers—simply rushed the Imperial,
all-British cable! Not a bit of it! Having got the
cable, they noted that by the old route they could now
send messages at greatly reduced rates, and they rushed
their messages along the old route. Their troubles,
apparently, whether a cable was “ all red ” or not, so long
as it was very cheap ! Their interest in Imperialism, it
seemed, evaporated as soon as the thing had served its
purpose, and provided a competition which had cut
down the rates by more than 50 per cent. The figures
for last year are not available yet; but for the previous
year the Australian cable business sent by the “All-
Red ” route amounted to only 21 percent, of the whole.
Queensland sticks to it very' well ; but N. S. Wales and
Victoria, the States which profess to be the most ardently
Imperialist, have given the Imperial cable the cold
shoulder with enthusiasm.
It is a curious and interesting anomaly, by the
way, that the gentlemen who profess to be the most
ardent Imperialists also profess to be the most strenuous
State Righters. In one capacity they call upon every-
body to take a large view of things ; in the
other, they ask everybody to consider the sublime
importance of the parish pump. Assuming, however,
that in their sympathy for the States and their finances,
these gentlemen are sincere, then the position is simply
that, by passing by the all-British line, they are im-
posing upon three Australian State Governments—
N. S. Wales, Victoria and Queensland —a burden varying
from about £27,000 to about £lB,OOO a year. For under
the agreement made between Britain, Canada, and
Australia, if the Imperialists who asked for the cable
won’t use it in' order to do their business, then the
Governments must make up the annual sum re-
quired to pay interest, repay Britain the principal in
50 years, and provide £35,000 a year for a renewal fund.
In 1903-4 the various Governments had to part up £87,751
among them, and in 1906-7 £56,924, which to all intents
and purposes is a subsidy paid by the Governments to the
merchants, etc. ; and one-third of that subsidy conies out
of the tills of the three Australian State Governments
mentioned above.
* * • *
The Savings Bank of New South Wales :
Interest Writ-
Net Paid to ten To Re- Re-
Earnings. Depositors. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1901 .. 175,263 3J p.e. = 158,693 98 16,472 276,062
1902 .. 185,493 31 „ ~ 166,146 19,347 295,409
1903 .. 189,245 3£ „ ~167,819 21,426 316,835
1904 .. 194,745 4 „ ~ 190,175 4,570 321,405
1905 .. 196,366 4 „ „ 193,917 2,449 323,854
1906 .. 205,126 8£ „ ~ 183,470 4458 17,198 341,052
1907 . 218,515 3b „ ~197,272 7077 14.166 355,218
1908 .. 227,562 Zb ~ ~207,674 4524 15,364 370,582
This is “ the Barrack-street Bank ” as distinguished from
the Government Savings Bank, whose headquarters are
in Moore-street. The difference between the two is that
the Barrack-street Bank is managed by trustees ap-
pointed by the Government, with the Governor as
president ; while the other is managed by Commissioners
also appointed by the Government. Further, the Govern-
ment isn’t directly responsible for the Barrack-street
Bank ; nevertheless it is well known that if anything
happened to it the Government would have to see it
through, as it did when George Dibbs was Premier. Some
people profess to see so much difference between the two
concerns that they won’t listen to proposals for amal-
gamation ; but from the foregoing it is pretty clear that
those differences are mainly sentimental.
The Savings Bank of N. S. Wales has no pro-
prietors and no capital. In its 76 years of life it has,
however, managed to accumulate reserves amounting to
£370,582, of which no less than £110,972 has been added
since 1900—a further evidence of how N. S. Wales has
suffered under Federation, with its accompanying Pro-
tection and the establishment of new industries paying,
on the whole, good wages. Of this £370,582 there is a
Mortgages Depreciation Reserve of £50,476 ; the amounts
shown above as written off have come from this fund,
which is replenished by annual votes. Five per cent, of
the gross earnings must be carried to a General Reserve
Fund, in accordance with law.
The total number of depositors at the end of
the year was 121,745, of whom 67,027 had their accounts
at the head office. An analysis of the branch returns
shows that the deposits are distributed like this :
„ J 1906. 1907. 1908.
Sydney .. .. £3,663,950 £3,735,334 £3,866,194
Sydney suburbs .. 1,291,349 1,434,667 1,528 921
Country .. 1,042,310 1,231,661 1,291,393
Total .. £5,997,609 £6,401,662 £6,686,508
For many years the bank did little business in the
country, and in 1901 it had only 12 branches there. It
has now 19, besides six in city and suburbs. Wagga and
Inverell have been invaded during the past year.
In the matter of investments the bank adopts a
go-slow policy. Years ago it simplv used to let
the Government have the use of its surplus cash.
During the last few years, however, the large
payments received from the Commonwealth, combined
with good seasons, have turned N.S.W. State financing
into child’s play, and the Treasurer hasn’t been so per-
sistently oil the Savings Bank door-mat. Still the money
has gone into practically the same security, the only
difference being that the bank has bought Government
stock and Treasury bills with it. One generally unsatis-"
factory feature is that, including £62,416 on working
account with the Bank of N. S. Wales (the bank’s
bankers), the Savings Bank has lent £1,632,993 to other
banks; and in this item there has been an increase of
nearly half a million in 10 years. Theoretically, no doubt,
the private banks offer somewhat better security than the
Savings Bank could get by investing its own money ;
because it is more or less protected by the private banks’
own capital and reserves. But the fact that it passes
on so much money to others for investment is a reflec-
tion on the management of the Savings Bank, besides
dragging in a totally unnecessary middleman, who, of
course, wants his profit. Assuming that the private
banks want an average of 1 per cent, clear, £16,000 or so
is lost to the Savings Bank. That is to say, either its
depositors get that much less than they might, or its
mortgagors pay that much more interest than they need.
The whole disposition of the funds is shown hereunder:—
_ . T 1898. 1907. 1908.
State Loans .. .. £2,314,258 Nil Nil
State Securities .. 5,059 £3,458,937 £3,500,923
Other N.S.W. Stocks.. 162,204 458,179 718 915
Mortgages .. .. 883,880 1,130,557 1,098,’362
Loans to Banks .. 1,258,269 1,607,972 1,632,993
In addition the Savings Bank has £74,630 in premises
and £32,813 in floating balances.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Building Society
(Brisbane): —
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1897.. £4llO 3 p.c. = £2797 £366 £947 £8875
4681 ” » 3125 I° 2 1454 10,329
Feb., 1900.. 5914 4 ~ „ 4007 211 1696 12,025
Feb., 1901.. 4937 4 ~ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
Feb., 1902.. 4778 4 „ ~ 3221 1,417 140 13 325
Feb., 1903., 4502 4„ ~ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
£ e u’’^ 04 -- 4547 4 ” » 3159 1,353 35 13,451
Feb., 1905.. 4381 4„ „ 3185 10,380 4 267
Feb., 1906.. 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
£ e £->WO7.. 4201 4 „ „ 3196 594 411 5,167
4388 4 ” ” 3184 718 486 5,653
Feb., 1909.. 4552 4 ~ ~ 3173 421 958 6 611
This society has a paid capital of £72,857, and a sub-
scribing- capital at present of £2149. The former is, of
course, not reducible ; the latter is variable, and is just
now less than usual, no doubt on account of the in-
creased demand for money in the rejuvenated northern
State. As in most of these societies, the majority of the
subscribing shares, which carry the same dividend as the
paid shares, are apparently not taken up as a fixed invest-
ment. Subject to certain restrictions, the whole
amount at credit maybe withdrawn; or a portion may
be withdrawn without cancelling the shares. The society
is registered under the Queensland Building Societies
Act, so that it is prevented from accepting deposits for a
less period than two months, and the deposits may not
go beyond three times the amount of the paid capital.
The capital is set out above ; the deposits total £67,236,
so that the society is trading far inside the statutory
limit. Still the amount is wandering upwards
again, after a shrinkage three years or so back: —
1903, £73,701; 1907, £62,744 ; 1908, £61,336 ; 1909,
£67,236. The advances total £129,808; and, in
addition to its £7OOO of freehold, the society does the wise
but not very common thing of keeping a tidy cash
reserve —£14,023 at present. For some time past amounts
have been regularly transferred from Profit and Loss to
Contingency account. That vessel seemed to have no
bottom, for nothing more was ever heard of trie transfers.
This year, however, of £5OO that was passed across £79
remains in the balance-sheet, and is therefore included
among the reserves. Presumably, though a lot of writing-
down was done a few years ago, there is still a trifle now
and again to make good on advances that don’t pan out as
well as they' should. In that respect, however, the Bris-
bane concern with house property on its hands has mostly
had a comparatively good time ; for, apart from the re-
markable improvement in the general state of things in
that city', there has been a large rise in the price of
timber, with a corresponding improvement in the value
of timber premises ; and Brisbane’s dwellings are niostly
timber. As to Brisbane land—suburban land especially—
there hasn’t been any notable spring ; but it was always
understood that this co. hadn’t made a very' bad ass of
itself in regard to transactions in vacant land'. No doubt
that was one reason why it was able to pull through the
troubles of the early ’9o’s without suspending.
* * * *
Barrier Co-operative Society, Ltd. (Broken
Hill, N.S.YV.):—
Divs. (5p.c.) Written Re-
Profits. and Bonus. off. serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £596 £371 £lO2 £169
-June, 1905 .. 1129 691 232 475
Dec., 1905 .. 1236 766 183 762
July, 1906 .. 1363 950 126 1049
Jan., 1907 .. 1560 959 113 1537
July, 1907 .. 1580 1124 91 1902
Jan., 1908 .. 1714 1275 96 2245
Capital forfeited, £43 2288
July, 1908 .. 1365 1278 97 2278
Capital forfeited, £9 .. .. 2287
Jan., 1909 ~ 1381 1184 92 2392
This co. offers a 2£ per cent, bonus to non-shareholders
on their purchases ; but as a rule very little of this is
called for. For the past half-year £2O is deducted on
that account from the profits. The dividend is called
“interest,” and is paid on capital and loans alike—there
appears to be little real difference between the two, as
both are withdrawable. The bonus is at the rate of Is. in
the £ on purchases. Lumping capital and “loan,” the
total is £5350 ; and the total debt to outsiders is £3054.
On the other side the principal items are—premises and
fixings, etc., £2562 ; stock, £5145 ; book debts, £3788.
Owing to labor troubles at the Hill, book debts have
moved up from £3159 in the six months. Still the bulk
of the trade is done for cash. During the Barrier’s
previous big labor disturbance the unions established
stores, boot repairing shops, butcheries, etc., and manned
them all with strikers, who were kept at this work instead
of at the largely-useless picketing. This time the unions
made an arrangement with these co-operative stores,
getting special terms from them. The men present their
strike-pay coupons, and the stores get cash for them from
the unions. The system naturall.y'doesn’t meet with the
approval of the Private Enterprise stores ; but, anyway,
they can get some comfort out of the fact that it no doubt
saves them from a lot of bad debts.
■* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Q.) :r-
Dividends.
f A - Written De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. licit.
Dec., 1903 £1614 9 p.c. 2£p.c. =£7l3 £747 £795
June, 1904 1501 9,, „ 116 706 116
Dec., 1904 1666 9,, 2J- „ „ 719 831
June, 1905 1237 9,, „ lie 1237 116
Dec., 1905 1337 9,, 2£ „ „ 717 504
June, 1906 1573 Nil 1573
Dec., 1906 1514 18 p.c. 2|p.c. = 833 6SI
June, 1907 1855 9,, 2£ „ „ 678 1177
Dec., 1907 1917 9 „ 2J „ „ 678 1239
June, 1908 1880 9 „ 2| „ „ 678 1202
Dec., 1908 2047 9 „ 24 ~ ~ 678 1369
This co. went on gaily paying extravagant dividends for
years, and wrote off little or nothing for depreciation,
until in the end it found itself with a worn-out electric
light plant and nothing to replace it with. In other
words, it had been using up its capital, instead of putting
by some of the revenue to counterbalance the wear and
tear ; and thus all along it had over-stated its real profits.
At last the auditors rebelled, and then something had to
be done. The proper course was to write off capital ;
but the management decided to • try to pull things
round by paying either no dividend at all or onTy
a trifle ; and that policy is still being pursued. As
amounts are written off the assets things are balanced by
paying off debentures on the other side: this debt has
now been got down to £15,500. The electric light part of
the business is still alleged to be worth just over £7500 ;
yet, as it shows a consistent loss, there is no doubt much
writing-off yet to be done. Nevertheless, the shareholders
have been pleading, and the directors, who don’t seem to
suffer from too much stiffening in the spine, announce
that, for the current half-year, they propose to pay a div.
on ordinary shares at the rate of 34 per cent.
* * * *
Perth (W.A.) City Council has won rounds one
and two in its fight with the Gas Co. Under the co.’s
Act the council 12 months or so back came into the right
to take over the whole concern on paying a price to be
fixed by arbitration. The question then arose: What
should the arbitrators take into account, the value of the
plant, etc., only, or the value of the goodwill also?
Fearing that the arbitrators might say that, if the city
had to pay for goodwill, it really got nothing in return
for the right which the co. had enjoyed to carry on the
business undisturbed for 25 years, the co. tried to stop
the arbitration. It applied to Justice Burnside, who said
“ Pooh ! ” as politely as he could to the co.’s arguments.
The co. then took the matter to the Full Court, and that
body has also said “Pooh !” So the arbitration will pro-
ceed, and a lot of the shareholders who foolishly went in
at extravagant prices don’t feel at all comfortable.
* * * *
Chairman Grice told shareholders in the Emu
Bay (Tas.) Railway Co. a tale of woe. In Tiitf Bulletin
notice (18/3/’O9) it was shown that only for the past four
years had there been any profit at all, and' the total for
1908 was only £1297. The chairman brought some of the
results down to nearly the end of March, and showed
that for the first 11 weeks of 1908 the revenue was
£12,769, while for the first 11 weeks of this year the co.
had only scored £11,761. The expenses of maintenance
are, moreover, increasing ; for instance, during the past
three years the number of sleepers called for to replace
old ones has bounded along in this way : 1906 17 400 *
1907, 35,600 ; 1908, 44,000.
* * *
The Macleav River Co-operative Dairying- Co.
(Kempsey, N.S.W.) is another of the multitude of little
co-operative concerns that are helping to make such big
profits out of Cow that people now take off their hats to
the lady. On an authorised capital of £5OOO and a paid
capital of only 7 £683, this co. last year had a turn-over in
butter alone of £28,542. The gross profits for the past
three half-years have been £424, £1269, and £760 ; an 8
per cent, dividend has been paid for two years past
to the shareholders (particulars available go back no
further); £lll was paid as bonus to suppliers in 1907,
and £452 in 1908 ; and in the past 18 months
£263, £475, and £320 have been written off for depreci-
ation of machinery, plant, etc., which now stand in the
books at £2028. The reserves (including- export reserve)
now stand at ilSte, and the directors aopear to have a
settled policy of steadily accumulating more—a very
necessary thing seeing how large is the turnover (and the
consequent liability to losses through bad debts) com-
pared with the capital. The co. trades on a credit
balance, and shows nothing - paid for interest.
The Bovril Co., which was put off by Syd.
Kidman in England to take over some North Australian
cattle runs and to slaughter, etc., at Kimberley or there-
abouts, is the second of similar cos. in which the Bovril
people have lately taken a hand. The first was the
Argentine Estates of Bovril, Ltd. The rapid increase in
the price of cattle all over the world alarmed the co.
hence it decided that “ the question of a more definite
control over our supplies of raw material was of vital im-
portance.” Bovril, Ltd., wasn't inclined to take any
risks, so the thing had to be underwritten before it
would agree to come in as a promoter ; and then Bovril
shareholders were treated as preferential applicants
for shares. The Bovril Co. has made a five years’ con-
tract with the Bovril Argentine Co. Presumably the
arrangements in connection with the Australian co. are
much the same. At the recent meeting of the co. in
London the chairman said that if the costs had remained
the same as in 1897 (the co.’s first year), it would have
earned approximately £600,000 more in the 12 years and
would have been able to pay 10 per cent on the deferred
shares for last year instead of the 2 per cent, it actually
did pay. These figures show very well what is urging the
co. to break out into these new beef-raising concerns.
Victoria Downs station, which the co. is to take
over in May, isn’t as big as McArthur River station, but
probably no ranch outside Australia beats it for size.
The homestead is on the Wickham River, a western tribu-
tary of the Victoria. The Victoria River enters the Timor
Sea a little to the east of the Westralian border, and is
navigable to Gregory’s Depot, over 150 miles. The area
is 12,000 square miles. (York, the biggest county in
England, contains 5909 square miles; and all Wales is
only 7446 square miles big.) By the end of the year Vic-
toria Downs will be carrying 100,000 cattle, if all goes well.
Running streams through basaltic country giveitplenty of
water, and Mitchell and Flinders grasses provide first-rate
cattle feed. The head station is 250 miles from Wyndham,
Cambridge Gulf. On the east the country extending
200 miles—on to Newcastle Waters—is not officially occu-
pied. The S.A. Government gets about 2s. Gd. a mile for
these properties on leasehold tenures of 42 years.
As shown when the accounts were issued (B.
l/4/’O9), the Broken Hill Prop.’s gross profit for the half-
year to the end of November was made up as follows:
Working account £24,496
Interest 9,735
Fees, etc 149
Total £34,430
From this, £8639 is deducted to provide for depreciation,
leaving £25,791 net. The working account profit ap-
parently included a refund of £7OBO for overpaid income-
tax, and also the profit on the purchase of ore, etc., from
other cos. What the latter amounted to the accounts do
not disclose ; it is very doubtful, in fact, whether the co.
itself can tell precisely, because the co.’s own ore and the
purchased ore are not kept separate, and the division of
costs must be arbitrary. Nevertheless, chairman
Darling, at the half-yearly meeting, said, “The profit
made is from purchased ores, sale of concentrates and
acid, and smelting. . . , The mining of ore from the mine
and treatment has not covered cost.” Chairman Darling,
by the way, is getting out of the hornet’s nest he has
dragged down about him by taking a trip to England.
Six months’ work of the Zinc Corporation, com-
piled from the co.’s monthly reports :
Tons Income Working
Treated. (Est.). Expend. Surplus.
Oct. .. 15,400 £15,636 £7060 £8,576
Nov. .. 16,010 16,060 7366 8,694
Dec. .. 16,020 15,790 7531 8,259
Jan. .. 16,560 17,415 7707 9,708
Deb. .. 17,020 17,992 7863 10,129
Mar. .. 18,010 18,722 8403 10,319
99,020 £101,615 £45,930 £55,685
Out of that £55,685 three payments have to be made—for
the tailings treated, depreciation (or construction, which
averages about £2500 a month), and management
expenses. The tailings probably cost about 4s. 3d. per
ton .as an average, or £21,042 for the lot, leaving
£34,643 to pay the other charges and provide profit.
The income, it will be seen, is estimated, because the co.
has to take the risk of a fall in the spelter market for
three months after delivery. The price at which spelter
has been taken into the accounts for the past three
months is £2O (before that it was slightly less); and the
actual average quotation for the same period has been
£2l 7s. 9d., so that a good margin has been allowed. If
the recent average quotation is maintained, the practical
effect will be that the co. will make a larger profit than
has been estimated.
The last few chapters in the disastrous story of
the Broken Hill Junction :
Depreciation
Loss. Written Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1904 .. £1,910 £l6OO £27,014
Sept., 1904 .. 1,858 1520 30,392
Mar., 1905 .. 3,708 1381 35,481
Sept., 1905 .. 2,468 1303 39,252
Mar., 1906 .. 6,802 1249 47,303
Sept., 1906 .. 3,731 1177 52,211
Mar., 1907 .. 1,172 1118 54,501
Profit.
Sept., 1907 .. 3,524 1066 62,043
Loss.
Mar., 1908 .. 11,523 1012 64,578
Aug., 1908 ... 1,839 687 67,104
Deficit wiped out ; new co. (the fourth) formed.
Jan., 1909 .. 4,344 Nil 4,344
The co. which was recently wound up was formed in
1900; it never paid a dividend. The mine stands on a
sort of elbow of the lode, where the bodies are most
erratic. One or two very fine patches have been found;
but they have soon been worked out. At present the
management is struggling to find another patch, and for
that purpose is using the diamond drill freely. It is alia
gamble.
•*■ •*■**
Kyloe, at Adaminaby (N.S.W.), has started to
estimate its ore reserves. Prill ore, which is carefully
picked stuff, is estimated at 3000 tons between the 200 ft.
and 800 ft. levels ; and as No. 3 is out over 300 ft. in length,
there is roughly, on this reckoning, 10 tons of rich ore for
every foot driven at the deepest level. Taking the
density of 15 p.c. ore into consideration, and remem-
bering that the furnace has been kept going for some
time past mainly out of ore raised in development, this
estimate of 3000 tons of prill ore seems moderate. Milling
ore is somewhat vaguely estimated to last for two years
if the 400 ft. level turns out well. But copper concentra-
tion is usually a poor business, as witness Girilambone;
so if the crudes average 5 per cent, a recovery of 3 per
cent, is about as much as can be hoped for. Wallaroo
and Moonta certainly make big profits at times, but even
in their case there are heavy losses of metal in the
tailings, or the leaching and cementation wouldn’t be so
profitable. On present developments, there doesn’t seem
to be 1000 tons of copper in sight in the Kyloe mine, and,
allowing a fair profit margin of £2O a ton, it will be seen
that those who come in at present prices are paying
heavily for possible future developments.
» * * *
The S. Australian Government hasn’t yet made
up its mind to exercise its option to buy the Maitland
(N.S.W.) coal property, which it tested by bores some
time ago. There is a strong feeling among Labor men
and a good many others that the State should make itself
independent of the private mine-owners ; but, as pointed
out here some time a<ro, it is very doubtful whether for
its special purpose the State was making the best bargain
in getting so deep a mine so far from the coast; and
there are doubts whether a less tender coal wouldn’t suit
better, considering the bumping the stuff will get before
it arrives in the Far North. The owner is urging the
Government to make up its mind one way or the other,
as he says a shipping co. has opened up negotiations for
the same property.


Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL, ORE, WHEAT.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co.
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
LOHMANN <& COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Sole Agents for-
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points anti Crossings, Turntables,
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. II
The Bourke’s Hill was one of the New England
(N.S.W.) tin-sluicing show's taken on in 1906 by a Vic-
torian crowd with more than eighteenpence behind it.
It first got a small portable sluicing plant at work, and
followed that up with a large stationary plant. For the
co.’s first 12 months—the big plant only worked a few
weeks —there was a loss of £57; in the next six months,
to February, 1908, a profit of £689; to August, 1908, a
loss of £639, including £490 written off for depreciation ;
and to the end of February, 1909, a profit of £1126, from
which £297 is to be written off. On the property
the co. hasn’t had any too good luck, having
struck hard stuff that wanted shooting before it
could be sluiced ; but the outlook is now a good deal more
promising. On Feb. 28 the co.’s financial position stood
like this: Liabilities, £1763; liquid assets (apart from
stores), £1355. Apparently the February w'ages bill had,
however, to be paid out of this last amount; but the tin
output reported in March was unusually good. The paid
capital is only £16,875 ; so if the tin market stands up
there are very good chances of the shareholders getting
their money back, even though they did give too much
for the property (nearly half both of the shares and of the
subscribed cash).
* * * *
Associated Gold Mines (W.A.) has just closed
another financial year, and the annual estimate of ore
reserves, which is expected to be the best so far, is to be
cabled to London some time this month. There is some
market talk of the shares seeing £2, but if they do it
won’t be on account of the present dividends or those
that are likely to come out of the visible reserves.
* * * *
Golden Ridge Co. (W.A.) announces that the
dividend value of the reserves below’, and the accumu-
lated residues on top, is over 15s. per share, to which
must be added the cash assets—equal to another two or
three shillings per share. Then there is the market value
of the plant, which may safely be put down at a few
thousands, and the speculative value of the mine, which
probably isn’t much. The co. allow’ed the shares to
tumble from near 30s. to 14s. before mustering up courage
to check the slump, and even then it w'ould have avoided
the ordeal but for the fact of nasty things being said
about the prolonged silence.
8., M. and Co. have left the Hannans Pro-
prietary (W.A.), and O. M. Harris, who had control before
the “ firm ” came on the scene, has again taken charge.
In the days of George Grey, champagne, and other ex-
pensive luxuries, the co. held 500 acres at Kalgoorlie ;
but this area has since been reduced to 144 acres. The
chief claim of the only part that can be considered a gold
mine lies in the fact that it is next-door neighbor to the
Golden Link Eclipse lease, and stands a chance of getting
a fair length of that mine’s shoot at a depth.
* * * *
Esperanza Westralia, Ltd., of London, held
another mournful meeting a month ago, when share-
holders sighed for another handshake with the hard cash
that has melted away. The chairman and another old
hand at the game did their best to cheer up the mourners
present, but rather overdid it by trying to raise a further
£l3OO in the room for the development of a “ new ”
property. Shareholders had had their feelings worked on
in this way so often before that on this occasion they
began to think things over, with the result that the
meeting ended without anyone getting up and expressing
any willingness to fork out.
* * * *
Chickens have come home to roost at Norseman.
It is telegraphed from the spot that the recent flotation
of several wild cats in S. Australia has given the field a
bad name over there, and “ blewed ” its chances of get-
ting any more capital for the time being. It is not long
since the Perth, Adelaide and Kalgoorlie papers were re-
porting almost every day the great value of the reefs in
properties which the share market now estimates to be
worthless ; yet the same people who circulated, or aided
and abetted the circulation of, these lies are squeal-
ing the loudest at the dead-set made against the district.
• * * *
Golden Pole Co. (W.A.) has thrown up its
option on the Kohinoor South at Stakewell. This
decision was arrived at after brooding for some months
over the great uncertainty of mining, as well as over the
money spent in establishing this fact in connection with
the show mentioned. When the option was secured, the
lode was said to be big and of good grade at two levels,
and later on (his favorable report was supplemented by a
statement that the “profit in sight ’’ was sufficient to re-
coup the co. for the whole of its outlay, and leave a bit
over. The fact of the property being turned down, how-
ever, seems to indicate that both these yarns were as
empty of truth as a drum is of innards.
* » * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) is fading fast. Something
like 400 ft. of sinking has now been done in the prospect-
ing winze below the No. 13 level, but the values met with
are not calculated to give shareholders much hope. A
vacuum filter plant is being got ready to treat the accu-
mulated slimes, and while the gold recovered from this
source will naturally swell the returns for a time, it won’t
be long before the mine ceases to be a dividend-earner,
unless some good permanent strike is made shortly. Both
the property and those running it deserve a better fate.
But, then, nothing—not even a mine—lasts in this world.
The recent rise and fall of Gwalia Souths
(W.A.) is attracting some attention. A month or so ago
they soared up to 395., on the strength of some good
assays and frantic buying, but since then they have
tumbled down heavily. The holding back of the next
dividend till May is said to be accountable for the slump,
but in all probability someone has figured out the value
of the mine both before and after the remainder of the
main shoot is taken out, and then decided that it would
be more profitable to give less subtle purchasers as many
as possible of the shares to go on with.
* * * »
Westralia Mount Morgans (W.A.) is promised
another trial. Shareholders met again in London on the
4th ult., when Managing-Director A. E. Morgans lamented
the past foolishness of himself and others in not creating
a reserve in good times. More to the point,, he wound
up, with the assistance of the chairman, in getting a
resolution passed approving of a scheme for raising fur-
ther capital to the amount of £30,000. It will be a god-
send for the township of Morgans if the whole, or part, of
this sum is put up, but those who find it are taking risks.
“R. G. Gladstone, auditor for the c 0.,” has his
say re the Flag Gold and Copper Mining Co. (W. A.), dealt
with here on March 11:—“ I have yet to learn that it is the
custom in W.A., or elsewhere, to write off expenditure
on main shafts and levels, as all companies consider such
works assets so long as pay ore remains to be stoped. If
there be any cause of complaint, it is that the last half-
year’s operations have been unduly loaded with 10 p.c.
of the total development expenditure. Also, your cor-
respondent is evidently unaware that the whole of the
material treated during the six months under review was
won from main driving, stoping being practically nil.
The present position is that the co. has in sight above
the 200 ft. level 3000 tons of smelting ore of a proved
value of £7, and 10,000 tons of crushing dirt worth £3
per tori, so that should the bailiff, as suggested, unex-
pectedly happen along, it won’t take long to tear down
enough to satisfy him. Further, all shoots are lengthen-
ing with depth, while values persist, and new sources of
supply hitherto unknown have been discovered at the
200 ft. level. The prospects of the co. were never better,
and if your correspondent has shares to sell at face value
he need not hold them, as they will be readily taken.”
Mr. Gladstone, auditor for the Flag, has “yet
to learn that it is the custom in W.A. or elsewhere to
write off expenditure on main shafts and levels, as all cos.
consider such works assets as long as pay ore remains to
be stoped.” The fact, however, that Mr. Gladstone has
yet to learn a few things is no reason why the rest of the
world should be ignorant about them. The biggest
mining co. in N.S.W. is the Broken Hill Prop. Its custom
is to write off expenditure on main shafts and levels as it
goes along. The biggest mining co. in Queensland is Mt.
Morgan. Its custom is ditto. Tasmania’s biggest is
the Mt. Lyell. Its custom is ditto. S. Australia’s
biggest is Wallaroo and Moonta. Its custom is
ditto. Evidently Mr. Gladstone therefore doesn’t know
what is the practice with the four biggest mining con-
cerns in the other four States. The system he defends is
in vogue in connection with some concerns, no doubt,
and the results in three cases out of four are disastrous.
In that connection the reader is referred to what is
said elsewhere in this issue concerning the O.K. (North
Queensland).
• •* * ■*
Though better reports as to mining develop-
ments have been coming down from Great Fitzroy
(Queensland), the monthly figures don’t show any notice-
able improvement. Eight months’furnace work can be
summarised as follows :
Ore Copper Gold Working Spent on
Smelted. Value. Value. Costs. Capital
p.c. dwt. s. d. Account.
Aug. .. 3303 3’40 3’90 27 1 £899
Sept. .. 3181 3’26 3’85 29 4 776
Oct. .. 2904 3"28 3’53 32 3 1350
Nov. .. 3004 3’24 3’52 30 1 1099
Dec. .. 2571 3’45 3’33 32 3 1690
Jan. .. .2988 3’65 3’09 32 0 2820
Feb. .. 2836 3’13 3’23 31 11 1733
Mar. .. 2900 3’20 3’64 31 0 1374
The veteran Osborne, the sprightly youngster of 75 or so
who stuck to the show for a long- while, and eventually
got Philip Charley interested in it—which was the begin-
ning of the present co.—is now' understood to be probing
something in New Guinea on Charley’s behalf.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, is steadily de-
pleting its ore reserves at No. 6 and No. 7 levels. Some
of these rich stopes have been 10ft. wide, which explains
why the mine has been able to hold its end up so long.
There is hope that new ore bodies will replace those that
are getting exhausted. According- to some sanguine
theorists, the diamond drill to the north may even find
the Brilliant reef. Brilliant Blocks hasn’t found the Day
Dawn, but is sinking through rock that is favorable for
leaders. The extension of the main. Day Dawn reef past
the 900 ft. mark from Mills’ United boundary hasn’t been
follow'ed by any improvement in a wet and barren
formation. Rapid w'ork has been done in the crosscut
from the shaft, and when this is connected with the
No. 7 level, development work on the reef will go ahead.
Charters Towers is nibbling once more at the
Carrington United, the outside gold-copper show that
was so much less of a success than it should have been,
because the Tow'ers people didn’t know many things
about copper ; also because, when profits didn’t come
fast enough out of the mine, some of those interested tried
to make them out of the share-market. The early smelt-
ing experiments landed the co. with a considerable over-
draft ; but pretty well all of that has been wiped out, the
gold ore having come to the rescue.
* • * •
A small explanation is offered why the Ruby,
Charters Towers, has so disappointed its backers. The
rich stone in the Ruby heap proved too tempting to some
lads picking over a neighboring mullock tip, and these
youngsters, it is alleged, managed to cull out some of the
best stone under cover of darkness. Perhaps the Ruby
has been economising, and has sacked the watchman.
Anyhow, if 3oz. stone is left kicking about the surface
they are careless people, and deserve to be severely
spoken to for putting temptation in the way of various
wandering hard-ups.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, has
passed the 900 ft. mark in the eastward progress of the
Day Dawn’s No. 7 level. An increased width in the forma-
tion and a big flow of water are hopeful signs that the
Day Dawn will improve again ; but just at present there
is only Ift. of white quartz Showing. The crosscut from
the shaft is in 86ft., and has also struck a w'ater channel.
Bonnie Dundee enlivened a drooping market with a
crushing of 352 tons, averaging £6 13s. per ton. No. 1
East, which is the top level, near the Queen Central boun-
dary, has improved, and at 189 ft. carries Bin. of good
stone. A rise from No. 2 east is up 56ft., with 4ft. of
stone showing; and a winze from this level is down a
few feet on 6in. of medium stone. No. 3 east has Ift. of
mineral stone in the end, so things are a little more hope-
ful, although prospects at depth are generally not too
encouraging.
There wasn’t a trace of Stinking Fish in the
annual report of President Joe Millican, of Charters
Towers Stock Exchange, furnished at the end of February :
“ It is now 21 years since Charters Towers failed to
show a profit in its balance-sheet. In 1888, the calls
amounted Co £144,160 2s. 10d., and the dividends to
£76,817 19s. 4d. From and including the year 1888 to
1908, the calls totalled £1,923,859, and the dividends
£5,451,637, or a visible profit of £3,527,778, and this profit
does not represent the gross profits, for very many of the
companies have expended large sums out of profits on
additional plant and new mining properties. As for ex-
ample, the Brilliant and St. George United, Brilliant P.C.
and Brilliant Extended. The total output cf this field
since its inception has been 4,775,811 tons, and the value
of the yield, as recorded, was £22,422,210. What the
profits were prior to the year 1888 has never been
recorded, but they were phenomenal. Considered as a
business, which is, of course, the correct view to take, a
profit of £3,527,778 in 21 years is a fine testimony to the
sound'character of the field, and it is still more satis-
factory when it is considered that the field is a going
concern, furnished with an equipment of plant and
machinery, mills and cyanide works adapted to the
character of our reefs.”
But Charters Towers can’t pay a dividend with the
gold that has been scattered in the past ; so for the
future it must rely mainly on the deeper ground, along
with possible extensions of the Brilliant and Day Dawn
reefs east and west. In connection with those possibilities a
great deal of dead work has been done during the past
two years; and the next 12 months should be full of
interest for Charters Towers. Going on the experience
of other fields, there won’t be as much for the share-
holders to look forward to. Hitherto about £3 has gone
in labor and other expenses, and £1 in dividends ; but the
dividend end of the stick is now pretty certain to taper
off to a much sharper point.
* * * *
From a Charters Towers man, who hasn’t any
axe to grind as far as this paper is aware: Means
amounting almost to misrepresentation have been
adopted by some of the share-dealing crowd lately to
boost Brilliant Deeps ; wherefore it will be doing the
field a good turn in the long run to calmly consider the
co.’s last report. For the last half-year 392 ft. of driving
was done at a cost of £3559. Allowing for carting and
crushing the 300 tons of stone won, the actual costs at
the mine were approximately £3360, being at the rate of
£8 11s. sd. per foot. Further, the report shows that
300 tons of stone were won from 238 ft. of driving on the
reef. At the rate of £8 the driving on stone cost
£1804; while the return from the stone won
amounted to £1557, or a loss of nearly £1
per ton. The co. is now driving a footwall
level which at the commencement of the present term
had to be driven 377 ft. As the conditions prevailing are
similar to those of the previous term, this footwall level
will cost about £3300, equal to four twopenny calls. It
is probable a rise to connect with No. 1 level will be put
up from this footwall level. The cost of this will swallow
up the amount of another twopenny call. Having com-
pleted this work, the co. will then have reached the spot
from which recent crushings have been obtained. In the
report just issued it is mentioned that the co. intends sink-
ing an underlie shaft, and making a connection with the
main underlie at a lower level. The main underlie is about
1000 ft. from w’here they will be sinking, so that the co.
has a big job ahead of it before returns can be looked for.
The co. recently declared from the housetops that 68ft. of
driving had been done for two weeks’ work (a very credit-
able performance in itself); but of the all-important
matter of costs nothing was said. To the call-payer,
footage is not the sole desideratum. The cost per foot is
possibly of greater immediate importance to him. As the
term on which the co. has just entered is likely to be
entirely taken up in development, some very interesting
figures as to costs, etc., should be forthcoming. Of the
three separate crushings, making the total of 300 tons,
the first two were not payable, unless costs can be materi-
ally reduced, while the last was obtained from some-
thing like 100 ft. of driving. When the whole thing is
summed up, the Brilliant Deeps have proved a shoot of
good stone 100 ft. long, other measurements unknown,
situated some considerable distance from the working
shaft, and which it is going to cost a very large amount
to prove, and (should it live) to open up and ventilate.
Yet the present valuation placed on the mine is some-
thing over £35,000.
* * * *
The O.K. Copper Co. (Queensland) must be in
a corner as the result so far of the big law suit. Certainly
it last w'eek got a stay of proceedings and leave to appeal
on payment of costs and on lodging £lO,OOO (npt £lOOO as
most of the dailies reported); and when the co. has put
up £lO,OOO and met the calls of its own lawyers it won’t
have much (if anything) in the cupboard. The last
balance-sheet, it is true, showed a Profit and Loss credit
of £64,180 ; but that was only another illustration of the
often misleading system of charging development, etc.,
to capital. For, instead of having £64,180 on hand on
September 30, the co. actually had the following liquid
and semi-liquid assets Ore, £300; sundry debtors,
£360; bank, £9BOO ; products on hand (since realised),
£7500; total, £17,960. Stores, coke, limestone, etc.,
which are very doubtful assets when they are on
an isolated mine in North Queensland, represented
another £lO,OOO. On the other side, the co. owed sundry
creditors £3645. Disregarding stores, the surplus was
thus £14,315. Work has been continued during the past
six months ; but at the prices ruling, and in view of the
considerable amount of development work that has been
done, very little profit can have been made, after paying
for the development. In fact, only by drawing on the
stores could the bank balance have been improved at all;
and it is hard to see how the financial position can beany
better now than it was six months ago, when, as shown
above, the surplus stood at £14,315. With Costs to pay,
and £lO,OOO to put up in order to give it the right to appeal,
the co. has a tough proposition ahead of it while the
present prices of copper last.
The O. K. ’s published accounts have been no worse
than those of many other mining cos. ; but, as mentioned
above, they are all traps for the unwary. In this case, in
order to make up the Profit and Loss credit balance of
£64,180, the following were reckoned as assets worth 20s.
in the £:—Smelting plant, £7000; converter plant,
£6000; buildings, £2300; reservoirs, £1300; develop-
ment, £11,432; Walsh River bridge, £Bl5. As soon as
the mine is worked out, or as soon as it becomes unpay-
able, none of these things are worth more than a few
pounds. Several are then worth nothing at all —develop-
ment, for instance, which simply means certain holes in
the ground, and holes in the ground have in themselves
no value. It may be that in theory the scientific way is
to charge up such things to capital, and then write them
off out of revenue. Thus, if there is four years’ ore in a
mine, the amount written off should be enough to ex-
tinquish the capital charge in four years. If that isn’t
done, but if these things remain as assets when
the mine is played out, then obviously the profits
up to that time have been overstated, because things
that have been required to earn the revenue haven’t been
included with expenses. Unfortunately, however, one
can’t tell how long a mine will last. There may be four
years’ ore in sight; but a slump in the market may make
so much of it unpayable that only enough payable ore is
left to last six months. In that case, the whole beautiful
theory of gradually writing off the cost of development
work, etc., in four years falls into the mud ; and people
who have bought shares on the strength of the net pro-
fits being so much (as stated in the report) fall into the
same unpleasant substance. Coming back to the O.K. in
particular, in addition to the things mentioned above as
assets, the co. in its last balance-sheet credited itself
with £10,654, the amount of its claim against the Hirsch
firm. It is the co.’s bad luck or bad judgment that so
far, instead of panning out £10,654, that claim has only
panned out a bill for Costs.
* * ■» *
Queensland Copper Co., the English concern
which holds mining interests at Mount Perry, Many
Peaks, and elsewhere, has not been doing much good
lately, and some of the properties it was negotiating for
at Herberton will probably be offered to Mount Molloy.
Copper (contained in matte) was lately produced at
£5l 6s. lOd. and sold at £5l 4s. sd. ; so the co. has had to
try to raise money in London to go on with development.
Great hopes are entertained about the Many Peaks pro-
perty, because it is close to the big reward leases held by
Mount Morgan, and the reduction of costs by using
pyritic fluxes is the only hopeful feature in the outlook.
Mount Perry itself is being prospected at 1100 ft., but the
ore raised is too silicious ; lime and ironstone run into
thousands of pounds during the year.
• » * *
The last report from the Tongkah tin people
has set a doubt at rest. This co., which was born in
Tasmania, has the right to dredge a harbor in Siam.
Under the shallow water, along the beach, the stuff was
amazingly rich ; the first dredge scooped up and cleaned
two tons of black tin a day. This machine was, however,
not strong enough for the work, and, apparently to keep
sweet with the Dutch tin-market manipulators, con-
tracts were let to build a couple of more power-
ful dredges in Holland. The first qf these arrived
in February, and was put to work in the middle
of the month “a mile seaward from where No. 1
dredge was recently working in the dock area.” It
was thought that possibly along the beach there
had been natural concentration : the tin-bearing stuff
might have been washed down, and the tide might
have carried out the lighter mullock, leaving high-grade
dirt on the beach. In 15 days the No. 2 dredge, working
“ a mile seaward,” has, however, averaged 1 ton 3 cwt. of
clean tin a day ; so the metal is evidently well distributed
over a very wide area. If other practical tests of this
sort support the results achieved by bores, it is likely
that the co. will cut itself in halves, on account of the
size of the concession. The third dredge has arrived, is
being put together, and will be at work next month ;
and so should the remodelled No. 1 dredge. The
directors figure on paying a first dividend by the middle
of the year.
■***•*
Birthday Tunnel, Berringa (Vie.), has thus far
held its own on the field, where a very small margin of
gold makes all the difference to the managers. The co.
is, however, nearing the danger zone now' that it is down
to 800 ft., for generally on this field values diminish as
1000 ft. is reached. Quartz as wide as Pitt-street exists at
that depth in the Birthday mine, but the gold is as scarce
as nugget pins are in miners’ neckties nowadays. The
Tunnel has a second big chance, apart from the fair stone
being got in No. 7, on the Fancy lode. There is also a
big block of unprospected ground on the line of lode
which has the makings of a second mine if only the co.
would set to work or let some one else have a try.
Because Goldfields Consolidated, Bendigo, has
got a little extra gold, Melbourne people were expected
to nip into the stock. But Oollins-street has been “ off ”
Bendigo for a while, having got in at the top and sold at
the bottom. A nice make of stone is showing in the mine
at the north end of 610 ft. Both legs of the saddle
shorten very rapidly, and even with the stone between
610 ft. and 510 ft. thrown in, there is not much to come
and go on to induce investment outside Bendigo. There
the value of the stone is speedily known to a tick, while
outsiders can only try to guess it.
* * * ♦
Myrtle : Glad of such pars, but they must be
accurate in detail —the Wild Cat has an objection to
round numbers such as “about 100,000 oz.”.. . .F.S. :
Don’t know, and have no means of finding out C.A.
(Greytow’n): Turn up Bulletin 27/2/’OB.. . .Doubtful :
No ; the extra return doesn’t half compensate for the
risk S.F.A.: Don’t know, and are not in the share-
tipping business, anyhow'.
* * * *
Lane and Peters, the successful contractors for
the Barreri Jack dam (N.S.W.), have installed a complete
rock-drilling plant of the Ingersoll Rand Co.’s manufac-
ture. The plant comprises a large class D belt-driven
compressor and F 94 drills capable of drilling holes in the
hard granite 30 to 40 feet ; also a number of the new’
M.V.6 valveless hammer drills.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating' mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
*• * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet I inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • »
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense *
* * * •
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of.the mesh ;it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
• * * *
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [3
* * * *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, Lon-
don, of 23/9/’OB writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz: that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the ‘Twelve
Option ’ contract lately placed on the market.’’*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * ■* *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos, Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depot for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.*
* * « *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tbnax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Hay market, Sydney.*
•* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
« * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* 9 ■* * *
Messrs. Sennitt & Son Propy. Ltd., Mel-
bourne, are about to instal a new power plant at their
Ice and Refrigerating Works-and have placed their order
for a 150 B.H.P. “Korting” Suction Gas Engine and
“Dowson” Producer Plant with Gibson, Battle & Co.
Ltd., of 7 Bent Street, Sydney and 128 William Street,
Melbourne. This plant is to be running in September
next, and its installation will mark a new era in suction
gas power in Victoria. The “Korting” type of gas
engine is similar in principle to the steam engine, with
steadier and more reliable running than can be obtained
by the ordinal - }' gas engine, in addition to which a con-
siderable variation in speed can be made if required.*


o*
CHARLES
heidsieck
ships only the Best
products of the Vines
of
REIMS. y/
\
dsf
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “ SILVASHEEN ” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ask ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.-Wi
V
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
You don’t need to be very
particular what sort of a
teapot you use to make your,
tea in so long as it isn’ t a tin
one—an , ordinary common
glazed earthenware teapot like
this is about as good as you
can get, because it's thick and
holds the heat and is easily
cleaned—but the tea you put
into the teapot, and the care
you exercise in the brewing of
it, is what makes all the
difference between a good and
a poor cup of tea —if you putin
Robur No. 1 Grade —warm
the teapot first —see that the
water is fresh and just boiling—
let it draw for about 5 minutes
—and then pour it out—you’ll
have a cup of tea that
you’ll smack your lips over,
I’ll warrant —for it really is
delicious tea—good enough tor
the Queen to drink.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
I m MßMßßlM bttmi !■■■! M IMMWir m — ammMamu • ■MmiMMPaiE’WMfwwwM ''TBOm——— mmv
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 12, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
The Jack Londons boarded their tramp-craft
Tymeric shortly before midnight on Tuesday,
their farewellers being Miss Ola Humphrey and
Mr. H. N. Southwell. The last-named, who was
to have managed the lecture tour that never
eventuated, was hypnotised into going on to New-
castle, swagless as he stood, with the pair of
“mates.” There the party bumped its head fre-
quently in coal drives and wrestled with the
numerous interviewer. Mrs. London, as a
matter of formality, goes as “stewardess”
on the Tymeric ; her husband is writ
down as “purser,” and their colored youth
attendant is a “ cabin-boy.” Apparently the
tramp is not supposed to carry bumble-bee
passengers—only workers. “Gnawed by cock-
roaches and splashed with sea spray,” is the be-
ginning of the inscription London wrote to Miss
Humphrey in a copy of “ The Sea Wolf ” that had
accompanied him in his wanderings in the
Snark, and which he bestowed upon the lady.
They are a vital, hard-working pair, the Londons.
Both lay low to the public while here, and wrote
all the morning, and in the afternoon accumulated
more material for more writing. The Lon-
doness proved to be no mean musician, and
urged by Pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith, she
attacked a dangerous, bristling concerto in its
lair in a private drawing-room, and though the
animal was new to her she won out brilliantly.
At the three Crossley concerts, the male Mate
used to write in a notebook with great velocity
during intervals and some of the encores.
I did not go to the opening of the Sydney Nor-
land Nurseries by Lady Dudley. I remained
away for nineteen reasons, the first of which was
that I wasn’t asked. So the other reasons don’t
matter. But I met one of the invited guests the
same evening. She is not by any means an “ out-
sider,” and the following conversation occurred :
Me : How did it go off ?
She : O, wonderfully well. The Countess looked per-
fectly sweet in white, as usual, with a white, flower-
trimmed hat and —-
Me': Yes, but what about the ceremony and—and all
that ?
She : Well, I didn’t hear the Countess’s speech, because
just then Mrs. Dreadnought Smith—you know, don’t
you, that all the women whose husbands gave large sub-
scriptions to the Dreadnought fund are now known as
Mrs. Dreadnought this and Dreadnought that—well, she
was telling me all about the operation on her little
nephew for tuberculosis in the ankle-joint, and of course
I couldn’t interrupt her.
Me: Of course you couldn’t. Were there many Nor-
land infants?
She : Yes, quite a number ; but very over-dressed for
foundlings, I thought.
Me : But they aren’t foundlings.
She : What are they, then 1 A charitable institution
and neglected children. I think I ought to know. Why,
I was asked to be on the committee.
The Norland Institute as a concession to human
stupidity ought to advertise in very plain English
its place and aim and object, else the rabbit intel-
lect will persist in speaking of it as on all fours
with that other useful but dissimilar institution,
the Waitara Foundling Home.
Ever since she came here a fortnight ago the
Dudley Countess has been opening institutions.
Australia will, appear in the Dudley dreams as an
oyster bed, on which the dreamers stand and use
a speech instead of a knife. The lady’s speeches
are audible to the person standing at the other
end of the oyster patch, which is more than can be
credited to most speakers. At the Children’s
Hospital opening her Ex.’s confession of faith in
hospitals and nurses could be heard by all who
had ears for hearing instead of mere flaps at the
side of the head for putting jewels in. Dr. Clubbe’s
no doubt valuable utterances could be heard only by
those who were within a sunshade’s length of him.
It was really the new wing (a Nurses’ Home) of the
R.A. Hospital for children that the Lady opened.
It has now a full set of wings and can fly. Any
further additions will be quills inserted, so to
speak, in the brick pinions.
Administratrix-of-the-Government Mrs. G. B.
Simpson added dignity and weight to the vice-
regal party, and there was a large representa-
tion of the useful Somebodies —Miss Eadith
Walker, the Matthew Harrises, Mr. Percy
Faithfull, and the like. Lady Dudley’s gar-
niture was as spring-like as the weather. It
was white embroidered muslin, with a wide shady
white hat simply wreathed with a lot of green
foliage and pink rose buds, and the headgear was
worn level on her head. She hats herself in sane
and aesthetic contrast to the mad hatters who
gather around at her public appearances. No
busby, no beehive, no shako or Merry Widow mil-
linery, worn squinting, has she yet exploited. Per-
sonally speaking, it’s beginning to dawn upon me
that foreign parts send all their unsaleable horrors
in millinery out to Australasia. The failures, the
shrieks, the remnants, and the things which were
composed by the millinery lunatic—these are
marked “exclusive” or “models”; then the ex-
porters putapriceon them that is likethesacking of
Rome by the Goths, and juggle the “colonies” into
the belief that they are the very latest vogue
“At Home.” “ What is worn at Home ”is such
successfully sticky birdlime when used in Sydney.
To the A.J.C. races on Easter Monday came
the Dudley Countess with her face-on-an-ancient-
Greek-coin glowing under an ivory-white flat
toque. A frock of the same hue, with
tight sleeves, encircled her graceful figure,
and several rows of pearls her throat.
A bunch of Maddens are here for the Sports
time. There’s a prevalence of mole and pink in
combination, and brown and emerald green. Also
there’s a lot more to be said of the race-meeting,
but I won’t say it this letter. I lost two half-
crowns, and can’t say anything fit for publication
just at present.
Possibly Lady Dudley’s avowed interest in hos-
pital nurses may do something towards lessening
their hours of work and increasing their rate of
pay. But I doubt it. Hospitals are keen on
economy, and the supply of probationers exceeds
the demand. Considering the nurses is a more
painful job than considering the lilies. I think
the working day of a nurse in a public hospital
is supposed to be about 12 hours. That means in
the wards. Under certain circumstances, e.g., in
the operating theatre, her toil is more likely to go
on for anything up to 16 hours. She gets an
afternoon off at intervals, an occasional evening,
and on rare occasions an afternoon and evening.
Their work, as you can understand, keeps these
girls on their feet all day long running about here
and there. This constant standing, coupled \yith
the undoubtedly heavy strain of their calling,
explains the fact that one can generally tell a nurse
by her walk. They “go in the feet,’’and develop
a peculiar broken-down waddle which brands
them easily. Then, in addition to their work,
they have their examinations. That means study.
Quite a high standard is expected, and they must
carry on their studies either when they should be
in bed or when they are supposed to be doing
their other work.
The time required for training is three, and in
some cases four, years ; and generally by that time
one expects to hear “I am leaving now. I cannot
go on any longer, as I feel quite played out, and
must have a long rest.” Not only that, but the
hospitals make a point of not holding out too
much inducement to nurses to stay on. They
want to save expense. Consequently in all our
hospitals there are too many pupil nurses and far
too few fully-qualified ones.
A weeding-out process takes place from the
jump, and so for the first six months the un-
fortunate probationer has but a poor time. If
she gets through those first six months she will,
in all probability, go on and qualify. But the
weeding-out is very heavy.
Then there is the turn of night duty. I know a
girl who has just finished 15 weeks of night duty.
Imagine a whole ward of sick people in charge of
one “ bit of a girl ” night after night for 15 weeks !
What attention can she give them ? What is she
like at the end of 15 weeks ?
Private hospitals have much longer hours and
harder work, most of it really of the “ waitress
kind ’’—fetching and carrying trays.
As for the pay. it begins at a bit more than
nothing, and may go up, if the position of Sister
is reached, to £6O. (Such a salary, however, is
enormous ; £4O is more usual.) If one only thinks
that it takes a really strong woman to stand the
strain of hospital nursing for 12 years, it should
be easy to calculate what the salary should be.
Consequently most of our really good nurses
leave the hospital as soon as possible and go in for
private practice. Then they join a “ Home,” pay
so much a week while in the Home, and so much
if out at a case. For this work they get two to
three guineas a week, travelling expenses, and
sometimes 2s. 6d. a week towards the laundry-bill.
You may get almost everything or anything at
the Royal Agricultural Show, including a nervous
headache. The vast and varied noise and the
whirling wheels assure you that. There is
almost, every kind of animal there from man
to archangel. The last is a breed of canary.
There is the usual wonderful white bull with
hair like lamb’s wool, only this year he is
not so usual. He is certainly a reincarnation
of the snow-white bull that carried off Europe,
and that animal, as you know, was Jupiter in
disguise and up to no good. One Simpson, of
Victoria, owns the silken white mammoth of this
year’s Exhibition. Next thing that took my
fancy was the Baby Developer. It is a cunningly
contrived and quite secure roped-in swing-seat,
suspended from a three-legged movable frame
by a strong elastic rope. Such a lot of babies
are indiarubber imps, but the most rubbery infant
planted in this “developer” might let his
pink toes touch the ground and lash out with his
creased fists, but he could not escape to fall into
the duckpond or the boiling suds. The dear old
granny who invented the cute thing was near the
invention, and explained that it was the result of
her dealings with her own indiarubber children
and grandchildren.
A cutlet from the National Anthem was served
twice—first for the Countess, who arrived from
town, and th,en for her consort, who arrived from
luncheon and the opposite direction. She was
again whitely clad, with a hat of heliotropey
grey. Her two elder daughters made their way
through the crowd as best they could, and glued
their undeniably fine eyes on to the angels on
horseback jumping high obstacles.
Captain Hore-Ruthven and his wife both rode,
incog, so to speak, in the hack class on the first
day of the Agricultural Show. The utter immacu-
lateness of theCaptain’sriding-clothesoutraged the
feelings of many a worthy bullock-puncher on the
ground, and had it not been for the incontestable
quality of his seat things might have gone ill with
him. Riding breeches which do not bag at the
knees, accompanied by a coat that is cut in the
directoire style, madden your backblocks horsey
man like anything. Later, Mrs. Hore-Ruthven
rode a prancing steed in a competition for what
the daily papers term “equestriennes.” The whole
of this particular family is at home on the roof of
a horse, the captain being a well-known British
steeplechase rider, and his wife as sound a per-
former in the hunting field as any of her age, sex
and weight in Ireland.
When Desmond dies the committee ought to
hang crape around the pay-office of the Sydney
Agricultural Showground. For this old white
horse, which takes shows as a matter of business,
and hasn’t even the blink of an eye left for the
clattering crowds, can draw 20,000 on his own
account every time the word goes round that he is
going to high-jump, and that some young upstarts
will try to jump higher. At sft. 3in. or so the
old showman only takes a languid interest in the
proceedings. Just to rub into his rivals that he
doesn’t call that work, every time he jumps
he strolls off with his rider and pretends to
nibble unconcernedly at the grass. At 6ft. the
rails begin to clatter, and the old white horse' gets
a little interested. Up to now he has just gone
over anyhow ; but the clattering of sticks reminds
him that there are oats to earn. He doesn’t get
excited, though, but this time the old fox tucks
his hind legs under him as he goes over. The
way he gets those legs out of the road is the
cunningest invention of the whole show. Inch
by inch the stick goes up, and one by one the horses
that were going to put old Desmond s nose
out of joint drop out, and only Desmond
and Lady Morton are left to sail over
something higher than 6ft. 6in. Twice the casual
old nibbler hits the stick, and each time wants to
go off to his patch of grass, making a simply mag-
nificent pretence that he has done the job. Just
about this time the rider for the first time reaches
for a whip and argues with the old fox to the effect
that it’s no use humbugging—he hasn’t earned his
oats, and the judges know it. Then Desmond,
persuaded that he hasn’t humbugged them this
time, moves up in a business-like way to the
hurdle, lifts his nose up to measure the height
and makes a mental note of it, goes back
only 15 yards or so, and tucks his legs
away as he puts at least 3in. between his
nethermost part and the rail. And with a quite
obvious 44 There, bother you, will that do! he
trots away to nibble his grass again, as though the
vain struggle of Lady Morton to climb over the
same height doesn’t interest him in the least. Pre-
sumably there’ll come a time when old Desmond
won’t be able to jump—a time when he will sit
around and tell of the days when a mere 6ft. lOin.
was all in the week’s work. But when that period
arrives there ought to be an opening for him
somewhere in melodrama.
Mayoress of Sydney, Mrs. Allen Taylor, has
had a nervous breakdown —the result of being
Mayoress—and has forsworn the dais, the commit-
tee woman, and the reception for a week or two.
That hopeful young mummer, Steffani Mac-
donald (his maternal progenitor was the soprano,
Miss Kate Slattery, who might have achieved
fame in Europe if she hadn’t chosen matrimony
and Australia), goes to London by the Omrah to
try his luck with the managers. He budded with
Meynell and Gunn, and now, fortified with
irresistible letters from Melba and others, he may
flower into a large, bright, stage blossom.
The Knight and Day co. left us on Thursday
evening, Miss Day laden with flowers and J.
Knight carrying a cat in a basket. If he has
appropriated Senator Ewing’s house-puss, a
writ of habeas cattus will be fired after him. The
Kolkers had an idea of taking over the Ewings’
house from J.K., but report says that the famous
servitors won’t work for any but bachelors.
Dickens’s types must be as alive in England to-
day as they were in that great writer’s time.
Geoff. Smith (Mr. Cyril Mackay) hadn’t been
on three minutes at first performance of “ An
“Englishman’s Home” before I recognised him
as Mr. Guppy. Mr. Brown is Mr. Podsnap.
And one of the younger Brown girls is just such
another as the damsel who averred “She’d die
first ” when the scrub-lady told her to take up her
note of invitation to Dick Swiveller’s room.
Mackay and Eardley Turner (as Brown) divide the
honors, but the performance of the former is as
marvellous ashis socks and waistcoat and attitudes.
Spluttering with rage at being accused of lack
of patriotism, he declares, ‘ ‘ Call me unpatriotic !
Why, on Mafeking night I sang 1 Rule Britannia ’
on top of the fountain in Trafalgar Square, fell
into the water, and kissed the copper that fished
me out.” Brown’s villa is shelled by the invaders,
and the audience now knows what the scream
of a shell is like. If there had been one more of
those whimpering shrieks, I would have fled from
the stalls or got under my seat. As a nerve de-
stroyer the shell-scream must be unrivalled. Miss
Ola Humphrey, as Maggie Brown, looks capital in
her plain brown cloth frock, short as to skirts and
Princess as to build. It harmonises with her
hair. That is more than can be said of her rela-
tion to the play, which gives her no show. Miss
F. Gleeson is an amusing little Cockney puss.
Mr. Walter Hall, who dropped a promise of
£lO,OOO into the Dreadnought hat at the Union
Club the other night, is not ordinarily a lavish
spender. His wealth, which is something
stupendous, comes mainly from Mount Morgan.
Incidentally, he has many hundreds of thousands
sterling invested in land, in mortgages, and in
shares. He lives with his wife and no family at
Wildfell, Potts Point, a villa built recently by
the occupier. Rumor avers doggedly that the
Halls, who in the matter of economy set an
admirable example to less financially exalted folk,
do not spend a thousand a year on it. A dona-
tion of £lO,OOO is a very fine and large thing when
you look at it in print; but when I muse on all Mr.
Hall has and on all he saves, lam fain to own
that it dwindles away till it seems to me a no
more wondrous gift than if I, your Akenehi, had
projected myself into the breach with a promise
of the price of a ferry boat fare to Mosman.
Talking of lavishness in relation to the Dread-
nought fund, I hear that the promoters expect big
cheques from Samuel McCaughey, Knight, and
Mr. G. H. Reid. Mr. Reid has had an unusually
good year at the Bar. He has been so busy earn-
ing big fees that he has hardly been able to take
his seat in Parliament at all. He is a passionately
sincere Imperialist. His friends agree that the
only two things that his soul yearns for unceas-
ingly are (1) an opportunity to prop up the empire
whenever it shows the slightest sign of a list to
starboard, and (2) boiled lollies. If Mr. Reid
doesn’t step forward with £lOOO there will be
rage combined with astonishment in the ancestral
home of the Allen Taylors. It is* calculated that
the ex-Premier has already gained quite £724 10s.
worth of ad vt. out of the Dreadnought movement.
As to Samuel McCaughey, Knight, he is as Im-
perialistic as Mr. Reid, if not more so ; ana richer
than three Hoggenheimers and a retired land
agent. The only explanation of his silence is
that he is in some waste part of the earth where
news of Sydney’s mayoral venture has not yet
penetrated. I wouldn’t like to prophesy the sum he
will send along when he finds out what is in the
air.
Mr. Julian Salomons, the clever K.C. who died
last week, was a noted appreciator of a good-
looking female face. And no one could turn a
compliment more gracefully than he. At Govern-
ment House once a parson was talking to one of
Sydney’s fairest dames. The little lawyer-man
pushed the divine gently away. “ Leave us,” he
said. “It isn’t fair. You’ll be able to talk to
her in Heaven. I want a word or two with her
on earth.”
The “ Jim ’’ Allisons (she was a Miss Burdekin)
are sharing with the Alec Hays Mrs. Burdekin’s
big Macquarie-street mansion during the rightful
owner’s absence. There are small Allisons and
also small Hays, but the house is full big enough
to hold four extensive families, let alone two.
Hitherto the Allisons have lived mostly at Mrs.
Orr’s, in Macleay-street, which is where all the
homeless ones of the Best Set foregather.
“Solor ” writes me :
You are not entirely correct in regard to the Hay will.
The romantic agreement you mention was between Dr.
Hay and his friend and erstwhile business partner, Dr.
Horieyman. Honeyman died, and, as you note, his,
widow married a rich Englishman, a military man
named Porter. Dr. Hay immediately paid over to
the fortunate dame the sum of £lOO,OOO, which is
all that is coming to her. The Hay girls receive the
dowries you stated. Mr. Aleo Hay gets £60,000 cash and
Coolangatta, and Mr. Harry Morton absorbs £4OOO cash
and £lOOO a year.
The German band that haunts Sydney makes a
lot of money these wild, woolly Dreadnought
days by playing “Buie Britannia” outside Fat-
men’s premises. The German with the brazen
instrument may have a doubt as to how long
Britannia will rule the eternal dampness of
things, but he doesn’t mind blowing forth the
news, for a consideration, that at the present
moment the lady who sits on a cartwheel at the
back of the penny is keeping her end up.
From the Adelaide Observer (3/4/’O9): —
Mrs. O. H. Angas and her sister, Miss Dean, who are
established at Grosvenor Gardens, met with a distressing
accident last Saturday while motoring. Their chauffeur
ran over an old road-mender, who afterwards died from
injuries received. The chauffeur saw the old chap when
quite a distance away, and tooted his horn, expecting, as
all London drivers do, that the countryman would get
out of the way; but he did not. The chauffeur then
swerved the car to one side to escape him, but it was too
late. The car was only going at 16 miles an hour. One
can imagine what a terrible shock it would be to the two
ladies, and sympathise with them.
It was also, presumably, a shock to the road-
mender and to his dependents ; but the paper no
doubt considers that they richly deserved their
fate for their audacity in being on the earth when
Adelaide’s Best People were in the vicinity.
Alice Hollander, the soprano Sydney once
knew—she went hence some years ago—hasher
portrait as a bride in the English ha’penny press.
Her choice is a Mr. Frank Reginald Garew, who
is described as a young man of independent means
residing at Richmond.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
THE LATEST LONDON AND CONTINENTAL
DESICNS IN FASHIONABLE JEWELLERY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE SHOWROOMS.
sdfd
sfdsf
Business is being carried on as usual during the extensive alterations
to the premises.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
116 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
dsf
The EDISON Phonograph
for the Bachelor’s Den!
Many a time does the lonely bachelor—old or young —feel
inclined for some good music, just in the privacy of his own
quiet den.
And there are times, when his friends call in, that he
sees how necessary it is to have some ready form of entertain-
ment to keep things from going flat.
For such a man the Edison Phonograph is a friend indeed
one that is always willing to make the time pass pleasantly.
It plays the latest band marches, renders perfectly the finest
orchestral selections and instrumental solos, tells the funniest
stories in the funniest way, and gives you the songs of present
and bygone days.
And, if you care to have a little two-step or waltz, the
Edison is ready to provide the music.
You can see what an ideal friend it must be to the happy
possessor. It never talks except when you want it to, and
stops as soon as you’ve had enough.
Wouldn’t you like one t
If you write we will send full lists of machines and records
and the name of your nearest dealer. He will let you hear
what the genuine Edison is really like.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE PIANOLA in Russia.
NOTE. —-Moscow is the centre of the new Russian movement in music, and the Moscow Conservatorium is one of the most musical schools in Europe.
sstaSkl
n
H!
1* & :
W:j
f.tirirl
rr
OUR REPRESENTATIVE AT MOSCOW, RUSSIA, WRITES: —
“The concert just given in the large hall of the Conservatory of Moscow, proved to be the
biggest thing of the kind we have ever done. Thera were 3000 people present, and the
audience was wonderfully enthusiastic.
“I enclose programme herewith, which you will see contains the Grieg and Hummel
Concertos for Orchestra, and Rubinstein’s Concerto for two pianos, the solo part in each case
being played with the Pianola. I also played accompaniments for three songs with the Pianola.
“ The demand for Pianolas here is very great, and is constantly increasing. Even the
Pianola with which I played at the big concert was sold before we left the hall.
“Please find enclosed an additional order to the one you already have for Themodist
Pianolas and Steele Pianola Pianos. It is of the utmost importance that all of our shipments
be hurried forward with greatest possible despatch.”
In different countries different pianos hold first place in public estimation. But in all countries IT IS INVARIABLY THE PIANOLA that
is the recognised leader of its class. It is of the deepest significance that in Russia, England, Germany, France, America, etc., as in this country, the
Pianola's sale exceeds that of all other Piano-players combined. SEND FOR . CATALOGUE D.
-• • ' - • 1 ‘
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
357 Georg'e Street,
(Next D. Jones 6° Co.)


IDECOGNISED the world over for their ex-
1\ quisite quality, Carlson Currier Silks
may be bought from the leading Drapery Houses
in the Commonwealth. Every color gradation
may be obtained from the palest to the deepest
tints. Send to us for a beautifully illustrated
book—FßEE—mentioning the name ,of your
Draper when writing.
THE CARLBON CURRIER CO. (of San Francisco),
The Block, Collins Btraet J Jjelbourng : ____[l 1 _
Royal
Corsets
THE RIGHT CORSET for YOUR
figure —it is THE CORSET that leads
the world's Corset fashions —THE
CORSET that corrects those peculiari-
ties of form which detract from a grace-
ful carriage—improves the figure —
ensures support with perfect comfort
and freedom. No gown can hang
stylishly unless the Corset fits comfort-
ably, ROYAL “ P.D." CORSETS
enjoy the confidence and patronage of
women in all ranks of life. Ask to see
the new models —they reflect the latest
styles in fascinating ** DIRECTOIRE "
shapes. None genuine unless with
Trade Mark on every pair shown you.
** All Drapers and Storekeepers
Stock Them! "
Trade
M/
m.
Mark,
1?
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres—and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 12, 1909,
My Dear Yarrik,—
William McCulloch, deceased, one of three
brothers who forsook the dear old Motherland for
the purpose of growing rioh in Australia, left a
heap of gold to his clan. William sat in the Vic-
torian House of Rich Landlords for many years,
and made a great effort fbr the Senate when the
Commonwealth was first established. He didn’t
get there, and after that he faded steadily in a poli-
tical sense. William and brother James hauled in
their earliest wealth by reason of the carrying busi-
ness. McCulloch Brothers were the only carriers
one could mention in the same sacred breath as
“squatter” in the days when railways were few
and squatting sons of the soil were needy of com-
forts to cushion the squat. Brother James was
the real carrier man (no relation to Knight
James of the same name), but when railways
began to cut up business and the firm had many
heavy canvas bags hidden in a tree, carrying was
given up for cattle-breeding. James settled some-
where very close to Melbourne, out Malvern way,
and bred Ayrshires. He was the prize showman
all round the country for his Ayrshires. Another
brother, Sam, came to Australia later. He annexed
some 7000 acres of rich land at Neerim (on the
fringe of the Gippsland country), and settled down
to rich farming. Brother Sam is the real John
Bull farmer type—big and bluff and fresh-cheeked,
with heart and soul and mind and body given up
to his stock. William, when he dropped big,
heavy packages, settled himself at Woodlands,
one of the show country places in Victoria. The
tine old trees and park and the beautiful detail of
gardens, and other surroundings, are scarcely to
be equalled in Australia. Sacred gubernatorial
stories of Hopetoun lurk in every corner of the
place. William McCulloch used tohand Woodlands
over completely to Hopetoun for weeks at a time.
It was there that Hopetoun harvested all the
stories of his wild bushranger sort of life. There
he rode in traditional red shirt, corduroy breeches
and leggings, and met the unsuspecting yokel,
who would offer billy tea to his most sacred high-
ness with all good faith, believing him to be the
latest jackeroo.
A parson, who had been on Hopetoun’s place
in Scotland in the many years before he came
to save lost sheep in Australian wilds, met the
bogus jackeroo on the grounds. In true melo-
dramatic manner the unsuspecting parson ad-
dressed the lord vice-regal. “Ah! my de-ear
young man,” quoth the parson, “ you rarely see a
house and grounds like Woodlands in this country;
you should see Hopetoun’s place in Scotland,”
etc., etc. It was a tremendous denouement when
Hopetoun emerged from the theatrical disguise !
Such stories are as green as the Emerald Isle
or St. Patrick’s Day in the rural vicinity of
Woodlands.
Though William was not given to throwing
money about so hard that it struck anyone and
rebounded, yet he put more cash into thorough-
bred stock than almost any other man in Victoria.
McCulloch was no racing man, but he raised
racers. He was one of David Syme’s feu’ personal
friends. They were cronies and would sit and
“crack” together. David the Silent could open
his reserve flow of speech to this man. It was
McCulloch who suggested to Syme the idea of the
Kolapore Cup—that rifle-club prize that loomed
so large in Age cablegrams from Bisley in Bull-
land.
William’s son Sam, named after the Uncle of
Neerim, presumably finds golden shoes to step
into. Widower Sam is one of the much-sought
eligibles in polite society. He is a big “ lookable ”
man, with iron-grey hair and the sentiment
rousing trace of a dead sorrow in his serious clean-
shaven face. His wife (a much stage-struck
beauty-matron) died a few years after their
marriage, and Sam now takes a young daughter
out for sprees on her week-end freedom from
school and school-marm. During Melba’s last
visit to Australia the handsome widower was
a devoted knight and gentleman help. One
could track Melba’s movements by the sight of
her tame wolf.
By the way, a son of William McCulloch
married one of the daughters of the original
Wagner (of Wagner and Robertson), and the
family (after the pater’s decease), owned Ston-
ington, the Malvern mansion, which the Victorian
Government leased for the State Governor’s
residence when a Federal and more gorgeous
Governor required Government House wherein
to boil the Commonwealth billy. At the time
folk made bitter remarks about the point being
“worked,” there being many desirable mansions
tendered for the purpose. Probably the McCul-
lochs, being used to supplying vice-regal humpies,
felt it up to them to be allowed to carry on the
supply. Stonington answered as well as any
other place offered—except for its distance from
town.
Melbourne’s particular Rupert; is said to have
“acquired an interest,” or “ secured a partner-
ship,” or whatever the orthodox term may be, in
one of the local restaurants which owe some of
their profits to his patronage. This strikes one as
an essentially business-like proceeding on thepart
of that interesting capitalist. A co-operative
movement, in fact. Every customer of a restau-
rant puts money into the concern, so to speak;
but his only way of getting back a bit of his own
is the speculative Rupertian wav. Our only
baronet seems to be steadily improving his repu-
tation as an all-round sport. He runs everything
—theatre, butter factory, restaurant, gee-gees,
etcetera —especially etcetera.
The wife of the very latest Federal Knight
almost reached the indignation point; of sueing a
local sassiety rag for libel. The paper said that
the lady’s household was run by Japanese ser-
vants. She asserts vigorously and with know-
ledge that she would not have a Jap near the
place —not even if (as is often the case) there are
no white people to be got. When the white help
runs short, the head of the house “ cooks herself,”
as the saying is.
Hilda Greene, one of the Greenes of Baimsdale,
and aforetime a youthful beauty in central society,
married Majah Howe, a weighty gun —a howitzer,
in fact—in English military matters. The lady,
after much Asiatic travel, has returned to Aus-
tralia and to her girl cronies, bringing her Big
Gun with her. She has startled the Best People
by becoming the authoress of “My Lady Chef,”
an anything but common or garden cookery book.
It has become a cult among the Best People. It
holds precious recipes for curries and such dishes,
culled in much agony of spirit by a liver-worship-
ping Majah-husband during journeys through lands
where the cooks shade off into various tints of
copper and yellow.
Melbourne’s prettiest show hospital nurse, who
for some time wore the engagement ring and
whizzed in the motor of an eligible youthful
bachelor, has shown the changeableness that is
the prerogative of fair women by cutting the
silken tie of mutual adoration. The pair have
parted for ever, and the lady does not even look
up when she hears a motor toot.
Mrs. Hogan gave a jolly little lunch at
Balwyn last week in honor of the returned
Mrs. Brough. Mrs. Brough, in tailored olive
green all hidden in cute buttons, looks mar-
vellously rejuvenated. She is due to appear at
Her Majesty’s presently, in “Dianaof Dobson’s.”
News of old comrade Titheradge is still dis-
heartening. Had this severe illness not inter-
vened, a strong company would probably have
been formed, with Titheradge, Mrs. Brough and
Kolker as leading lights.
The convention which forbids Lenten marriages
was torn to wild shreds by an ultra-fashionable
wedding on Easter Saturday. Scots was the
church of the perpetration, and Menzies tumbled
over itself to find enclosure for the hundreds of
guests. Mab Young, one of the jolly quiverful of
Mr. Wimmera Tom Young, took unto her small
self Mr. George Healey as a six-foot-three de-
fender and husband. She enveloped her tini-
ness in ivory satin charmeuse and wore all
her dimples. The trousseau, the lace and lingerie
that the bride managed to collect in her departing
Saratogas has turned girl pals grass color in pure
envy. Two pretty sisters backed up the bride.
They glowed in soft new blues with big white
busbies of fox fur on their fair hair. Mrs. Healey
snuggled into black fox furs for her motor de-
parture, and unless hubby spent the night under
the car struggling with unsympathetic machinery,
the two joined the Sydney express at some quiet
station guiltless of confetti, rice and rose-leaves.
The generalissimos of smart tea-rooms have
much trouble, in keeping their star attractions.
The pretty Chicago girls are following the recent
matrimonial boom of the Mia-Mia maidens. One
of the daintiest Chicago tea Circes has annexed a
wealthy young man “on the Exchange.” The
turtle-doves indulged in a romantic elopement,
and were married at St. James’, in Sydney, to
escape the religious objections of the bride’s
mother. Miss Meehan was a Bendigo girl, and
has now settled down with hubby Boyd at a com-
fortable St. Kilda flat.
Nellie Stewart got her house and got her gal-
lery. Before the first night the booking was
completed half-a-dozen performances ahead, and
on Saturday the tail for the early door had started
with girls sitting on the relentless kerbstones
before noon. Nell sent out afternoon tea to the
adorers —legend mounts to giddy heights of hun-
dreds of teas, each with its accompanying scone.
The gallery was packed with the best white
blouse-cum-black-skirt of the working-girl, also
the girl herself and the gentleman she “ walks out
with.” In lower regions of the house the
McKinnons boxed in a quartet with the Menzies
opposite. Dorothy Vane Menzies put rosy ribbons
in hair curled d la Nell Gwynne. In the manager’s
pen, Mrs. Tallis showed strikingly in a sheath of
copper satin, like a statue cast in bronze. These
new shades of golden pinky brown are yclept
Earth of Egypt in the sacred temples of fashion.
If you are clad in Earth of Egypt your name’s not
Mud but It. In the circle, Mrs. Continental-
Tyre Edwards wore sour green grapes in her pale
straw hair. Mrs. Liet, near by, glowed in red and
jet black thatch. Mrs. Wallach wore a pink and
white frock like a cool strawberry ice. Two
rows in the centre were packed with the Horsham
Youngs and their wedding party. The brides-
maid’s sisters garbed in blue, with half a ton of
black velvet jetted on to their fair hair. Mrs.
Brough, coming into the stalls, got a vigorous
“hand ” from the house. But the dresses on the
stage took all the attention. The theatrical Day
showed a rush of brocades and puffed elaborate
silks that stood alone, with petticoats frilled and
dotted with baby ribbons—mostly blue. “ There
never was a man yet who did not go under to pale
blue—a tender baby blue,” quoth Kitty Bellairs,
“ and it’s just as well to have it where it cannot
be altogether seen’’—whereupon she disclosed
some nine inches of stocking. In those puffy,
wide-frocked days, fortunately, fashion allowed a
travelling dress to be straight. Nell-Kitty gets
into a clinging, mole-colored velvet when she does
a vivandiere-like retreat with the regiment from
Bath to Dublin. The management considerately
put a divine background of brown and fire
light behind this frock by way of a Bristol
inn. Kitty-Nell sits sadly in an ingle nook,
and makes a charming Cinderella. The new
beauty, Marjorie Chard, has no more than a pro-
logue to speak, and disguises the brilliancy of her
brunette coloring under a fair wig and pink-and-
white make-up. Lady Bab, the Beauty of Bath,
deposed by Kitty Bellairs, is Miss Meredith, in a
vigorous red wig and the marks of temper too
much lined on her face to carry the beauty idea
very convincingly. Dorothy Fayne, a weeping, ne-
glected wife who watches her husband through
her tears, is constantly dishevelled, and curtseys
and walks with a knock-kneed gait—all part of the
play no doubt.
The mounting is a fine series of “subdooed” tints,
and Belasco gets in one of his sensational
weather scenes by a fall of “real” rain between
the heroine, waving farewell to the troops from a
doorway, and the audience, which ejaculates its
delight at “real” effects on the stage. If the
villain dabs his hand into “ real ” gore, or some-
one leads a real ornythorhyncus or poodle on the
stage, there is scarcely anything else needed to
send the house off its head.
In spite of the high-shouldered dress of the
period, Sweet Nell Bellairs manages to get her
pantomime shoulder out of bondage. The left
shoulder manages to esca.pe always, and the line
from ear to finger tip is unbroken.
There is a catty scene of women in a ballroom
that rouses all the “ I-told-you-so ” in the breast
of the man audience, but Belasco has balanced
that for the feminine crowing by a scene of pure
masculine caddishness. Kitty, found in a com-
promising position by a regimental party of men
friends, is condemned by one and all on circum-
stantial evidence. “Jealousy” suggested one
audience man, to try and obliterate the impres-
sion. But it’s six for the Cats and half-a-dozen
for the Cads, according to Belasco.
Harold Thorley, who arrived by the Omrah, is
the baritone for Meynell and Gunn’s new produc-
tion, “ The Girl Behind the Counter.” Of course,
The Girl needs a good-looker to ogle her. Thorley
was in Australia years ago with a J. C. William-
son show.
Daisy Belmore, that large, capable actor-lady,
with a peach-and-eream complexion that is all her
own, is to return to the grease-paint and boards,
after a long interval of quiet, domestic bliss with
her choice in Waxmans. She appears in the new
Meynell and Gunn production that is called “ The
Girl Behind the Counter.”
At a recent social function in this city certain
cricketers were entertained at luncheon, and
several of Toorak’s fairest were scattered along
the table. One girl was favored by being placed
next to a certain rough diamond who has accumu-
lated many waistcoat medals. He is expected to do
great things on the English cricket grounds, but he
is better behind the stumps than when attempting
a Lord Chesterfield part. Australia’s hope, after
floundering and failing to strike a congenial sub-
ject, pointed to a Chloe on the wall, with the re-
mark : “ Boshter tart, ain’t she ? ”
Unie Russell, back in London after some fleet-
ing experiences at Art and Singing schools in
Paris and Milan, writes a newsful letter from the
foggy metropolis:—
Last Sunday we [that’s Miss Unie and her youthful-
looking mommer] heard Oarreno at the Albert Hall.
With such a conductor as Richter, and with the London
Symphony Orchestra for background, and an audience of
several thousands, Carreno played as I never heard her
play in Australia. A student sitting near us wore an expres-
sion that plainly spoke disapproval of Oarreno’s interpre-
tation. When she was in Melbourne I heard two or three
disapproving comments from students, who complained :
“ She doesn’t give my teacher’s interpretation,” or “She
took such and such a'movement too slowly,” ignoring the
fact that a mistress of her art can suit her “interpreta-
tion ”to her temperament. The other night we saw
“An Englishman’s Home” at Wyndham’s. You have
heard of the stir that Du Maurier’s (son of “Trilby ” Du
Maurier) play is making here. When the methodical
foreign soldiers have quietly “burst up” the English-
man’s domesticity, and all the rest of the family have
left the Home, he refuses to go, and curses everybody,
himself included, for not being able to use a rifle. He
examines one, and finds, to his delight, that he can fire it.
Turning to the window, he shoots three of the unsuspec-
ting | invaders, just to show his British pluck, of
oourse. For which indiscretion, being a civilian,
he is taken out by his. victims’ comrades and
shot in his turn. On February 17 Parliament was
opened by the King and Queen. We saw the State car-
riages come from the gates of Buckingham Palace. The
King’s was an imposing gilded coach, drawn by eight
creanii-colored horses. The Royalties bowed to a not very
enthusiastic people. A little resentment is felt over
a recent visit to Berlin, which, seemingly, was thought to
have been a mistake. On their return, an hour later, we had
a clearer view of the weary pair. They looked very weary.
The King leaned back in the carriage, and the Queen
alone bowed. Cockney vendors shouted postcards for
sale. “ Here you are ! All the Royal Family—-the whole
bloomin’ six—for tuppence 1” “Here you are! Good
old Teddy for a penny! ’’ No one smiled. Friendly
irreverence for the Royal Family is the rule with a
Cockney crowd.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The new Excellencies are not being encouraged to
waste any precious moments. They were motored to the
polo tournament on its first day’s outbreak, and stayed to
the exciting end ; they had a levee, and viewed Adelaide's
millinery in bulk ; then all the local Polite Robbery
Societies have been pounding at the front door and asking
for Government House patronage. His Ex. motored to
Mount Lofty one day to be introduced to our sick
Premier ; on another he was captured by an institute that
had 279 certificates to give away ; and on Saturday night
there was a vice-regal command at the theatre, where
Julius Knight was being the best swordsman from here to
the break of day. The Bosanquet daughters are twins,
and you call it Bosangwet, if you please. So, alas !we
have' been polishing up our French accent in vain. We
thought it would be “ 80-sankey.”
The A.R.C. races are said to have been frightfully
exciting, but not having good enough eyesight to pierce
the very fattest dust-storm of the season, I wouldn't like
to vouch for it. It was the kind of storm that raises
the landscape bodily and flings it in your face; it
secreted bricks and mortar in your head-gear, and sent
boulders down your collar. To add to the general joy,
the electric cars were not ready, and the poor old
decrepit steeds had to drag the crowd to the place
where it backed the wrong animal. In spite of the
loamy atmosphere, it was a big crowd, too, though
not much of it sported its champion chiffons.
One notable garment, however, was Mrs. Fred
Scarfe’s lavender brocade, with a flounce of heavenly lace,
dotted with infant pom-poms. Their new Excellencies
valorously plunged through the dust in a brand new
motor, Lady Bosanquet wearing a blue and white Empire
raiment, while the twin damsels appeared in pretty green
shantung, with black picture hats. Mrs. Arthur Rynjill
was there in a garb of cool white muslin, and Mrs. Gpr-
don Ayers was in black and white stripes and a black mil-
linery glory.
The rowing crowd had its autumn regatta the sarpe
day, and amid rather less dust and discomfort, disported
itself on the Torrens among a small but frilly crowd.
There was a gay little impromptu tea, and some exciting
races. For the tea Mrs. Sharp, Mrs. Auld and Mrs. George
McEwen were responsible ; but nobody claimed responsi-
bility for the weather—it just wandered about like a lost
dog.
The polo gymkhana—also on the same afternoon—even
beat the races for dust'; and the big crowd returned to
town the color of a polar bear with ironmould on it, and
wailed loudly over spoiled chiffons. Mrs. T. Barr Smith
handed out the prizes ; and there were Waites, and Rallis,
and Stirlings, and Wiggs, and Deans, and many more to
see that she did it properly.
In yet another corner of the dusty landscape, at the
same hour, the Adelaide bowling people were getting
their new tea kiosk, at Victoria Drive, propped open by
the Mayor.
Manager Portus’ white locks have been an Adelaide
feature of this Easter week. He’s here on the business
of the Tait brethren, who, having run out of Butts and
Hambourgs for the moment, are providing pictures.
They had a special Good Friday eve performance, and
engaged a batch of local melody-makers to now and then
give the pictures a rest. Among them was Horace Weber,
who put the organ through its paces. Horace is a very
brilliant youth who was assistant organist at the Anglican
Cathedral at the advanced age of 11. At 14, when the
organist, Mr. Dunn, went to England, the lad took his
place.
The L. Waterhouses and their family have come home
after telling Europe to cheer up. For the time, they
are domiciled at the South Australian. During- the
week the Robert Kvffin Thomases, with a son and
daughter, departed to the Press Conference in Bullopolis,
and the new Agent-General Kirkpatrick and two daughters
went off to see that South Australia gets its dues in the
Land of Fog,
News has come to hand that singer Lilian Davis, of this
town, has made her bow to Queen Alexandra. It hap-
pened at the second drawing-room of the season.
The Norwood Holdens’daughter, Ida, will give occasion
for some church decoration on April 21, when she is to be
knotted to Mr. Leslie Peacock.
Adelaide is still busy planting gardens all round itself.
Down by the cathedral, in the bare old park lands of
other days, a heavenly stretch of lawn has recently sprung
up, with scarlet blazing flower-beds and trees that are a
joy to see. Other parts, about East and South Terraces,
are gradually following suit; while even away up at the
corner of North and West Terraces there is a gay and
blooming little corner, with rustic seats for ’Arry and
’Arriet, also for their friends ’Enry and ’Enrietta.
North Adelaide and Walkerville have got their electric
cars at last, and the excitement is intense. All day long
King William-street is flanked by a line of gapers. Mean-
while Hyde Park is in agony, for the old lines are being
dragged up, and the awful “ Try Again ”’bus has risen
from the grave. Trouble is threatening over this line. It
runs along the south end of King William-street, and
already the middle of that thoroughfare is occupied by
the Government-owned Glenelg railway. The street is
broad enough to take three or four lines without any
crowding ; but the Hyde Parkers want the middle of the
street, and it seems likely there’ll be an uncivil war
over it.
Adelaide, or rather Port Adelaide, thinks it has the
plague, and excited citizens are pursuing the local rat
with venom or a trap. Already various enterprising
people are letting the “ ratting rights ” of their premises
at a high figure ; but by the time the new industry gets
really going we shall probably discover it isn’t plague at
all.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Mj
n
3
a
t
€
a.
5
N
*
$
K
u
%
2W.
1
E
u
imperial’
Whisky


Seduction of Stock SALE
PRIOR TO REMOVAL TO
284- George Street, Sydney,
j Opposite Margaret Street.
Walter Bradley & Co.
are now disposing of their
Magnificent Stock Furniture, /
Well-Made Upholstered £roods, i
Water Colors, Bronzes, China,
Statuary and Art Treasures^..-'"
BARGAIN PRICES TO CLEAR.,
CAREFULLY PACKED FOR COUNTRY.
SHIRTS.
For Static® and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331-/per Hal/-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Fornls on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE &. SONS, BRISBANE.
Every Woman
Meeds a Tonic
at some time in her life.
At special times unusual
demands are made upon
her strength. When these
are added to the worry and
hard work which fall to her
lot, weakness will result un-
less the blood is fortified to
meet the strain.
Weak women find in
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
the tonic exactly suited to
their needs. Most of the
ills with which they suffer
are due to bloodlessness—a
condition which the pills
readily cure. They save
the girl entering into wo-
manhood in a bloodless
condition, from years of
misery and afford prompt
and permanent relief to the
woman who is bloodless
and therefore weak.
The price is 2s. 9d. per
box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d. and
if you are pestered by the
shopman who wants to sell
some substitute of his own
they will be sent post free
by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Sydney.
Dr. Williams’
PINK PILLS
This Elastic Truss—
i£3
Elastic i
Truss—*
Single, 17/6?
Djpuble, 22/fe
isthejacmeofcomforfc, made of
the'tiest materials, and qives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Ba-thirst ” writes ;
Fat’s ideas of fair play were exhibited at Bathurst show
(N.S.W.). The show “smoke-night” was made an occa-
sion for Wade to comment upon Fisher’s policy speech.
The dreary Insect’s effort was, as usual, accompanied by
the übiquitous gag that Wade seems to carry in his
pocket. Carr, Federal district representative, was at the
“ smoke ” as an invited guest, but was told by the officials
that he wouldn’t be allowed to reply to Wade, although
the latter made a party attack on the Labor policy. Carr
promptly arranged an open-air meeting for the next
night, and exposed Wade’s parochial vaporings. When he
started speaking his voice was smothered by a brass band
that was playing in the street for a travelling show. The
management had promised Carr that it would play in
another street, so apparently Fat had got some work in
between times. Anyhow, it only helped to make the
crowd enthuse still more, for it willingly followed Carr
down the street to another pub, where he "was able to say
a word for Australia. It was a strong word, too, and it
was good to hear the cheers. There is hope for the Ma
State when a Bathurst crowd has a cheer for Australia,
for Bathurst has been wrapped round with land monopoly
since the dim ages.
Complaints of leakage of information from
the income-tax office in Melbourne have resulted
in the transfer of eight income-tax officials to
other branches of the Victorian public service.
This was done without prejudice to the shifted
individuals, against whom, it is said, no case of
leakage has been actually proved. -If rumor
speaks truth, or anything like it, there was not
likely to be a charge laid against those who
divulged the secrets of the Victorian income-tax
office. It is alleged that certain well-known Mel-
bourne citizens regularly give obviously in-
complete returns of their incomes on the tax
paper, and are not required tq make up the
deficiency in details and cash, whereas common or
upinfluential members of the State, down to old-
age pensioners, are in some cases bothered for un-
necessary particulars. It is not the disclosure of
honest, but the exposure of dishonest, income-tax
papers which has caused all the unpleasantness.
YOU CANNOT FEEL GOOD
When your digestion is out of order. Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules-digest what you eat, thereby curing
the cause of your indigestion. Obtainable everywhere,
price, 25.,6d. per tin of 80 tabules.*
The Lord Mayor of Sydney will yet get
his Dreadnought in about 15 years time—provid-
ing the subscriptions keep coming in at the
present rate. Every 24 hours the Dreadgermanv
subscription list swells up about another £4OO ;
and at six days per week —starting from the
£61,559 collected to April 6 —it will take until
1925 to raise the £2,000,000. Who dares to assert
our patriotism is spasmodic ? Could anything be
more prolonged than that ?
“ Gwy ” : The recent arrival in Sydney of
Fenwick’s new tug Heroine, a little craft of 200
tons, after a weary tramp of 13,000 miles from
ship-building Scotland, was a reminder to Aus-
tralians that even when something to drag ships
about from place to place is wanted, they aren’t
considered good enough to build it. And a worse
jar is the fact that immediately on her arrival the
Heroine went into Mort’s Dock for cleaning and
painting. There’s the rub. Local industry isn’t
good enough to build the boat; it can only scratch
the seaweed and barnacles off its keel when it
gets here. It summarises pretty well Australia’s
place in the empire according to the supporters of
the Hired Navy idea.
According to a cable last week Germans
joyfully declare that, in building three Dread-
noughts, “Austria is doing for Germany what
the British over-seas dominions are doing for
Britain.” So, even supposing the Commonwealth
provides one Dreadnought and Joe Ward pawns
his country to put up two, it seems that Britain
will be no for’arder. On the other hand, if Aus-
tralia and Maoriland had just gone about things
in a quiet fashion, and, without calling the lime-
light man in, had arranged for their own defence,
so that Britain’s forces hereabouts might have
been liberated in time of trouble, Britain might
have been a good deal for’arder. The tuft-hunters
couldn’t, however, do without the limelight, and
shouted at the tops of their voices, and now
it seems that Britain will he no better off, com-
paratively speaking; and Australia, having spent
on exported Dreadnoughts what it might have
spent on home defences, will be a vast amount
worse off. The man who shouts excitedly that
he’s going to go and get a gun generally does
make a mess of things ; for the other fellow also
goes off and gets a gun—and waits with it around
the corner to get in first shot.
According to Sydney Teleobaph (12/4/’09) :
Mr. Haldane recently admitted that, owingto the slow-
ness with which the Territorial battalions were filling,
the War Office had taken into account the possibility of
being obliged to resort to compulsion, and had collected the
necessary information as to the numberof men of military
age available for service. “An Englishman’s Home,” by
stimulating voluntary enrolment in the battalions, has
helped to show that the British people will still come
forward freely when they realise that the country has
need of their services, and that it is not necessary to force
them by legislation to prepare themselves for efficient
military work.
It is wonderful logic. The British Territorial
Army was fixed at a mere handful of men
because there seemed no hope of getting
more under the voluntary system. Even
the handful didn’t materialise, and the long,
weary months rolled on. Then, by reason
of a stirring patriotic drama, and a report that
the German conquest was almost at hand, aided
by the publication of frantic appeals in the
press, and by processions, banners and songs,
London and its district were induced, in a
spasm of enthusiasm, to supply the quota
expected from them. But the ne / soldiers
are mostly weedy boys, and there is no
surplus of them, and the Territorial army,
even if it is filled, is a mere skeleton. And
the fervor which brought these recruits was
just the fervor which lately made Walter
Hall, of Sydney, dash down his £lO,OOO cheque'
towards a Dreadnou 0 1.0. Walter Hall won’t give
£lO,OOO every day, any more than the Londoner
will fill up Haldane’s Territorial Army every day.
Both events were casual shrieks. No country can
live on casual shrieks.
THE PIONEER.
During 20 years we have seen (our) proposals vilified ,
then accepted, then claimed as part and parcel of the
Conservative programme.— Prime Minister Fisher.
TORY BOUNDER: “ I don’t think much of this
track; it’s not going in a Fat direction!”
LABOR: "It seems to he the host you can find.
Why don’t you make one of your own?”
In a recent scramble for a block of land on
the North Coast (N.S.W.), Sihab Singh—full-
blooded at that—got the marble against 93 white
men. Yet the Land Board is alleged to have held
great inquiry as to the relative fitness or other-
wise of the applicants. If police-court beaks
can exercise the right to refuse Ram Jam Tin a
hawker’s license on the plain ground of pqblic
interest, it doesn’t seem too much to expect Land
Boards to biff out the coffee-colored Singh when
hundreds of white sons of white fathers are
hungrily clamoring for a chance to make a start
on their own account.
Australians who take an interest in all that con-
cerns labor will be glad to learn that “Bournvilie”
Cocoa is manufactured at the “ Garden Factory ” situated
in the model village of Bournville, England.*
J.B. AND D.T.
J.B.: “ Didn't you say your friend wanted to
shout me a Dreadnought?”
D.T.: “ Well—er—I thought he did. But he’s
gone now.”
Victorian laundresses and wash-ladies have
formed a union, and the Argus is moaning feebly,
“ What next ? ” Well, the tea-girls are getting a
move on, and the time-payment men and the
book fiends are busy organising. Touching these
last, their tale of woe is something awful. Most
of them work for nothing a. week and commission
—which usually amounts to very little more. One
aristocrat pleaded guilty to earning 6s. per week,
and others ranged from zero all the way up to £l.
Most of the smaller fry of canvassers are the
victims of the importing habit. Any shirker
with, a hatred for honest toil can hire an office in
the city and set up as an “indentor ” with very
little capital save a hook-nose and an untram-
melled wilderness of cheek, , He advertises for
canvassers, and sets a dozen or more penniless
wretches working for his profit without risking a
copper of his own. The Canvassers’ Union is
being formed with a view to agitating for a mini-
mum wage. If it succeeds, which at present looks
very unlikely, it will drive a lot of small'office
parasites to the pick-and-shovel profession.
Two points of view : (1) The view of the
young man who does the Sydney Morning
Herald leaders:—
Mr. Fisher’s naval defence scheme is inherently absurd,
and it borders on insolence.... His plain duty was ,to
stand by the Empire, and he must be left under no illu-
sion that he is really helping Empire defence with his
destroyer fleet.
(2) The view of Lord Tweedmouth, when First
Lord of the British Admiralty :
I understand that in Australia particularly, and in
South Africa, it is desired to start some naval service of
its own. Perhaps I might suggest that if the provision of
the smaller craft, which are necessarily incident to the
work of a great fleet of modern battleships, could be made
locally, it would be a very great help to the general work
of the navy. You cannot take the small craft, such as
torpedo boats and submarines, across the ocean. For
warships to arrive in South Africa, >r in Australia, or in
Maoriland, or in Canada, and find ready to their hand
men well trained, in good vessels of this kind, would be an
enormous advantage to them. There is, I think, the fur-
ther advantage in these small flotillas that they will bean
admirable means of coast defence ; that you will be able
by the use of them to avoid practically all danger from
any sudden raid which might be made by a cruising
squadron. I believe myself that the provision of sub-
marines and all the smaller torpedo destroyers and boats
would be of the greatest help to the navy supposing it
were —as I hope it may not be—drawn into"a war abroad.
The average Sydney suburban municipal
reformer is a fraud and a nuisance of the com-
monest variety. During the past ten years he
has repeatedly cried with a loud voice, calling to
the gods, or Baal, or to
Parliament, or to some-
body else, for a Building
Act so that the councils
could control the style
and size of buildings, and
perform many other
equally heroic deeds.
Yet, so far, though he
has got what he has
cried aloud for, he ap-
parently hasn’t even
noticed its arrival. All
the indications are that
the same jerry - built
house, Avill, therefore,
continue to go up on the
narrowest frontages, with
the same boxes for rooms,
and the same skimpy
backyards, and the same
old hearse will be a re-
gular visitor, with a little
coffin in its inside. The
trouble is that the coun-
cils can use their own dis-
cretion as to whether
they will make the ordinance effective. And as
most of them are in full sympathy with the land
boomster and the jerry-builder, the ordinance for
all practical purposes promises to be just as
effective in most suburbs as if it had never been
born.
The S.A. Government proposes to bring
its old, venerable, ancient row with Victoria over
the disputed boundary to a crisis by sending
surveyors on to the Debatable Land, and Premier
Murray, of Victoria, says that these surveyors
will be “gently but firmly ” pushed off. If they
are pushed off, S.A. will probably- carry the cage
to the High Court. But a great deal seems to
depend on the size, truculence and fighting
capacity of the S.A. surveyors. If the Price
Government sends all its best footballers to do
the survey, Premier Murray’s force may retire in
disorder with a -black eye and a shocked ex-
pression. In fact, there may be a “scrum ”on the
Debatable Land.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is Nature’s
most natural remedy, improved by science to a
pleasant, permanent, positive cure for coughs,,
colds and all inflamed surfaces of the lunges arid
bronchial tubes. The sore, weary, cough-worn
lungs are exhilarated, the microbe-bearing mucus
is cut out, the cause of that tickling removed, and
the inflamed membranes are healed and soothed,
so that there is no inclination to cough. It
always cures.*
All who are interested in Ahstralian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lonk Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese /colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the politieal-
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Minister M‘Kenzie, of Victoria, is now on
a visit to Maoriland, and he has staggered his
Tory colleagues in Melbourne by declaring over
there in favor of a progressive land-tax. A good
many Tories begin to feel that way nowadays,
but the chances are that it is too late. If all the
States had adopted the progressive land-tax,
rising to, say, 3d. in the £, there would have been
no feasible excuse for the Commonwealth to im-
pose any such tax. Then (1) the States would
have got the money instead of the Commonwealth;
(2) there would have been more State and less
Federal influence ; and (3) a State tax running up
to 3d. in the £ on the biggest land monopolies
would have been less of a shock than the proposed
Federal tax with a maximum of sd. (4d.. and Id.
extra on absentees). But the States fooled away
the chance, and they continue to fool it away..
“ Jarrahwood ” writes :
A high-handed proceeding took place in the Perth
Town Hall on Thursday evening, the 25th., Unfortu-.
nately the lie has got a big start on this scribe. Mayor
Molloy convened a public meeting to consider the pro-
posed presentation of a Dreadnought to Britain.. Although
the meeting was, as a whole, dead against the idea, the
city grandfathers and the anti-Australian politicians
seemed determined to carry their resolution —of the usual
Jingo type. O’Connor, of the A.N.A., moved an amend-
ment that Australians were ever ready to do their share
towards the defence of the empire by increasing the
local naval and military forces. Both he and Senator
Lynch were constantly interrupted by a knot of red,
white and blue hooligans, much to the resentment of the
vast bulk of the audience. Of course, the Anti-Sosh
press makes much of this, and, by means of deft
journalistic lying, reverses the position. (In all probability
your t’otherside papers have done likewise.) However,
on the amendment being put, an overwhelming majority
of those present voted for it. But without taking a show
of hands against it, and without putting the original
resolution, our astute Mayor declared the amendment lost
and the resolution carried. For a moment the meeting
was struck dumb ; then a chorus of hoots and groans
broke out. Thenceforth the gathering was a pande-
monium, until, somehow or other, it was closed. An
open-air meeting was held outside immediately after-
wards, and it carried unanimously a motion condemning
the action of Chairman Molloy, The question is : Do the
t’othersiders think we ’Gropers carried that ludicrous
resolution ? If our liege lord the King needs such dirty
methods to be employed by his loyal subjects, then God
help the King !
TIBET INVITES REFORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tibet is a land ripe for enlightenment. Given some re-
forms in the administration of justice, less partiality in
the selection of officials ... a curtailment of the powers
and numbers of the monks, the abolition of some of the
privileges of the feudal aristocracy, and popular liberty :
Tibet will then want for little. The beginnings of Free-
trade and the introduction of European ideas have been
effected by the recent mission to Lhasa . . . All that now
remains is for a Tibetan Luther to appear on the scene ;
and in a land so fruitful of reformers there would appear
to be no good reason why a new and up-to-date reformer
should not effect great changes.— Lhasa: being an
account of the Younghusband Mission to Tibet.
In old Tibet the Curse begins to lift its deadly head —
A punishment for all the sins its folks have thought or
said !
The Oobden joss arrives per dak across the Jelep La :
That Joss who’s spurned on every track from Greece to
Panama.
Along the road from Rinchengong, and past the Yamdok
Tso,
The Freetrade lamas holler strong and bow in frenzy low !
They preach the creed—the foolish creed which Europe
spurns with scorn ;
So Lhasa,folk feel sad indeed—right well may Buddha
mourn !
The praying wheels that droned of yore have gone to
Kingdom Come ;
Now gramaphones lift up their roar : “ Om mani padme
hum! ”,
Still praying by machinery—but dynamos a-fret
Disturb the peaceful scenery in cold and calm Tibet!
Above each old decaying Jong imported Maxjms peer—
Potala’s roofs will shine ere long ’neath Brummagem
veneer!
By Chumolhari’s towering peak the earnest bagman
tramps,
And Standard Oil lifts up its reek in Lhasa’s temple-
lamps 1
The feudal aristocracy begins to grieve most shrill;
But lo ! its groan may silent be—Fat rules in England
still !
In that Tibet the landlord-folk still pile their golden
hoards,
And Bishfp-spectres still blow through the mildewed
House of Lords !
In that Tibet whereof we speak, where Oobden built his
creed,
The law goes slantwise and oblique, and no man taketh
heed.
In drowsy Lhasa by the Thames—we call it London now—
Fools finger still the garment-hems of lama-folk and bow !
The old Tibet’s a quiet land, deserving better fate
Than Oobden-josses, second-hand, thrown forth from
Europe’s gate !
The folk who dwell by Lhasa-town, who prod the hairy
yak,
Have thrown their ancient Buddha down and given him
the sack !
But better far than Cobden’s joss is Buddha : serving
still
The shoddy gods of Cobden-dross, Bull’s temple is the
Till !
He worships long, he worships late, his Bishops calmly
snore ;
But Trouble thunders at the gate and Dread assaults the
door !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Ronisch
my’f
V , j i( J i
MIS
■
S 3
We are showing an excep-
tionally fine lot of
RoniscH Pianos, both in
Grands and Uprights.
Their tone quality and
touch are delightful.
Their case work designs
exceedingly artistic.
Catalogue and foil particu-
lars are free for the
asßing.
W. H. PALING CO., LT
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
Buckley 8 Nunn
Limited,
MELBOURNE
<
Part Interior View of our Warehouse.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED supply the
public direct with the best Goods at lowest
possible prices. They have a reputation second
to none in Australia, and the Standard Quality of
their Goods is known throughout Australasia.
Autumn & Winter Catalogue, W 4,
NOW READY!
This publication is
now ready, containing
over iooo illustrations
of all that is newest in
the World of Fashion.
No home complete
without one. Sendy«ur
name and address, and
a copy will be posted
you Free of Charge.
dsf
CO iooi
Smart Tailor-cut Suit,
with Silk in Coat, Ready-
to-Wear, as plate, 5J£
l Guineas ; any extra al-
' terations in fit, 4/6 more.
We have smart Tailor-
made Eton Suits in stock
from 4 Guineas. Inspec-
CO 1000 tion invited.
Striped Check or Plain Coats & Skirts, to Order,
by Men Tailors, Coat Silk Lined, 6 Guineas.
Good Assortment in stock, Ready-to-Wear, from
73/6 upwards Patterns of Materials free on
application
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED.
dsf
sf
Java-Australia One
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried. Passenger Accommodation Amidships.
■ » •
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
S.S. VAN SPILBERGEN, May 4th, 1909.
S.S. LE fIAIRE, flay 29th, 1909.
Thence every four weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO,
MACASSAR, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 48 , days, including
eight days’ stay in Java. For Booklets, Time Tables, and all further
information apply :
AGENTS:—Messrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide; John
Sanderson & Co. Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S. S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island.; Earp Bros., Ltd., Newcastle; The Papua
Trading and Planting Syndicate, Pt. Moresby.
The Head Office for Australasia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.


HAIR PRESERVED
AMD BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
RowßancTs
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, _ is the best ,
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
R
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Complete as lias been the fleecing of the punter
at the hands of his mortal enemy’, Patrick Moses, many
a time and oft in the past, it was seldom such an out-and-
out skinning as on the opening day (Saturday last) of the
A.J.O. Autumn meet at Sydney ; and the marvel is that
the fatuous one was able to pay his tram fare out to the
place of slaughter again on Monday. He did, however,
and fell in again. From beginning to end the betting
man and woman (and they made up the greater
portion of the record St. Leger-Doncaster day attend-
ance of 30,000, through which the saddling pad-
dock turnstile alone showed £6OO more than
had ever been taken previously) were smitten
hip and thigh. They lost their money in heaps over the
first race (the Hurdles), the winner of which (Old Chappie,
now the property of a Melbourne Moses) recalled the name
of his one-time owner, the late W. P. Crick. And each
successive event brought greater disaster. Four rank
outsiders came from the clouds as it were, and there was
no fluke about the triumph of any' one. Odds-on favorites
—voted “ absolute morals ” —in >r—r- Sunny South and
Flaxen, failed to finish 1,2 or 3in their respective contests.
And Saturday also brought trouble to thousands of early
backers—many of whom rarely see a racecourse, and are
spread over the whole continent —for results put Pendil,
King’s Cross, Flaxen, Seddon and Lord Nolan (these had
during weeks previously been the best invested upon
Sydney Cup candidates) completely out of court. It was
in keeping, too, that that promising nag, Sir Blaize, who
had shaped well on the northern rivers, fell and broke
a shoulder, which necessitated the use of the revolver.
Another unfortunate was the Maoriland gelding Whare-
kura, who came a cropper in the hurdles and will never
race again, even if he lives.
All 27 acceptors shaped for Doncaster. Weight
of money' forced Newmarket Handicap failure Irishman
to the position of first favorite, unaccountably vacated on
the day' by Golden Slipper. Golden Slipper had been
top of the market for some time before, but dropped back
to be bracketed second favorite with Victorian great track
worker and big public disappointment, Bobby, at eights.
Next in demand was King Berry (10 to 1), upon whom a
fierce eleventh hour rush was made. More or less lengthy'
prices were going against others, and every' starter was
backed for something, so that whatever scored Moses
could hardly' have lost. It proved a one-horse thing'.
Nearing the half-mile Hyrnian (25 to 1) went to the front,
and, going great guns, soon had the rest of the field badly
spread-eagled, and romped home half a length to
the good from Irishman, who beat 50-to-l-against
Virtu by two lengths. The rest were nowhere.
Sydney has rarely seen a more uninteresting big
handicap. Though Irishman showed considerable dash
in a gallop on the previous Thursday there was little
of it in Saturday’s display', and jockey Evans had to force
him over the greater part of the trip. Hyman is a Syr.
old, by' Havoc (son of Nordenfeldt) from Bridal Morn, by
Thunderbolt (son of Musket) from Bridal Wreath (imp.),
by King John. He ran first at Newcastle last September,
starting a hot favorite, and beat eight others easily', a
feat which was repeated at Sydney City Tatt.’s Spring
meeting a month later. Backed early, Hyman went much
out of favor through going under badly to Legation at
Newcastle, a few weeks ago, though he did come out later
in the day and gather the Club Handicap. A few people
had confidence in him, consequently Moses did not
secure such a great haul as might otherwise have been
the case. Hy'man’s time (lrnin. 38Jsec.) is only Jsec.
slower than Charles Stuart’s Australian mile record, and
he would certainly have created new figures had there
been necessity. The nag is undoubtedly a classy young-
ster who should do well in the best of company.
Heavily-backed Flaxen, at 5 to 4 on, made the
pace in the early' part of the St. Leger torrid indeed till
Monobel ranged up at the turn for home. Then he tired
palpably, and Lord Nolan (9 to 4 against) appeared on
the scene, putting tons of grit into an effort which
enabled him to pass the post a length better than
Vavasor. Latter beat Monobel by three-quarters of a
length. Though the time (3min. ssec.) equals Dividend’s
St. Leger record, created four years ago, the winner
was not at his best. Saturday’s race was Lord
Nolan’s first since winning last Melbourne Cup. In-
fluenza prevented him keeping recent Victorian engage-
ments, and more than once his preparation for A.J.C.
Autumn meeting had to be suspended through minor
troubles.
* * * *
Prince Foote’s winning of A.J.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes places a fresh Australian best for seven fur-
longs in the book ; he covered the distance in Imin. 26£see.,
beating nine others, among them Sunny South (6 to 4 on),
who didn’t get a place. But on Monday Maoriland Arm-
let went one better for the continent by winning
Canterbury J.C. Great Easter Handicap (1000 sovs.)
in lmin. 26 2-ssec. Malt King was second to Sir
Foote —1) lengths rearward, and Gidyea third. The
favorite slowed down to a very bad fourth, and thus
inflicted a hard knock on the army of backers, who
remembered his brilliancy in Melbourne a month or two
since. Prince Foote’s conformation takes the eye. He is
a well-bred one, too —by dead Sir Foote (imp.), by Isin-
glass from Pet of the Chase, etc. The prior record for
seven furlongs was lmin. 26fsec., achieved by' Ibex at
Randwick’s Spring meeting in 1902, and by Step Out, at
Flemington, in 1906.
The manner in which Trafalgar won the
Autumn Stakes on Saturday tipped his success in the
Sydney Cup on Monday, though for the former event he
started at 12 to 1 and had few admirers, because there was
nothing in the nag’s track or racing form to suggest him
as better than a possibility. Yet he heat the red-hot
favorite, Parsee, by half a length, and Vavasor by some-
thing more. Eleventh-hour malcontents on the course
were Lord Nolan, King’s Cross, Lady Diffidence and
Dunollv, the two first-named being sources of con-
siderable gain to Moses, as they had been well
up among the fancied division for a long time.
The explanation was that both were galloped
upon in the Autumn Stakes. Lord Nolan was
the greatest sufferer, his split hoof (patched up with a
bar shoe for the Leger) opened again. From fives,
Trafalgar shortened to threes before flagfall, and next in
demand were Didus and Vavasor (eights), followed by a
big batch at from 10’s to 14’s, and another lot running
from 50 to 100 to 1 against. Flavinius, Golden Slipper
and Flaxen showed the Way at a brisk clip over the first
half of the journey, and inside half a mile from home
Trafalgar was in front. Halfway down the straight the
100 to 3 chance Ungarie threatened the situation
seriously, but Trafalgar, all pluck, battled it out
as his sire, Wallace, was wont to do—fighting every
inch —and landed the money by' a head amid a scene
to be remembered. Had Ungarie got up—and he looked
very much like doing so every' moment the struggle
lasted—it would have meant insolvency to a big section
of the punting brotherhood, some of whom got even over
Saturday’s losses. The Bulletin' knows that followers of
Ungarie’s stable (Frank McGrath’s) would have swelled
their banking accounts materially had that horse suc-
ceeded, and at least one of Sydney’s layers would have
landed something in excess of £4OOO. Didus (third)failed
at the finish through being asked to do too much over
the last half mile, while he might have gone to the
front early' with his feather of 6st. 71b. and
possibly' won. King Berry broke down, and had
to be shot. Trafalgar belongs to his breeders —
Messrs. P. and W. Mitchell, of Bringebong, Upper Murray'
—and is by Wallace from Grand Canary’, by Splendor
(imp.) from Canary, by Lapidist. He was ridden and
cleverly handled by W. H. Smith, who had the same
mount in Autumn Stakes. Last year’s Sydney Cup
winner—Dyed Garments —saw light first at Trafalgar’s
owmer’s station. Trafalgar is the 16th three-y’ear-old to
win Sydney Cup. His sire succeeded with Bsf. 121 b.,
Lord Cardigan with Bst. 71b., and Carbine with 9st. 31b.
The time (3min. 29£sec.) was fast, but Tartan (3min.
275e0.), Wakeful (3min. 28see.), and Realm (3min. 29sec.)
did better.
* * * «
Five of seven starters in A. J.C. first Steeple
(Monday) were Victorian reps., and they had the finish to
themselves, thus demonstrating how miserably weak
N.S.W. is in cross-country nags of even average quality.
Malcontent proved aptly' named by’ coming a cropper in
the first round, and the same obstacle scared off the Vic-
torian well-backed Player, while further on Simple Simon
and his rider parted company'. Saverne and top weight
Kuala Lumpur fought out the conclusion, supplying a
highly exciting end, which the little gelding (Saverne)
survived. Post Boy' was third, and first favorite, Lyrist
(the only other horse to finish), was last.
• * * *
Melbourne has only two pantomimes now—
“ Cinderella ” and the City Council. Many people prefer
a night at a council meeting to the theatre' —it is just as
hilarious and, besides, it is cheaper. Like Julius Knight
in “ The Sign of the Cross,” it is funny without being
vulgar. The performance at last meeting w'as thoroughly
enjoyable. The Age mildly mentioned “ a breeze.”
Breeze !! There wasn’t any breeze ; it was a tornado, a
sirocco, a “ willy-willy,” a “ cock-eyed bob,” also a simoon
and a devil with his tail streaming in the wind, but
’twere base flattery to call it a breeze. Lord Mayor
Burston took the chair, and seven councillors took the
floor at the same moment. When the scrimmage was
sorted out Cr. Jeffries was awarded a free kick for
referring to another councillor as “ Mr. Coffee Palace.”
The coffee councillor protested mildly, and was promptly
called “a thing” and “an arrangement,” and a public-
spirited councillor offered to pull his nose without charge.
Offer declined, and ball thrown into play again. Then
the aldermen got going, and language was frequent and
free again. “Clown,” “fool,” “dotard” and “goat”
rebounded from every’ side. Three aldermen were given
out leg-before-wicket. The meeting ended with a wild
“ scrum up,” the Lord Mayor being on top. The box-plan
is now open for the next meeting. Intending patrons
are requested to apply early', as there will be no other
pantomimes running except the Board of Shirks, and the
booking is heavy'.
* m * »
The men who carried the Dunlop military
despatch from Adelaide to Sydney upset the organisers’
calculations by averaging a rough 17 miles an hour
throughout, in place of the anticipated and scheduled 16.
They'were due at Melbourne P.O. at 11'450n Saturday
morning, and at 10.30 a huge crowd waited expectant and
wondering, till someone put up a notice stating that the
despatch had arrived at 9'26 and was away up beyond
Kilmore by then. From the jump, at Adelaide, the riders
gained on the time-table, only the dreaded Coorong
Desert beating them. There F. Pfundt and G. McKinnon
battled through the sand and the darkness against a head
wind—and lost 25 minutes on the section. But between
Mount Gambier and Casterton, Malee and Hardy showed
their knowledge of the country, and instead of toiling
through the 15 miles of sand slipped along grass tracks on
private lands and staggered the officials by running into
Casterton 65 minutes before they' were due. The pace
from Adelaide to Hamilton averaged 36 miles an hour;
thence to Melbourne it went up to 18. On the decently'-
kept north-eastern road from the Murray capital the
riders slithered over the 100 miles to Euroa at 22 miles
per hour, reaching' that township three hours
ahead of time. Finally, the last Victorian riders
handed over the despatch to the first N.S.W. pair with
3hr. 55min. to the good. On the N.S.W. side things
began splendidly, the first pair putting up a 19-mile-per-
hour gait, despite the darkness. Others who followed
did about equally well, and the precious document raced
into Gundagai five hours before it was due. Then
came falls, punctures, strong head-winds and other
accidents; yet, with all delays, a solitary whizzing
wheelist, Tom Larcombe, reined in his foaming bike at
Sydney G.P.O. 3hr. 50min. ahead of due date. His mate
Pearson was not with him. That rider’s gallant bicy'cle
fell and broke its neck between Liverpool and Sydney, and
the implement had to be shot to put it out of its misery.
The performance was a big one in every way. The whole
distance of 1148 miles was covered in 69hr. 35min., and 128
riders took part in the memorable scoot. Every one of
them proved himself a hefty racer. The arrangements
were perfect in every detail.
* * « m
Overlander Francis Dirties has been attacking
Maoriland road records of late, and left them completely'
out of shape. The Wellington-Napier piece of roadway
(229 miles) was thrown behind in 14hrs. 50min.—3hrs.
lOmin. better than the previous best effort. The
Wellington-Palmerston and back record also went
to the dust-heap—2o6 miles being cycled in 15fhrs.
The New Plymouth-Wellington road was then tackled,
and against rain and wind almost the whole of
the journey, Birtles finished the distance (256 miles)
in 17hrs. The journey had never previously been
covered in less than 24hrs. Birtles goes to- Sy’dney
shortly to have a look at the record between Sydney and
Melbourne.
* * * *
Despite his affection for rowing, Dick Arnst
can’t keep away from the old love, and he has announced
his intention of having a go at the Christchurch to
Dunedin road record on the trusty’ old bike. Jack Arnst,
who is going abroad with Dick when the latter scoots for
Canada, Britain, and other out-of-the-way parts of our
empire, will have a tussle in any bike events that happen
to be going at the time, including the six days’ cycle
team race in New York in December.
* * * <
The Melbourne Health and Strength College,
started by Clarence Weber and his friend John Rice some
seven years ago, shows amazing development. At the
annual display last week a varied assortment of collegians
bared their knotty bodies and limbs to the eurious gaze
of an audience that filled the Masonic Hall. The spirit of
emulation seems to pervade the atmosphere of these
physical-culture shows. What time the human exhibit
on the stage is expanding his chest, or bunching the
muscles of his back, the onlookers involuntarily' tighten
themselves. A strong-man turn at Rickards’ is merely
an entertainment, but a demonstration of weight-lifting
or muscle-contraction by a scholar whose measurements
this half-y;ear, as compared with hi’s 'circumferences last
half-year, are read out from a notebook by the head-
master of the college is an exciting example for
the young, and a mental exercise' for parents and
guardians, as it were. The first step towards get-
ting stronger is to think about it, says the
learned professor, therefore everybody turns his
thoughts to mu,sole for the time being. The burden of
Weber’s song to the middle-aged fatman who has begun
to nibble at the bait is, “ Of course, you can never be like
us, put be as like us as you’re able to be.” For the boys
he has a good old narrative of his own personal experi-
ence in muscle making—a story which happens to be
true. Sandow’s story of his early and later days is strictly
untrue, but Weber’s yarn bears investigation. He' was a
naturally big young fellow, satisfied with his physique,
whereas Rice, somewhat older than he, was a naturally'
small fellow, with a" small man’s natural yearning to
assert.his puysical pretensions. He tried to demonstrate
his strength in some tests with his big friend, but Weber
made him look very small. Whereupon the defeated
bantam trained himself all he knew how, until he was
stronger than Weber in a friendly wrestle. Then the big
man caught the physical-culture enthusiasm, and they
bought all the Sandow books and mentally devoured
them, and when Sandow came to Australia they mter-
viewed him and got further hints. Their school dates
from that time. The big teacher can do bigger things
than the friend who fired his ambition, but little Rice is,
for his height and weight, the stronger of the pair.
Together they represent the whole argument. They are
the long and’the short of it.
*•** ■*■
The agreement between the Sydney Metro-
politan Rugby Union and the Sydney Cricket Ground
Trust provides that the Trust shall take 12£ per cent, of
the gross takings and the ground charges. This arrange-
ment expires in June, and the Trust calmly’proposed that
for the rest of the season the ground shall collect 20 per
cent, of the gross takings without prejudice to any other
charges the trustees may make. As an alternative the
Trust offers to take 15 per cent, of the gross takings ana
ground charges if the Union signes a three-years
contract. The Union officials had not recovered
the power of speech when the meeting broke
up. The Union Council “ discussed the matter.” which
is the newspaper way of saying that the Council decided
it would see the Trust speeding to Tophet on a red-hot
bicycle before it made any such arrangement. The Union
would probably agree to the scheme if it had the right to
charge entrance-fees to all the ground. But the Cricket
Ground season-ticket holders pay the Rugby Union no-
thing, and neither does the Cricket Ground on their behalf.
So practically one-third of the space in the ground and
that the most valuable space—is reserved for w'hat to the
Union are deadheads ; y'et out of that space and these
defunct craniums the Trust collects a considerable
revenue. The Union gets only the takings from two-
thirds of the ground, and the Trust proposes
to charge 15 percent, on the two-thirds besides collecting
ground charges, and to pay the Union nothing on account
of the people who come in on season tickets. And, in
addition to all this, the Trust insists that the Union shall
agree nbver to put on a match or other rival attraction
at the Sports Ground when there is a fixture at the
Cricket Ground. One can hardly wonder that the Union
cannot find respectable language in which to express
itself. It is hereby urged to hire a half-bred Mexican
mule-driver, and take him round to the Trust, and tell
him to say his worst.
* * * *
The Vie. football season has begun with a rush,
and the barracker is in- the splendid fettle that usually
denotes the preface of the season. The other Saturday the
Carlton Juniors voyaged to Moorabbin per furniture van
to play some of Bent’s constituents. It was only a prac-
tice match, but Carlton Juniors were dead in earnest, and
finding themselves outplayed resorted to other methods.
One tripped Moorabbin’s captain, whereupon half a dozen
players and barrackers fell on him with much wallop.
His mates came to the rescue, and the Juniors were
rushed off the field —but they weren’t done yet. Un-
coupling the heavy trace chains from their van they
whirled these around, and cleared the field in short
order. Moorabbin rallied with pickets and sliprails, and
a general engagement was in full swing when the gradual
local John meandered along. Then Carlton gathered up
its casualties and retreated in disorder, while Moorabbin
sent for the ambulance. It was a cheerful episode, and
promises some really sweet scraps in the dull, winter days.
* * *
The S.A. cricket visit to Westralia has had the
unexpected effect of settling the S.A. club championship.
First, Adelaide, which was leading on the season, lost to
University by a handful of runs that Quist and Wright
(who had bowled, but were not there to bat) could hardly
have failed to make. That left East Torrens with the
lead ; and in its final match with Adelaide it had the
immense advantage of having only to draw to keep on
top. Without the bowling of Wright and Quist to worry
it, this draw was not difficult. “ Solly” Hill—yet another
of Clem’s many brothers—made the top score of his club
career. East Torrens is the “district” title of the old
Norwood club, which was almost in,vincible in the day's of
Lyons, the two Giffens, and Blinman, and had Darling
and all the Hills playing for it later.
The youngsters at Haileybury (Melb.) College
lately made a cheerful attempt to liven up their cricket
by playing a match with wickets consisting of four
stumps, 4in. apart, and by stipulating that ahy batsman
failing to score at least once in an over should ipso facto
be out. The compulsion to score brightened proceedings
considerably, for the two sides got through an innings
each in 3J hours and made 342 runs between them ; but
the 13-inch wicket seenv d neither to inconvenience the
batsmen nor advantage the bowlers, only nine of the 20
being bowbd, with two out l.b. w. No one was “ passed
out ” for failing to score off an over ; in fact, only once
was the last ball reached before there was a score. This
paper isn’t altogether captured by the 4-stump idea, as
the “off-theory” bowler would still bowl elsewhere if the
wicket were a mile wide, but it reckons the compulsory
scoring notion worth expanding. Some batsmen fall into
too much deep thought at the wickets.
* * * *
Judging by the grunt he emitted at Fremantle,
cricketer Noble is still in a rebellious frame of mind and
may yet have to be suppressed. Before the steamer left
the last Westralian port, Mary Ann remarked that
“ nothing had been done in the matter of ratifying the
Board’s selection of himself as captain, and the question
would be deferred till the XT. reached England.” Which
looks as though Mr. Noble was contemplating some trick
or other. Fortunately, the Board chose its team well,
and unless the selectors have been deceived, the men will
kick Noble hard if he makes any hanky-panky efforts to
“confirm’’the appointment and thereby set up a claim
that the Board’s selection isn’t final. All the same, it may
yet be necessary to give Noble the sack and prohibit him
taking any part in the tour.
Ex-champion John Roberts, the brainiest bil-
liardist of them all, struck a good idea lately when he
was invited to meet Stevenson in an exhibition match,
he, the old man, to receive 4000 in 20,000 or so. In the
first place Roberts asked for two-thirds of the gate
money, on the ground that he, after all, would be the
main attraction. Everybody has seen Stevenson play,
but nobody has seen him tackle Roberts since the latter
abandoned his claim to be the better man. The idea of
giving two-thirds of the gate money to the receiver
of points didn’t appeal to Stevenson, so Roberts
offered an alternative. He proposed that tickets
of admission should bear the respective names of
the players, and each should get the cash (less
an equal division of exes.) represented by the
tickets sold in his name. Each ticket was to be a vote,
as it were. Roberts argued, logically enough, that the
one who topped the poll was entitled to the larger share
of the “oof.” Seemingly, the novel suggestion was not
accepted by Stevenson. But why didn’t Tommy Burns
make the same arrangement with Johnson, instead of
guaranteeing him some £l5OO for the trip to Australia ?
If the colored person had been restricted to “ Johnson ”
tickets for his share of the fight proceeds, he would have
come out of it with about 30s. in hand.
* * * *
Tommy Burns’ mind is evidently less reliable
than his heart. After talking of settling in Australia,
running a poultry farm, a theatre, a bioscope, etc., he
has now cabled a reply to the Mclntosh agreeing to meet
Stanley Ketchell or Al. Kaufmatm, providing his end of
the purse is guaranteed, worth not less than £4OOO. Not-
withstanding the reduced terms, this writer reckons
Tahmmy is asking more than he is worth. He has put on
about three stone in weight since Boxing Day, which is
considerable ; and Kaufmann stands 6ft. lin. and scales
13st. 31b., is only 23, and is in first-class fettle. (Ketchell,
however, is only sft. 9in., and scales but lOst. 101 b.) So
Kaufmann v. Burns, to be followed by the victorious
Kaufmann v. Johnson, should suit the Mclntosh’s book.
* * * *
A pedestrian contest of some length hap-
pened in Maoriland on March 25. and was labelled
“The Ashburton Marathon.” The course of 18
miles was from Rakaia to Ashburtop, the town
which, for the last six years, has been famous for
its dryness and its unique collection of prohibition
maniac!i. Verily a terrible place for the finish of a long-
distance scramble. The gold watch and the honor fell to
M.L. three-mile champion, Miles Dickson, who has come
to the front during the last few months as a wonderful
long-distance runner. He covered the distance, after
leading practically the whole way, in lhr. 56min., beating
the second man, the ex-M.L. three-mile champion, S.
Moore, by smin. A wonderful performance was put up
by the third man, W. F. Simpson, also an ex-M.L. three-
mile champion, and holder of the Australasian three-
mile record, who has been running for 20 years, and is
now in his 46th year. He covered the distance in 2hr.
7min. Dickson finished comparatively fresh, but the
other competitors were in a state of exhaustion at the
tape. Eighteen faced the starter and 14 finished.
N.S.W. motor-boat men are just recovering
from a hideous shock. Last week the erratic frigate-
bird of the N.S.W. Club froze the marrow of all who were
making eyes at the championship with the fearsome
announcement that he was importing an engine of 100 h.p.
which would be installed in a special hull and simply mop
up championships galore. The shout was still on the
wind when another gentleman who is about to join the
club roared forth his intention of also importing an
engine of 100 h.p., which would be installed in a
locally-built hull, and would wipe up anything in the
mopping-up line. Another gust brought along something
to the effect that someone else was bringing out a
special design of craft —hull, engines (50 h.p.), design,
paint and smell all imported. When all these imported
boats are raging round Parramatta River, mopping up
championships, it would be an excellent moment for
Mort’s Dock to produce without ostentation an Invincible
of about 200 h.p., and do a little mopping on behalf of
Australia. But most likely the Dock won’t—the directors
do not seem to have read the history of the Napier Co.,
more’s the pity.
• * » •
Arthur Davies, owner of that superb model, the
Fairbanks, and the present flyer of the blue pennant of
championship, has been called on to defend his pen-
nant and high degree by Charles Crawford, owner of
the Baby Simplex. Baby recently averaged 24 miles an
hour, and the owner declares confidently that he can do
better under specified conditions, so he calls upon Arthur
Davies to come out and see which is the better boat.
There is a dark rumor that the Fairbanks has more than
once streaked over the measured mile at quite 27 miles
per hour. This writer hasn’t met anyone who owns
to having seen the splendid cedar boat do it, but the
yarn crops up insistently, and, like the p.n. that falls due
this day week, will not lie down. Mr. Crawford is not
dismayed, however. It will be a great race and worth
going far to see..
* * • *
“Wanganui” Webb exploded something like a
bomb on Australasia last week, when he issued a challenge
to Dick Arnst to defend his title and £'soo before he left
for distant parts, Arnst, hungry for fame and cash,
accepted eagerly, and the race will be rowed about the
end of May. Two localities are mentioned as the possible
venue of the trial—Akaroa and the Wanganui River
above the town where Webb toils. Although Webb
never squeaked, and always maintained that he had been
beaten fairly on his merits, there has been a con-
tinuous belief that when he lost the championship he
was suffering from rheumatism and the results of burns
incurred while celebrating some loyal festival by the
agency of fireworks. The burns are said to have healed,
and the arm which is known to be affected with rheuma-
tism is declared to be in perfect condition. But men who
had seen the then champion row on other occasions
declared that Webb did not row up to his form on the
day he met Dicky the doughty. Richard certainly won
with remarkable and bewildering ease, and made a mere
procession of the race that the world’s best judges of
sculling all along declared would be a Homeric struggle.
Now, with Webb offering £5OO a-side for a race, the men
who all along stuck to the damaged arm theory are
inquiring, joyously : “ What did I tell yer ? ”
•* * * *
Flite tyres are beginning to become very popu-
lar now. In one club alone, the Coburg, practically every
member rides Flite tyres. This only shows what can be
produced in Australia.*
• * • *
The annual regatta at Sorrento, Vic., drew a
heap of yachtsmen and other unspecified persons to that
straggly and dusty little village last Saturday. The day
was beautiful, and the racing interesting, especially the
motor-launch race, which Phyllis May won by a few
seconds from C.S.D., an ugly, dirty-blue-tinted, torpedo-
looking craft, which looks like a flyer. As a matter of
fact, the boat just fled from the others, and would
have won but for a mistake at the start whereby
it lost time. The race between square stern boats, 26ft.
and under, fell to Violet, with Vera second. S. J.S.
secured the open yacht event from Salacia, which, by the
way, has protested against S.J.S. on the alleged
ground that it carried a larger crew than is
allowed by the rules. As for the Open Sailing
Boat Race, its first and second prizes were swooped upon
by a brace of endearments, Queenie and Darling, Queenie
snatching the first and Darling the second. The long
race for visiting yachts from Williamstown to Sorrento on
the previous Friday was won by the persistently-superior
Uira, Salacia being second, and S.J.S. third.
* * * *
Sydney City Club’s open pair bowling tourney
at Eastertime was a success. All the Victorians over for
the inter-State match joined in the scramble, which
attracted 79 pairs. The result was a triumph for the
visitors, Stanhope and Day (Vic.) coming in first and
taking the boss prize of £l5, with Crawley and Barr (Vic.)
second, and Tatchell and Waxman (Vic.) in third place.
On the form of the Victorians, N.S.W. will have to per-
form well to have a chance in the inter-State match this
week.
***■*■
Somebody writes : “ Y.M.C. A. Marathon Race
doesn’t deserve all the kicks that you have so liberally
bestowed upon it. By the rules of the Australasian
Amateur Athletic Union, £lO is the highest amount
allowed for a first prize in any event, so the promoters
had no alternative but to limit it to that amount.” All
the same, there appears to be nothing' in the rules,
according to this correspondent, to prevent the wealthy
Y.M.O.A. making the first prize £lO and a high-class
harmonium, on which to practise hymns on Sundays.
* » * *
N.S.W. cyclist J. Salvana, who had to postpone
his proposed attack on the Sydney-Melbourne record
owing to bad weather and roads, has decided to
put off further efforts till the winter has gone into retire-
ment. Salvana’s previous attempts were nullified by
rain ; but his big heart and stout legs will possibly
knock the long-standing record to smithereens under
good conditions.
WOMEN’S BEST FRIEND.
Women who value health should never be with-
out Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Nurses and
doctors recommend them, and thousands of
women who now enjoy health and strength owe
their rescue to this wonderful remedy. Women
in every sphere of life, of every age, and every
condition, have proved the wonderful curative
and corrective influences of these pills. Years
ago pills were the medicine of the poor only. To-
day, the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
to overcome the common ailments and restore
health and happiness to sick and ailing women,
has convinced not only the working section of the
population but the wives and daughters of
the more wealthy, professional and independent
classes that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
woman’s best friend. They establish regular and
healthy visitations, which is so essential to good
health, purify the blood, giving the skin ar clear
and beautiful appearance, and keep the
bowels, liver, and kidneys in perfect working
order.
When Nature, throughout her intricate work-
ings requires assistance, no safer medicine, no more
beneficial helper, will be found than Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.


Before
After
FAT PEOPLE!
NORMAL HERBAL OBESITY CURE will
reduce your weight three to five pounds a
week, and relieve that feeling of fulness and
oppression by producing healthy digestion and
assimilation. It strengthens the heart and
enables you to breathe easily, removes double
chin, large stomach, fat hips, &c. No person is
so fat but what it will have the desired effect.
We absolutely guarantee satisfaction in every
case. It will cost you nothing to try it. Write
for a Free I rial Sample and Free Booklet on
the dangers and cure of Obesity.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
44 (?V Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DON’T TRUST TO
LUCK !
Send for our 1909 Catalogue.
When you ride a cycle—good
Trust to a GOOD machine.
men are scarce—
A
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE, £ll,
is Australia’s Best Value in Cycles. Fitted
with first-class tyres and guaranteed 12 months.
MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
The Largest Cycle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydnev
A. M. L. § F. Co. Ltd
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing' "Wool Clip,
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of "Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land $ Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Grand Dairying Land.
Grand Dairying Country, indeed, is MOUNT
LARCOMBE ESTATE, which we are now
subdividing. To the dairyman, the most import-
ant question is one of water, and this is answefed
most satisfactorily at Mount Larcomhe. The
average rainfall there is 43 inches, and every
block is permanently watered by running streams.
The flats are very fertile, splendidly adapted for
maize, potatoes, and lucerne. The hills are
warm and sheltered, and the whole Estate pro-
duces those rich luscious grasses that mean a
big butter yield.
MOUNT LARCOMBE
is divided into areas to suit purchasers, whose
fares we pay from any part of the States.
Very low prices—ten years terms —no survey
or residental conditions.
For Full Particulars, write—
Weaver & Glasson, Ltd.,
STOCK & PROPERTY AGENTS,
Colonial Mutual Chambers, 289 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
WTf
-finer
TO CROW A MOUSTACHE
is the easiest thing- in the world. Buy a jar of f A D[ I I ADIIVp
and follow the simple directions. It has * * L-lx* 1 Cj
never failed for 25 years, and it won’t in your case.
PRICE - lOs. 6d.
Sent post paid under sealed cover to any part of the world.
CRBKS & AITKEN, 654 (Sgorge St., Sydoey
Established 25 Years.
if
;
-
p
■Si®
ft
s
na
of
to:
< ]
dsfd
t\
dcla
u
e
The Murray Ministry, so far from attempt-
ing a reformation of the Vic. police system, is
more likely to sing its praises. Drysdale Brown,
the Attorney-General, has appointed Police Com-
missioner Tom O’Callaghan a Justice of the Peace
for the whole State of Victoria. That is to say,
Drysdale Brown recommended the appointment
and the Executive Council confirmed it. It is
enough to raise from their graves honest old
Francis Longmore and his fellow Royal Commis-
sioners who recommended O’Callaghan for dis-
missal from the Vic. police force in the long ago.
Startling information from 4 ‘ Bathurstian ” :
It begins to be suspected in the country districts that
some of the Dreadnought subscriptions that have been
solemnly acknowledged in the daily papers are bo<ms
The S. M. Herald, for example, printed the following
(12/4/ 09): —
“MOVEMENT AT BATHURST.
“ A Speaker from Sydney Wanted,
* * A few of us in Bathurst have been waiting for a lead
in the matter of the Dreadnought fund ’ (writes Mr P J
Creath). ‘For some reason, nothing has been done.’
Unfortunately we have no Allan Tavlor or E. W. O’Sullivan
with us. Might I suggest that the Lord Mavor would
send some speakers to the country to speak to the
people ? I feel sure if we had such men as Mr. W. Kelly,
Mr. E.W. O’Sullivan, and, if possible, the Lord Mayor
himself, we would raise a substantial sum in Bathurst
alone. I enclose cheque for my own as well as my two
friends’ subscriptions.’
‘Mr. Creath’s cheque for £5O, and those of Messrs.
Lwan, Phillips and Hume, making the amount from
Bathurst residents £64, are acknowledged elsewhere.”
‘Phil ” Creath is one of the best-known identities in
the Bathurst district, but he doesn’t profess to be a
capitalist. He is the Bathurst bellman and town crier.
Indigence and an appalling voice (it is an organ of some-
thing the calibre of that owned by T. Jessep, the rejected
of Waverley) are his main characteristics. The £5O which
the Herald says it got from Creath would represent a
large proportion of that humble moiler’s entire year’s
stipend. Of course, the document is what is vulgarly
known as a “ stumer.” And so probably with the contri-
butions of Claude Ewan, Sydney Phillips, M. J. Hume and
M. E. E. Drewe (vide Herald Dreadnought List, 12/4/’O9).
One or two of these alleged patriots are locally unknown,
and those that are known have never been suspected
of having any wild affluence about them with which
to buy battleships. The practical joker who hit on
Bathurst as a city to represent as seething with
Imperial enthusiasm went near to overdoing things. The
press-boomed Dreadnought foolishness hasn’t impressed
Bathurst worth a darn. For the past three weeks the
local Anti-Sosh daily has had a Dreadnought list open.
Up to the hour of writing, its efforts have resulted in the
snaring of the paltry sum of 10s. 6d. The fact is Bathurst
is hard up ; and the land-monopolists who maffick in
their favorite bars on slight provocation are the main
cause.
Treasurer Twaddell, of N.S.W., whose
twaddle is growing- really awful, opposes the
Fisher Government's naval and military defence
proposals because—
The Boers of South Africa have taught us a lesson
which shows that by a very inexpensive system of defence
we can make ourselves reasonably secure'against attack.
The imbecility of it makes one marvel how a per-
son like Twaddell ever got into Parliament, let
alone into office. The Boers had no port, no sea-
coast, no city that was even within many miles of
the sea. Australia has many thousands of miles
of coast, and every big city it possesses is on the
shore. Yet the fact that the Boers (like the
Swiss) didn’t need a navy is held by Twaddell to
prove that Australia (and presumably Great
Britain, which is in the same position as Aus-
tralia) doesn’t require one either. Yet, though
the Transvaal had no naval responsibilities to pro-
vide for, it did these things in the last year before
its independence began to be seriously threatened :
(1) It spent 30s. per inhabitant (equal to over
£0.000,000 a year in Australia) in preparations for
defence ; (2) it paid for all its public works out of
revenue in order to keep its credit good ; (3) it
paid £3 per cent, into a sinking fund for the
reduction of its public debt; (4) it trained every
citizen capable of bearing arms. Under that
s y sten .' P«t ”P a good fight, but that system is
as unlike^an ything Twaddle ever dreamed of as
18 Unllke llb ' ° f brown
Some details by this paper's Oldest Tn-
habitant- r
mr „ t u « .»
w’ k "w ts . who died at RoSe
dney) ve t ek bef , ore last and was deposed in a vault
° n the ed ® e of the rocks on the seashore at Waverley on
Wednesday, was the relict of James Martin, formerly
Chief Justice of New South Wales. The deceased ladv
was ln her 77th year, and had survived her husband 23
decade of last century and who died in J 879, leaving many
thousands of bricks and considerable mortar. At the
time of his marriage. James Martin was M.L.C. for Cook
and Westmoreland in the mixed Parliament which existed
ini*?, days of . rrres J ,on £ , hle Government. The result of
and five" Mr. ' Lo h'l~hZ Two
other daughters and one son. One girl married George
Cheeke, an ex-naval officer, nephew of and associate to
-Justice Cheeke. The Cheekes had resided at Chelten-
(En£land) f °t many years, and there George Cheeke
Bede D As for “ Hill’’Ton" thl marr I ’ ed William
father Advertisement. g ’ S ° n ’ he needs no


Rec.M°3SD,
A SOUVENIR
OF
THE SOUTH.
QOMETHING distinctly typical of Australia, taking the
O form of a dainty brooch is here illustrated. It
reveals the Southern Cross in the Map Of 'Australia, the
points of the Cross being set with Australian Rubies.
The whole work is wrought in 9ct. gold, and as a gift
Souvenir of Australia to friends abroad, it is one that
should prove a really acceptable and pleasing reminder.
This design is uniqtte and original, and is one that was
specially designed by MR. A. SAUNDERS, the well-known
Jeweller, Silversmith, and Optician of 807-809-811-813-815-
817 George Street, opposite the New Railway Station,
Sydney, who will send this pretty Souvenir Brooch to
any address for 10s. 6d. It would make an ideal gift for
some of the folks at home. Send for one to-day.
sfsdf
&
A luxurious shave
will await you every
morning: if you gret
one of these high
quality
MAXIM
RAZORS -
The blades are fin.,
fin., or fin. deep,
with round, square,
or Irish points, and
every razor is sold
under an absolute
guarantee of satis-
faction, or your
money refunded.
You can easily pay
a higher price, but
you eannot get a
better razor. Post
free to any part of
Australasia for
6s. 6d.
Sole Agent for
Maxim Razors :
147-49 Elizabeths/:,
Melbourne.
Si
Wellington, "the Iron Duke," seem
able to compel success They “do
things " in peace or war, because they
are strong in mind, body and nerves.
No one can have a strong body or
healthy nerves if their digestion is
bad Indigestion subjects man or
woman to a score of other ailments
You can banish all stomach troubles
by taking Mother Seigel’s Syrup!
" Your highly efficacious remedy, Mother
Seigel's Syrup, relieved me, in 1905, of lon -
standing dyspepsia and all its distressing
consequences, and thoroughly re-invigorated
my whole system, 'which was very much run
down, owing to the continuous strain ot my
sedentary occupation. There has been no
return of my old troubles." —From letter ol
Mr. VV Park Shanklin
(veteran State School Teacher),
23, Dariing Street,
Soutn Yana, Melbourne,
August yth, 1908.
MOTHER
EIGELS'
SYRUP.
EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
j Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
&
*
7)
k
Cr
r~)
n
Everybody who handles a "Buffalo Pitts” Portable Steam Engine
agrees that for all round work in general, and agricultural purposes in
particular, it stands right in a class by itself.
We say so; our Agents and Travellers say so; and BEST OF ALL,
its users, of whom there are hundreds throughout Australia, to a man
ALL say so.
Proof of the above is furnished in the fact that, for purely agricultural
purposes, there are in use in Australia MORE “Buffalo Engines than all
other makes combined.
Further proof is given below in the reproduced letters of responsible
agriculturists who for YEARS past have been using “Buffalo” Engines
successfully and most profitably.
Additional proof is contained in our files and can be had for the
asking—letters of the most enthusiastic praise from farmers in every
State—copies of which will be promptly furnished on application, and
which will be found to be equally as convincing as the following:—
“Bowning, N.S.W., 1317108.
“I have used the 8 h.p. ‘Buffalo’ Portable Engine I bought in 1901
“on nearly everything— chaff cutters, threshers, saw mill, driving a grind-
“stone and sheep shearing machines. ,
“I never had any trouble with it at any time, and I consider it to be
"very light on wood and water.
“/ have driven my engine all round the Yass
“district with three small horses; some seasons
“they are travelling from ten to twelve weeks
“without a break. Yours truly,
y
OWL,
"Corrowong Station, via Delegate, iV.S.PT., July 10, ’OB.
i n re ply to your letter of the 7th inst., we have much pleasure in
“stating that for the past six years or more we have been using an 8 h.p.
“ *Buffalo Pitts’ Engine to drive chaffcutters, threshers, saw mills, shearing
“machines, etc. It has always performed its work economically and well,
“giving very little trouble and consuming a minimum quantity of both fuel
“and water. We can thoroughly recommend it
“to any purchasers as a highly efficient engine.
“Any further particulars we shall be pleased to
“give at any time. Yours faithfully,
Excrs. late James O’Hare,
By reason of its Light Weight in comparison with its great Power,
its splendid governing, and general ease of management, its economy as
regards wood and water, it invariably gives GENUINE satisfaction to its
owner-satisfaction so apparent to residents in its vicinity that every
“Buffalo” sold becomes a non salaried but most energetic and convincing
salesman on our behalf.
Sold at Reasonable Prices and on such Exceptionally Favourable Terms
that, after the first small payment, the engine can more than earn the
subsequent payments before they become due.
International Harvester Company of America
(.Incorporated')
200 Roma Street, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; 17 Bank St., Adelaide; 75 York St., Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Australia.
(264)
sfd
try it in your bath
BY
APPOINTMENT
sfd
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Sp.lendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Co'ourto Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ďsf
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<-*<.« • , « • *.4
v y- v v vV v n. *
i- •*• v. a -i> v >
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
“ S.S.” : Nellie Stewart’s home-coming provided another
opportunity for the young female person to demonstrate
that mummer-worship is her strong suit. The exuberant
o-irl was everywhere in evidence. Not only did she swarm
from inland to flutter joyful pocket-hankies in honor of
Australia’s other Nellie, but she poured down from the
ship, providing a shimmering tail for the returned comet.
Evidently Nellie had mashed every maiden on the
steamer ; there was a small army of them weeping, at
partina', as a set-off to the other army that jubilantly
celebrated a reunion. It is impossible to deny the
increasing popularity of woman among women.
“ Sinnick ”: I want to know why Melbourne can t give
us a drama. Hazlitt says a city without a theatre is a
world without a sun. What sort of a sun has been hung
up here? Three months of panto at the two chief
theatres. Shades of Brooke and Sullivan ! Oh, but the
drama starts again. Yes, the Silly Girl Drama. Act 1.,
Cuddle; Act 11., Hugger; Act 111., Mugger; Act IV.,
Mugo-er-Mugger. This has no bottom for any one of the
Seven Ages of Man, or for the Married Age of Woman.
Love must be in the play, to be sure, as in ‘ Hamlet,
“Virginius,” “The Rivals,” “Richelieu,” and the other
good things. In the most licentious age of the diama
there was no Maori nose rub or neck slobber. Hugger
and Mugger make me tired. Send along this English-
man’s Home,” and dynamite the rest.
“Adelaide”: The description of a new English opera,
“The Angelus” (B. 4/3/’O9), omits to mention that the
composer is a brother of Darnley Naylor, formerly of
Melbourne University, and now Professor of Classics at
Adelaide. By the way, this music is “composed by an
English subject to an English libretto ”y— these being the
conditions of the competition in which it won the prize ,
and the prize was offered by the Italian firm of Ricordi.
To complete the topsy-turviness, when it came to be pio-
duced at Qovent Garden, the “ grand ” or summer season
j was barred to it, and it had to be played in a week
l of February. The syndicate which runs that' great
English opera-house aliows operas in Italian, German, or
even French, but not in English, except in the obscure
backwash of the year when nothing matters much.
M. P. Adams, doing general agency work for Wirth’s
Circus, writes ve the suppression of the licensed liquor
houses in Maoriland, and about other matters: “Pro-
hibition hits the tourist showman in a tender spot
apart from his unholy thirst. F’rinstance, the average
so-called ‘ private ’ hotel of the prohibition town is a sad
experience. There is an entire absence of management,
as the term is understood in licensed-town houses. The
passages, windows, curtains and eating appliances show
the want of elbow grease, and the beds stab you in the
middle of the back, or let you through on to the floor.
The menu is an uninspiring list—corned beef, potatoes,
and an indigestible pudding. Fruit is almost unheard of.
The town has a dejected air. In some cases, its dulness
is enlivened with a club that sells non-alcoholic
liquors, and keeps a bottle of the other sort in
a secluded drawer in the office. As the result of
this latter feature, the club has a considerable
membership. Beer syndicates are formed, and its
always a case of finishing the lot at a sitting. What
drinking there is seems to be immoderate through force
of circumstances. The Wellington fishing industry is
wholly in the hands of the Dago. The steam trawler
Nora‘Niven was brought out from 'Ome by a dozen
Grimsby fishermen, but when the new-chums ascertained
the conditions of life ashore they soon chucked the
trawler. The Dago works in syndicates, and nshes
the sounds adjacent to Wellington. The work is
mostly heavv, but the men are physically equal to it,
and they must do well at it, for they take their occa-
sional trips to Italy or Greece, returning with quantities
of Antonio. A day is coming, perhaps, when Maoriland s
sons of the sea will be mainly Antonio. A couple of
Wirth’s artists suffered awhile from a flattering illusion.
They had an idea that an occasional item of sweets, viz.,
‘ iunket and jellv ’ was named after them, for their know-
! ledge of English is limited,;and when they asked for
‘ Ilket and .Jenny ’ they always got it. Naturally, they
demanded an increase of salary on the strength of their
apparent celebrity. The hoys fooled them awhile, but at
! last one of them gave the joke away, a.nd now the en-
lightened pair ask no more for ‘ Ilket and Jenny. I hey
describe it as ‘ ze white .and wobbly sluff, and the jelly
and junket are duly served.”
Baden-Powell, the clap-trap showman of the Boer war,
is nowadays recognised as a military attachd to the
theatrical profesh. At the last annual dinner of the
Actors’ Benevolent Fund, in London, it fell to the lot■ of
the “Hero of Mafeking” to propose the health of the
chairman.
“Dandalup”: Went to a moving-picture show the
other night. One of the first pictures Dickered labori-
ously along under the title of “Our Banana Supply-
Somebody had been at work at the films, trying to give
them a tinge of local interest. The plantation where the
fruit was grown was in Costa Rica, Central America, and
dark-skinned greasers, armed with hungry-looking knives
—sharp to cut and quick to flash—stalked about the land-
scape, clad in gay raiment and Merry Widow hats, the
next scene was labelled “Shipping the Fruit to Aus-
tralia,” at which an intelligent audience justly roared.
Then we had “The Fruit on Sale in Melbourne and
Sydney,” with typical New York fruit-stalls in the fore-
ground and numberless sky-scrapers in the rear. What
an insult to Australian intelligence are these localised,
foreign films ! Probably, if this is one of the tricks of the
moving-picture showman, some of the pictures recently
taken in Queensland, and subsidised by the Australian
Government, will, when being exhibited in, Poland, be
labelled “Jum-buck Clipping near Cracow”; and the
Westralian mining films may go down in Russia as
“Scenes in Our Siberian Silver Mines.” In all probability,
the Costa Rican Government subsidised some picture com-
pany to advertise its country’s resources the same as
Australia is doing.
“D.,” his bitter carp: The Bulletin diagnosed
“Havana” (18/3/’O9) as “the badly-speckled banana in
the bottom of J. C. Williamson’s bag.” That is so. The
fruiterer ought to be proceeded against under the Pure
Foods Act. Most of the vegetable is so old that it fairly
yells for interment. For example, the jokes. Gounet
makes immense play with a quip whose claim to the
guffaw of popular favor resides in the pronouncing - of the
word “deceased” as “diseased." Now that never was
much of a jape in its prime. I first heard poor
Sheridan exploit it about 20 years ago when I was a
very small bov indeed. It impressed me then as
diverting, though not exactly side-splitting. At my
present time of life it palls. And then the music ! Well,
the music suggests the pregnant thought that there are
certain score-writers who should be allowed to achieve
one work, and then be prevented in the.interests of their
own reputations from ever essaying another. There is
not a number, concerted or otherwise, in “ Havana that
doesn’t produce the impression that it has been reft by
an unskilful hand from “ Florodora,” and so injured in
transit as to be rendered almost (though not quite)
unrecognisable. (In this regard consider, for example,
the telephone song in “ Havana,” and compare it with
Stuart’s earlier “ Tell me, Pretty Maiden,” effort). As to
the company, I never saw or heard it to worse advantage.
Florence Young’s voice, always on the strident side,
grows harder than ever. In the first act she appears
astride of a pathetically small donkey. It ought to be
stopped. It is unfair (1) to the donkey, (2) to Florence.
When she gets off the donkey she complains of the
way the young men of the place bother her with
their attentions. The trouble strikes me as preventable.
Let her display herself to the importunate lads aboard
the donkey, and I warrant that they will fade away like
the baseless fabric of a- dream. Roberts’ mannerisms
annoy me. He dresses as the cigar boxes give me to
understand Cubans dress. But his accent remains across
between that of Algy (“ Idol of Women ”) and G. B. Shaw s
Cockney Drinkwater. “ Hell-110, pee-pooll ! P ee-pooll,
hell-110 1” he cries brightly and often. It is his way of
saying “ Hello, people I” Is there anything more deject-
ing more tragic than the forced merriment of the licensed
funnyman? See! Percy, as the cheerful little tar, is going
to be comical. He distends his mouth, utters his quip, cuts
a wild caper or two, and still grinning in agonising
fashion gazes dumbly towards the gallery for his reward.
His lips smile, but in his eyes there resides the dog-like
appeal of Fido, who has “sat up” faithfully and well.
The laughter comes (who could be so flinty-hearted as to
withhold it?), and lo ! the mime is all playful gaiety and
gratitude. He dances off, merry as a grig, his wide-
stretched mouth and gleaming teeth facing to the last
towards the place the cheers come from. As like as not
he cannons into the wings as he goes. Then the house
rocks with mirth ; and he is rewarded thereby for any
damage he may have done to himself or to J.C.W.’s props.
Musical comedies generally depress me. ‘ Havana
nearly broke my heart. If it had endured much longer
on the night I saw it I should have given way hopelessly,
and drenched an innocent operative in the orchestra with
my tears of boredom.


4 if Hmd/S
1
Franco-British Exhibition,
London, 1908.
The Grandest Show the World has Seen.
ALL RECORDS BROKEN
GRAND PRIX for Tonal Qualities and General excellence.
DIPLOME d’HONNEUR, Iron and Steel Work.
GOLD MEDAL, Excellence of Cabinet Work,
GOLD MEDAL, Factory Organisation.
SILVER MEDAL, Brass and Bronze Work.
FOUR SEPARATE JURIES AND THE GRAND JURY.
The leading violin expert of Europe and two French Piano-Manufacturers
judged Tonal Qualities and Construction. The other Juries judged according to
excellence of work in their separate trades.
These are the HIGHEST AWARDS EVER GAINED by any PIANO
at any INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
A large number of competitors exhibited. Commendations were showered
upon us in London by eminent players and composers, including the accompanist
to Madame Adelina Patti, Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and other experts. Specimens
were purchased for leading French and English hotels, including the newest and
largest hotel of London the Strand Palace Hotel. Consult us about your old
piano and' instal the Beale Piano To the joy of your household.
Eleven Thousand Beale Pianos are now in use.
Direct from factory to family.
Cash or Easy Terms; Guaranteed for 25 years
Catalogues by Post.
[From the London Musical Coueier,
November 21, 1908.]
Messrs. Beale and Co.
rpHE winning of the Grand Prix awarded by the Franco-
British Exhibition for Pianos reflects the highest
credit upon Messrs. Beale and Co., oi Sydney, Australia.
Every Britisher should feel proud that an Australian firm
should have built upsuchan extensive and self-contained
piano manufactory so far away from the old-world
centres. Their aim has obviously been to make high-class
musical instruments, both grands and uprights, and that
they have succeeded is proved by the honors thus con-
ferred upon them.
The committee of expert judges recorded their convic-
tion that Messrs. Beale and Co.’s pianos in tonal qualities
and construction, together with those of the old historic
houses of London and Paris, deserved the highest award
—the Grand Prix.
But Messrs. Beale & Co., desirous of further upholding
the banner of Australian industries, entered in competi-
tion for invention and factory organisation, for which
they received the gold medal. Another gold medal was
given them in the competition for cabinet work. This is
certainly significant, for in both of these classes they
were brought directly into competition with the French
and the English high-class furniture producers. Their
bronze and brass castings were considered Worthy the
silver medal in competition with many of the leading
firms of the world. They were awarded the Diplome
d’Honneur (next to the Grand Prix) for their castings
(made from Australian iron) and for steel work. This we
believe to be a unique record for a piano manufacturer as
embracing the several trades included in the business.
There is a tendency in these days, when the aggregate
output of pianos is annually increasing, tp cheapen' the
cost of production wherever possible without sufficiently
adjusting this to the inevitably adverse consequences of
the future. Messrs. Beale and Co. had the perspicacity to
see that by using the best materials only, and those well
conditioned, combined with the most approved method
of construction, they could build up a great and endur-
ing business. Their success has been exceptional, result-
ing in the erection of one of the largest and best equipped
factories in the British domains, producing 1700 pianos
annually.
The very heart of the Beale piano, the iron and steel
tuning system,us the firm’s own original invention. In
this the iron wrest-plank forms an integral part of the
frame, thus securing absolute rigidity, a greater length
of string, and higher tension than is possible with the
wooden wrest-plank; It is claimed that the striiiv will
remain permanently at the desired pitch.
The sounding boards are made of timber devoid of
resin, with no tendency to expand or contract from heat
or cold. They are, further, made impervious to moisture
by a specially prepared coating (invented by the firm),
which acts as the varnish used by the old violin makers
in giving added resonance. The firm claims that these
sounding boards may be immersed in water for 24 hours
and allowed to dry in the sun without affecting them in
the least. The glue used is a new odorless preparation
made in Australia for the firm, from cuttings of hides
only. It is found to be far superior to the glue in general
use.
The other portions of the pianos are prepared with the
same care, and it must be obvious that Messrs. Beale and
Co.’s pianos are specially adapted to withstand the most
trying atmospheric conditions. For example, the climate
pf Western Australia and the Soudan are noted for their
extreme dryness, and Fiji and Madras for their extreme
moisture. These adverse conditions have been success-
fully met and provided for by the companv in their
extensive business throughout Australasia. "We have
inspected these pianos and the indispensable requisites
enumerated above. Many thousands have examined
their original construction, and expressed delight with the
tone qualities and general appearance of durability of
these instruments during the Franco-British Exhibition
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat;
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
Queen Street, next G.P.O.', Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
By manufacturing air parts of our instruments in our own factories,'and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the, best .pianos in the world at half the
•price of the best imported instruments.


OPEN
FACE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' Black Open-face Keyless
WATCHES, Splendid Timekeepers,
Extra Strong Short-wind movement,
12/C.
Higher Grade, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
HIGHER
GRADE
SHOP
“CITY PRICES” straight to you in your own home without the expense of a
trip to the city. Our Up to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT can supply
you as easily and advantageously as if you were a resident of Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to-day for a copy or our 304-page
Illustrated Catalogue. It will help you in
making your Xmas selection. Sent Post Free
to any address.
SHOPPING BY POST.
No matter where you live, you can rely on
our up-to-date Mail Order Dept, to serve you
promptly and satisfactorily. All goods sent
carriage free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Iset. Gold Shamrock Leaf
BROOCH, set with fine
White Pearls and Sap-
nhire or.’Turquoise,
* £4/10/--
Pearls and Dia-
monds, £S/10/-.
IteXo
3ibjg
Sigrara
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hall-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Extra
Strong Safety Chain, £’2/1 !>/■•'
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/, £3/10/.
Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/, according to size.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon Circle
BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/--
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, ISo/--
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5/10/. Guaran-
teed 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £ 25-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Dog and
lienne! CHARM,
7/6-
9ct. Gold, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 12/0-
15ct. Gold, 20/,
Iffi
• m :
33
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX, Richly Hand
Engraved, (>/(»•
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
S Smaller, 4/6, 5/6.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearla
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£2-
lISTRAIIA
. A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Southern Cross” BROOCH,
Set Red, Blue, and Green Stones,
12/6.
Without Map of Australia, 12/6.
15ct Gold, set with Tourmalines, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £Z£.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mouse
and Candlestick
CHARM, 7/6.
0©
A. SAUNDERS.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, Silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns, 5/6-
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold-filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/7/6; 15ct. Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
PENDANT,
set Bloodstone
and Sardonyx,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold, set Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£l.O-
- Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, 25/-.
15ct
A. SAUNDERS.
. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby, and Sapphire, 22/o-
A. S MINDERS.
9ct. Gold Slipper
Lace l’in, 4/6-
Larger, 5/6, 7/6.
In Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, 7/6-
Smaller, 6/6. Larger, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Real Amber Stem, Solid
Silver Mounts and Screw, Straight or Bent
Stem, 12/6
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bet. Goid Thistle
CHARM, Ame-
thyst Thistles,
12/6.
ALL GOODS SENT POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT and NECK-
LET, set fine Pearls and Ame-
thysts, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Rustic Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set fine Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, with Extra Strong Safety Chain attached,
£2.
Mg
ifobSM
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather,
nicely fitted Pure Silver Mounts and Lock,
10/6
Other styles, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 16/, 20/, 25/.
A .SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot, £i£.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe and Whip
SCARF PIN, 7/6.
Larger, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather,
nicely finished, 5/6-
In Seal Leather, 6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/3, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl-set Bird
and Sprays, 20/*.
A.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 30/-.
15et. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SaUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Good Wishes’’ Bar and
Heart BROOCH, 10/6-
15ct. Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double Cut Diamond, £‘2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand-Clasp
RING, 25/--
15c t. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Chain PURSE, Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, White Metai
Chain, 8/0
Other styles, with Silver Chains,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 21/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap-
phire, 8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Jet. Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12/6-
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Rubies and Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/-.
For pierced or un-
pierced ears.
N
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
Engine-turned Cases, f-Plate Lever movement, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance, £2--
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6. In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l3,
£2O, to £5O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EAR-
RINC. Z, set with
Tourmalines, £i£.
For pierced or
unpierced ears.
Other Styles, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct.
Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS, 17/6-
15ct. Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Enve-
lope CHARM.
12/6-
Any name en-
graved free.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N-S-W.


/
\
E
ON
w
\
EEMC
m
we:
E
ET
e
L
i.
o
s
isi
M
%
1®
sSS
&
m
m
SSK
mMTI
isll
0
V
sfds
mlinllllllll
rp TPjfl
ƒ
inmuiilfin/Jn)
m
©
TOR TVIJb
V
APPDf mm


AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
What “THe Australasian” says:
“The Australian Medical Guide,” by Dr. Philip E. Muskett, which has been issued in
two large volumes by William Brooks and Co., Limited, of Sydney, Melbourne, etc., is one of
the most comprehensive and important medical works published in Australia. Dr. Muskett is
the author of several important books dealing with health and disease, especially in infants and
children. The “ Medical Guide” may be described as a cyclopaedia of medicine, the various
organs and diseases being arranged in alphabetical order. Not only is the work written from
an Australian point of view, but special attention is given to subjects of more than ordinary
local interest, such, for instance, as hydatids and snake-bites. A section even is devoted to the
treatment of bites and stings of insects. Dr. Muskett has rightly adopted the principle of
treating the more common diseases more exhaustively than the rarer ailments. He gives much
space to such subjects as appetite (loss of), backache, colds, constipation, coughs, diarrhoea,
headache, sleeplessness, vomiting, and other everyday complaints; while comparatively minor
matters, such as corns, freckles, warts, etc., are not neglected. The treatment of accidental
injuries is dealt with in articles on bandaging, dislocation, fractures, head (injuries of the),
wounds, and cuts and bleeding. As the work is intended for household use, the author has
aimed, as far as possible, at using simple and non-technical language. The writer claims that the
chief value of his work consists in the minute details that are given of all that is necessary
for the relief of the ailments described. Another useful feature is the list of remedies that
should find a place in what Dr. Muskett proposes should be called “ The Australian Family
Medicine Chest.”
The work is copiously illustrated with pictures and sketches,
both colored and black and white, specially prepared by Mr. D. H.
Souter. Dr. Muskett’s “Medical Guide” should be in the hands of
every householder, and it will be found particularly valuable for
those who live in the country, where skilled medical advice is not
always readily obtainable. In the matters of paper, printing, binding:,
and illustrations, the work reflects great credit on the publisher.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
09
IN THE BUSH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MUCH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
1909.
To the Manager,
THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical
Works, as per your special offer,, viz.,
“The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide,” 2 Vo Is.
(2nd Edition)
“ The Attainment of Health ; and Treatment by Diet ”
(2nd Edition)
“ The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants
(7th Edition)
Postage
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings , for which you undertake to forward the
above works complete, carefully packed, and post free. I am, yours etc.,
£4 10
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name
A ddress


repels the invasion of
dangerous spirits from
An
Englishman*
Home.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good WhisKy is sold.
#*w»
<
a
sSS
r
N
.p
Ji
I
*<r
Bom 1820.
vStill going'
strong'.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
KILMARNOCK.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklbourkk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, P' Mic Companies, &c.
The Colei ial jJjuUial jjife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Ilor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
~ Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—— -
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
#
VB
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
'his Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
mont de piete 0. |. Qo., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
rHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. ... £30,000 0 0
Directors : F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOR ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND STEEL FOR EVERY
sf
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
SOUI
♦ ♦
♦
♦ ♦
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known British Towns, and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £S Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, stamped fully jewelled, as a FREE
Gift. (Silver Watches are presented to Gents ).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, tog-ether
with stamped addressed envelope for rep'y, to
FELLOWS & CO., 10 Grosvenor Buildings, Steel-
house Lane, Birmingham, England. The winner
is required to purchase a Chain from us to wear
with Watch. The name of this paper must be
mentioned. Prize-winners of last competition
were : Miss S. Stubing, Yabmana, Franklin
Harbour, Cornell, S. Australia ; Mr. W. J. C.
Witmitz, View Farm, Robe, S. Australia.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
Shipping.
N ord D eutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 695. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of [jetii Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
RRAFTQ 0,1 Australia, New Zea-
UA/ANIO uvmrio land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.D.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell. Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St. , SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
s
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
May 12.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
June 9.
RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamvhlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Amplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company Lt</..
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP_€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, anil.
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. « Twin Screw. a One,class only.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
I holi pay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makatnbo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ŝ
CRUISES. »<
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 70 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being-
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional L oases), -'(3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,001) upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch M m igers, or to the Sbcrktary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Banking.
The Bank of flustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of ||eiu South (Dales.
Establish ed 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ .. .. .. £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. O. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
... . j William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors . -j Siiephkard Edgecliff Laidlet, Esq.
London Office —64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Hotels, &c.
£*
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 860 Central, 300 City.
'EORGE HOTEL,
vSt. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Portsa
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
-S.S. Grantala, April 24.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
LS.S. Marloo, April 17.
' S.S. Wollowra, April 24.
Best and Cheapest Haute to tioldilelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States,
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. —-5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11.400 Tons. G. T. Dkith, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 6th May
„ „ „ SYDNEY -12th May
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - 17th May
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 22nd May
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
i £49 10s ' £ls 13s - £lslss ‘ £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by-
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydnev and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart ;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
94 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.


BILLIARDS LTD
Ms
Rl
1
. '
.
W-:-
■
One of the Public Halls.
630,632 U 634 George Street,
(Near Liverpool Street) SYDNEY.
25
ALCOCK
TABLES.
The MOST MAGNIFICENT BILLIARD HALLS in Australia.
Rooms under Experienced Care of Mr. HARRY GRAY.
Billiards, 1/- lOO; Advt. Floor, 6d. 100
Private Tuition to Ladies and Gentlemen a Specialty.
In addition to the Public Halls, several PRIVATE ROOMS, each
fitted with one Standard Table, suitable for Private Parties,
Tournaments or Practice, handsomely furnished, can be engaged in
advance, from 3s* to ss* per hour*
.
'. ' ,
wm
-■
1
{■■B'’ 71 • . ' m
w'
One of the Private Rooms.
It is well Worth your While to Inspect the MAMMOTH HOME OF BILLIARDS.
Farm Waggon
Economy
The new “Bettendorf” Steel Truck is without question
a great improvement over all previous Farm Waggons.
All STEEL except reach and pole, which are wood.
Steel wheels with 4 inch face, giving light draught in
heavy going.
Not affected by wet or dry climate.
Can stand out in the weather indefinitely without
depreciation—practically imperishable.
Axles encased in steel bed, which prevents their
“sagging”
fbbs
Wearing parts interchangeable, and easily and cheaply
replaced.
No expenses for cutting tyres.
Reach is adjustable, making it particularly suitable
for conveying timber.
Table or box top can be supplied as required.
First cost lower than that of ordinary waggon, two of
which it will outwear.
Easy Terms and Solid Guarantee.
International Harvester Company of America
( Incorporated')
200 Roma St., Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke St.,
Melbourne; 17 Bank St., Adelaide; 75 York St., Launceston.
S2“EJE!I!2!i of ON THE HOP!
Price
Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Ofliro, 2IL Georoe Street, Sydney.
MOMENTS' W/fEN ' '
M YOU NEED
bd
t^f/J
rs
-s
No. 1.
WHEN YOU ARE
TRAVELLING
There are moments,
many of them, dur-
ing a long railway
journey when a drink
of ‘O.T.’ is particu-
larly welcome.
Railway carriages
are notoriously
draughty, and very
frequently they are
not too well heated.
With a flask of ‘O.T.’
in your pocket you
will be splendidly
safeguarded from
chills, colds, and the
other ills that long
journeysgivebirth 'n
‘ O.T.’ is the
stimulant with-
outthealcohol
the ever-ready
beverage of
perfect health
and absolute
purity.
All
Hotels,
Grocers,
Stores.
«.V>
*
bd
bsd
O ASH
SuMOHMtt f r DRINK**"
* “ ov • ALSO THE
\eo?o; BEST
Wtu/ LIQUEUR
V AfTER MEALS
d'DixoNtC?
* :c «s*3fc.
l CRSAT CURE
OR tHOrCETST/orir
RICHARDSON *&&■ MEL&
bd
ANDREW McGEE
The A\ito-Strop Safety Razor
shaves you as no other Razor will. It has a thin edge
that is permanent—strops itself.
It can’t cut you, and you experience a pleasure in using
it not produced hy any other Razor.
The complete outfit includes one doz. Auto-Strop
Certified Blades, Auto-Strop Certified Horsehide Strop, Triple Silver-plated Safety Frame, in
handsome leather case, 25/=. Extra Blades, 3/- a doz.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, corner Hitntcr Street.
sai.oon on:x alt. day wkpxksdats.


The first visit that Queensland’s new
Governor, William Macgregor, paid to these parts
was in 1875; when he went to Fiji as chief medical
officer. Two years later, he became Receiver-
General of Fiji, and subsequently High Com-
missioner of the Western Pacific. When
portion of Papua was annexed as a British
possession, Dr. Macgregor was appointed
Administrator, and on September 4, 1888,
he read the proclamation that the
place belonged to J. Bull. In 1895 he
became Lieutenant-Governor instead of Adminis-
trator, and kept that billet till 1898, when he
was made Governor of Lagos (West African
Coast). He was six years at Lagos, and has since
been Governor of Newfoundland. Although he
was kept pretty busy straightening things up in
Papua, he found time to do a considerable amount
of exploring, and managed, among other things,
to climb to the top of Mount Victoria, which
rises over 13,000 feet towards Heaven. Governor
Macgregor is an excellent Italian scholar. It is
said that Commonwealth Chief Justice Griffith,
who recently issued a translation of Dante’s
Divine Comedy, first took up the study of the
ice-cream language in consequence of a conver-
sation he had with Governor Macgregor con-
cerning Dante’s great work, while on a visit to
Papua.
Chamberlain’s Tablets have proved remark-
ably successful in curing stomach troubles, bilious-
ness and constipation. One man was cured of a
bad stomach trouble by these tablets after having
spent many pounds for medicines and treatment,
without any permanent benefit. In cases of con-
stipation they are mild and gentle in their action,
and they leave the bowels in a natural and
healthy condition. They are easy to take and
pleasant in effect. Try them. You will find
them far superior to pills.*
IN BANANA LAND
If Queensland has kept a record of the
size of its wild pigs, a gentleman captured at
Mosman the other day will probably push himself
into a top place. The squealing monster measured
7ft. 6in. from his snout to the end of his uncurled
tail, and his girth is sft. at the equator. Cane :
growers, whose worries include the beetle, coot,
leaf-moth, rust disease, root-fungus, the C.S.R.
Co., and numerous others, are wondering what
sort of a fence will keep such destructive porkers
from getting outside their crops.
From the North, re the Jap spy question :
It is high time the Commonwealth put a stop to the
alarming freedom allowed the Jap who roams around
Australia. Not three months ago Mackay (Q.) was visited
by one of these well-groomed, crawlsoinely-courteous in-
dividuals. He carried a tremendous stack of cameras and
photographic paraphernalia, and informed all inquirers
that he was an engineer on a pleasure tour. The pleasure
part of his tour appeared to consist of tramping
around the district taking photographs of the
sugar-mills, the canefields, the waterworks, etc. Then
he disappeared, and was next seen photographing the
coast from Louisa Creek some few miles south of Mackay
to Habana Creek, 15 or 20 miles to the north. There is a
Jap at Townsville who has a perfect chart of the Barrier
Reef, from the far north down to Rockhampton. Where
he got it is probably explained by the fact that 18
months ago some 10 boats, run by Japanese, with
aboriginal crews, left Thursday Island and worked the
Barrier Reef right down to Rockhampton, ostensibly
for beehe-de-mer. Passing steamers reported that
they saw the Japs taking soundings while the black
crew lolled about the decks. Of some eight Japanese
bOche-de-mer boats that used to bring in their catch to
Mackay, verv few had big cargoes, and it was often a
matter for wonder how a vessel manned by three and
even four Japanese and 12 niggers was a paying concern,
seeing that after three months at the reef there was not
even three-quarters of a ton of the Chinese luxury to
show for the trip. That Japan is at work in North
Queensland there is not a shadow of a doubt. And the
only thing the fool-papers try to get Australia excited
about is the possibility of the invasion by white people
of an island 12,000 miles away !
A Townsville man, who has just sold his
cycle business, proposes to leave for Sydney in a
motor-car on May 1. The motorist will take his
wife and family with him on the overland voyage.
At least, they will be with him when he leaves ;
but only the gods know what will happen on
the route, which hitherto hasn’t been traversed
in that fashion.
Queensland’s recent shipment of 169
German immigrants by the Asturias is the biggest
batch of settlers from Kaiser Bill’s country that
Bananaland has had for over a quarter-century.
Each family is to be given 160 acres on Binjour
Plateau. Another big batch is expected in May.
These additions to Queensland’s population are
due to Pastor H. F. Niemeyer, of Hatton Vale,
who went to the Fatherland a couple of years ago,
and told the folk that there was a better country
than Germany—meaning Queensland and not
Heaven.
The sample shipment of copra, recently
sent from Mossman, in the North, to Sydney for
transhipment to England, was sold by- mutual
arrangement in Sydney, where it brought £l5 per
ton. The freight down the coast was 30s. a ton.
which, compared with what it would cost to send
the sun-dried vegetable the rest of the way to the
Cold Land, is regarded as appalling. Still there
appears to be money in the business even at this
rate, wherefore one Mossman man has already 19
acres of cocoanuts planted and is adding 10 acres
to that lot.
“Flinderino” : In a cave on the ocean
beach near Cape Grafton (N.Q.) there lives an
ancient crocodile in solitude and apparent con-
tentment. At low tide passing fishermen often
see this lone croc, snoozing in the sun at the
THE PEACEMAKER.
“ But wot did y' hit ’em so hard for, Bill?” “ Well I sTOPPED ’em fighting, didn’t I? ”
entrance to his recess. Several attempts have
been made to shoot him, but the brute seems to
know by instinct when his life is in danger.
Anyway, when anything like a gun is pointed in
the direction of the apparent sleeper, that
apparent sleeper wakes up and leaps for the dark
interior of the cavern. The ruggedness of the
coast at this spot makes it almost impossible to
approach the hermitage from the land. There is
no river or stream in theimmediate neighborhood,
and the ’dile is supposed to have come from the
Barron, several miles distant. Tommy, the
Malay fisherman, swears to the truth of this
yarn. About 12 years ago, Hop, Louey and
Co., who were cultivating bananas on the Barron,
were in the habit of washing their clothes on
the river'bank. One calm and eventful evening
Hop, or Louey, or Co., ventured waist-deep into
the stream, and before he had time to yell
“ Whaffor ! ” there was a swirl and a snap and a
Chinaman the less in the North. The remaining
members of Hop, Louey and Co. determined to
have revenge, so, with the aid of a strong wire rope
andastanding tree, also a hook and astray dog, they
prepared a trap. The suspicious crocodile smelt
and eyed the mongrel for oa 7 er a week. Late one
night the Chinamen were awakened from their
slumbers by a loud commotion on the river. First
they thought of a cyclone ; then they remembered
the trap. Excitedly they trotted down the track
to the river, and were astonished to see the trap,
tree and all, disappearing down the river at
motor-boat speed. Jumping into their flatty,
which was near by, they paddled full belt in pur-
suit of the outfit. They had not gone far, how-
ever, vv hen the junk struck a snag and swamped.
It was a toss-up as to which Chow reached the
bank first, but the world’s short-distance swim-
ming record was easily broken. Tommy, the
Malay, was visiting his fish-trap at the mouth of
the Barron, when his flatty nearly collided with a
floating tree that came down the river against the
tide by leaps and bounds. It was not until after
he had called in at Hop, Louey and Co.’s humpy
the next day that he ceased to be mystified.
Tommy has often seen the Cape Grafton hermit,
and, because of certain marks on that recluse, he
is positive that it is the same saurian that towed
the tree down the Barron 12 years ago.
Queensland’s “ Sacred Ibis,” Archibald
Meston—journalist, politician, explorer, and
owner of an untold number of walking-sticks—
seems to have enjoyed life best while protector of
aborigines in the Great Far North. Recently, he
has turned his face once more towards Cape York,
where he will engage in the sandalwood industry,
employing a number of local blacks to help him.
Two other parties are at the same game up there.
They supply their Binghis with wages, tucker,
working clothes, and mouth-organs. Meston pro-
poses to throw in either concertinas or bagpipes,
and reckons that his supply .of Binghi will be
assured.
“ Moorabinda,” on natural remedies to be
found in southern Bananaland :
First, the dugong, or sea cow. People who suffer from
lung or bowel wasting, or defective assimilation and
nutrition of any kind, have been greatly relieved by the
use of cod-liver oil, extracted from a cold-blooded fish in
noway analogous to the human species. The dugong
(something like a porpoise to look at) is a warm-blooded
sea-mammal, and its oil and lard (the residuum of the oil)
are the most sovereign remedies on earth for defective
assimilation or nutrition. They have all the virtues of
the cod-extracted article, and a good number more of
their own. Being rich in iodides and phosphates from
the sea, and coming from a warm-blooded and milk-
bearing mammal, not a deadly cold fish, the white flesh
of the dugong is a combination, in flavor, of veal
sweetbread and turtle steak, and has a delicacy that sur-
passes both of them. There is not a trace of fish flavor
about it.
It must be remembered that oil taken into the stomach
is not very digestible or capable of assimilation, and can
be “exhibited” only a little at a time. It is here that
the dugong lard comes in. Placed on “ spongiopiline,”
like butter on bread, and applied to the skin of the chest
and Stomach, it finds its way through the skin into the
blood direct, without fatiguing or outraging the stomach,
and does its restorative work quickly and thoroughly. If
applied to the skin of a sound person, it remains inert and
unabsorbed outside, yet the skin of a consumptive will
suck it in and dry the pad in no time, to his or her lasting
benefit. A boy fell into some boiling sugar, and scalded
himself from ankle to thigh. A month in the Brisbane
General Hospital, and another in the Children’s Hospital,
only found him unhealed and a skeleton, with his eyes
deep in his head. He was dying. Dugong lard
was packed all over him as a last resource,
and in less than a month it had given him
such vitality that the scald, in place of cover-
ing thigh and leg, had shrunk to the size of a half-
crown. The rest was new skin, and he had regained bis
ordinary fulness of flesh. Again, an old lady of 73, wife
of a high State official, was seized with paralysis. She
could not sleep, and opiates maddened her. Dugong lard
was applied, sleep came, and she survived five years more.
Another cure : a little Brisbane milliner, 28 years of age,
stitching in a hot workshop, “nourished" on tea, tepid
water and bread and butter, began to lose one lung. She
could not sleep for the night-sweats, could eat no break-
fast, and was in a bad way generally.. A padsmeared with
dugong laid was applied: She fell into a sound sleep,
woke hungry, ate a large breakfast, found her chest had
sucked the pad dry of lard. She kept on at it, with the
result that she gained seven, nine and 13 pounds in
weight in the first three months. She then left off the
lard, for, as she said, she was so. full of dugong oil that it
began to rise in her throat, as newly-swallowed castor oil
might. Other cases could be quoted, but I have another
natural remedy to get on to.
A medical man of Brisbane suffered terribly from
anaemia. He went to the seaside, and bathed daily in a
fresh-water lagoon with ferruginous sandstone walls. At
the end of a.fortnight he noticed that the brown-leather
lining of his hat had turned quite black where it touched
his forehead, and he at once surmised that iron from his
skin had mingled with the tannin of the leather. He also
noticed that his skin had become red, in place of white.
Further he felt like Goliath of Gath. He sent a keg of the
water to be analysed. Its constituents were discovered,
and packages of them were artificially prepared for use in
the bath, with equally good results. A master painter
in one of the southern towns of Queensland had
a big family of daughters, most of whom, at the
age of twelve, sickened with anaemia, grew fret-
ful and peevish, and died. He was told of the
remedy. His children could not digest preparations of
iron by the mouth and stomach, but the absorbent skin,
in the bath, found no such difficulty. It was like the
case of the dugong lard ; as much could be taken into the
system through the skin in one day as could be absorbed
in a month by the mouth and the stomach. No digestion
was required, as it went direct to where it was needed.
The last child was thus treated, and lived. The others
would probably have lived also if the remedy had come
in time.
Patterson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUR camp’s the vain possessor of a genius
who aspires
With thrilling ingenuity to cope with our
desires ;
Whene’er we need some new device, necessitating
some
Consummate skill, we all exclaim—“ Tell Patterson
to come! ”
With she-oak husks he manufactured buttons for
his “duds,”
And candlesticks with clay, and dice and dominoes
with spuds,
And many such devices. He has no one to
compete
Against him, bar the cook. The cook makes
leather out of meat.
He made a lock for Tanner’s box and handed him
the key ;
And though the lock is fitted with a hole, it seems
to be
The most extraordinary lock that Tanner’s ever
met.
It opens with a tomahawk, profanity and sweat.
Last summer, when the flies were bad, with
chemicals he made
Some fumigating stuff which he about the shanty
laid ;
And out for ever went the flies demented with the
smell.
And all the rest of us made up our minds to go as
well.
“We want another lamp,” said McNamara;
whereupon
Went Patterson to work with application, and
anon
Produced the lamp required. True also in the
morning we
Required another shanty where the old one used
to be.
He tried his thistle plaster for rheumatics on
McLeod,
Who told him, as he wrenched it off with execra-
tions loud,
If he had any more gol-darned experiments to
make
To give the human race a chance and try ’em on a
snake.
Our only clock he took because it stopped an hour
or so,
And, disuniting all the wheels, declared he’d make
it go;
And when he put them back again, and polished
up the bell,
It did go, with our curse of vengeance—down the
blanky well !
A startling innovation was his up-to-date machine
For washing clothes, which he declared would
wash them extra clean ;
Whereon we had. the apparatus tried without
delay,
And found it did wash all our blanky linen clean
—away.
Though much through his inventions we have
suffered and endured,
He did us all an everlasting service when he cured
Jim Simpson’s concertina in a way he never
meant.
Of any further symptoms of melodious intent.
He mentioned his intention of applying once or
twice
For patents for protection, and invited our advice;
And Arkinstall observed, “That’s right enough,
but what about
Our own protection ? Spare me days—don’t that
want thinkin’ out?”
However, we are sick of his experiments, and
when
He threatens to invent things, or prescribe for
them, the men
With apprehensive vigilance, and danger in their
eyes,
Tell Patterson to go to—where he won’t before
he dies.
ALERED E. BRIDGES.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, April 10, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Ada Crossley Muecke, together with her hus-
band and Pianist Grainger, took tea with the
vice-regal family at the official shelter on Sunday
afternoon. His Ex. was a most constant attendant
at the singing matches.
Our only Ada has had a cheersome time here
cheersome, at least, for her hostesses. At one
At Home arranged in her favor the guests, after
arriving speechless at the top of a young moun-
tain, found themselves received no less than five
times over. First of all they struck the hostess,
who bade them welcome with effusion, but did
not introduce the guest of the afternoon. She (the
guest) was lying head to swell on the port tack
rigged in a clipper neatness of turquoise crepe in
directoire shipshape, and a blue top-brace. Some
of the accumulated femininity took the helm right
away and pump-handled Miss Crossley, who
looked more or less prepared for the effort.
Having thus shown their temerity, they hastily
made their escape into an adjoining apartment,
and this starboarding of the helm brought them
broadside on to two daughters and a daughter-in-
law of the house, by each of whom they were
gravely “shook” again. Later still, some
agitated fluffer remembered to ask “ Who was the
old gentleman with a beard?” and there was a
horrified chorus of “Gracious! that’s Mr.
Blank, and I forgot every bit about him !” All
of which goes to show that, though a man may be
a martinet on his own quarter-deck, he is very
brief and undersized potatoes on his front drawing-
room Axminster. As for Dr. Ada Crossley
Muecke, he escaped notice altogether.
One of our best-known solicitors provided half-
a-minute’s amusement at the Police Court
on a recent morning. A drunk by name (say)
John Smith was being called to appear on a
charge of beer and disorderly, when lawyer John
Smith aforesaid slipped right into the arms of
6XX. When he heard his name called he
probably thought the Court simply wanted a word
with him on some private matter, and he got on
his feet only to be told “You are charged with
being confused and intoxicated. How do you
plead?” The indignation on the face of the
victim and the roars of the Court arrived at the
same instant, and when the shouts of “ Order !
Order !” at length had their effect, the real J.S.
had been unearthed, and the now speechless limb
of the law was allowed to go on his way rejoicing.
Friend Eros has been having a happy time of it
here during the quiet Lenten days, and the result
of his ramifications is a whole crop of engage-
ments. Miss Fanny Donkin, a plucky girl who
has proved her ability as a business woman, is to
wed a scion of the clan Cadell, of Deepwater. Dr.
Jean Thomson has given her heart to Cyril
Gunther; and Miss Bourne, a pretty Ascot maiden,
is preparing for a steady job as the wife of a
gentleman by the name of Bennett. Lastly, Roger
Hartigan’s new sister-in-law, Miss Eileen Rankin,
and Captain Jas. Canon have come to an under-
standing of a matrimonial nature. t
The first-named bride-elect is a daughter of
Henry Donkin, the champion four-in-hand whip
of a decade ago, and the slayer of many silver
trophies—and incidentally of many harmless
pigeons.
You all know the- old story of the goat, the
wolf and the cabbage, and the difficulty their
distracted owner had in getting them across the
Lachlan or the Hunter or the Styx or some such
stream. Here’s a parallel. My small and ab-
surdly youthful-looking male cousin is a depraved
character who frequenteth hotels and other unfit
amusements. One night this week he breasted
the bar alongside an aged, well-defined Thargo-
mindah type. The type was burdened with a
bottle of West End beer, two sandwiches (on a
plate) and three apples. The beer was open. When
the cousin surged up alongside, the gent from
Outback was about to convey his commissariat to
a convenient table and have a repast. But
the arrival of Adolphus produced an awkward
equation. The backblocker plainly suspec-
ted the honesty of Adolphus, and disliked
the idea of leaving one instalment of his
goods on the counter while he carried the rest to
the remote table. He tried piling the apples
under one arm and the food under the other—but
the beer remained, also his bag. Then he changed
round and the sandwich was adrift. Then he lent
his intelligence to the great issue for about five
minutes solid. At the end of that time he smiled,
put the sandwiches in his hat, put the beer ufider
his nearest arm, put one apple under the remotest
arm, carried two apples in one hand and his bag in
the other, and behold the deed was done.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


THE HORSE POPULATION OF THE WORLD.
Horses.
Of the whole world 80,000,000
Distributed thus—
TTnirnne ... ... ••• ••• Jf-1,000,000
::: :.. nMooo
North America ... 10,000,000
South and Central America 6,000,000
Australia ... ... ••• ••• 2,000,000
Africa 1,250,000
(Estimated by the “Revue de Cavalerie,” Belgium.)
Horse Population of the Commonwealth States.
Horses.
N.S.W. 537,762
Queensland ... ... ... ... ... 488,1/86
Victoria 406,840
South Australia 224,44^
Westralia ... ... ... ... ... 104.022
Tasmania ... ... ... ... ... 88,209
Queensland added 35,570 to her horse population
in the year 1906-7.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XV.
WEALTH IN THE HORSE.
(By J. D. Fitz Gerald.)
If Australia is ever invaded, the land defence will
be mostly an affair of mounted infantry, swift in
action, mobile, capable of dispersal and reconcen-
tration with incredible rapidity. Sertorius,
when he defied the might of Rome in Spain,
would not have wished for better troops. A small
force of our young men, who can “ ride and
shoot,” could patrol whole provinces, and, on the
tactics of De Wet, could make any permanent
lodgment on the Australian Continent a military
impossibility. In no country in the world (ex-
cept, perhaps, Russia) is there a better prospect
of supplying mounts than Australia. The horse
is one of our most valuable assets, and certainly
one of our most treasured possessions. Possibly
in no other country in the world are there so
many persons who can ride, and who are accus-
tomed to the use of horses. Every bush-bred
Australian is a born horseman. Our men in the
South Africa war were “ the eyes of the army,”
and apparently regarded the whole affair as a
glorified steeplechase.
In some parts of the Old World the horse is re-
garded as an animal ferae natures, to be treated
as wild. In Australia he is, if not exactly “ a
man and a brother,” at least almost a brother.
In some parts of Europe horses are eaten. The
boucherie chevaline is a very common business
concern in France, for example. Here in Aus-
tralia the consumption of horse flesh would be re-
garded as almost as heinous a crime as cannibalism.
Tn the vast empty spaces of Queensland the
MARKET DAY, PATRICK STREET, LAIDLEY, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
horse is the greatest factor in civilisation. He
is the correlative of sheep and cattle in carrying
on the great pastoral industries. He is a source of
wealth and of public convenience. Poets sing of
him. The Bulletin has long labelled one
coterie of its gallant minstrels " the horse poets.”
From Gordon through to “Banjo” Paterson,
and on to Will Ogilvie—a poet, by the way, who
bracketed the gee-gee with the softer sex in his
“Fair Girls and Grey Horses”—all our poets
have sung the praises of the horse. Horses and
poetry have ever gone together since Pegasus
supplied the poetic remounts; but never so
much as in Australia. If the camel has been
described as “ the ship of the desert,” the horse
may be called “the express train of the bush.”
Now, “in proportion to population,” says the
Commonwealth Statistician, “horses are much
more numerous in Queensland than in any of the
other States.” In 1906 there were 1.765,186
horses in the Commonwealth, and of these
Queensland owned 452,916. The State had in-
creased this number by 35,570 in 1907. The value
of the Commonwealth horses was £17.400.000, and
of Queensland’s quota £3,620,000 ; with the price
of that 35,500 added, the total is brought to nearly
four millions.
The worth of the Australian horse is appraised
highly all over the world. For military purposes,
the “Waler” (which has become the common
name for the Australian horse when exported) has
the highest reputation in India, Japan, and the
Netherlands-India. A steady export of racers of
the highest breeding—generally after successful
trials on Australian courses—goes on year by year
to India and Asia generally, right round as far
as Shanghai on the East and Bombay on
the West. Military remounts are regularly
exported to the Indian cantonments. You can
establish the years of the various modern wars, if
you have no other means of verification, by the
export of horses from Australia. Thus, in 1901
Natal took 10,939, and Cape Colony 14,054 ; and
in 1902 Natal 7078, and Cape Colony 3382. In
1905 there were 1754 shipped to Japan, while 8248
found their way to Hongkong, probably for sub-
sequent transmission to the Manchurian battle-
fields. There has been a steady growth of the
numbers exported to the Philippine Islands, and
773 found their way there in 1905.
Beautiful Java, the “Garden of the East”
(the “Glass House of the East,” it should be, or
the “Hot House of the East ”), takes about 500 or
so regularly every year. The Dutch, our very
good neighbors on the north and north-west, in
their splendid Colonial Empire in an island-ocean
territory (which looks to the hegemony of the
Commonwealth in the South Pacific), maintain a
well-equipped army in order to pursue the various
sporadic native wars, and, though it has small use
for cavalry in native warfare, the officers of its
army invariably clasp an Australian horse between
their knees when they ride. The Straits Settle-
ments have taken 4066 of our horses in the six
CARBINE—THE GREATEST HORSE AUSTRALIA
HAS PRODUCED.
From the painting presented to the V.R.C. by the Duke of Portland.
years ending with 1906. These figures are capable
of illimitable augmentation as years roll on. In
my short experience of Asia I realised that the
Australian horse is looked to as the pearl beyond
price for the British exile in such places as
Penang, Calcutta, Singapore, Hongkong, and
Shanghai. Every Britisher, young and old, de-
sires to possess a “griffin.” The term “griffin”
appears to be used to describe anything young,
fresh, unsophisticated, and beautiful. It is
applied to the green young men who come to the
tired old East, by its blase exiles, who have ex-
hausted all the enjoyments of the flesh, and simply
struggle on hoping to get enough to retire on and
get back to London. But “griffin” is generally
understood to be a young horse, either of the hack
0 r the polo pony variety. The auction advertise-
merits run something like this: —
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
FOR SALE BY AUCTION.
Ex Steamer Bucephalus.
(Direct from Brisbane and Northern Queensland Ports.)
A splendid lot of Australian griffins.
And everyone troops down to the ship to get the
REV. HEIMEYER’S PANORAMA, HATTONVALE, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
first peep at these Australian exiles, which, with
their beautiful forms and silky skins, bear no more
resemblance to the fabled griffins than they do to
a gargoyle, or any other hideous specimen of
ecclesiastical decoration. In a short time they are
admired on the polo fields, or carry smart officers
on routine duty. Chinese millionaires keep Aus-
tralian racers in Java and Singapore, while Aus-
tralian jockeys ride for them and for Eastern
Sultans.
The merits of our horses are widely admitted. As
to our racing type, some of the best of our sires
are regularly purchased for Europe. Who has
not heard of Carbine ? Lochiel ? Maribyrnong ?
Chester ? The Viceroy’s Cup in Calcutta is gener-
ally won by a “griffin” nowadays. And, for
military purposes, Queensland has had, during
the last few years, many remount officers from
abroad, who have spied out the land, and have
reported favorably to their Governments on our
horses. Colonel Goad, director-general of the
remount department of the Indian army; the
Japanese officers who bought largely during the
war ; the British officers who came for remounts
during the South African war ; Major Brown, of
the United States cavalry, who, with other
American experts, travelled in Queensland to buy
for the Army of Occupation in the Philippine
Islands ; and the representatives of the Nether-
lands-India Government at Batavia—all these
gentlemen have been impressed with the character
of the Australian horse.
MARKET DAY AT RAILWAY YARDS, LAIDLEY, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
Colonel Goad travelled the whole of the States,
and so convinced was he of the permanence of the
trade that, after careful consideration, he laid
down a series of propositions to Australian dealers,
which, however, did not meet with favor in
Queensland; and the Stock Department of
Queensland reported that “ the scheme would act
disastrously to the horse-breeding in the State,”
and commented favorably on the system adopted
by Major Brown, of the 3rd United States Cavalry,
Again, the benevolent co-operation between private
enterprise and the State communal organisation
which exists in Queensland, is shown in a con-
crete form by the departmental steps which are
regularly taken to improve the breed of the most
useful classes of stock in the State agricultural
colleges, and to make these a centre for the dis-
tribution of sires to farmers at a reasonable price.
To show the prospects for the settler in horse-
breeding, the annual report of the Department of
Agriculture and Stock for 1907-8, signed by Mr.
E. G. E. Scriven, Under-Secretary, may be
quoted :
“ The conditions here for breeding active,
sound, and hardy horses are so favorable that our
farmers should engage upon the industry to a
greater extent than is now done, and especially
so when prices have reached a stage to make it
profitable ; and it is suggested that horse-breeding
associations, as an adjunct or separate from the
various agricultural associations, would prove to
be a valuable means to that end. Such associa-
tions should be formed of breeders interested in
a particular class of horse, who would further the
interests of the breed they are interested in. The
influence and the work of these associations would
in a few years be so great that the indifferent
horses now seen in the shafts or under the saddle
would disappear, to the manifest advantage of the
people generally.”
I have already written in effect that “ the horse
is the friend of man ” in Australia more than in
any other country. Here he is respected. You
never see him, as you may in Italy, yoked with a
mule (or a donkey) and a steer, pulling a vehicle
in such degraded company, and apparently feel-
ing his degradation keenly. The spirit of the
Australian horse is higher, by comparison, than that
of any other breed of horses, except perhaps the
Arab. Doubtless this is because he is treated
by the Australian, as by the Arab, as one of the
family. But, before he yields himself to the
ascendancy of his master, he struggles as no other
horse has been known to struggle to rid himself of
his rider. Our “ buckjumpers ” are world famous,
and so are the riders who have conquered them.
Henry Kendall, the sweet poet of “Songs of the
Mountains,” wrote of one of these heroes of the
pigskin—
He can sit a buckjuniper, can Wallaby Jim,
' And when the buckjumper dispenses with him,
The saddle comes off with the rider.
Percy Spence, one of the few Australian artists
who can draw a horse, has depicted these heroic
struggles between man and horse for the mastery.
Every year, when the shearing is beginning, an
army of stalwart young men, each with a saddle-
horse and packhorse, set out from the selections
of their fathers (or their own) and ride for the
shearing sheds. They know the bush, and many
of them have ridden from shed to shed, or with
overlanding cattle, sheep or horses, until the great
Australian routes from north to south and from
east to west have no secrets from them. These
are the men who, if armed with long-range rifles,
could, on their own soil, destroy an invading army
20 times their own numbers, as surely as the
Teutonic Prince, Arminius, destroyed the legions
of Varus, in the hills and valleys of Detmold, and
began the movement which crumbled the great
Roman Empire to its decline and fall. I
have met mounted fossickers on remote roads in
Queensland and N.S.W., with their tin fossicking
dishes and long-handled shovels slung on the packs
of their spare horse, who periodically rode the
length of the Australian continent in the search
for gold. As the services of an enterprising
Government, spread outward in concentric circles,
and as well-made roads come into being to assist
the States’ communication, these solitary men will
be disturbed by the "honk-honk” of the motor-
car, or the scream of the railway whistle, and
like the great god Pan, and the dryads and fauns,
they will seek remoter and more sylvan spaces, far
removed from the sights and sounds of civilisa-
tion. For their horses and dogs are their only
companions.
Of the future of horse-breeding in Australia the
Commonwealth Statistician tells us something—
“ From the earliest times the suitability of the
climate and pastures of Australia for the produc-
tion of serviceable breeds of horses has been
fully recognised. By the importation of high-
class sires, and the careful selection of breed-
ing mares, these natural advantages were
utilised to the fullest extent, all classes l of horses
being bred. As a consequence of this combina-
tion of advantages, the Australian horse, whether
of the heavy draught, medium weight, or light
saddle and carriage variety, compares more than
favorably with the product of other lands.” The
same authority tells us that in the period 1901-0
the value of the horses exported from the Com-
monwealth was £1,695,904. This export trade
must grow as years roll on ; and as Queensland is
the most favored State of the Commonwealth in
all the conditions which are most helpful to the
development of a superior type of horse —especi-
ally a type suitable for army remounts —the
Northern State will be infinitely the best place
for the emigrant, who has some capital and a
knowledge of horses, to keep his eyes firmly fixed
on. There are millions in horse-breeding in Queens-
land. It is bound to become a great national
industry, and it will be no rash ad venture which
the immigrant undertakes if he sets out on suit-
able land, of which millions of acres are available,
and with a good class of sires and mares, to seek
fortune under the freest of conditions. He will
everywhere find the paternal hand of the Govern-
ment. Inter-Commonwealth regulations are
strictly interposed against the introduction of
possibly diseased stock from abroad. The strictest
supervision is exercised at home. Through all
this, we shall go on until we have evolved the
highest type of horse suitable for all branches of
production or industry, for war, and for the noble
sport of kings and Australians—-the Turf.


THREATENED WITH
LIFE-LONG AGON!
From Dreadful Humour on Face and
Scalp—Under Medical Care for
Months—Suffered for 3 Years and
Despaired of Cure—Now Well.
CALLS THE CUTICURA
REMEDIES MARVELLOUS
“I suffered for two and a half, I may
say three, years from terrible eruptions
of the skin and scalp. My face was sb
broken out and my head was so bad that
I could scarcely wash my face or comb
my hair. I went to a doctor in Dublin
for about three months. He gave me a
lotion and pills, but they proved of no
use whatsoever. So I came to the con-
clusion that I could not be cured when
this doctor’s remedies were no good.
“About two years and five months
after trying his treatment a friend was
telling me of the Cuticura Remedies.
I got a supply and continued with the
treatment for two months when my
6kin became completely free from any
sores. I must say that only for the mar-
vellous Cuticura Remedies I should have
been in agony all my life, and I am
deeply grateful to Cuticura. I also know
friends who have used Cuticura. Mrs.
M. Harney, Glen House, Merganstown,
Dunlavin, Co. Wicklow, Ire., Jan. 4, ’08.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
BABIES ON FIRE
With Torturing, Disfiguring
Humours, Cured by Cuticura.
Eczemas, rashes, itchings, irritations
and dialings are instantly relieved and
speedily cured, in the
majority of cases, by
warm baths with Cuti-
cura Soap and gentle
applications of Cuti-
cura Ointment, the
great Skin Cure. This
treatment permits rest
and sleep and points
fco a speedy cure in the most distressing
cases, when all else fails. For preserv-
ing, purifying and beautifying the skin,
scalp, hair and hands, for sanative,
antiseptic cleansing and all purposes
of the toilet, bath and nursery, Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are priceless,
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world,
A Single Set often Cures. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: U.S.A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
bds
TShe
STEINWAY
PIANOS.
THE STEIN WAY Pianos
A have a wonderful and
ideal beauty of tone distinctly
their own. The evenness and
elasticity of their touch make
them admirable instruments
both to the singer and player.
The STEIN WAY is uni-
versally recognised as the
WORLD’S GREATEST
PIANO.
Extended Terms Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in
Part Exchange.
Sole Agents :
Nicholson & Co. Ltd.,
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
eA@
Glycerine and “Benzoe” Soaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the shin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“Redness” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing and softening
the skin s°t up an irritition on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
bsd
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
sbdb
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
DERBY
SHOE,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
best Glac6 Kid,
with Patent
Caps and
Cuban Heels.
Price,
16/6.
Postage 9d.
extra.
If cleaned with Leeming's Gazeka Shoe Paste (6d.
per tin) the wear is guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists—Free. ’Phone 1799.
LEEMING’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; and
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Excess fat
Makes women look ten years
over their age; makes them
ugly and ungainly; en-
dangers their health;
impedes their progress;
makes them a laughing-
stock for their acqua-
intances and a stand-
ing butt for family
jokes. It also weak-
ens the heart and
makes life miserable
!] —as you know. 50
YOUR
EIGHT
dll
‘FATCURE.’
makes life worth living. It reduces the weight
permanently; gives back the graceful curves
of a good figure; strengthens the heart and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accu-
mulated internal fat. Send a 2d. stamp for
Free Trial Sample and full particulars, or
Call if convenient. “ FATCURE ”is ab-
solutely harmless and is pleasant to take.
Once removed, the fat does not come back.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
BANDSMEN NOTE-!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es &, Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
CITTTAMC 290 & 292 Bourke Street,
I Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
1
Qi
SMOKE
E.F.L.
PIPES.
From 2/6 each.
All Shapes.
E. F. lIND g CO., 39* George St., Sydrey.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
m
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
/ m Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [8
ishinc.
Every
LRequisitej
-
TACKLE
Trout
feJ'ERCH
,COD
?sea
Bream
FOR,
f —^
j.ocott. 364BourkeSt. Melbourne
£lOOO
IN PRIZES.
Work of Art,'
VALUE
£5OO
FIRST
GREAT
PRIZE,
Work of Art,
VALUE
£5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for TWO.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full value
for the work of art, is prepared to find a
Purchaser for same at the advertised amount if
the winner so desires, also for the Second and
Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO.
THIRD: Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
Oldest
and Most
Popular
Great Art Union
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all
charges. A list of winning numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed en-
velope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your local agent, or send Postal Note,
P. 0.0., or Stamps, with exchange added, direct
to the representative, Australian Buildings, 49
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at once for tickets,
and secure a chanqp in this Great Art Union.
22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
ALL DIRECT APPLICATIONS MUST REACH MELBOURNE
BEFORE THE DATE OF DRAWING, 10th MAY, 1909.
Be sure and try your Luck.
Send TO-DAY, before you forget!
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Australian Buildings,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him ■to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
HHESasR
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wa!es,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
CARBIDE.
For First=Class Results use Best Scandinavian
“ PERNIX” Carbide.
Addresses ol Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AU2UST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
ON THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
A poor old chap who clung on to the
spikes of a Melbourne court the other day told a
soul-stirring tale when put up on a charge of
stealing tools. He was a plumber, he said, but
he had grown too full of years to keep up with
the best, and the cruel Minimum Wage law
stopped him from hiring himself out cheap as an
aged and inferior article, so in his great want he
had fallen. The Court wiped away a tear, and
said sorrowfully that under the painful, not to
say terrible, circumstances, it wouldn’t make it
more than three months. Then it discovered
next day that the Minimum Wage doesn’t apply
to plumbers, there being no Wages Board in that
trade. The shocking old sinner had been grazing
in the field of the Court’s sensibilities on false pre-
tences by means of a beautiful Tory gag, and the
Court’s tear had been extracted by the pulling of
the Court’s leg.
Thus “ Red Tape, junior ”:
Barely a month ago two politicians from the Ma State
of Australia, D. Fell and Or. Arthur, went to Europe,
and they went in a German steamer. Whereupon some
correspondents of Sydney Telegraph heaped mud and
contumely on the two legislators for sailing to England
under the German flag while a good British steamer was
available. Then the Telegraph went out of its way in a
leading article to defend them. It pointed out what benefit
German markets were to Australia ; how Australia was in-
debted to the German wool-buyers, who come to Sydney,
and to Blucher, who came to Waterloo. Also the amount
of solid cash spent in Australia by German ships, and the
British sense of fair play were dragged into the argu-
ment. Finally, Germany was triumphant, and the
German mailboat also. And within a few weeks the
same Telegraph was screaming its head off about the
building of a Dreadnought for Britain, with the one idea
of being ready to blow Germany, German markets,
German mailboats, and the Colored vests of the German
wool-buyers clean off the planet.
Another of Bent’s land-dealing chickens
has come home to roost. With the alleged object
of accommodating the Geelong Harbor Trust,
Adolphus bought the whole of the Osborne Estate
and the mansion ; but the Trust didn’t want the
dwelling, and ever since it was bought it has lain
idle, and is rapidly going the way of all unused
mansions. As a last resort. Premier Murray is
advertising it for lease, together with 40 acres
adjoining. Like the Maribyrnong and Thornbury
lands, it was, according to Bent, easily saleable at
a good profit; but somehow, when matters are
brought down to a cash basis, there seems to be as
little demand for it as there is for Bent himself.
Bill Wilks, the alleged Freetrader,
weighed in with his usual periodical demand for
Protection for the place he misrepresents—Bal-
main, where the ship-building works are—in
connection with the Fisher defence scheme. Said
William (Sydney Telegraph, l/4/’O9)
Neither can one cavil at Mr. Fisher’s desire to obtain a
sufficient number of torpedo destroyers, as long as it is
an auxiliary to the greater idea of proper support of the
British navy. It is to be hoped that he will carry out his
expressed intention of having as many as possible of the
destroyers constructed locally.
On one occasion and one alone does a flavor of
patriotism creep into the remarks of Freetraders
of the W. Wilks breed—viz., when a chance arises
of spilling a further dose of the poison Protec-
tionism into the constituencies that return them
to Parliament.
The “ Old Soldier ” writes
I am told by the Dreadnought dancing dervishes that
we shall be a shabby and miserable lot if we don’t pay up.
in gratitude for “ the defence we have received at the
hands of Great Britain.” lam an old man now, past 70,
and yet for the life of me I can’t remember when Aus-
tralia received the “ defence ” they talk about. Was it,
for instance, when the British Government allowed that ill-
conditioned scamp, Napoleon 111., to annex New Caledonia
(which was, b3’ all the rules of international law, British
territory) and turn it into a convict settlement? Aus-
tralia has had more than its share of trouble and expense
from the consequent leakage of criminals, and has had
little help from the British Government. It was another
of the British Governments which generously handed
over to the German Empire, not only one half of British New
Guinea, but the largest and best of the cannibal islands
south-east of it, where we are told a little while
ago the Germans were building “a great naval base.”
As for the British squadron in these waters, we all
know what an admirable social institution it is, and
what a tone it gives to society at the various Government
Houses. But so far from offering defence, we are assured
that we must not rely upon it to offer anything of the
sort—in fact, it is on that distinct condition we pay it
£200,000 a year.
Before he was politically Broke, Bent used
to rave about the unseemly interruption of public
meetings, and tell how be would ensure the right
of free speech ; yet at the Melbourne Deadhorse
meeting he sat flabbily on the platform and
watched a citizen being hustled and bundled out
of the place, because, forsooth, he wished, at the
correct time and place, to move an amendment
favoring the spending of £1 on the Australian
navy for every £1 spent on the Dreadnought.
The meeting’s British blood was roused, and it
took its courage in both hands, and about 20U0 of
it yelled and bellowed with joy while three
stalwart upholders of British fair-plav hustled out
one small man —who actually happened to be a
newly-arrived Britisher himself.
“Rooinek” writes, with more or less
accuracy, from remote parts :
“ San Remo ” (B. 31/12/’08) knoweth not that which he
gasseth about. One reason why Australia has not
adopted an automatic rifle is that such a weapon, suitable
for military purposes, has not yet been invented. The
best attempt up to date is the Danish Rexer, but it
weighs over lolb. and requires a tripod to support the
muzzle. A few were tried in the Zulu trouble in Natal
last year. The action worked fairly well, but the gun
Was too cumbersome. For sporting pqrposes there are
several automatics on the market, the Winchester - 32
and - 35 calibres being about the most successful. Their
range, velocity, trajectory and penetration are so poor that
they are not to be thought of for military purposes. There
are a couple of brands of automatic shot-guns, also of
Yankee make, on a somewhat similar principle. Like all
automatic arms, when they jamb there is the deuce to pay.
The “pump gun” that “San Remo” talks about is not
an automatic at all. The term is applied in America to
those repeating shotguns and rifles that are manipulated
either by a sliding fore-part or a finger lever, requiring a
punip-like action of the hand. The successful automatic
military rifle is a thing of the future. Meanwhile, Ger-
many, France, Austria, U.S.A., and, in fact, all the
Powers, use the bolt-action, box-magazine rifle, differing
only in minor details from the British Lee-Enfield that
Australia uses, and which “San Remo” calls “any old blun-
derbuss.” As a check on reckless firing, most of these
guns are fitted with a little device called a “cut-off,”
which blocks the magazine by a simple movement of the
thumb, and enables the rifle to he used as a single-loader,
keeping the full magazine in reserve. The Lee-Enfield,
Lehel, and new Springfield have the “ cut-off/’ The
Mauser and Mannlicher have not. The latest pattern Lee-
Enfield has the quick-loading “clip,” and it is about as
good a gun, taking it all round, as any of them.
The rifle that is sought after is a weapon of ordinary
weight and size, of equal shooting qualities to the best
military rifle of to-day, and having some simple and
durable -mechanism that will enable it to be used as an
automatic or single-loader at the will of the shooter. At
thesametime. it must be a gun that will stand heavy
firing and severe usage without jambing. The first
nation that acquires such a weapon will have a great
advantage if war breaks out next day. If war doesn’t
break out till the day after, the enemy will have a similar
gun, so it will be another ease of “as you were.” Wel-
lington had flint-locks, so had Napoleon. The Prussians
had breech-loading rifles in 1870. So had the French.
We have magazine rifles, so have the Japs. By-and-bye
we shall have automatic rifles, and so will they.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
sdb
bsd
The Pleasant Shave !
Quick and easy—leaves the chin like velvet —that’s the shave the
PLUM gives. Try it—your money back if it fails to please.
The Plum Razor, 10 6 post free-
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors t/- each.
Craig* & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
Richardson Cushion Frame,
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing 1
Skate Co., 501 Weils Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J, C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
Anti-Jar Bail*
“RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
THE AOCORDEON for Country Residents.
bsd
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
X
&
&
V
J)
*
vV
A,
s?
<s
N>
fv
bsd
ďs
bs
THJ
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c=
Owbridge
£ungTonfc
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
Tung Tonic could not have been won,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub <
i stitutes; ask for “ OWBRIDGE ‘
when buying Lung Tonie and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. ljd.,
Is tfd , Is. 6d.,.& 11s.
COPYRIGHT.
ms?*-
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
■' is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
śb
in the Tbattle of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
39
T
//
'/T
'V.
\\ x
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system —not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force —and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £ 1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.F.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go.,
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12
The Famous Remedy for
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
a Thos ® who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis Cough Croun
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief • and ’to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying- Irritation
m the Throat and_giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic nor ConsumD-
tion to develop Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with tins
SrtTcertam USe 6 Wl * h ° Ut “■ at ““ beginning > a doSe or tw ° generally suffide/t, and a complete
Sma.ll Size, 26; Large Size, 46. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


Amusements.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemmone).
NEW ZEALAND—APRIL 12 to MAY 24,
Commencing- at INVERCARGILL, April 13.
NEW SOUTH WALES-
Commencing at SYDNEY, JUNE 1.
QUEENSLAND-
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 26.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE J. O. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
JACK AND JILL
OUTSHINES ALL ITS PREDECESSORS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 5.15.
THE PLAY THAT HAS AROUSED
THE EMPIRE.
Unprecedented Scenes of Enthusiasm continue to greet
MAJOR GUY DU MAURIER’S Three-Act Play,
AN ENGLISHMAN’S HOME.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell & Gunn Season.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gdnn.
A GREAT TRIUMPH FOR A GREAT PLAY.
Evenings at S. Wednesdays at 2.
HENRY ARTHUR JONES’ MASTERPIECE,
THE HYPOCRITES.
MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC
CO., including HaRCOURT BEATTY. ,
PRICES AS USUAL. Plans at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
TO-NIGHT at 8 O’CLOCK,
ALLAN HAMILTON’S Dramatic Company.
First Production in Australia of an Entirely New
Sensational Romantic Drama,
QUEEN OF THE NIGHT.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Box Plans Now Open at Elvy’s.
PAL A C E T H EAT RE, SYDNE Y
(by arrangement with Allan Hamilton, Esq.).
SPECIAL MATINEE, SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
MAY 1, 2 p.m., when the first performance of
J. C. Lee’s New Australian Comedy-Drama,
“OUT ON THE CASTLEREAGH”
MR. REGINALD GOODE as REV. ALLAN RAY.
MISS LILIAN BOOTH as MARJORY MAXWELL.
MISS LOUISE BROAD as MAG.
MR. S. BUOKLETON as TOM STAUNTON.
Plan opens Paling’s,, 19th. Prices—3s., 2s. and Is.
JHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
yH E G LAC lARI U M, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
" WIRTH BEOS.’
greatest show on earth.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES— Wednesday and Saturday.
NEXT ST. BARNABAS’ CHURCH,
GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
NEW EUROPEAN AND AMERICAN ARTISTS.
SEVEN SHOWS FOR ONE TICKET,
prices—4s 35., 25., and Is. Children Half-Price except
to Gallery. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ALL GEORGE ST. WEST TRAMS PASS THE DOOR
Amusements
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
.MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
CHUNG LING SOO, World’s Greatest Magician.
YEOTHA, The Indian Red Bird, assisted bv Capt. Grade.
Mr. CULL PITT and MDLLE. A DELE.
MR. TOM WOOTTWELL. THE TWO BELLS.
The THREE DONNELLEYS. LITTLE BABY WATSON.
MR. WILL JAMES. MISS MALVINA MOORE.
The TWO PRICES. ANDY ROBERTS.
The MARLOW SISTERS. GEORGE SORLEY.
PRICES—3s., 25.. and Is. Plan at Pali hit’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
RYMGORO SHIMA & KIYO KAMEDA, Jiu-Jitsu Artists.
G. W. HUNTER, Comedian Monologuist.
AIMEE DESIREE, Musical Sketch Artist.
CISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
DALE & O’MALLEY, Patter Comedians.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Power of the Idol.”
MR. FRANK YORK and THE THREE MASCOTTS.
STEWART and LORRAINE, Clever Musical Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. <t3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
FOR A SHORT SEASON,
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF
MISS TITTELL BRUNE
IN
THE GIRL of the GOLDEN WEST.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, FRIDAY, APRIL 16,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE FRENCH SPY.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 17,
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, in
THE MARINERS OF ENGLAND.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 17,
FIRST APPEARANCE of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO. in
The GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices —55., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
MISS NELLIE STEWART
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY IN
SWEET KITTY BELLAIRS.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
PICTURE
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRTNCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing: Friends.
WILLIAM SANDISON, formerly on West
Coast of Tasmania, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
D. EMONSQN,
Ruby Vale, Anakie, Queensland.
F FREDERICK HALL LILLEY or DALTON, who resided
at 184 Napier Street, Fitzroy, and in 1898 was working
at Violet Town, and afterwards in 1901 for the Shepparton
Council, will communicate with MALLESON STEWART
STAWELL & NANKIVELL, Solicitors, 46 QUEEN
STREET, MELBOURNE, he will hear of something' to
his advantage.
- Any person furnishing information as to the present
whereabouts of the above Frederick Hall Lilley or Dalton
will be rewarded by the said firm.
ILES COLLEDGE or CARTLEDGE,
\JC DECEASED.—WiII child or children of
above deceased communicate with
COHEN KIRBY and WOODWARD,
Solicitors, Bendigo, Victoria.
A.E.—Three weary years, no word. Is
» • it impossible to send line and relieve
my mind of the intolerable suspense?—Len.
Legal Notice.
RE EDWARD LEWIS, deceased, formerly
of Cwmbran, Monmouthshire, England.
The Representatives of the above, who died in
December, 1895, in Sydney, are requested to
communicate with HORNBY and BAKER
JONES, Solicitors, Newport, Mon., England.
TERMS ARRANGED.
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5OOO ?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for good businesses.
WRiCHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
bs
WHAT IS CATARRH?
ICATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
J of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs: it injures sight and .hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st. ( Melbourne.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*0*U*I*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
OUI
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
db
/ s
Hi
“AT YOUR
SERVICE.”
There’s BIG MONEY
in Cinematographs!
Be a showman, and make big money this Winter.
We stock the latest one-pin movement
Edison Cinematograph.
We supply everything for the Showman,
Outfits, Films and all accessories.
We go anywhere to give shows, take
pictures.
We shine in Cinematography.
Write to us, we’ll show you how to start your own
entertainment at little cost, and supply everything
for you to begin straight away, also hire or sell you the
Films you select.
250,000 FEET OF PICTURES to Choose from.
Ask about our Films at Id. and 1 a foot.
JORDAN’S
(formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET, ROYAL'"HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
mm
ARFYoyIIM 0S 1 C Al
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN CO., P'ty. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
SMOKE
&
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
Mystic Polishing Cloth
Unequalled for Polishing Jewellery, Glass, etc., etc.
WONDERFULLY EFFECTIVE. Nothing like it.
Keeps your jewellery as good as new.
Always ready, Can be washed when soil d and is as good as ever.
BETTER THAN CHAMOIS AND NO PASTE REQUIRED.
9NT ONLY 1/- EACH CLOTH, POST FREE. J&
This is a specially prepared
CLOTH for keeping all Table-
ware, Gold, Silver. Nickel,
Copper Brass, Enamel on
Bicycles, Glass, etc,. Bright,
Clean and Free from Tarnish,
Stains etc. It will not injure
the most delicate surface. It
does not scratch. It works
wonders. It is a mystery.
“MYSTIC CLOTH’’takes
the placeof Chamois Skins, and
does away away with all Liquids
Pastes and annoying Powders-
Will last longer than two
dozen bottles or packages of
Polish that you pay more for
Never becomes greasy and
is as good as new when washed.
O'
Silver Plate, Bright Metalwae
Cutlery, and all Bright Instru-
ments wrapped in Mys‘« C!loth
never tarnish. It absorbs
grease. t ,
MYSTIC CLOTH can
he used until worn to j
It will polish your Tinware and
make it look like a mirror.
“MYSTIC CLOTH
astonishes! A touch and '
is a rav of brightness; a
and the good work IS . / '
V hen black with use it Joes
not soil the hands. I "
Clean Cleaner, and the omy
marks it leaves behind is cl
liuess and brightness.
When soiled it can be washed, and is then as pood as ever again, ~ . t _, r H r les
For GRAMOPHONE IiECORDS there is nothing to equal MYSTIC CIOTH, as it absorbs the tiniest parwcies
of dust and dirt froui the grooves in a remarkably effective manner.
Price only 1/- per cloth, or three for 2/9 postage paid anywhere.
We also stock a larger size, Price 1/9 each, post free.
H. J SMITH & e©., 14 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY. _
The proceedings over the Peel River
(N.S.W.) land resumption afford a fine sample
of the art of hobbling Progress with red
tape. In the first place the Arbitration Board,
with a Supreme Court Judge as chair-
man, a squadron of lawyers and “ expert
advisers” examined about 50 witnesses at
tremendous length, and most of these witnesses
drew fees of £5 ss. per day. The Court’s own
salary will run into a thousand or two, and the
squadron of lawyers and advisers get more than
7s. 6d. per head per sitting ; and the whole cost of
the business will be at last passed on to the
settler. Naturally the witnesses paid by each
side offer evidence in the interests of their clients,
and each side has been trying to crush the other by
sheer weight witnesses. A progressive land-tax
would have done the trick automatically years
ago. A business man, if he were asked what to
do in the present circumstances, would have paid
two good men to spend a fortnight on the estate,
and then accepted their valuation ; or if they
couldn’t agree, an umpire (Justice Sly, the chair-
man, for instance) could have promptly said the
last word.
A lawyer writes, in a fit of virtuous indig-
nation and honest democratic feeling :
An examination of the earliest Indian records which
have been preserved—records between 3000 and 4000
years old—show a state of thing's similar to that which
now exists, and which has always existed ever since the
accumulation of capital once fairly began. The non-
workers ever were enormously rich, and the workers
miserably poor.
From the very earliest period to which our know-
ledge of India extends, the millions of the people
have been living from hand to mouth in a state of
stupid debasement, broken by incessant and continuous
misfortune, crouching before the wealth masters in abject
submission, and fit only to be slaves.
In India both interest and rent have always been high.
In the Laws of Menu, drawn up in 8.0. 900, the lowest
legal interest for money is fixed at 15 per cent., and the
highest at 60 per cent. So it has continued through
succeeding ages—the rich getting richer and the poor
poorer. The rent laws have been most iniquitous, the
lowest rent being equal to half the produce of the land.
And Britain’s hold on India is maintained practically
by active connivance in this awful oppression of the
colored races by the colored princes. Now that —in the
ponderous words of Bulwer Lytton—“Freedom opposes
Might,” and proposes to smite “down the armed fraud
which would consecrate the wrong,” it is the British
Government vvhich casts the apostles of Freedom into
gaol.


To Users of Acetylene
'£/
Gas.
J Reduce j 7 our
CARBIDE BILLS
' and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN CO. Ltd
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
bd
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously."
— Lancet.
¥V r COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
m
RING’S
jP' (MORTON
CARTRIDGES
Patriotism should be practical, not mere
talk. When Minature Range Shooting
always -make a point of using “King’s
Norton” Cartridges —they are British
made. Obtainable in .22 calibre from all,,
Ammunition Stores.
Agents
Colonial Ammunition C<
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
bdbd
bs
y
*|HORRISS
IMPERIAL
°ihtmeht
CURES
♦a
dbd
ď
THE BALLET GIRL
bsd sbd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The, Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lifts or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 * G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bdls of_a ny of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand W AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mort<ra<re Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying-
up to 20 per cent! of the loan during; any year, without notice or payment of any-fine.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
sbd
Ride only
BROOKS
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd-, The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
sbssbdsbddb
Gout
Pills
'Gout t Rheumatic'
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
fOR COUt and
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
mm
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
SLAIR'B GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS elimi-
nate the poison from the
&3'steii), and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PERPECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at 1/1)4 and 2/9.
BLAIR’S HAVE STOOD
the test of time.
PATERNOSTER’S
■i PILLS H
OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE Sc TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
0
A
*lOlOl%
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN $ HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON, * Br’dsre Sts., Sydney
sbd sbsbdd bsd
p
■>dT i* *■
sbd bsd
It aets like a charm -n
DIARRH(EA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World,
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Horae and Abroad, wbr* have s>iven
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world, in bottles , Is. l^d. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s- 6 d. each .
WARNING —Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN S GHLO3ODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ‘ ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsxtt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chlorodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
4>
V
sbd
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
“L.S. ” who has lately returned from the
parts he talks about
A cable, the other day, mentioned that a treaty had
been fixed up between Britain and Siam, under which
British subjects in Siam are passed to the jurisdiction of
the Siamese Courts—“ with European advisers,” it is
added ■ thong'd that doesn’t count for much. In return,
Siam'renounces in favor of Britain its suzerainty over
the Siamese Malay States of Kalantan, Tringanu, and
Kedah. 15,000 square miles.” It doesn’t soundimportant;
but every'white man on the east coast of Asia will under-
stand that it means another, step in the “Siam for the
Siamese ” movement; for it says, in effect, that the Siamese
Courtsshall besupremein Siam—and Australia knows what
the supremacy of the Japanese Courts in Japan means.
And the exchange is a very cheap one from the Siamese
side, as Siam never was in effective occupation of the
three States now “ceded,” Kedah perhaps excepted.
Kedah, however, has virtually been under British control
for some years, having had a British financial adviser put
in as bailiff on account of the Rajah’s mania for borrow-
ing. Kelantan suffered from a mild form of filibustering
a few years back, when the promoter of the Duff De-
velopment Co. presented his concession for signature
under cover of two or three companies of Sikhs, who
had been smuggled in as coolies. The Rajah of Tringanu,
the other State, believes in keeping his country strictly
for the use of his own people, and says that both the
Siamese and British look much better at a distance.
There will thus very likely be another of Britain’s little
wars when the taking-over process commences, unless
this Rajah has learnt his lesson from the fate which befell
the patriots of Pahang and Perak and Negri Sevnbelan
when those States were “ taken over.”


MICK SIMMONS
Hay market, Sydney, N.5.W.
S'Ag leading
HOUSE "»■
sbd
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
1
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech .op lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, iett
full right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6| to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 6£ to ... £ S.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
CAN’T
B
BEAT
sbd
AULD JOCK.
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrif,
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dancf,, IS, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mecii anics’
Workshop Hanoybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free.. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is, 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
sbd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronics. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. ilere are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting: their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEE!*. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassb’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why P a y 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
46
guaran^^ 5
PIPES
to theTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
THE BULLETIN POST CABDS.—New
Series IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special^ rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
("Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ’*
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given 2iway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. G.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
sbd
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,safe, reliable,and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. L>. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sample bottles and fuU particulars , by poet,
is, 4d. (stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAUIJ'S INOIAH CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
H Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6cL
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It ! s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


IAUFOBNIA
YRUP-riCS.
bds
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation—is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES
śbd
A Puzzle Pocket Knife
is one of the most useful
novelties obtainable.
Best quality steel blade,
buff horn handles, spring’
back. Puzzle to shut as
well as to open. Makes
a splendid knife for
general use, also a
superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full direc-
tions, 2/2, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illus-
trated Catalogue—just
published.
Wholesale and Retail.
The MULTIPLYING and VANISHING BILLIARD BALL TRICK.
UNIQUE BIUUIARD BALL.
bd
By far the best and most effective billiard
hall trick ever invented. This is a superior
method to any other billiard ball trick ever
yet performed. The pecularity of it is that
the balls can be given for examination as
they are produced, to show they are solid
The performer having turned up his sleeves
and shown his hands empty, gives a minia-
ture billiard ball, about one inch in diame-
ter, for examination. The audience being
satisfied, he takes it in his left hand and
passing his right hand over it shows two.
Again a mystic pass, and there are three,
which he shows are quite solid. The audi-
ence now see, to their astonishmet, four
balls. These gradually vanish one after the
other, till there is only one left, which is
again passed round for examination. An
adequate description cannot be given of this
most delightful effect. If is one of the
prettiest little sleights seen for a long time.
The billiard ball set is made in '• ivorine,”
and can be made in any size. The illustra-
— tion will give our customers some idea of
the effect that can be obtained with this complete set. The sleeves are turned
back whilst performing this trick the whole time, the hands shown empty; and
at any minute, whilst the trick is being performed, the balls can be passed for
inspection.
This trick requires no sleight of hand, and can be performed by any person.
The balls can be made to multiply or vanish at the will of the operator.
Price (with full Instructions), 1/6; or post free anywhere for 2/-
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarkefc Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Ox-Ford Street, Sydney.
Mo. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below—
Manufactured, by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co-,
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.,
Bydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne ; George Wills
& Co., Brisbane ; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth,
West Australia.
?nn
a a
£3 £3
JUST SAY
O
o
THAT’S ALL
and then you will he sure of getting a whisky made from the
purest materials, a whisky best for health and best for pleasure ;
and with a uniformity of flavour, which can only be guar-
anteed in a whisky offered by the proprietors of a distillery
devoting their whole production to their own brand.
The proprietors of the Stromness Distillery,
which is the oldest, farthest north distiller} 7 , have
been making 0.0. (Old Orkney) for generation
after generation. 0.0. possesses that delicate
flavour and exquisite aroma so rarely to be found
in whisky; and as they always hold in their own
bonded store a ten years supply, you can always
rely on getting it exactly the same, no matter
in what part of the world you are.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining 0.0. please write direct
to the distillery giving name of your usual store.
J. & J. Me. CONNELL, Ltd., Stromness
Distillery, Orkney, Scotland.
P.C.B.
• —jl'l
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
* *
0$
0
fl*9
Agents
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
ROT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tsn, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
si. M * 6le Ma!u!PS: BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
!■?. _ a l° B '’ Felton, Orimwade & Co . Melb&urne.
The Great Advertisement.
A psalm of David upon a Jew's-harp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLOW hautboy, bugle, trumpet, and poli-
tician !
Cry it on the pavements of London,
Shout it in the streets of Berlin,
Alone ’e done it!
Observe it with a yell till the bosom of Britannia
be inflated with gladness;
Remark it with a jeer till Australia be rent and
torn with envy ;
Alone ’e done it! Selah !
Make a joyful noise upon a Jew’s-harp,
Maoriland seeketh her for fame to the money-
pots of the Yid.
She goeth again to the wells of her sorrow
That she may buy her a great noise in the mouth
of the fool.
Hath Britannia asked it ?
Hath Bull sought it ?
Was there need thereof ?
Who knoweth these things?
Yet let the trumpet sound and cry it aloud in the
market place—
Alone ’e done it !
Let the Jew’s harp again be heard with gladness,
Let the Teuton wink to the sound thereof, while
Bull danceth his delight;
Proclaim it upon the house-tops of Fogtown ;
Bid the children forth that they may sing Gor’
Save;
Let them vaunt the bond of kinship,
Let them chant the glory of Maoriland ;
Let them name with reverence the name of Ward
while they say daily,
Alone ’e done it !
Anon let the blare of the bugles give place to the
fluting of flutes,
Let the grateful tears of Ned splash softly to the
earth,
Let the solemn whisper of the multitude be heard,
Alone ’e done it !
What hath he done whereof ye make a rejoicing ?
What hath he wrought that causeth your yell to
be gleeful ?
Behold, he hath given a ship that he hath not;
He hath made a ship that he cannot make ;
He hath bought a ship for which he cannot pay,
By the breath of his mouth and the word of his
power,
Alone ’e done it! Selah!
Great is the riddle of the thing, and weird is the
conundrum thereof,
The thing that is not hath become as the thing
that is,
Yea, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but the
interpretation is hid,
Yet with a surety know this :
Alone ’e done it!
Blow upon the daily newsrag,
Make a joyful noise upon the loud-sounding poli-
tician,
Say among the heathen what Ward hath done,
Shout it in the ear of the Pagan,
Alone ’e done it! Selah /
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
Fawny’s Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAWNY was absent from the evening
milking’, and after that duty was per-
formed, and the separating done, Jack had
gone off in search of her. In the big kitchen.
Belle, Jack’s father and I kept up a somewhat
desultory conversation, while at the table young
Jack, my nephew, sat with his tongue in his cheek
in the throes of lessons. I could see that
Belle was doing her best to appear interested in
what I was speaking of, but I could easily discern
that her thoughts were all of Fawny. As for the
old man, he did not attempt to disguise his
anxiety.
“She must be in the crick, right enough,” he
observed for about the tenth time. “ Fawny
ain’t one of them cows what goes prowlin’ about
gettin’ caught in wire fences and the like.”
“Hush, father,” said Belle. “Perhaps she’s
only got into Fry’s paddock, or something.
There’s good feed over there.”
But tears were in Belle’s voice, and her words
carried no conviction to the old man.
“It’s times like this when I most feel bein’
crippled up and useless,” he went on, unheed-
ingly. “Times like this when a cow is in the
crick, and I got to sit herekeepin’ quiet and doin’
nothin’.”
I devoutly wished the old man would keep
quiet, for all this talk of Fawny was beginning to
grow wearisome, and I was half wishing myself
back in Melbourne. I wished it more fully before
the night was out.
“She’s one of the best milkers we’ve got,” con-
tinued the ancient. “ She’ll be a terrible loss, me
girl—a terrible loss ; almost as bad as when Snowy
died. What a wonderful cow Snowy was, to be
sure! And such a end as she come by—such a
end ! ”
The thought of Snowy seemed to bring a host
of other reflections in its train, and he stared
gloomily into the fire, and for the time being was
silent.
Belle stooped lower over her sewing, and, I
think, though I am not quite certain, a tear
dropped on to the fabric.
Presently we heard quick, approaching foot-
steps, the back door was thrown hastily open, and
Jack strode in. His clothes were torn, with dry
twigs and fern clinging to them here and there,
and a smear of blood was on his cheek where the
scrub had tried to hold him.
“Did you find her?” asked Belle, quaveringly,
as though dreading the answer.
“ In the creek,” came laconically from Jack.
The old man half rose from his seat, recognised
his feebleness, and sank back again.
“I knoo it! ” he cried. “All day somethin’s
been tellin’ me we had trouble ahead of us—just
the same as it did on Snowy’s night.”
Jack made an impatient gesture, and turned to
Belle.
“Get some milk and ginger ready,” he said
sharply, “while I go up to the stable for some
feed. Jack, chuck them books aside, and get the
lantern ready, and look round for some rope.”
He turned to me. “Better come with us and
lend a hand,” he suggested. “She’s got bogged
in about the worst place she could pick, and it’ll
be a tough job getting her out —if we ever do,” he
added sombrely.
In ten minutes we were equipped. Jack had a
feed-bag hung on his shoulder, a coil of rope in
one hand, and the lantern in the other. Young
Jack carried a quart bottle of hot milk and
ginger, whilst I was burdened with an axe. Out-
side, I gave a shiver, for the wind had a tail-end
of winter nip in it, and a first-quarter moon made
uninviting cold shadows. For a quarter of a mile
the track, though always descending, was easily
negotiable. Then we arrived at the edge of a
deep gully, its sides clad in what appeared im-
penetrable scrub.
“You’ll have to look out going down here,”
said Jack. “ Catch at anything that comes handy,
and don’t let yourselves go more’n you can help.
The Lord alone knows where you’ll land if you do.”
I shall never forget that descent. Jack took
the lead with the lantern, and as he dodged this
way and that trying to pick the easiest path
where no path was, the shadows it cast came
bobbing up about me most confusingly. As often
as not I found myself ’stepping over an imaginary
log, or grasping at a branch that was not. Once I
fell heavily, the axe flew from my hand and
landed six yards down, narrowly missing Jack in
its flight. He turned quickly.
“Here, you’d better let me have the axe,” he
said, shortly. “You can carry the rope. If you
drop that it won’t be so apt to kill anyone.”
I suppose we must have descended about 500ft. in
this fashion before we reached the creek, and I
felt sore all over from the attacks of the scrub.
At last I heard the gurgle of water close at hand,
and I gave a relieved sigh.
“ She’s somewhere about here,” said Jack, hold-
ing the lantern above his head and peering into
the blackness. “You two wait a minute till I
get the bearings.”
He disappeared suddenly, and we could only
see the gleam from the lantern now and then as
it flashed amongst the undergrowth like some
huge firefly.
“Come on! I’ve found her!” he shouted
presently, and young Jack and I scrambled
through the intervening bush to the scene of
action. It was a wild, rugged spot. On either
hand the sides of the gully rose like black walls
above us, whilst, between, a noisy little stream
squirmed past in its tortuous bed. Everything
was cold and clammy to the touch, as though the
sun’s rays never pierced to such dark depths.
Jack was bonding over the prostrate animal,
talking to her in low tones and rubbing his hand
lightly along her neck. Fawny had apparently
foundered at the stern in attempting the passage
of the creek. Her fore part lay high and dry on
our side of the stream, but her hindquarters were
sunk in some 3ft. of slush and water. She lay
there quietly, with a great hopelessness looking
out of her big round eyes. Jack shed the softer
side of his nature the moment we reached him,
and was again the quick, resourceful man of every-
day life. He hung the lantern on the branch of a
sapling, and in a moment deftly fastened the rope
about Fawny’s horns.
“Now, you two haul on that for all you’re
worth, while I hoist behind,” he said quickly, and
once more he vanished into shadowland. We
heard him squelch into the mud and water, and
then he reappeared at the other end of the cow.
“Now, you fellows, hang on,” he called, “and
don’t be frightened to put your weight into it.”
Young Jack and I planted our feet as firmly as
the uneven ground would permit, and pulled.
We could hear Jack grunting, and swearing a
little, from his place in the sludge, and we knew
that he, too, was putting forth his strength. But
Fawny didn’t budge. She didn’t even try to
budge. Only for the hopeless look in her eyes,
one would have been led to believe she liked her
position. Somehow or other that cow reminded
me of Mrs. Gummidge. The only interest she
appeared to take in the proceedings was to shake
her head once, as though objecting to the rope
about her horns.
After ten minutes of this, Jack came up beside
us and began patting her again, while I took my
hands over to the lantern and examined the
ravages that the rope had worked on them.
“ You’d better come behind and give me a lift,”
said Jack, imperatively. “ Nipper’ll be enough
to hang on to the rope.”
By this time I was beginning to get resigned to
it all, so I obeyed silently, only sighing a little as
I thought of the bright fire in the big kitchen, and
giving a slight gasp as I felt the icy water about
my feet and the grip of the mud.
“Pull up your sleeves,” commanded Jack,
“and get your arms well under her.” He did
likewise from the other side, and our hands
grasped in the filth beneath Fawny’s body.
“Now, hoist!” he said. I hoisted. Mv feet
slipped away, and I buried my face with some
violence in the cow’s muddy hide.
“Stick your toes well into it,” snapped Jack,
“and you won’t tumble about like that.”
“Toes into it be damned ! ” I said, hastily, for
his tone annoyed me. “ I reckon I’m into it up
to the neck. Hanged if I think she’s worth half
this bother.”
“You would if she was your property,” he
threw back. But it was no time for argument.
Once more our hands met beneath Fawny, and we
lifted. Gradually, by sheer brute force, we resur-
rected her from the mud. I felt the sweat start
out on my forehead, and I thought my back
would snap.
“ Keep to it! ” shouted Jack, excitedly. “She’s
coming! ”
I gave a last despairing heave. I heard the
mud give a dismal “ eluk ” as her body cleared it,
staggered forward a foot or two, and collapsed. I
felt a great weight pressing upon me, and Jack’s
voice sounded but faintly in my ears.
“ Hold her at that, me boy ! Hold her at that
;'Continued on next page.)


sb
sb
Sickened at Sight of Food—Many
Treatments Failed to Cure.
Mr. J. J. Higgins, of North Street, Maryborough, Q.,
tells how he suffered from that distressing complaint,
Biliousness, and how Bile Beans cured him after other
treatments entirely failed.
“About four years ago,” says Mr. Higgins, “I
was subject to Biliousness, so much so that even the
sight of cheese, pastry, and the like, would bring
on a sudden attack. I tried several pro-
fessed cures for Biliousness, but met
with no success. One day I happened
to receive a little pamphlet, wherein I
noticed that Bile Beans had cured
similar cases, and .1 decided to test
their merits in my case. The first few
doses afforded me relief, and thus
encouraged I continued the course,
with the result that I am now entirely
free from Biliousness. I can eat, with-
out fear, items of food previously so
disastrous to my health. In fact,
Biliousness and myself are now com-
plete strangers, and I go through my
day’s work with pleasure, having lost that fear
of an attack of Biliousness coming on me at any
moment of the day, as experienced previous to my
cure. I would advise all Bilious sufferers to give
Bile Beans a trial, and have full confidence they will prove
as effective as they were in my case.”
TS3E?
Tjy^-Zj
r
r
I
THE WORLD S FAMILY MEDICINE
o
I
leans
m
FOR
Bile Beans are
the PROVED cure
for Indigestion,
Biliousness, Head-
ache, Constipation,
Piles, Female Weak-
ness, Bad Blood and
Breath, Anaemia,
Debility, Loss of
Appetite, Belching,
Nausea, and all
Liver Ailments.
1/1£ and 2/9 per
box, of all chemists
and stores.—ONE
BEAN, ONE DOSE.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEAR
Matchless for the Complexion.
till I get a fresh grip.” Then the weight was
suddenly lifted, and I breathed again. Jack had
rolled her over into a tiny hollow that was backed
by a big, rotten log.
“ Ah ! ” he said, as I scrambled out just while he
was straightening his back, and there was a world
of relief in the exclamation. But there was no
interval in this performance.
“Bring that milk and ginger here,” was Jack’s
next order. “There’s no hope of getting her on
her feet till we get something hot into her,” he
continued, turning to me. “Just hold her head
back a bit while I pour it down.”
After some difficulty, for Fawny must have
belonged to a stiff-necked generation, I succeeded
in getting her head back to the required angle,
and Jack forced the mouth of the bottle between
her tightly-closed teeth. I heard a gurgling in
her throat reminiscent of water running down a
spout.
“Now,” said Jack, when the bottle was
empty, “ we’ll get some of this mud off her legs,
and give her a rub down.”
Dimly I remember wondering if it wouldn’t be
more comfortable to clean my own legs first, but I
didn’t mention it. I was beginning to realise
that this was Fawny’s night. When most of the
mud was removed, Jack began to massage her
flanks and legs with remarkable energy, and, in
spite of my plight, I could not help admiring the
tenacity of the man. But the true Gippslander
venerates the Cow as much as the most devout
Hindu, and will perform the most wonderful feats
if, by so doing, he has the least chance of prevent-
ing her going through the Big Gap. It is very
laudable, no doubt, but perhaps it can be over-
done. The cow is a worthy animal, but, thank
God, she doesn’t rule the universe.
After half an hour we tried to get her on her
feet, but the time was not yet, and Jack went
back to his rubbing. Once or twice Fawny nosed
about the feed we had set before her, but, owing
no doubt to the effects of the ginger, her stomach
did not seem ripe for it as'yet.
At last we succeeded in getting her up, and,
although a trifle groggy, she managed to stand.
A few minutes later she began to munch her feed.
In the uncertain light of the lantern I saw the
sparkle in Jack’s eyes.
“She’ll be as right as pie now,” he said com-
placently, and I thought all the trouble was over ;
but Jack was taking no chances.
“ In her weak state we’ll never get her up that
hill to-night,” he said, staring at the black wall of
scrub above us, “ and if we leave her here like this,
most likely she’ll blunder back into the creek
again, and if she does ”
He broke off with a gesture that implied some-
thing too horrible for words.
“Tie her up to a sapling,” I suggested.
He looked at me half angrily, half pityingly.
“Fawny wouldn’t like that—she’s not used to
it. She’d fret. No, we’ll cut down some of this
red hazel and run a fence round her. It won’t
take long, and it’ll make a safe job of it.”
So for nearly another hour young Jack and I
were dragging saplings through that unholy
labyrinth, tearing our flesh and our clothes, while
Jack went on chopping monotonously. But what
did it matter? Weren’t we making Fawny safe
and comfortable, and wasn’t it Fawny’s night?
At last even Jack was satisfied, and as he gazed
over our impromptu fence at his love, who was
now munching away contentedly, he gave a
satisfied grunt.
“A good night’s work,” he said cheerfully.
“A dashed good night’s work.”
As I limped up the side of the gully, in the rear
of my companions, I turned and shook my fist at
the blhck pit where I knew Fawny was, and I
said
But what I said must not be written here.
O. C. HUTBUSH.
The 11.35.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE got into the train at Flinders-street
without either a hiccup or a crayfish. He
was full of a vacuous seriousness, talka-
tive, and drolly offensive. But he was not an
ordinary drunk, though in his hand he certainly
clasped a trotter. From hair-parting to chin-
whisker he was a studj f in warm reds. From
collar-stud to toe-tips, as severe as a church
deacon in mufti. His bleared eyes were set in
a nest of wrinkles. His nose was a conflagration,
his mouth an uncontrolled crater in the scrub.
He sat down in the corner, opposite to a tall,
thin man who was reading the evening paper.
He commenced upon the opulent trotter, and,
apropos of nothing, spoke to him.
“ I say, ole fel’r, goin’ see ’Merkan fleet ? ”
“No,” said the tall, thin man.
“Y’should. Great nash’nal even’. Ev’rybody
sh’ go ’n’ see ’Merkan fleet.”
“ Matter of opinion.”
“No,’tishn’. ’Sha grea’nash’nal duty. Grea’
nash’nal duty.”
The top end of a youth, secreted in a green golf
cap and half-strangled in a pink pyjama collar
with a gold pin, appeared above the partition and
fiercely whispered “ Liar ! !”
Instantly the drunk stood up, as stable as a
jelly. “Who shays I’m a liar?” he murmured,
and was awaiting a response when the starting
train precipitated him and the trotter upon the
tall, thin man.
The tall, thin man threw the drunk back in his
corner and hissed “ Fool ! ”
“ Beg v’ pardon, ole shap, no ’fence,” and the
drunk resumed his food, and was as silent as a
dead woman until the train got into Richmond.
He looked out of the window. “Rishmon’ !”
he murmured. “Fine stash’n, Rishmon’—alw’ys
bin fine stash’n !” The tall, thin man went on
studiously with his paper.
The drunk yawned. “Soon be ’ome, on’y
three o’ four more stash’ns. Soon be ’ome.
Rishmon’, Sou’ Yarra Rishmon’, Sou’ Yarra”
—he paused, perplexedly ticking the stations off
on his fingers.
“Rishmon', Sou’ Yarra I shay, ole fel’r,
whash arfer Sou’ Yarra?” He tapped the tall,
thin man pleadingly on the knee.
The tall, thin man glared. “P’ran,” he
snapped.
“ Thanlcsh, ole shap. P’ran, o’ coursh. Alwaysh
was P’ran, longsh I c’d ’member. P’ran ! Rish-
mon’, Sou’ Yarra, P’ran, an’ then —Rishmon’, Sou*
Yarra, P’ran ! ! ” He scratched his head. “ Rish-
mon’, Sou’ Yarra, P’ran 1 shay, excuse me,
ole shap, whash arfer P’ran ? ”
“ Windsor ” (savagely).
“Why, o’ coursh. Good ole Winsh’r. Who
’ashn’t ’eard o’ Winsh’r? Rishmon’, Sou’ Yarra,
P’ran, Winsh’r—thash ’ow they run ! Rishmon’,
Sou’ Yarra, P’ran, Winsh’r, an’ then comesh —
Rishmon’, Sou’ Yarra, P’ran, Winsh’r. Rish-
mon’, Sou’ Yarra 1 shay, awf’ly shorry, ole
shap, but whash arfer Winsh’r?”
The train drew into Prahran. The tall, thin
man threw up the window, beckoned the guard,
and spoke fearsomely to him.
“ I shay, ole shap, whash arfer”
Then the guard laid hold of him, and bundled
him out into the night.
“ I shay, whash ”
But the gloom of fading distance blotted him
out.
JEAN SIBI.
Jackson’s Fame.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHN JACKSON wasacity man, whoallhis
life had been
A servant to the mighty firm of Clutten,
Cramp and Green ;
He entered at the copy-press on tvvo-and-six a
week,
And rose by worth and diligence, plus virtues
small and meek.
A proud position was his last—three pounds at
length he drew,
Paid monthly by a “ C.C.” cheque, for clerks a
princely “ screw.”
The humble juniors called him “sir”; he roused
their sheepish fear,
For Jackson held, that office said, the Chief
Director’s ear !
A large, flat, red, commercial ear that awesome
magnate wore,
His hirelings trembled when they tapped upon
his outer door ;
He sat on boards, belonged to clubs, high altitudes
he trod,
And in the minds of junior clerks ranked second
unto God !
A frugal life J. Jackson lived ; each week he put
away
One-half his regal salary, against a rainy day ;
Within his heart he cherished deep a glad,
idyllic dream,
To own one day a farm, and raise pigs, poultry,
corn, and cream !
In fancy far, between the lines of ledgers ruled in
red,
He saw a vineyard on a slope with lines of grapes
instead,
To patent hives and poultry pens an invoice often
turned,
And Jackson kept his savings close, and yearned,
and yearned, and yearned.
At forty-nine our friend retired; he got a clean
discharge.
From bondage free, at last he stood—a gentleman
at large.
He bought from Wolf and Wilks, for cash, ten
acres —orchard land ;
Sub-section X upon the plan, in Central Cumber-
land.
Ten acres of a continent to clear and fence and
till !
The callow farmer from the town went to it with
a will;
He grubbed great stumps ; he sawed huge logs ;
he split out posts and rails,
And made a gash upon the face of sunny New
South Wales.
He bought a plough, a horse and trap, new harness,
harries and hoes,
An incubator (second-hand), an adze (which cost
two toes),
A maul, a gad (for bursting rocks), a cow, a milk-
ing can—
He also hired from “Langley’s Home ” a new-
clium serving man.
And month by month, despite all care, his bank
account grew small,
Until at last it scarcely had an entity at all !
He mortgaged next, and struggled on, misgivings
in his soul,
But still before his fancy glowed the old idyllic
goal.
The winter finished Jackson’s cow ; his plough
horse died in June ;
And on the strings of Fortune’s lute ill-luck
played constant tune.
The crickets ate his cauliflowers, the fruit-fly
spoiled his fruit;
Within his poultry yard disease of divers kind
took root.
His second yield of grapes was good, but other
crops as well
Prolific proved throughout the land, and so the
prices fell.
The autumn came with drought and dust ; and
fearsome and forlorn
The west winds burning blistered through his
drooping plot of corn.
So Jackson gained experience. He sacked his
serving man,
Found comfort in the Testaments, and then the
end began.
A sad-eyed clerk in dungarees a vista sad surveyed,
And let his holding farm itself, and prayed, and
prayed, and prayed.
Tlie int’rest to an Incubus each coming quarter
drew,
He lived on gramma pie for weeks, and thinner,
greyer grew ;
He made his will; outside the farm he owned
nor land nor means.
He left it to the office-boy in Clutten, Cramp and
Green’s !
And then he died ! The moral plain, most per-
tinent it seems :
Let city men keep city ways, and not indulge in
dreams !
A ledger is a ledger, aye, a farm’s for farming,
and
There’s trouble on ten-acre blocks for clerks in
Cumberland !
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.


<11(11/1
svvvwva
IMu
t(fi
wm
r
%
viuuuautu«»«<
z&AiA
'■ — ='/*n!,
The Leader of Them All!
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “Ayer’s.”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
you know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. Be sure that you get “AYER’S.”
by Dr
rer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
RUPTURE
Da yon auffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T hen send for particulars
of our perfectfitting
Automatic air Cushion appliance
The Best Rupture Appliance of the' Century*
Two Day* Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Free
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.,Melbourne,Vic
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steel
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 6s.
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
214 George Street, Sydney.
sbdbd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name 3BP"
imt)
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centune*
SS&SBL ETON'S ETE OINTMENT,
In use since 1586.
»•
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad. Loudon, Eng.
2%
SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys alt Hies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
śbd
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not toil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
uruggists,
Groces and
Hardware
Dealer u ,
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’ponnell St. ; F. H. Faulding & C»., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers AJlport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &00. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N. Y., U.S.A
Y. J. Daley’s “ Afc Dawn and Dusk,
collectionof bis best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Pos
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COL. LIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/Ijh 2/9 & 4/6
sbd
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D!ARRH€EA, and is the only
specific In CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
f V
r.
vrvt
:
SOLID
IfICREOIENT
RACKAROCK
“THE” EXPLOSIVE
For clearing: your land, and all work in which
Explosives are needed*
THE SAFEST,
THE MOST RELIABLE,
THE MOST EFFECTIVE.
Write for full particulars to the Sole Manufacturers :
IM. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— i
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
A'
r>-r
- / j
'.WPS*?**<!*?*
i
A BUOYANTSTEPAND A HEART THATS LIGHT
- THANKS TO -
Kami nus
3
1
THE MARE MAKES THE MONEY GO.
AND THE WIND MAKES
‘ STEEL WINGS”
go and do more work than many mares
put together.
“ Steel Wings ” Windmills are built in all
sizes up to 100 h.p., and are the only mills
which can be built in such large sizes, as
they have a bearing on EACH side of the
windwheel. They are easy-running, strong,
and 50 per cent, more powerful than any
other type.
Drop a line to Dept. 0,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO.. LTD..
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
for Illustrated Catalogue of Mills and all acces-
sories, such as pumps, piping and troughing
and full-way ball-valves.
ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift.
se-
men
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M. Da &C.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
PDCC five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
» la CiCta “Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 600
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. JS T o similar book has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address:—
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
ouse /
-St.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


What about that Rug?
bds
If you go in for driving or
motoring you’ll need a good water-
proof rug—one that will keep the
warmth in and the wet out. With
one from our admirable selection
you will never feel the cold, no
matter how fast you drive.
In Driving Rugs we stock the
regular size, 60in. x 48in., and the
prices range from 8/6 to 32/6.
They are quite waterproof and very
warmly lined.
A SPECIAL RUG for Motorists
is priced at 60/- It measures
78in. x 60in., and is warranted for
three years.
Good pliable Driving Gloves of
black leather are at 8/6 a pair,
and Motoring Gauntlets at 8/6,
0/6 and 10/6. Full particulars
are shown in our catalogue. May
we send you a copy ?
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Besb House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
HEENAN g FROUDE LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
¥
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES,
s><r
Rider,
‘B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
PHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
H. Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
acket of Ten. lOd.
IMPROVE
YOUR
Farm or Station
śb
by installing' A PORTABLE
PAXMAN STEAM ENGINE
ALSO
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery.
Agents in N.S.W. for Blackstone Oil
Engines, Kilgour Acetylene Generators.
Sole Agents for Oil Sheep Dip.
AGENTS:
MOFFAT-VIRTUE Ltd.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S* W.
Also at CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A., and MARGARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA, Q.
TO DO THE WORK ECONOMICALLY and WELL.
Characteristic for smoothness of working and
great regularity of speed, the governor having
perfect control of the Engine at all times-
Finish and Workmanship Unsurpassed.
I
Specialities:
MITERS.
FERRANTI
I.TD., SYDNEY.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE:
E. S.
A. Bank
High and Low Tension
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders.
MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
Send us your Inquiries.
Maim Oimca <
ii bhoadway,
m
Mask AfimUM Own
41 QUEEN STEMS!
MELBOOEXE.
STREET,
URNE.
ROCK DRILLS
Aih Compressors, Pneumatic Tools, Coal Cutters,
STONE CHANNELING MACHINES
COMPLETE MINING. TUNNELING AND QUARRYING PLANTS.
EGAN STREET,
KALGOORUE.
Pneumatic Tool Dept
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Caulking Hammers
Complete Stocks, etc., kept in
Australian
ILf
dsbd
sbd
Postage N.S.W.,
7d.; other States, 1/2
:; ■ ■. ' : : - .. ’V '
sbd
-V
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney,
have just opened up and invite inspection of
The American Tool Works Co.'s Lathes,
Milwaukee Universal Milling Machines f
Smith and Mills Shapers f Radial and
Upright Drills , etc.—all Most Modern
Type of Machine Tools.
Write for Illustrations and Prices.
WELL AND ARTESIAN BORERS.
We are the Agents of the World-famed
KEYSTONE DRILLER CO.
Our PORTABLE and TRACTION DRILLS, for Well Boring, Coal and
numeral Testing, have been successful everywhere *
GOTHRIBGE LTD., 265 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND FOR
ESS&.?' f f\i~
CATALOGUES.
■ && &‘v *7.
REMEMBER!
s
