

DEWARS -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R.
Mining
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt
2-Cycle Gas Engines
Bent Street, Sy
AND
128 William >
HOBA.HT.
■ .■■■i—■■■■■■
PI ON EE T>
LEATHER BELTING
GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sfd
Take it back,
Imust have-
HUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
sfd
FIRE
RESISTING
T.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Tc&Z
dun
unfcet,
iTTWriI 111
TABLETS
ARE. THE CHEAPEST
AND MOST RELIABLE.
d tL
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
-■
s
%
K
|
A
&
O
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Rom
Dutch
mm
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
Arom2k,Strengtli£rPurit>c
MALTEIOID is the only roofing enjoying a Patented Fire Joint that
renders it practically seamless. MALTHOID is cooler than iron or slate ; it is
absolutely water and weatherproof, and is suitable for every class of building.
REINFORCED MALTHOID makes perfect flat roofs. Send for booklet.
✓
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GE:
FOREIGN MANAGER) 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
r SUCTION GAS ENGINES
| AND
GAS GENERATING PLANTS
C. A. MacDONALD, LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 19 06,
against all makers.
sd
: *
Hi
FOR ALL
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
■
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 S 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
The “ DOYEN *• of WHISKIES
MARTELLS
The CREME-DE-LA-CREME of BRANDIES
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function. )
It dissolves and carries awav effete matter. 1
, Ltd
The Bulletin
V01.,30.—N0. 1559.]
[Thursday, December 30, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Allen, J. P.: Pract. Building Construction, 9s, p. 9s lOd
Bacon : Forge Practice, Bs, posted 8s (Id.
Boyrer, W. C.: Telephony, 17s, posted 18s 3d.
Coaue’s Australian Roads, 16s, posted 16s Bd.
Ellis, G.: Modern Practical Joinery, 18s, posted 19s 6d
Hoover’s Principles of Mining, 12s 6d, posted 13s 3d
Moore’s Sanitary Engineering, new ed., revised bvE J
Silcock, 2 vols., 60s, posted 52s 6d.
Pattern Making-, by Foreman Pattern Maker, 9s. p. 9s Bd.
Roy le, H. M.: Chemistry of Gas Manufacture, 15s, p. 15s 9d!
Seaton, E. A.: Marine Engineering, 255, posted 26s 9d.
Sinclair: Locomotive Engine Eunning, etc., 10s, p. 10s 6d.
Slingo & Brooker’s Electrical Engineering, 12s 6d,p 13s 6d"
Unwin’s Hydraulics, 15s, posted 16s Bd.
Venable’s Sewage Treatment, 15s, posted 15s Bd.
Whitelaw’s Surveying, 12s 6d, posted 13s 4d.
, from the th f l g™™to r y o H<™dbook to the Complete Treatise. Set
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
id for list on
SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says Proved to be as effective
bacteneidally as is creosote.”
m
o
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tabes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
FAIRY STORY.
The river is softly sighing,
And one star listens only. ... \
While I, in the shadow lying,
Sigh too, for my love, so lonely.
I lie in my boat ’neath the willow.
My boat that is telling the water
Of her master, this insolent fellow
Who loves a king’s daughter.
When out from the bank of the river
A gentle young merrow comes swimming.
“ Lover, I’ll ferry you«over,”
And soon we are silently skimming—
I and my boat o’er the water,
While legions of angels are ringing
Gold bells for Lenore, the King's daughter,
Whom cherubs with lanterns are bringing
To me, the insolent fellow,
To me o’er the whispering water,
Whose house is the bole of a willow. . . .
With lanterns, Lenore, the King’s daughter!
N.S.W.
HUGH MUCRAR.
The RED PAGE
Literary Taste
Should any well-meaning and industrious
persons be desirous of acquiring a reputation
for culture, there are several handbooks
which supply the necessary prescriptions.
For one shilling, Potted Brains gives a stock
of bright and'helpful observations for use at
dinner parties, and the pictures by Hassall
add to the illumination. A more pretentious
and detailed course of instruction is provided
by Arnold Bennett in Literary Taste—How
to Form It (New Age Press), for which the
charge is half a crown. Bennett is a versa-
tile party who has written some very fair
novels and a lively skit on the halfpenny
press in the shape bf a play called What the
Public Wants. Bennett is well aware that
a large portion of the public wants short cuts
to culture, or royal roads to learning. He
takes the earnest student by the ear and
leads him along the track to where culture
shines afar:
You must begin by making up your mind
adequately. You must rise to the height of the
affair. You must approach a grand undertaking
in the grand manner. Time will be necessary to
vou, and time regularly and sacredly set apart. . .
If you firmly and constantly devote certain
specific hours on certain specific days of the week
to this business of forming your literary taste, you
will arrive at the goal much sooner.
The next move is to surround yourself with
books so as to create the right atmosphere.
Any sort of books will do for that purpose.
“For the present, buy—buy whatever has
received the imprimatur of critical authority.
Buy without any immediate reference to
what you will read. Buy ! ” With a com-
plete set of Bohn’s Library on his right,
Lubbock s “ Hundred Best ” or Everyman’s
Library on his left, his back against
Chambers’s Encyclopaedia, and the clock in
front of him, the anxious student may begin
to soak in culture. If he uses Webster’s
Dictionary for a seat it may help some.
The main thing is to do your “culture
stunt,” as the Americans would call it,
regularly. Did not Gladstone discover the
virtue of a specific number of chews for his
food—26 for beef and 32 for pork, or some-
thing like that ? So the student must give,
say, two hours a w6ek to Aristotle, and one
to Addison, two to Berkeley and one to
Bacon—the alphabetical order will do, for,
as Bennett says, “It doesn’t matter in the
slightest degree where you begin. Begin
wherever the fancy takes you to begtn.
There is only one restriction for you. You
must begin with an acknowledged classic j
you must eschew modern works.”
The reason why you must avoid the
moderns at first is that you are not in a
position to choose amongst them—your taste
has to pass before the bar of the classics.
There are useful chapters on “ How to read
a classic ” and “ Wrestling with an author.”
Charles Lamb is taken as a specimen classic.
If your taste were classical you, would discover
in Lamb a continual fascination, whereas what
you in fact do discover in Lamb is a not un-
pleasant flatness enlivened by a vague humor and
an occasional pathos. You ought, according to
theory, to be enthusiastic ; but you are apathetic
or, at best, half-hearted. °
Clearly there was something wrong. It
could not have been Lamb; it must have
been the student. “There is a gulf,” says
Bennett. How to cross it ? How to attain
to that exalted state in which Lamb will be
relished with delight ? You must first re-
cognise your inferiority. Your attitude to
Lamb must be: “Charles Lamb was a
greater man than I am, cleverer, sharper,
subtler, liner, intellectually more powerful
and with keener eyes for beauty. I must
brace myself to follow his* lead.” Your atti-
tude must resemble that of “ one who cocks
his ear and listens with all his soul for a
distant sound.”
The student may be left with his ear
cocked and his soul on the strain while he
works down the list from Aco Z. If he sur-
vives the dreadful ordeal, he will be found
babbling of “ Dickory Dickory Dock” or
other memories of infancy—quite harmless.
Literary Criticism
In his chapter on “ Verse,” Arnold Ben-
nett tells the neophyte that “ there is a
word, a 'name of fear,’ which rouses terror
in tlie heart of the vast educated majority of
the English-speaking race. The most valiant
will fly at the mere utterance of that word. . .
I, myself, have seen it empty buildings that
had been full; and I know that it will
scatter a crowd more quickly than a hose-
pipe, hornets, or the rumor of plague.. . .
That word is ‘poetry.’”
lie asserts that if the sales of modern
poetry ceased entirely scarcely a publisher
would be affected, and not a poet would die,
I for no modern English poet is living on the
current proceeds of his verse. As a rule, a poet
must die before he gets a chance. lii the mat-
ter of poetry the British public has almost in-
variably shown bad taste. Of living authors
they generally prefer the worst, or if an
artist happens to achieve popularity, it is
by virtue of his worst work, as in the case of
lennyson and his Idylls. Arthur Symons,
in the introduction to his Romantic Move-
ment in English Poetry (Constable), quotes
Southey: “The taste of the public may
better be estimated from indifferent poets
than from good ones, because the former
write for their contemporaries, the latter
for posterity Why is Pomfret the
most popular of the English poets ? The
’act is : certain and the solution would be
lseful.’ Who remembers Pomfret, and who
•eads Haynes Bayley, or Martin Earquhar
Cupper now? They have had their day and
'eased to be, and so have many better men
vhose work is valued in Symons’ interesting
He has adopted a curious plan, which has
nly a slight relation to “ Pomantic,” and
one to “movement.” “The year 1800 is
iken as a sort of centre, or shall I say a bar-
ier, which shuts out every writer of verse who
’as born after that year, and lets through
every one who survived from the eighteenth
into the nineteenth century.” So far as
there was a distinct tendency or movement
toward romanticism, its course has been
traced through the eighteenth well into the
nineteenth century by an American, Henry
Beers, in his History of Romanticism. Beers,
however, is of little value as a critic when he
offers original opinions, whereas Symons is
one of the ablest of living critics, the suc-
cessor of Pater, as A. C. Bradley, of Oxford,
is in the line of succession from Coleridge.
The beginnings of the romantic revival
which distinguished the period with which
Symons is concerned are to be found in
Chatterton and Burns, both of whom are
excluded by his arbitrary plan. The intro-
duction states :
In Chatterton, the whole modern romantic
movement began, consciously and as a form of
achieved art. . . . The existence of Chatterton at
the moment when he happened to exist proves as
conclusively as need be that the man of genius is
n °t bis agg, but above it. . . . It was Dionysus
that awoke in Burns, and has never been out of
the blood of any authentic poet since. Burns is
neither eighteenth nor nineteenth century, neither
local nor temporary, but the very flame of man,
speaking as a man has only spoken once or twice
in the world.
If the title and plan are unsatisfactory, the
essays on the poets who come within the
barrier more than compensate for any such
■defects. Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge,
Shelley, Keats, Byron, and a host of smaller
men, are treated freshly and adequately.
There is very little biographical matter.
Ihe essays are literary estimates of a singu-
larly attractive character, for Symons has
insight and enthusiasm, and he has done
what few critics have attempted—“l have
tried to get at one thing, only : the poet in
his poetry, his poetry in the poet; it is the
same thing.”
English Verse
There is a lull in the literary world just
now. “ Nothing doing in the poetry line ”
is reported on ’Change. The period'which
swelled proudly to its close in Swinburne
and Meredith has left over one or two strag-
glers lhomas Hardy and Edwin Arnold.
Of the bards who 10 years ago were the
coming men, very little is heard, and that
little does not spell progress. The pioneers
of the next great period, if they have arrived
yet, are probably languishing in obscurity.
Meanwhile it is the day of the small poet.
William Watson, for instance, is 'at it
again. When Abdul the Damned was
asked to resign and the Purple East
sank to a mere sky-blue, William took
a holiday. The other day he got mar-
ried. If the lady is responsible for
the “ Sonnets to Miranda” included in the
volume of New Poems (John Lane) she need
not feel proud, as the sonnets are cold and
stiff. Could anything be staler than the
last lines of this octave ?
A few more days in this unkind July,
This moon of stormy countenance drear and
wan,
And you will have departed to put on
The moors and mountains as a robe laid bv.
And brought forth dipped in nature’s Tyrian dye.
For me, here lingering where your light hath
shone,
A glamor will have passed, a glory gone ;
A paler earth will wear a grever sky.
The stock phrases of amatory verse have
beep skilfully handled ; but at one place
there is a sign of real feeling :
... too long I teach
Truth to walk delicately in rich brocade,
And hide niv Ijeart, with cloth-of-gold arrayed.
I loved and love you—here is simple speech ;
r __ I loved and love you, who are out of reach ;
There, take my secret stripped of lace and braid.
There is a sonnet on the late Leopold of
Belgium which recalls the early Watson :
No zeal, no faith inspired this Leopold,
Nor any madness of half-splendid birth.
Merely be loosed the hounds that rend and slay
That he might have his fill of loathsome gold.
Epi balm him, Time ! Forget him not, O Earth !
I Trumpet his name and flood his deeds with day.
One does not look to William for drinking
songs; his muse is too dignified for such
levities; but here we have a tavern chorus
with some go in it, and a remonstrance “ To
a Fair Maiden who bade me shun wipe.”
From a prosodical point of view, the most
interesting poem in the book is “ The Orgy
on Parnassus,” with its refrain :
Here was a bard shall .outlast you all.
The prophecy with regard to Tennyson
would have some value if the names of
“you all ” were mentioned. Whoever the
discordant revellers are, they have annoyed
William very much, and he has dealt it out
to them severely.
9
Richard LeGallienne, the curled darling
who has been painting shadows rather badly
since he started the Quest of the Golden
Heifer, also prints a collection of New Poems
(Lane). In one little poem he makes an
important announcement:
A man is woman and a man besides
A woman only woman.
The feminine part of Dicky is to the front
in these poems. You see it in “The Illusion
of War ” :.
War
II abhor, .
And yet how sweet
The sound along the marching street
Of drum and fife, and I forget
Wet eyes of widows and forget
Broken old mothers and the whole
Dark butchery without a soul.
England in the South African war is re-
garded as doing “the cruel work of God”;
and victory must come to England, “for
God means it so ” —purely feminine reason-
ing. Miss LeGallienne gives a rollicking
dithyrambus in honor of Buttermilk :
Let Dionysus and his crew
Garlanded, drain their fevered brew, •
And in the orgiastic bowl
Drug and besot the sacred soul.
This simple country cup we drain
Knows not the ghosts of sin and pain.
No fates or furies follow him
Who sups from its cream-mantled rim.
buttermilk is probably the inspiration of the
smpty tinklings which make up the larger
part of the book. The best poem is one
from which we extract the following stanzas:
THE NIGHTJAR.
To-night, beneath an operatic moon,
I listened to the flattered nightingale,
Ornate, melodious; impeccable—
Round notes of fluted silver soft as dew—
The soul of Tennyson become a bird.
Twas thus, I thought, that Leighton painted
Greece,
IThus fell the moulded notes of Mendelssohn;
Canova thus made marble make-believe—
The very marble colder for his art.
Is this the voice that made the fame of Keats ?
Moon of the voices of the voiceless night,
Moon-echo of the sun that is the lark.
Men tell of Itys and thine ancient woe,
Only old grief could wield so new an art—
An art so cold, a studious art of tears,
I hat charms the taste, but never stirs the soul.
Coarse beak of blunted music, uncouth bird
That grinds monotonous music in the night,
Trusting that truth shall make amends for art;
Thy voice is as the face the future loves,
Face poor in feature, rich in flaming soul,
Rude bird, a shire (if pinewoods in thy voice,
Fern-throated, thistle-tongued, and moorland
bred. }
il/
Several of the descendants of The Ancient
Mariner have shown literary ability of one
kind or other, and in Mary E. Coleridge the
poetic faculty developed to a degree which
makes her work worthy of the great name
she bore. She took a very modest view of her
achievement, and in her life-time published
anonymously or over the signature “ Anodos.”
After her death a couple of years ago,
Henry Newbolt gathered together a repre-
sentative collection of her poems, and they
have been published in a neat little volume
by Elkin Mathews. Occasionally reminding
the reader of Heine, with here and there a
note from English bards, the bulk of these
graceful poems are original. The two fol-
lowing are equalled by many others in the
collection of over two hundred poems :
TO MEMORY.
Strange power, I know not what thou art,
Murderer or mistress of my heart.
I know I’d rather meet the blow
Of my most unrelenting foe
Than live —as now I live—to be
Slain twenty times a day by thee.
Yet, when I would command thee hence,
Thou mockest at the vain pretence,
Murmuring in mine ear a song
Once loved, alas ! forgotten long ;
And on my brow I feel a kiss
That I would rather die than miss.
A HUGUENOT.
O, a gallant set were they,
As they charged on us that day,
A thousand riding like one !
Their trumpets crying,
And their white plumes flying,
And their sabres flashing in the sun.
0, a sorry lot were we,
As we stood beside the sea,
Each man for himself as he stood !
We were scattered, and lonely—
A little force only " .
Of the good men fighting for the good.
But I never loved more
On sea or on shore
The ringing of my own true blade.
Like lightning it quivered,
And the hard helms shivered,
As I sang, “ None ruaketh me afraid ! ”
Some readable lectures by Prof. T, G.
Tucker, of Melbourne, on “The Nature and
Province of Poetry,” “Culture and. Cant,”
“Literary Judgment,” etc., have been
printed under the title, Things Worth Think
ing About (Lothian). A reference on pag
60 to “ our still living Luskin ” reminds u
that this is a reprint* of an old book. Th
best publishers now make it a practice to
indicate the nature of the edition issued
which is a fair thing to the buyer. It does
not matter in the case of Prof. Tucker’s
book, of which the new edition'is preferable
in appearance to the old.
I The form used by F. P. Dunne in the
Dooley papers was not of his invention ; but
the fame of Dooley makes any successor look
like an imitation. A. St. John Adcock has
created a ’bus conductor, Mr. William Hicks,
whose name, translated into cockney
Billicks— has been used as the title for
volume of his disjointed remarks (Stanley
Paul and Co.), The philosophy is of the
obvious British brand, and the humoi’ is
intermittent. This quotation is a fail-
sample :
As a general thing there’s more bad temper
than honesty in plain speakin’. ... If you want
tio do letter than X can see you J vG hin doin*, you
give up talkin’ slovenly and smacking out the raw
ti uth without a rag on it to mek it seem decent,
lhmk plain, but speak colored. Tbet’s diplo-
macy and the way to git on. If you will stick to
plain speakin you li have to stick to plain livin’ as
web - -tliet s all about it. . . , Cheek’s the trump
card in the game of life, but it ain’t alwis neces-
sary to play it, an’ ybu don’t alwis play it in the
same way. Sometimes you can win easiest with
yer cheek in yer tongue, an’ sometimes with yer
tongue in yer cheek.
V
Deep in the south-west corner of Maori-
land, far away from all familiar scenes of
travel, lies the celebrated Milford Sound, an
inlet of the sea surpassing in magnificence
even the fjords of Norway. Of late years a
track has been made overland to the Sound,
and this track anyone possessing feet to walk
with, eyes to see with, and the love of
Nature at her loveliest and fairest, could
scarce do better than essay.” It may be a
bold thing to claim this as “The Finest
Walk in the World,” but after you have
read Miss B. E. Baughan’s description of it
in the illustrated pamphlet published by
Whitcombe and Tombs you will be inclined
to agree with her, even if you have never
seen the place. Miss Baughan’s prose is
nearly as good as her verse, and her verse is
so good, especially in Shingle Short, that it is a
pity it is not more widely known. If it were,
some lines from it would surely have been
entered in the recent competition, for the
title poem contains a number of striking
images.


JL
v
'fs,
The Triumph Ansonla, Black Walnut, Plate
Glass Mirrors, Silver Oupids, Eight-Day, Halt-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 24jm.;
Dial, 6in. 27/-
WORLD
RENOWNED
ANSONIA CLOCKS
|* Anthony Horderns’
i Famous Low Prices
The Arditi Ansonla, Eight-Day Marble
Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 9£in.; Width, lijin.; Dial, sin. 38/-
TERMS—
SPOT CASH.
The Barco Ansonia, Eight-Day
Marble Clock, Half-hour Strike.
Height, J2Jin.-; Width, 9in.; Dial.
sin. 42/-
The Berlin Ansonia, Enamelled Iron,
Eight-Day, Halt-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 9£in.; Width, lljin.; Dial,
sin. • 24/-
Illustrated Price
Lists Post Free .
VmttMk
■y-:
-s>ia'
The Buffalo Ansonia, Black Walnut, Kight-
Bay Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gontf.
Height, 22Jin. 12/6.
The Andes Ansonia, Black Walnut Eight-Day
Clock, Half-hour Strike. Height, 22in.; Dial,
6in. 11/3.
The Monarch Ansonia, Black Walnut,
Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 24Jin.; Dial, 6in. 27/-
sra
The King: Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Dav Clock, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong-. Height, 24in.; Dial,
6in. With Alarm, 20/-; without
Alarm, 18/6.
The Windsor Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Silvered Cupids,
Plate-Glass Mirrors, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. Height, 21 Jin.;
Dial, sin. 22/6.
urn
Tho Parisian Ansonia, Black Wal-
nut Eight-Day Clock ; Half-hour
Cathedral Gong Strike. Height,
23in. ; Dial, 6in. 18/-
Ths Bright Ansonia, Fancy
One-Day Time. Height, 6Jii
Dial, 2in. 9/ti.
Gilt Clock,
i.; Porcelain
The Capri Ansonia
Strike, Cathedral
Enamelled Iron Eight-Day Clock, Half-nour
Gong. Height, 12jin.; Width, 15in.;
Dial, sin. 43/6.
The Pinafore Ansonia.
Strike, Cathedral Gong.
ICight-Day Marble Clock, -Half-hour
Height, 9jin.; Width, 14Mn.; Dial,
sin. 52/-
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height, sJin.;
2in. Porcelain Dial. 9/6.
The Beaver Ansonia, Black Walnut Eight-Day
Clock Half-hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
’ Height, 22£in. ; Dial, 6in. 12/6.
The Venice Ansonia, Eight-Day Iron Clock, Hall-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong Height, 10|in.; Width Ittin. ; Dial, s*in.
With Visible Escapement,, 37/-
The Auber, Eijrht-Day Marble
hour Strike, Cathedral Gonpr.
Width, lOJin.;_Dial, sin.
Clock, Half
Heisrht, 9Jin.
36/-
The Aden Ansonia, Black Walnut Bight-Day
Clock, Half-hour Strike. Height, 22m.; Dial,
6in. 11/6.
The renowned Ansonia Clocks set a standard of accuracy the world over
The immense assortment offered at the New Palace Emporium “
can be obtained elsewhere south of the Line, and ou q Prices
Spot Cash Trading enables us to offer these reliable Timepieces at Bottom Prices.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade "' BOOKS.
Any of these Catalog ues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book op Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Oyclo-
ivedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-.' How to Mesmeejsk, !/-
m'~An/D ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
■ 7 J
*
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !.
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 21-
Two-from-Fivo Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tin? Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post fret! any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne,
BY APPOINTMENT TO
fd
HIS MAJESTY THE KING,
The Mighty Energiser.
The Power of Beef is in BOVRIL.
df
sad
NEVER
LEAK
ROOFING
/ You lay it yourself and get a first-class roof with-
/ out the help of skilled labor.
. _ Congo Roofing has a good reputation in Alaska, in India,
in Brazil, in Africa, in Holland, and in the United States where it is
made. No climate is too severe for it.
Heat and cold, rain and snow, have no appreciable effect upon
Congo. Even fire itself is stubbornly resisted by these roofs.
Send for Free Booklet and samples and see for yourself,
G. C. Delmar, Sydney, N. S. W., Australasian Representative for “Conso”
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) Ltd.,
109 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Congo Damp Course
is a fabric that can be cemented on the outside of foundation
walls to protect them against dampness Samples * ee
Combination Couch and Bed
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
m
m Mm
issm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
-<
xrjaxzzrr.*
; 'S;=
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
O' PRICES 5
In Cretonne, £4 45.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
lss. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY* t
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surplus as at 31st December, 1909.
Every participating Policy issued in the Ordinary Department, previous to the close of the current year,
will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the year 1908, £740,385.
Total Bonuses distributed, £14,336,892.
The Society being a purely mutual institution, the whole of the profits realised are divided among the
participating Policy-holders. There are no Shareholders to first claim a share of the amount.
Accumulated Funds, £24,600,000. Annual income, £3,160,000.
Assurances can be effected for any sum up to £lO,OOO. For full particulars write to the Head Office, 87 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ROBERT B. CAMERON,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
wsp ,
mom
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
Ge°rge Streets, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. 0. HIGGS, Local Director.
B
sfd
sdf
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: J. & R. MORLEY & CO. and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England
N.B. The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
sd
fd
sf
sfd
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA
sf
A REMARKABLE LETTER
~~
from Mr. J. L. GOODMAN, Business Manager of the Lyceum Theatre, Sydney.
Mr. J. L. GOODMAN.
HE TELLS WHAT THE GREAT BLOOD and
NERVE REMEDY,
Clements
Tonic
CAN DO FOR NERVOUS EXHAUSTION,
Very few men are better known in theatrical circles in
Australia than Mr. Goodman, theatrical business manager of the
Lyceum Theatre, and of Melbourne ; and his, opinion upon the
benefits to be derived from this great nerve medicine must be read
with singular interest by all that great army of nervous men and
women who daily walk the streets of life.
Mr. Goodman s letter says : —“ I consider it a duty to,' inform the theatrical
profession, and the. public generally, of the great medicinal value of the well-
known remedy for impaired nerves—Clements Tonic. I have used it from time
to time with great benefit, always feeling stonger in energy and mentally keener
after its use. It not only strengthens the nerves, but it corrects the stomach
and purifies the blood, establishing sound health. My belief in its value is based
on the relief gained from it. I advise the profession of which lam a member
to use it when arduous studies and duties injure the nervous system. In my
opinion it is the King of Medicines.
“(Signed) J. L. GOODMAN.”
Mr. Goodman is only one of thousands of others Who swear by this splendid nerve and blood
remedy. It should be in every home, for it is the agent of health, and the sworn foe of
indigestion, nervousness, biliousness, sluggish liver, anaemia and melancholia.
Manufactured
by
sfd
Price 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. All Chemists and Stores.


“For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
m
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
>ii(er’s
'Gherrif Sectoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.j Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
iOTIIIC i nri|TO wanted in each dis-
All I Ivb AbfcNlO trict. Large (profit.
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., De Pt .2Bo LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent.
157 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
sfd
CLASS
3&v-V-'.S 7 »;
Halted mil**
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite of
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
lull Particulars Posted Pree
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
YOUR EYES
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
sdf
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “bONNINGTON’S”
1/6 & 2/6.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
* OTJR. JACK*' Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
WO CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD,, Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
UNDEVELOPED
n
\
WOMEN
Are your cheeks sunken and
hollow ? Have you deep
lines around your mouth and
eyes? Are your arms thin
and scrawny, and is your
chest flat and your bosom
undeveloped? Do your
shoulder blades make even-
ing- dress almost a tragedy ?
Are you so thin that your
clothes merely hang- on you ?
Dr. FALLIERE’S
“Flesh-Food”
is the remedy you require.
“ Flesh-Food ” is a scientific
preparation, a medicated
food, put up in tablet form,
and pleasant to take. It corrects those functions
that, dormant, are keeping you thin. It is a
natural tissue builder, and a perfect bust developer.
It will add inches to your measurements, and will
increase your weight on an average of about
five pounds a week. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD" CO.
DEPT. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY*
cs
*
$
ft
(A
WOOD-MILNE
SHOESHINE
is the latest and best thing in
boot polishes. It makes boots
waterproof ; keeps leather soft and
pliable; prevents cracking, and
gives a brighter and more lasting
shine than any other polish.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
D. 8 W. MURRAY,
LIMITED,
(ADELAIDE, S. AUS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
%
Of
O' £ .
urn
■WM/i
Old
ORKNEY
All! That’s it
_
The connoisseur can tell 0.0.
Whisky every time. Its fragrance,
its mellowness, its unique and'
delicate flavour appeal at once
to the man with the discerning
palate.
And the water from which 0.0,
Whisky is made is so pure. It
springs from the Heather-Clad
Hills of Orkney, far removed from
human habitation. Money cannot
buy a better O.O.
is perfection.
May we «end you our booklet " Farthest
North,* together with oame of.neared
0.0. Agent?
McCoimell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre Hou«e, Arundel Street. W.C.
kj
Proprieters of
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Pioneers.
Who are the Pioneers?
The men who found the land
And built it up in the bygone years
By toil of brain and hand —
That brave, great-hearted band
Who, scorning doubts and fears,
With ardor pressed, to the North and West,
Are they the Pioneers ?
They rested not content
Till they had topped each hill :
They broke the wilderness and bent
The Desert to their will.
Though fire and drought might kill,
Or furtive, night-flung spears,
From the unknown track they drew not
back—
Are they the Pioneers?
They cleared the land and found
The fords and the hidden springs,
And far from the city’s sight and sound
They dwelt as Shepherd Kings.
In all material things
Those men of the bygone years,
Whose homes rose rude in the solitude,
Were they the Pioneers ?
And we—have we no part
With them ; no work to do
That needs strong head and hand and heart
To plan and push it through ?
What, Brothers, what of you
Shall be said in days to be,
Whom the Fates allow to fashion now
Australia’s destiny ?
For us are greater things,
And greater dangers wait;
They builded homes, those old Bush-kings,
WE HAVE TO BUILD A STATE !
In our hands lie the fate,
The lives, and hopes and fears,
Of a Race to be—Yea, brothers, we —
WE ARE THE PIONEERS !
N.s.w.
O. C. GABOT.
Parted.
VICTORIA.
I walked alone to-night
Through Melbourne town.
The streets were all alight,
But you were flown.
The streets were all alight,
And hansoms flew
Past me in joyous flight;
But where were you ?
I sought the theatre bright,
And saw the play ;
I could not laugh to-night
With you away.
I supped at the old place,
But left my wine
Untasted, for your face
Smiled not in mine;
Then hailed a cab, and drove,
Disheartened, home—
Which is not home, oh, love,
Until you come!
DOROTHY FRANCES MCCRAE.
Microcosms.
The Book of Years is growing thick with pages,
Where we are merely letters written fine,
Symbols that make the history of ages;
The greatest but raised letters in a line.
We have our wide distinctions —A to Z,
Complex conjunctions many ways combined;
Yet we are only this, when all is said —
Types used expressive of a Master Mind.
We are—foolish and fearful, wise and brave—
As foaming bubbles on a boundless sea,
To deck the splendor of each passing wave
That marks an epoch in eternity.
To worlds we stand as microbes, and they fit
As microbes in their systems ; seeming small
To great things dwarfing us; but what of it —
The 'page is nothing and the type is all.
N.s.w.
HAMER.
Summer in Melbourne.
A hot wind blows from the blazing north, and the
dust-fiend rides thereon,
And the watering-cart to the Town Hall slopes
till the next wet day hath gone,
And a screen of flies blots out the south, and the
east and the west are grey
With the scent of the grime and the smoke and
the dust of the long, warm, dusty day ;
And the gutters are packed with banana-peel and
the wreckage of worn-out fruit,
And the Hog in the Car is a curse to him who goes
on his way per boot.
The suburbs are dusty and warm and grey, and
the warm, grey air is piled
High up with the curses of flurried and flushed
suburbanites, dusty-wild ;
A.nd the perfume of high-noon chops is heard in
the house where the boarder stops ;
And the dustman chooses this time, of all, to
garner his dreadful crops !
Ah, ye who dwell in the tinder-dry far places
behind old Bourke,
Pray now for us in the Melbourne streets where
the large, brown dust-germs lurk !
Oh, ye that reckon this earth is Hell in the spot
where ye earn your crusts,
Do ye wot of infernal Melbourne, where there are
fifty assorted dusts?
Do ye wot that far-from-angels sit on the hobs of
the grey Town Hall,
And there decree that the watering-cart shall
never be used at all 1
It is not so? When you’ve don v e with Hell, as
you know it in distant Bourke,
Come, summer in Melbourne, blokes, and see our
aldermen’s hell at work !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
J 24 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING’S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
engaged for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of "THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER. CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring: Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
0
0/IEQA
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD ' IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy**—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts —accuracy in assembl-
ing them—and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
STEVENS RIFLES
** BULL'S-EYE KIND”
More Records hold than all other makes combined !
E. W. Fielding recently won the Tanunda, South Australia,
Kingship (a notable Rifle Tournament) for the second
successive time. Total of 148 out of a possible 156 points
under most unfavorable weather conditions.
Ask your Dealer and
insist on STEVENS.
There are no sub-
stitutes.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata*
logues.
[1
The THIN BLACK LINE
that protects you perfectly and
permanently against damp.
r’.
aa ;
! • -
mmm
■
a
BfigSl
' '
■
/ _ V** ****#■
V
SI
«*-
s£;
111
iff
RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE
E. RICH & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1550.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1909.
Price Go.
A NEW YEAR FRIVOLITY.
TIM (on his return from a first visit to Sydney) : “An’ O, mammy me an’ dad saw a white ants’ nest a-walkin*
down Gcorye-street!” (The small sketch in the comer above explains much.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Vrinted and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00.. Ltd.. at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advanoe, Only)
Rev Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half.yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Sin Iliyas sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Manayiny Director,
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with reyard to subscript ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a yood thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ 'J'he Editor. Bulletin," is the proper
superscript ion for “ copy .” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The rightto reproduce, or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications tvill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps, are enclosed. Bat no
MS. tvill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. Whet i MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it tvill be understood that the, copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive, attention. Tim Bulletin
desire#, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to he re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gntch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at U/C per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Got eh, Lndyute Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High llolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; 1 nternational
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Special Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates.size biin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded, on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired,.
TRe'^xxllelxm,.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1909.
THE TWO-HORSE ’BUS, AND OTHER
PERMANENT AND REPRODUCTIVE
WORKS.
The alleged permanent and reproductive works in
which some £250,000,000 of Australia’s hard-
borrowed money is invested are making indecent
haste to the scrap-heap. Many of them are there
already—have, in fact, been there for some time.
‘•Rabbit-proof fences” represent nearly £700,000
of loan funds. A rabbit-proof fence isn’t per-
manent—in fact, it is about as temporary as any-
thing can be. It doesn’t yield revenue, and it
costs a lot for repair and supervision. And as
soon as the first two rabbits, male and female, get
over it and fairly start breeding on the other side,
it becomes superannuated. The dredged rivers
which jsilt up again, the bridges which wear out,
the defence works which become out of date, the
office buildings which presently have to be pulled
down and reconstructed, the wooden bush-
schools which grow aged and leaky and are
eaten by white ants and fall down, the
mysterious “•development of mines” items, the
•• cotmpstation of State aid to religion,” and the
plain bln* revenue deficiencies which have been
rushed into the loan account —all these things are
fleeting and tmproductive frauds. And now that
wireless messages are carried with the greatest
ease a distance of 2000 miles, and are carried,
though with less ease, for 5000 miies, it is plain
that the extensive and elaborate telegraph system
which stands for so much of this country’s bor-
rowed cash isalsonearly ripe for theserap-heap. On
top of all, the old railways, built with £150.000,000
of Bull-Cohen’s good money, are apparently
going the same road. The mono-rail system has
arrived, or so nearly arrived that its advent seems
now beyond any serious question, unless some
sudden development of the airship kills it in its
infancy and blots out all tue old ideas of land-
surface travel.
* » * »
It is just within the bounds of possibility that
the groat North Coast railway, on which N.S.W.
is now spending sundry borrowed millions, will
be the last big work of its kind built in Australia
on the old principles, and that it will be finished
only in time to be condemned and written off as a
great loss. For when the new system once gets
a footing, Australia must adopt it, or else lag
among the antiquated nations and become a back
number. Since Brennan invented the gyroscope
device which does such marvellous balancing
feats, the old arrangement has been obviously
doomed. The mono-rail has advantages which
cannot be overlooked. It gets over all the troubles
about varying gauges ; the question whether two
rails should be 3ft. Gin. or 4ft. Blsin. or sft. 3in.
apart doesn’t come in when there is only one rail
altogether. Carriages may be large or small,
wide or narrow; but the single rail will take
any size of vehicle. All rolling stock is alike
to it. It can almost dispense with bridges as
they are now understood ; all it wants is
sufficient supports to hold up its single
rail. It can go round a mountain side on
the natural surface where now enormously
costly cuttings are neeessar} 7 . It can tackle
grades which the present locomotive won’t look
at; it is cheaper to work, and it regards 100 miles
per hour as no special effort. For a transcon-
tinental or other long-distance line it seems to be
the only system worth serious consideration. It
certainly involves a gigantic scrapping of old
rolling stock and a stupendous and costly recon-
struction policy; but the loss seems to be in-
evitable. The sedan chair, the old stage-coach,
the two-horse ’bus, the steam tramway, the cable
tramway, the ancient telegraph which jerked out
its message by a man waving semaphores
from one hill to another man who passed
the message along from the next hill,
the old wooden sailing ship, the wooden
paddle-steamer, the iron paddle-steamer, the old
warship with its thin armor of soft iron, the old
short-range guns—all these things had to be
written off, often before they had even begun to
show signs 'of wear. It is the same with build-
ings; man is constantly pulling down structures
which are only 20 or 30 years old, and which have
still 500 years of wear in them, because they are
not up to modern ideas. Now the signs are plain
that the existing railways and telegraphs have to
join the two-horse ’bus and the pterodactyl in
oblivion. They are as fast and as convenient to-
day as they ever were, but so are the sedan chair
and the Roman galley, and that fact didn’t save
them from having to be sold to the marine store
man or the bottle-oh.
* * • «
When the old telegraphs and telephones and
half or three-fourths of the paraphernalia of the
old railroads go into the waste-paper basket of
Time, the infamous fraud of the present borrow-
ing system will again be strikingly exemplified.
The general Australian policy has been to sell
jmblic lands promiscuously and spend the pro-
ceeds as if they were ordinary revenue, and to
build public works of all sorts out of loans,
for the repayment of which—except in one
or two rare cases—no provision whatever is
made. The using of the public lands as current
revenue is so gross a fraud that even the most
shameless politician finds it hard to defend it, so
he does the more convenient thing and refuses to
discuss it. The spending of loan money on mere
temporary devices is a crime that the time-serving
politician defends feebly on the alleged ground
that, after all, only a comparatively small propor-
tion of the loans go that way. But, as regards
the spending of borrowed money on permanent
and reproductive works, he is loud and
defiant, and shouts to the effect that posterity
will have the works anyhow, and if posterity gets
the debt also, the one thing will balance the other.
Posterity is to find the lands sold and the money
spent, and also to inherit a gigantic heap of debt;
but as a set-off it will also inherit the two-horse
’bus which its ancestors bought with the debt.
Unfortunately, the permanent and reproductive
works are just as great a fraud as the other works.
No works are permanent. No system is perma-
nent. Nothing seems to be permanent except
love and money and debt—especially debt; it is
just the same to-day as it was in the time of
Abraham’s goat’s-hair tent. The very name of
“ permanent ” works is a jest. Queensland’s only
excuse for handing down £25,000,000 of railway
debt to coming generations is the theory that a
rackety railway line is the last word
in locomotion ; that when it was devised
Invention dropped dead, and Progress handed
in its resignation, and a great wall was built across
the path of the future, and ‘•Finis’’ written
clearly upon it. All these assumptions are ab-
surd. Within a brief dozen years the motor-car
driven furiously by its road-hog, and the air-ship
driven by its air-hog, and the, electric train and
the mono-rail have started as wild a revolution in
the means of locomotion as George Stephenson’s
engine did nearly a century ago, or as did the huge
and thrilling discovery of the wheelbarrow a good
many centuries earlier. And the next revolution
which will supersede these new things is probably
already in its cradle somewhere and trying to get
its toe into its mouth.
« * * *
Because there are no permanent works at all
The Bulletin has always urged that every loan
should have a sinking fund attached to provide
for its early extinction. Debts that are not repre-
sented by works should be extinguished as quickly
as possible, because they really represent dis-
honest shortages in the public cash. Debts that
are represented by public works should be ex-
tinguished still faster, for even though a million-
pound work is built to-day with the intention that
it will stand for 100 or 1000 years, a new inven-
tion may make it obsolete next week, and next
month or next year competition may force the ex-
penditure of £lOO,OOO to pull it down, and another
million to put up something else in its place. By
the special blessing of Providence there is open
to Australia a method whereby it can create a
large sinking fund for the gradual extinc-
tion of its public debt without the pro-
cess costing it a single copper; and the
only reasons why it doesn’t avail itself of
this splendid opportunity are popular ignorance,
apathy, tiredness, a desire not to get brain-fagged
by thinking over new things, excessive absorption
in Thumper’s cricket score, and a loose sort of
conviction that the futuie doesn’t signify, and
that £250,000.000 don’t matter. Australia has
exhausted most of the financial devices going,
but it hasn’t yet tried a Federal Government note
issue, and if that device were tried in strict
moderation, and the proceeds rigidly set aside for
redemption purposes, Australia's public debt
would pay itself off in course of years by its own
exertions and at nobody’s expense.
The process is simple enough, and has stood the
test of many;* years in another sect.on of the
British Empire. The Canadian banking system
demands that the banks should hold 40 per cent,
of their cash reserves —the money that is not in
use—in Government notes. This idea doesn’t”
prevent them issuing and circulating their own
notes if they feel inclined. Nor does it reduce
their cash resources, for the notes are as good as
gold for all local purposes. It doesn’t even reduce
by a single penny their available stock of gold, for
as a bank’s gold supplies diminish it can, if it so
desires, cash its Federal notes at the Treasury in
order to keep its paper reserves down to the statu-
tory 40 per cent. Yet the method gives the
Government the permanent use of a very large
sum of money free of interest. If it was adopted
in Australia it is safe to reckon that the Govern-
ment would receive from the banks at the very
least £10,000,000 worth of gold in return for
paper. Assuming that £2,000,000 of this were
held as a reserve in case of a sudden demand for
cash in exchange for notes, there would be
£8,000,000 with which to buy up State securities
yielding an average interest of 3h per cent., and
with that interest applied constantly to the pur-
chase of more State securities the sinking fund
would accumulate somewhat after this fashion :
Cash & Securi-
Annual Income ties hfeld against
Amount at Available for £10,000,000
Credit, of Repurchase of of Federal
Year. Sinking Fund. State Securities. Paper Money.
1010.. £8,000,000 £280,000 £10,000,000
1020.. 11,284,800 304,068 13,284,800
1930 .. 16,918,400 557,144 17,918,400
1940 .. 22,454,400 785,904 24,454,400
1950 .. 31,674,400 1,108,604 33,674,400
1960 .. 44,679,200 1,563,772 46,679,200
1980 .. 88,902,672 3,111,594 1)0,902,672
2000.. 176.895,356 6,191,442 178,898,356
2010 .. 249,528,864 8,733,510 251,528,864
And after that it could go on ad infinitum until it
had wiped out not only all the debts that Aus-
tralia owes to day, but all the future debts it may
accumulate. It is only necessary to pass a Bill of
a few clauses establishing the system and appoint-
ing trustees to hold the money and securities, and
then to whistle through the telephone to the chief
permanent official at the Treasury, and tell him
to get the notes printed and the other details
attended to. It would be less trouble than the
passing of an Act for the dredging of some obscure
harbor. Yet it would set a machine in motion
which would work night and day automatically ex-
tinguishing the gigantic debt which Australia has
piled on its own head and the head of posterity,
and would do it at not one penny of extra cost. The
only possible reason why it isn’t done is that the
community is so somnolent that the prospect of
making several hundred millions at no expense
only gives it the tired feeling.
• * • *
Yet now, when it begins to be obvious that the
railways and telegraphs and telephones, which
are practically all the reproductive works which
Australia has to show lor its mountain of debt,
are going fast to the Devil and must
be replaced by newer devices —when it is evident
that there are no such things as permanent public
works —it is especially essential to do something
to shift the intensely permanent debt which these
things represent. There have been, as already
mentioned, many changes in the methods of land
locomotion. Man has travelled per boot, on horse-
back, in a handcart, stage-coach, sedan-chair and
two-liorse ’bus, on a boiie-shaker, and in many
other obsolete ways. But no Government ever
borrowed £150,000,000 and invested it in sedan-
chairs or bone-shakers without any provision for
repayment, all in the glad assurance that the
sedan-chair or the hone-shaker was the last effort
of human genius, and would never be superseded.
When these things became dead, private persons
who had invested all their money in them simply
paid 9d. in the £ and dropped out of public
notice. But the State, for the sake of its
honor and good name, can’t pay 9d. in the £,
nor does it want to drop out of public notice; yet
it is plainly impossible for it to carry for all time
the debts incurred on account of dead enterprises
which were called “ permanent ” in their brief
day but proved amazingly temporary in reality.
And for this reason it is up to Australia to con-
sider what it is going to do about its absurd old
debt. It lias been similarly up to Australia on
many previous occasions, but just now it shows
signs of being higher up than usual.
ABOUT THE UNIFICATION LIE.
' “You see,” said Mr. Bckkkr, “ there’s fashions in beer,
same as in clothes. Once it was all Cooper ; now you
never hear of Cooper. Then it was all Harf-an-arf; you
never hear of anyone ordering Harf-an-arf now. Then
it was Stout. . . . Next Bitter came in. and honest Stout
was despised. Now we’re all for Mild. ” — From, an old
novel by Walter Besant.
And it might be added to the wisdom of
Benjamin Bunkek that there are also fashions in
lies—especially Tory election lies. Sometimes
the rush is on the long-tailed lie with two buttons
at the back, and again the double-breasted sac
lie, with a little slit in the caudal appendage, is
all the rage. The tall, polished, chimney-pot or
plug lie goes out and the black felt or hard-hitter
lie comes in. There is the cheap slop reach-me-
down perjury, and also the perjury that is made
to measure with an extra pair of pants thrown in.
The elastic-sided perversion has almost vanished
from human knowledge, and the heavy blucher
inaccuracy with big nails in it is only used by men
engaged in severe, manual toil; but a good tan-
leather discrepancy with serviceable soles that
keep out the waters of investigation can always
be bought for two guineas.
The Tory election lie is with us at each election.
It is a delicate blossom, and fades quickly, and is
seldom used twice; but while it lasts it blooms
widely, and the fragrance of it causes the
adjacent bone-mill to shudder and hand in
its resignation. The lie about the ruin which
Protection was assuredly going to bring upon the
Commonwealth died about six years ago; the
fact that Australia under all-round Protection is
now vastly more prosperous than it ever was
before sticks out so conspicuously that even
fanatics of the CONROY and Lonsdale and Kelly
and B. SMITH type hardly dare talk Freetrade
any longer. The lie about the horrible designs
which the Labor party has upon the marriage tie
and the sanctity of the home—about bow it in-
tends to confiscate the house and all the furni-
ture, and tear the children from the shrieking
mother, and go in for free love, poly-
gamy and anything else it can lay its
hands upon—isn’t likely to be revived again
in 11)10. It is old and frayed and as completely
out of fashion as the old poke bonnet; and
some of its most earnest disseminators are now
dead —also, if the Scriptural remark about where
liars go to is to be taken literally, they are in Hell
—and it is really time to find something new. As
far as can be guessed, the principal article of Tory
clothing this election will be the Unification lie ;
certainly nothing else is so conspicuous at the
moment in the political shop window. Apropos
of which Senator Neild of N.S.W. opened his
campaign the other day with this tremendous
statement: —
The policy of the Labor party was that of Unification—
the sweeping away of the State Parliaments, and sub-
stitution of one controlling Federal body. lie said that
it was an impossible policy; they must maintain their
State Governments, ami not attempt to aggrandise the
Common we Ith by giving it sole right of government of
so v..st a territory as that of Australia.
* * *
*
Before this huge misrepresentation gets pro-
perly into its stride it is a fair thing to remark
that it is just as far from being fact as a state-
ment that Neild has all his life been a fanatical
Protectionist, or that the Cardinal is and
always was a convinced, not to say infuriated
Orangeman and Derryite. The Reconstruction
party, of which Neild and his fellow Tories
blather, wants not to abolish State Legislatures,
but to vastly increase their number. It recognises
that N.S.W. as one huge State with one Legis-
ture is absurd, seeing that the Legislature at
Sydney is so utterly unable to see over the whole
State that it hasn’t even learned in all these years
that there are other good ports Itesides Sydney ;
and, consequently, the outlying settlers are paying
scores of thousands of pounds in needless railway
freights, solely because of the disastrous unifica-
tion of Neild’s State. The party recognises, too,
that if Victoria is so large that the Melbourne poli-
ticians can’t hear of a splendid harbor at Portland,
it is time Victoria was cut in two. And it sees
clearly that the unification of 670,000 square
miles under the control of a Government at Bris-
bane, of 904,000 square miles under a Government
at Adelaide, and of 976,000 square miles under a
Government at Perth is a unification policy that
has gone raving mad. But, unfortunately, State
unifieationists of a Tory brand like Neild and
Holman are so bigoted in their desire to keep
immense unworkable areas under one Government
that the only visible hope of better things lies in
the temporary transference to the Federal
authority by a popular vote of all the State
powers, authorities, lands, railways, debts and
other assets and liabilities. Then the Common-
wealth will be in a position to subdivide Aus-
tralia into reasonable areas, and put an end
to these bloated unifications of 970,000 and
904,000 ar.d 670,000 square miles to which the
Neild party is so much attached. The State
railways and debts would probably become
Federal property in the confusion, and the State
Upper Houses would disappear when the new
order of things got started ; still there would
almost certainly be 24 State Legislatures where
there are now only six, and Australia would be a
lot better for the change and not nearly so much
unified as it has been. There would be less con-
gestion of power, population, wealth and
public bumptiousness in four great cities, and less
sacrifice of the outlying parts of the country
for their benefit. Also, we would no longer see
nine-tenths of Australia’s good ports kept shut up
and under a ban as at present. But the alteration
would greatly diminish the importance of the
existing State politician by reducing the area of
his authority, and it would excite horror in those
old stodgy persons who regard existing State
boundaries as GoD-gi veu institutions, not to be
disturbed lest the disturber should be struck by
the wrath of Heaven and fall down dead.
• * * «
Of course this forecast may prove wrong, and
the Unification lie may not be the standard Tory
perjury of the coming election. Yet it is hard to
see what else is available, and Toryism must
have some lie to travel on, because if it told
the truth about itself it would baldly get a single
vote. It can't at this late date revive the Six
Hatters lie or the Petriana myth ; and the frayed
condition of the Busted Home and Blasted
Domestic Hearth untruth is only too apparent.
Yet the Unification yarn isn’t too promising. It
would be worth while paying a high price just
now fora really good election falsehood—a copper-
bottomed one with water-tight compartments and
a chilled-steel cheek, and two rows of buttons
down the front—a tall, active, tree-climbing
mendacity, good over hurdles, with large reserves
of payable ore in it, and warranted to bark at
night and go for 14 days without winding.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Peace Society Humor.
weird and joyless freak, the Peace Society,
has issued another oircu ar from its headquarters
in Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne. I Ills is the pero-
ration of the document :
That Australia should, as regards its foreign relations,
turn its attention solely to Defence, seems foolish. De‘
fence is not the way out, The only and the true way is
(alike within the nation and between the nations)oultiva-
tioi‘ of the s P irit - not of enmity, hut of goodwill—ex-
p,.esgjng. itself, as to a supreme end and standard of
conduct, in a recognition of the good of the whole and of
each ; and as to the machinery for achieving this, in the
decisions of disinterested third parties trained to attempt
justice according to laws made by all for all.
jt seems a fitting time to suggest that the con-
cern should change its name and call itself the
Society for the Abolition of Sin. First abolish
sin, and then the rest naturally follows. The Btie-
letin is quite at one with the society about the
“ cultivation of the spirit of goodwill,” as the
circular says, “alike within the nation and be-
tween the nations ”; the only trouble is that
something must be done for our own protection
during the 10,000 years or so that may elapse
before the beautiful lierb of goodwill comes into
full bloom. And even when there is a suspicion
that the herb is making some progress it is best to
proceed cautiously and test it in a small way first,
and make sure that it is the right herb. Australia
l Ja s been taken in by so many bogus herbs
and thistles and prickly pears and rabbits
a nd so forth. The simplest test would
I JtJ the abolition of the police. If that
answered, and wo found we could ; safely
trust our own people without internal defence.
the next thing would be to intimate to (Britain
that we no longer desired to be protected by that
country’s large and violent army and navy,
Finally, we would disband all our own forces, and
the great work would be complete. But it would
} je sheer folly to profess to trust entirely, to the
honor and justice of foreigners when we couldn’t
trust our own people ; and it would be shameful
cowardice and hypocrisy to profess that our peace*
f u l sentiments prevented us providing for our
own defence when we were really only trusting to
force and military and naval violence like other
people—only letting Britain supply and pay for
the violence. Then when the heavenly time
came international disputes would be submitted
to honest and disinterested third parties, if such
C an be found. And their decisions would be
accepted by all the nations concerned!, even
though there was no military or naval force behind
them, just as the decisions of our own magistrates
. u ,d Judges would be accepted even though there
was no police force behind them. But—again The
Bulletin insists on it—the policy of abandoning
defence and trusting our fellow mail must be tried
first in a small safe way by abolishing police
and detectives. Or it might be first tried in
an even smaller and safer way by taking
the lock off the door of the Peace Society’s
office in Prell’s Buildings and leaving the safe open
with at least £lOO in it. The Peace Society de-
d that we should leave Australia open and
uiauu. uneiu on
trust that there will be no thieves about, but if i
hasn’t enough faith to even leave its miserable
Pttle office open for fear someone should steal its
furniture and blotting pad, then there is no sense


in it, and the reasons of its existence are not hope
and sweet charitableness and belief in human
nature, but mere laziness, miserliness and
cowardice.
Forty Years Ago.
The Select Committee of the Victorian House of
Rich Landlords which is inquiring into the
velocity of the imported Tait's alleged express
trains had placed before it last week a Victorian
railway time-table of 44 years ago. One might
imagine that anything so old as that would have
gladdened the hearts of the Landlords, but this
document didn’t. It showed, among other tilings,
that one Melbourne-Bendigo train takes 39
minutes longer and another 25 minutes longer
than it did in the ’GO’s of last century; that the
Bendigo-Eehuca train has become 30 minutes
slower; that the Melbourne-Ballarat train has
slowed down by about 20 minutes; and so on.
The imported Tait is to be asked to ex-
plain these disgraceful circumstances, and if
Tait doesn’t reckon it would be too expensive
to declare, open war against the House of Land-
lords his answer is ready to hand. Thanks to the
aggregation of big estates, the greed and selfish-
ness of the great landlord class and the insane
policy of dragging everything to Melbourne, the
last census showed that two Victorian counties
(Dalhousie and Talbot) had less population than
they possessed 40 years previously ; three (Grant,
Grenville and Ripon) had been losing population
for 30 years; four (Kara-Kara, Millewa, Glad-
stone and Wonnongatta) had been losing popu-
lation for 20 years ; and another four (Follett,
Lowan, Gunbower and Rodney) had been on the
same sort of down-grade for 10 years. That
meant that 13 counties out of 37 were decaying.
Naturally these perishing places aren’t likely
to get an improved service—not till the
House of Landlords is dead. They are more
likely to get mixed trains where they used to have
swift passenger ones, and old, cranky locomotives
where they used to have fast new ones. Then
there are nine counties where population is prac-
tically stationary, as follows :
Increase of Population
between 189! and 1901.
Borung .. .. .. .. .. 75
Vfiliers 108
Nbrmanby 250
Wfeeah .. .. .. .. .. 340
Croajingolong 368
Tam bo 386
Heytesbury 444
Anglesey 576
Dundas 608
And there are others almost as bad. In some of
these counties, despite the slight increase of popu-
lation, there is less cultivation and consequently
less goods traffic to carry than there was in
older days, and that sort of thing doesn’t encour-
age Tait to drag the cigar from his face in red-
hot haste, and build new swift locomotives and
fresh costly rolling stock. Rather it drives
him from motives of economy to nurse his old
loco, and his wooden-legged truck to the very last.
Therefore the Great Cigar-Burner has a good
answer ready for the House of Landlords if he
cares to offer it. In case he doesn’t care, it is
hereby offered for him.
Another Warning to Melbourne.
Almost before the House of Fat Landlords
had finished backing up Melbourne’s Board of
Shirks’ declaration that the city’s water supply
was equal to the needs of a population of a mil-
lion, and therefore it was unjust to insist on the
present half-million providing a sinking fund,
Nature took a cursory glance at the position, and
then proceeded to poke scorn at both the House
and the Board. Monday is mostly Melbourne’s
washing day, and the Monday before Christmas
being hot, with a fierce bricktielder blowing, there
was naturally considerable fluid used all over the
city. Still, as the Yan Yean reservoir was
known to be full, and the Maroondah aque-
duct was running a banker, nobody worried.
But a little before noon a Williainstown
woman left her washtub for a minute,
and returned to find her washhouse ablaze. The
fire brigade was hastily summoned and promptly
arrived, with hoses, engines, motor-pumps and
men galore; millions of gallons of water lay
stored up a few miles off ; but the fool Board con-
siders Williainstown adequately served with a bin.
main and Sin. branches, so the firemen stood
holding their empty nozzles while the fierce blast
swept away 25 houses, with furniture, fowls and
sundries, and left £12,000 worth of ashes
scattered over a few acres of ground and
a hundred people homeless. More years ago
than it cares to remember, The Bulletin
warned Melbourne of the danger it ran every
summer; the warnings have been emphasised
since by fierce conflagrations; the fire brigade
bosses have never ceased their prayers for more
water—but all in vain. As house after house was
swept away last week, and the broken and beaten
fire-fighters began to wonder where the devasta-
tion would stop, the Board’s turncocks rushed
around and shut off the supply from Essendon,
Kensington, Footscray and other suburbs. Thus a
modest flow was concentrated and by superhuman
efforts the enemy was beaten. But what would
have happened had a blaze started simultaneously
in, say, Essendon only the firemen know, and
they daren’t trust themselves to think of it.
Even after the local supply had been concen-
trated the pressure was just 7lb. to the inch—
a bare tenth cf what it ought to be. When, a few
hours later, curiosity impelled Brighton’s town
clerk to test the pressure in that suburb, he found
it just 01b. These outlying parts are mostly
wooden, and someday, when a scorching northerly
is blowing, a little flare will shoot up at North-
cote or Newmarket, and before it is smothered
another blaze will happen at Elsternwick or
Canterbury or Footscray—and when all is over
there won’t be a great deal of Melbourne left, and
charcoal will be cheap, and the (Shirks will run to
hide themselves lest something serious should
happen to them. A city where the water-mains
in many cases haven't been renewed for 50 years
should be prohibited under the Gambling Act. It
is a lottery pure and simple.
4
The ‘‘News” Objects to Barbarism!
The letter of Henri Singemoine
Sydney Evening News said smugly (24/13/09)
“If the Australian people hopes to be worthy of its
country, if it is to develop the average of intelligence and
character necessary for adequately coping with the pro-
blems that confront it,if it is to achieve the destiny which it
even now dimly realises, it must surely see to it that the
crude weapons of A barbaric past are frankly abandoned.”
Which, considering that Australians, in common with
the other civilised peoples, have got where they have by
jettisoning most of the barbaric weapons of the past to
which the News clings, is surely something unique in the
way Of hide. Hanging, for example, is a punitive weapon
of the barbaric past. It lias been abandoned in
most parts of the world, and may be said to be
on its last legs here. The News—like the other
Tory papers of this continent—has been an earnest
advocate of the continuance Of neck-breaking as a
penalty for certain offences. In the barbaric
journalistic past pretty well all the newspapers
were wont to burry to the spot where a tragedy had
occurred, and write horrifically of the shambles-like
appearance of the scene, and hire a man to draw the sur-
roundings and mark the place where the chief blood-
stains reposed. Thus was the barbarian lust of the
populace for unhealthy thrill, the bad old tendency
which reached its highest development in the closing
days of the Roman Empire, ministered to and sated. The
more respectable papers have laid aside those weapons for
the extraction of the multitude’s penny as too crudely
barbaric altogether. The News hasn’t.
There was a time in the barbaric, though quite recent
past, when the early-closing movement met with hitter
opposition from the News and other sheets of its way oi
thinking. So did the Old Age Pensions proposal and
practically every other scheme to ameliorate the lot of
aged, helpless and sweated folk. The News saw nothing
barbaric 15 years ago in the spectacle of young people
toiling ill shops and factories from daylight till dark
for such a wage as the “law of supply and de-
mand” allowed. Any talk about a forced change,
in that state of affairs was howled at as “an ignorant
and revolutionary attempt to regulate relations between
employer and employee ” —an aspiration which was
regarded in those crude days as particularly malignant
wickedness. About the same time, the News held that
proposals for pensioning “ broke ” and broken old people
were acute manifestations of “maudlin impracticable
Socialism.” The News, like the rest of its Tory contem-
poraries, was unconsciously barbaric enough to hold that
those citizens who had gone down in the battle of life
should have the old-time valedictory vae victis! in ut-
ter ered over them, and, at the best, he accommodated in
a “ wurk’us.”
And the News still holds as firmly as ever to
its old barbaric opinions in social matters, though
the changing spirit of the times has impelled it to shift
its ground somewhat. It still shoves its heels in the
earth, and pushes bard against every effort of the worker
—manual, clerical or otherwise—to better his condition.
There is not a single argumentative weapon that
the News is accustomed to drag from its armory
for use against measures designed to ameliorate labor
conditions in the Commonwealth that hasn’t been nicked
and heat and naif-ruined in former conflicts against
democracy. Surely if there is a sheet extant that should
keep silent concerning adherence to the crudities of a
barbaric past it is this same old News !
The Sydney Telegraph on Christinas evo in-
directly drew attention to the deplorable water
supply which will be the portion of the proposed
Federal capital at Yassberra—unless, as sug-
gested by tiie Advisory Board, pumping with all
its enormous cost is resorted to. Said the
’Graph
Rain has actually fallen on the catchment area. ... It
has been proved that it is possible for rain to fall over the
area. That is something. The optimist may even look
forward to the time when water may be used without
stint in Sydney and suburbs and all the summer.
“IT HAS BEEN PROVED THAT IT IS
POSSIBLE FOR RAIN TO FALL OVER
THE AREA! ” What a denunciation of Yass-
berra ! What a promise for Australia’s capital!
The annual average of rainfall, extending over a
series of years at Sydney, works out at 48 inches;
while at Picton (probably the driest spot in the
neighborhood of the Sydney catchment area), the
average amounts to 30 inches. To the incon-
veniences and distress following upon the result-
ing inadequate supply of water to the citizens
of Sydney, the Telegraph pointed clearly
between the lines of its sarcasm, but it did
not mention anything about the inconven-
iences and sufferings which will fall upon a
great population-to-be in the district where the
national capital has apparently been doomed to
rise. For, whjle Sydney has an average rainfall
of 48 inches, at Cooma, whence the rivers trickle
down to Canberra, the average is 19 inches ; at
Queanbevan, alongside Canberra, it is 23 inches ;
and at Yass it is 25 inches- The Telegraph did
not mention those figures. Why should it ? What
is a national capital to the anti-Australian paper
unless it is planted conveniently to that paper’s
publishing department ?
♦
“0.K.”: A select committee appointed by the
Victorian Assembly to consider “ Daylight Sav-
ing ” has reported in favor thereof, and advised
its adoption in Victoria anyway. The com-
mittee’s report suggests finally
That the adoption of a similar measure by the adjoin-
ing States would overcome any disadvantages arising
from inter-State intercourse, hut if the other States
should not agree to adopt the Bill, the advantages aris-
ing front its adoption in Victoria would so greatly out-
weigh auy disadvantages that your committee strongly
recommends that it should be passed into law in this
State. Your committee feels that it would give our in-
dustiial population such an advantage that the other
States would necessarily have to fall into line.
The proposal, as accepted, is for the clock to be
advanced one hour on the first Sunday in October,
and put back one hour on the first Sunday in
March of each year. Under this system of Day-
light Sitviug the waking community would stuff
the morning air an hour earlier than of yore dur-
ing the five warmest months of the year, and go
to bed an hour earlier, on an average. The
luncheon hour for workers and business folk would
begin at mid-day; everybody would go to the
theatie in daylight, and in all places the cost of
artificial lighting would be lessened. It is
hardly conceivable that this simple device of
“faking” the clock in the interests of public
hpalth, happiness and economy is a new
and original idea at the present period
of the world’s history. With the intro-
duction of sun-dials the absurdity of regard-
ing the winter mid-day as the summer ditto must
have struck our primitive forefathers on their
understanding. But when clocks were intro-
duced the ingenuity of the invention carried Time
by storm, seemingly. The tick of the timepiece #
was accepted as the voice of God, and people
who, had formerly risen with the lark started
to rise-by the Waterbury of the period. At
last we are alive to the advisability of bossing the
thing that so long has bossed us. The clock was
made for man—not man for the clock. He was
made for sunshine. Seeing that sunshine never
troubled about any human contrivance for rnark-
ing the weary hours of time, this Daylight Saving
proposition seems a tardy apology to Nature.
Politicians as a rule have done so very little for
Nature that it was time they offered the apology,
Joe Cook struts round as a bulwark of the
Fusion—a buttress in the ramparts, so to speak,
that rear in majesty between his constituents and
the threatening foes of Socialism and Nationalisa-
tion. In his own words, the “tocsin will soon
ripg out ” and Joe will he in the front of the
battle. Meanwhile the following resolution has
been unanimously carried at a meeting of fruit-
growers in Joe Cook’s electorate, and most of
them his constituents :
A levy of ss. per head to be levied on every orchardist,
to be collected by Government officials. The whole
amount less expenses so raised to he devoted by the
Government in making the fruit-growing industry a
national and co-operative concern.
Joe’s constituents have a further scheme in train-
ing, whereby the State is to resume or set apart
large areas of orchard country handy to themarkets,
and settle thereon Cook’s constituents, vyho are
to be presented with the land on very easy terms.
It a-ppears that Jook’s supporters have worn out
their present orchards by neglect, and the only
way for Central Cumberland to regain its lost
prestige as a fruitgrowing centre is to abandon
the old lands and acquire new ones, practically at
the expense of the State, upon which Anti-Sosh
growers can raise families to denounce interfer-
ence with Private Enterprise.
♦
An old familiar idiocy happened in the N.S. W.
Assembly just before Wade shut up the House iu
a hurry lest it should do him some damage. At
the last State insects’ conference it was agreed
that all the State Parliaments should pass some
industrial law or other ; and in three Houses, in-
cluding that of N.S. W., the Bill was brought in.
That is to say, the State insects agreed that it
was a matter which affected all Australia, and
that all Australia ought to have the same legisla-
tion on the subject; yet, though there is a
Parliament which represents all Australia, the
same Bill was to go through 12 Houses, and the
debates were to be repotted in six different
Hansards, and the Bill was finally to be shoved
before six rubber-stamp Governors. As it hap-
pened, as far as The Bulletin knows, it didn’t
get right through even one House —every Govern-
ment reckoned that some other Government
would he sure to dawdle; tio everybody dawdled,
and the Bill which the insects agreed was
wanted everywhere wasn’t passed apywhere.
Only a complete political reconstruction,will stop
that sort of nonsense ; the Australian Parliament
will take full powers to handle Australian sub-
jects, and pass the rest on to reorganised local
bodies.
“ Clarence O’Hagan ” writes a letter :
A discordant bray is going up from the Sydney dailies
for tiie appointment of a new Minister in the Wade
Cabinet, In fact, an M.L.C. (ye gods !), who is said to
have “ claims,” has been appointed. The alleged excuse
for the proposed job is Wade's health, which is said to lie
“ undermined.” The S. M. Herald says: “ JJo exception
can be taken to the Premier’s desire to be relieved of
some of the burden «f administration which he has been
carrying since he became head of the Government.”
CahYit? The dull and venomous politician who heads
the ignorant, insolent and utterly iniquitous State
Frights crowd in N.S. W. will find it can. He will be
asked, for one thing, why he constituted himself the
Chief Gad-Fly and Scorpion-in-Ordinary of the Insect
Push in its attack on the Commonwealth and
all its works—the attack which Dkakin took lying
down, and whicli Jokook and his lot openly
rejoiced in and covertly assisted. Wade will be asked
further who implored him to take on the job of Boss
Barracker for the Sheolberra “ site " —the job that seems
to have.taken up more of his time and venom than any-
thing else he has done. People will' inquire, too, why he
has always insisted on taking charge of almost all the
Government Bills before Parliament even when they dis-
tinctly belonged to the department of Wood or Waddell or
Hogue or some other Minister. He will be called upon to ex-
plain why he devoted so much of his brain power to aiding
and abetting persons like Carrutiiers, the insolent wire-
netting stealer who got an old man in his dotage to sign
an utterly illegal Order-in-Council. Another thing “ ex-
ception ” will be taken to is the manifold, unnecessary
and expensive law cases which he has fought and lost.
Altogether more than half of Wade’s time and energy
have been expended in fighting and snarling against the
Commonwealth, and doing other uselessnesses. And for
what? To win the plaudits, of the ’Erald and the
courtesan’s smile of the D.i., and to pose as a Stern, Un-
bending Fright. Who asked or authorised Wade to do
these things? Who wanted him to make himself a large
political Curse and Blister, and gain notoriety as the Boil
on the Neck of Australia? I’ve asked dozens of people,
and never yet found one who openly agreed with Wade’s
attitude toward the Commonwealth. Yet when I read
the Sydney dailies I learn that “ the country is behind
the Premier every time.” (I hope it will be —with an axe.)
Coming to State poliiics, Wade will be asked (I should
say) bow it is that his laws and ordinances are invariably
restrictive. The man is only a glorified policeman witli
the opportunities of a Premier. Hence the anti-tote,
anti-betting, anti-girl, anti-beer “legislation” we have
got. The other half of Wade’s time—the half he didn’t
waste in wrangling with the Australian Parliament—he
spent with the Gimlet Brigade either watching at the
public’s keyhole or passing blue laws for spiritless people.
The awful record of Wade in the field of State politics is
too well known to need extended comment; but he will
probably be asked what he has done with the millions
his Ministry has borrowed and apparently wasted ; also
why he hasn’t tackled the land question, or grappledwith
the sweater, or broken up the Sussex-street “ rings,” At
any rate his health hasn’t been “undermined” by any
extraordinary effort in these directions. I tip that Wade
will sneak out of politics presently—to save himself being
kicked out—like G. Keid. This politics is a funny game.
If you’re a straight, sincere goer like C. C. Kingston you
die young and poor; but if you’re a bumptious, bitter
anti-Australian Insect and Fright you achieve a big pos-
ition, and are awarded halos by the ’I rald and I).T.
As Wade is “ going up” to the Bench shortly, and will
then be above criticism, those who want to hand him
garlands had better come forward. This jp mine.
♦
Just when it was in the midst of its whoop that,
of course, Wadk did the right thing in making it
clearer than ever that labor strikes were an
abomination which the law must put down, the
Fat of Sydney got word of a labor strike of which
it cordially approved. Following the practice
adopted during the recent strike at Broken
Hill, the Newcastle Miners’ Union made a fairly
stiff levy on those of its members who
were at work. In the Broken Hill case Fat
wasn’t concerned, because the men who were
at work were at work for Fat and were earning
dividends for him ; but at Newcastle the men
were working in the “strikers’ mines.” It seems
that some of these men thought the levy was
too big; anyway they knocked off work. In
short, they struck—they did the very thing that,
only 48 hours before, Wade had passed a more
strenuous law than ever to prohibit, amid the loud
applause of Fat. But did Wage rush constables
off to arrest the strikers? Not a rush !
And did Fat squeal that the law wits
being broken, and that the Const’ooshun was in
danger? Not a squeal. Fat just smirked, and,
, if he said anything at all, he said that of course
the men were perfectly justified in refusing to
work if such outrageous demands were made on
them. Which shows how much Fat really believe 3
i n the anti-strike law lie had j ust been whooping for.
Ho doesn’t object to strikes—he only objects to
strikes when they don’t play into his hands. And
evidently Wade also only objects to strikes when
they threaten to do an injury to his friend and
patron Fat. When they play into his friend Fat’s
hands he can’t see them. A fine ornament to the
Supreme Court Bench Wade will be one of these
days !
Spruce Myth has been assuring his Ashfield
(N.S. W.) constituents that he isn’t disloyal to the
Fusion, and doesn’t deserve the threatened oppo-
sition. The Myth says that over the financial
agreement he didn’t go back on the Fusion, but
that the Fusion went back on ifself. He ex-
plains that as the Labor party had for years dis-
gracefully put itself up for sale to the highest
bidder, he had helped to promote the Fusion;
and one of the Fusion’s planks was. a tem-
porary financial agreement, which Was “not
to be engrafted on the Constitution” (Deakin's
own words, written to Wade). But the
State Premiers wouldn’t have that, where-
upon the Fusion, in order to get the State
Premieis’ support, swallowed its own foun-
dations, and agreed to make the agreement
permanent. The Myth explained to his dis-
contented constituents that, in spite of this, lie
was still a loyal supporter of the Fusion. Which
means that he opposed the Labor party because it
disgracefully put itself up for sale to the highest
bidder; but when Myth’s own party resolved itself
into a cheap jack, and in return for the support
of certain State insects sokl itself for less than it
alleged it was worth, Myth doesn’t think it dis-
graceful, and continues to give the party his loyal
support. Evidently, therefore, Spruce Myth
doesn’t mind belonging to a party which sells itself
on cheap-jack principles ; but he would shed his
moustache and his beautiful millinery rather than
belong to a party which sells itself on straight,
honest auction principles.
Thus “Weka,” whose tail-feathers were Singed
the other day by a fire which swept off 25 houses
in a Melbourne suburb :
A city of half a million inhabitants that allows itself to
be inadequately served by a priv.ite tram monopoly and
a private gas monopoly, when it has electrical woiks of
its own, cannot be expected to provide itself with a sutfi-
cient supply of water for fire-fighting purposes, even
though a river run through it for miles. Marvellous Mel-
bourne is marvellous chiefly for having escaped destruc-
tion by fire, and for the ingenuity displayed by its
Metropolitan Board of Works in inventing new and
picturesque ways of wasting the city’s funds and re-
sources.
It lays down miles of pipes to bring a supply of pure, or
moderately pure, water from Yan Yean and Maroonrlah,
in order that it may water the streets with it or pour it
dowm the sewers. The residue (and there isn’t much
residue) is used for subduing the periodic fire with wet
bags and fire buckets.
Meanwhile, the Yarra flows down peacefully towdrd
the sea, the dust blows cheerfully about the town, the
fire follows its fitful fancy from Abbotsford to Wiltiams-
town ; and the Board of Works—well, the Board of Works,
good charitable men all, have too much respect for the
city dust to subject it to the degrading influence of the
discolored Yarra water. The Bi ard’s brotherly regard
for the microbe forbids it using any but the purest water
for flushing the sewers. Fancy the indignit yto a microbe,
or any one of these gentlemen, of being drowned in sepia-
tinted fluid ! Not to be thought of !
I write with a sort of desperate levity because I feel
how useless it is to try and convince anyone that any-
thing done in Melbourne can be possibly wrong. A
city that permits a bookselling establishment to keep a
cage full of highly petfumed monkeys on its premises
in one of the principal streets in the hottest summer
weather, complacently regarding it as a laudable attempt
of Private Enterprise to amuse the public, is a city that
could not be accused of wrong. It is a law unto itself.
There is, I fear, nothing to be done.
So let the Board of Works continue pouring its dearly-
bought, mOderately-pure water down the drain pipes.
Let the Government reserve hundreds of equate miles of
timber land for catchment areas. Let the Yarra con-
tinue its peaceful meander tow ards the sea. Let the dust
whirl. Let the fire continue to flare. Then, perchance,
some day it will make an end, and we shall start afresh
without a Board of Works.
»
“J.G.”: The Labor people stand on velvet for
the coming Federal elections. They can hardly
lose any of the seats they alteady hold, and wiil
most certainly gain a good few others. The
antics of the Fusionists over the Financial Agree-
ment and other measures, and the recent action
Land o’ Mine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Deutcher sings his Rhineland ;
The Frenchman boasts a vine land ;
But South there lies a -fine land,
A Roses-Love-and- Wine land —
Australia, land o’ mine.
* * * •
Now have ye seen the green palms
Along her Nor’ward strand ?
Now have ye seen the brown grass
Across the cattle-land ?
Oh, have ye seen the morning
Hang out a crimson warning
Above the mountains grand'.'
Oh, have ye seen Monaro
In samite robes of snow.
When down her hills of Winte*
The swift ski-runners go?
Ere Summer’s magic changes
The blue Australian ranges
From Drake to Omeo!
Where fare the Northern Rovers,
And down the Riverine,
In dry time and in rain time*
Thank God, betimes, I’ve been :
And I have seen what splendor
A changing Bush can lend her,
Varied, vast demesne.
And I have ta’en the Blue-road
That lies around her main ;
The bonny, circling Blue-road
That brought me home again,
By rocky cape and foreland.
By bay and beach and shoreland,
Unto the headlands twain.
The Celt mag dream his Ireland ;
The Scotsman toast his sire-land ;
The Latin praise a lyre-land ;
Give nib mg own Desire-land,
Australia — Land o’ Mine.
* * * *
It’s oh to watch the spindrift
Come clouding from the seas ;
It’s oh, the storied cargoes
Beside Australian quays,
When some deep-laden carrier
Brings homeward from the Barrief
Her cedar and her cheese !
And hey, the dish and windlass,
The stockwhip and the pack,
The quart-pot on the saddle,
The camp beside the track,
The wide trails West and Nor’ward,
The joys of going forward,
The joys of coming back !
The wind among the pine trees
Blows chill by Hobart town ;
But where a broad pandanus
Uplifts its shady crown,
Where Queensland suns endure a
Warm wind from Arafura,
bloweth down.
Of red and golden roses
Old Sydney hath no dearth ;
3oronia its sweetness
Sheds pleasantly in Perth ;
And far and wide she graces
Her miles with fertile places
This fairest land on Earth.
There is no land but Our land,
The rolling field and flower land,
The golden sun-and-shower land,
The burning Bush and bower land—
Australia ! land of ours.
VICTORIA.
EDWIN J. BRADY.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD
386 George Street,
near G.P.O., Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer.
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams* Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels. Jj.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
°u 7 1C ’ House of Landl®rds in trampling on
the rights of the people over the Land Tax Bill,
‘-vemade thousands of indifferent Labor electors
and hundreds of slumbering cookies think deeply
about voting for Labor candidates when they get
the chance. Wade’s infamous Strike Suppression
Act will also mean the gain of a great number of
votes to the Labor party even in Victoria.
Coupled with this, the Vic. Laborites have de-
veloped a healthy nationalism, and are Austra-
lians first and every time, and not mere parish
pump and State Frights politicians like
McGowkn, Holman and a few others of their
class. As far as the writing on the wall can be
read, the Fusionists in Victoria, anyhow, will be
smashed at the coming electoral collision, and the
only tears that will be shed will be those of the
Argus.
In the S. M. Herald of last Tuesday this casual
item of news obtruded itself
The Commissioners have hitherto paid for only 800 tons
of coal out of 14,000 taken from the miners’ mines.
Now the Johnson Department (which is the
N.S.W. railways) was announced as having paid
40s. a ton to wealthy merchants for coal, while in
the case of the miners’ mines it was announced
that it commandeered half the output at 10s, a ton.
If the Herald’s statement is true it doesn’t seem
in. any wild haste to pay even the 10s., ami the
fact that that money was outstanding must have
cast an additional gloom over that dreary Christ-
mas day when Santa Claus was too dead-broke to
come round and see the, kiddies of. the coal
country. How long, it would be interesting to
know, had the people, who supplied Johnson with
coal at 40s. per ton to wait for their money ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s.. “ The Catch of the Season,”
Criterion. .: “ The Girl Behind the Counter.”
Palace. “A Bachelor’s Honeymoon.”
Tivoli.. Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
LycEtfM Ha 11......... Spencer's Theatrescope 06.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Aladdin.”
Theatre Royal... “ The Merchant of Venice.”
Kino’s “ Babes in the Wood.”
Princess’s “Macbeth.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium. ...... Tait’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Olympia Spencer’s Theatrescope Co,
Hoyt’s Picture Palace Moving Pictures.
*
J. C. Williamson complained the other
day that, if Australia sometimes had to listen to
poor stuff at the theatre, it was largely because it
insisted on having three hours’ entertainment for
its money ; and there not being always three
hours’ good stuff in a theme, the beer was watered
to fill up the pot. Yet, though there is water
in “The Corsican Brothers,” the pot is
still far from full ; so though you needn’t
be in your place at eight precisely, you can still
be away and comfortably run over by a motor-car
nt 10.15. It is a perfect little story of its
ghostly sort, but there isn’t much of it in the
present version at the Royal. There are no
intricacies to be worked out; there is just
a murder to avenge, and with an utter
disregard for the rules of the fighting game the
affair; is brought off after an argument lasting only
a minute—which was a blessed relief to this
writer, anyway, because he happened to have been
all day taking light reading exercise at a window
beneath which sailors and firemen spent their
holiday hours fighting one another with their
mouths without spilling any gore at all on the
pavement. Going to “ The Corsicans ” it is, in
fact, advisable to take all your faith in miracles
with you. Not only do they fight promptly and
without the • smallest' consideration fori the
evening papers, but the whole thing hangs
on the slender thread of - a> spook. Julius
Knight is two people—the Corsican brothers,
whom a surgeon’s scalpel had to sever at
birth. Yet the knife did not cut away the ex-
traordinary sympathy between them—a sympathy
so strong that when one is killed in a duel outside
Paris, the other, away in Corsica, immediately
takes off his coat to see if there is any blood on
His Shirt. As there isn’t he knows that it’s his
brother who has been Lit. Then, in the midst of
writing to his brother to ask him if he is dead,
the spook appears in accordance with the family
arrangement; and the stay-at-home brother knows
not only how his twin died, but when and
where the deed was done, and who did it.
Instantly, without even stopping to arrange
about the picture rights, he dashes off to
the fight to-a finish. The man who did it is
escaping from Paris by coach; a miracle, dis-
guised as a ditch, snaps an axle-tree near where
the duel was fought; the same finger of Destiny
points the refugees to go for help to the very spot
where the fight happened y and there they find a
peasant chopping wood, and, by another miracle,
doing it with an American axe of modern pattern.
While the peasant is away getting a blacksmith,
the avenger arrives, and within 10 minutes an
undertaker is wanted instead of a smith. So the
play ends with the spook of the dead Mother
rising from the blood-stains, pointing aloft, and
telling Julius Superhumanus that, though they
shan’t meet again on earth, they will meet there g|
It is a bathetic finale, and this paper moves that
the concluding spook and his appallingly trite
observation be taken as read.
Ib is almost wholly a man-play. Certainly
the first duel is about a lady ; but she makes only
a very brief appearance. It is a hopeless passion
—for the lady is married, and Julius, of course, is
Gooch. In fact, it is because he is so Good and
has his doubts about the other party that the duel
happens. You have nothing to hope, therefore,
in the way of a happy wedding in the fourth act;
so- there isn’t a fourth act. The business ends
when the doubtful party is killed ; the climax is
a corpse—and in this version, as remarked just
now, even that rather unappetising finish is
spoiled by the resurrection of the spook and the
croaking promise of a re-tinion aloft. The play
is really too much like a contents bill
to allow J. Knight to do his best. He
is, most attractive when he is most brisk;
and if the audience is excited-at all it is when he
is at his sword-play with the man who has got to
be wiped out. The sword breaks: so to make
matters equal Julius breaks his, and they finish
the disturbance with the dagger ends. Chateau
Renaud, the person who has to die, is a stagey
French villain of moderate villainy, and Sydney
Stirling keeps him within fairly reasonable bounds.
Miss Vaughan is the mother of the Franchi, the
brothers, and is impressive, as usual. Miss
Dorothy Grimston. is the lady who caused the
trouble, and does her very little bit effectively.
Aubrey Mallalieu is a satisfactory de Meynard,
the friend of the family; and Arthur Hunter
sings a capital Tol-de-Rol song as the early 19th
century peasant, who uses the modern American
axe, and wouldn’t cpme even second in a wood-
chopping match at Clontarf. To relieve the situa-
tion, and incidentally explain what devils of
fellows the Corsicans are, one scene is devoted to
the reconciliation of the heads of two families who
have.sworn a vendetta over a fowl; but while it
may pass, as comic relief, it is simply burlesque
if it is intended to be a snapshot of “local color.”
* * *
“The Climax,” which was produced at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Tuesday afternoon is
advertised as “ a.mammoth American success,” or
words to that effect. That the play went well in the
land of the wooden ham is credible. It is instinct
with sticky sentimentality, obvious philosophy
(“love is all ill all to a woman,” and so forth)
and stirring but absurd situations. It makes a
sure appeal to-those who don’t mind their sense
of credence being strained to bursting point;
above all, it makes appeal to those who love to be
harrowed by a soul-rending, albeit,bogus Grief.
* * , , * , •
Adelina von Hagen is the pupil of Luigi
Golfanti, singing master, of New York. Shelias
a Voicg. She yearns for fame to the exclusion of
every other yearn. Pietro, son of Luigi afore-
mentioned, adores her. So does Jphn Raymond,
a doctor. The doctor is saddened because
A,delina proposes to become a prima donna.
He explains in, shaking tones that ladies in
this walk of life are rarely Pure. He implores
her to look to her Soul. Despite a spirited
defence of stage morality from Golfanti, senior,
and a series of. more or less inarticulate outbursts
of protest from the oldster’s son, he holds; to the
view that embarkation on a grand opera, career
is. H—l, pure, and simple. \ Accordingly, he sug-
gests that, a specialist friend of his shall operate
on Adelina’s throat and, make success in opera a
certainty for her, , The Golfantis and Adelina
are enthusiastic . about the, scheme. , The
curtain rises on • the , second act to dis-
close Adelina , in . the sable costume of one
who has had her tonsils attended to. , She
may not speak till Raymond arrives. The
minutes puss, And then be comes, bearing with
him the small yellow, bag of the peripatetic sur-
geon. He sprays her throat. She may speak,
and does so. He sprays it again. She may sing.
She attempts to execute one of those, vocal exer-
cises that are the curse of a thousand, suburbs,
but the effect is indifferent. The • das-
tardly medico lias deliberately had her voice
ruined, with the object of rendering her
unfit for anything but marriage with himself.
After much .tribulation and mental agony on all
hands, she recovers the lost organ in a state of
perfect repair, breaks into a paean , of joy in
celebration, of the event and starts joyously
on the path which leads to Covent Garden, un-
limited cash and—unless the defeated, medico errs
—eternal Gehenna.
* * * *
It is conceivable that with exceptionally
skilful acting by one physically and otherwise
suited to play Adelina, this banal piece might be
rendered more or less convincing. Miss Young
fails to impress one in the part. Her speaking
voice has not the joyous timbre of the girl, her
garnbollings are 'stiff, above all her emotionalism
is stagey and unreal. -Reginald Roberts wears,
as the doctor, a seemly air of professional
gravity, but does not differ materially, in
other respects, from the Reginald Roberts of
the past. J. B. Atholwood scores the triumph
of'the afternoon with a tine though somewhat
over-stressed portrait of an a'ged music-enthusiast,
Dion Titheradge does well hi a subsidiary and
somewhat thankless part. A queer feature of
this show is that though the action takes place in
N’Yorlc, and though three of the four Characters
are American-born and persistently use Yankee
idioms (Cf. Adelina : “ If nd one I like better is
around , . . I’ll marry you ”), their intonation is
that of London (Eng.j. It makes powerfully for
the unreality which is of the atmosphere of this
play.
* * . *
“ The Catch of the Season ” continues to
exhibit himself, nightly, at the above playhouse,
kilts, orders, gags and all. He will so do till
further notice, “ The Climax ” being an afternoon
show exclusively.
. . * * * *
Hugh J. Ward Bachelor commenced his
“ Honeymoon ” at Sydney Palace on prize tight
evening, arid' the small theatre was in danger of
catching fire owing to the' heated language of
those who. arriving late, were faced with the
grinning skull and dry bones of the placard:
“House Full.” “A Bachelor’s Honeymoon” is
labelled on i ts travelling bag as a three-act farcical
comedy ; but. as a matter of fact, it is just plain
farce, with all the straps burst. To obtain a fair
appreciation of the uproar, the critical mind must
be left in the coal-scuttle at home, or hidden
under a church on the way to the theatre;
because once the critical mind gets into
action' the show will be clouded with doubts,
as many another has been. But to the cheerful
person who is well content with things as he may
find them—who can meet Absurdity half way and
end up by going on a jag with the lady—to that
happily-placed individual the “Honeymoon” is
an eminently desirable mind-drunk. And, after
all, the laugh’s the thing, and. like good beer, it
doesn’t much matter whether it is served from a
cask or a paper bag, so long as there is plenty of
it. The farce is constructed on the complications
that rise around Benjamin Bachelor’s hasty mar-
riage to an actress and his efforts to hide the fact
from his prim sister, lest she, being comptroller-
general of the family wealth, should turn the
lemon face on the alliance and smite it on the
head, push-fashion, with the vinegar bottle of her
disapproval.
* * * *
It is not much to go on, and a less talented
coinpany would probably go no farther than bank-
ruptcy, but the Hugh Ward company has learned
to make thaf honeymoon hustle for a living, and
when it reaches for its pyjamas to go to bed after
the theatre is shut, the last laugh has been
wrung out of its very bones. Hugh Ward has
lost none. of. his quiet humor during his
travels, nor any of his tricks of toe, and
■ one ghost dance in the show will probably be
as popular as his hop or saraband, or what-
ever it was, in “The Man from Mexico.”
Grace Palotta has several songs that help to send
the barometer of mirth a-soaring, and a display of
dress that is calculated to make for a fine crop of
envy this season. Rose Musgrove, as the Cockney
slavey, saturated with much reading of the Sher-
lock Holmes trype,. tracks the complications of
Bachelor across the drawing-room or reception-
room. —.where the slavey appears to reside—and,
with the assistance of Robert Greig, a confidential
agent, almost catches up to them on several occa-
sions. Other times she helps tie them into loops
in order that the Moral Guardian (Celia Ghiloni),
the Twins (Florence Redfern and Ruby Baxter), the
Secret Sorrow (Arthur Eld red), and a few other
irrational disturbances may be entangled more
disastrously than ever. Under all his difficulties
Ward threatens to become demented, and only
escapes a straight jacket by dancing like the
Devil. This keeps him from brooding. Occasion-
- ally others break out into song and hop with relief
to themselves and satisfaction to the audience.
Finally Bachelor, being up to his chin in false-
hood, tells the truth to save himself and the
Honeymoon, gathers up his crumpled suit-case
and is at peace. Bachelor will continue to tear
round the Palace like an hilarious simoon till
further notice.
* He-
Consideration of “The Girl Behind the
Counter,” the new Clarke-Meynell show at
Sydney Criterion, suggests that with the eating
years musical comedy is steadily growing. simpler,
not to say thinner. Once the Girl, who is the.
central figure of all these pie,ces, used to have a
rather adventurous time of it between the, rising
of the initial curtain and her betrothal at the end
of the last act. She journeyed" to, Japan,
Morocco. Senegambia or other, remote lands, and
had stirring experiences among the natives. She
was forced to resist the .lawless . a,dyances of
Maharajahs, and her lover invariably bepame in-
volved wjth'impassioned women, of cplqr. Such
of her life as vyas presented on the stage wag full
' of, incident. In the new style of musical cqmedy
complexity, is unknown. The. heroine .stays at
home, or thereabouts, vvhile a vaudeville enter-
tainment rages round her. Any cpild, oyer (say)
fiye years, of age, could give in a few sentences a
coherent account of .all that happens to her.
In the piece, under notice Winnie Wil-
loughby, though,of. “gentle birth”—l.ie.r father is
a General whose palpable half-wittedness forbids
the theory that he rose from the,ranks—is earning
her living in the fjovyer-ssejlijig line* There is
scope, here, for moving developments.", The
villain might,poison the fluid,in the, firm’s water-
ing-can, thus causing the death of, the jcomic-.relief
and compelling, the entire company to flee, to one
of , those States which have noextradition
treaty, . The President would immediately offer
Winnie the alternative, of wedding him -or seeing
the only baritone she had. ever joyed .blown, to
pieces, She would rebuff, the official in, song,
accompanied by gestures.,of abhorrence, at. the
conclusion of which the materialisation of what
the D. Telegraph, commonly describes, as “a
rousing, British cheer” would herald the arrival
of 14 naval, supers, a Union Jack , and docu-
mentary , evidence that the comic-relief had
no,t died, after all. This would . pavq the
for satisfactory .marriages all, ;rpund.
Nothing like this happens to the Girl at the,
Criterion. She hardly stirs from her. Counter.
There is a trifling misunderstanding about, a five-
pound note. After a while it is cleared up, and
so the play ends.
What the new show lacks in thrill, psycho-
logical interest and the like it makes up in color,
humor, snap and beauty of production. The.
chorius is about the sniartest, most, tuneful and
generally alluring body that the writer has en-
countered across any footlights. Miss. Ruth Lin-
coln, as Winnie, has all the charm of manner that
makes for success in the flower, as in the vegetable
coke or haberdashery, line. She sings as delight-
fully as of yore, her “ Won’t You Buy” duet in
the first act moving the house to a mild frenzy of
exultation. The Charlie. Chetwynd of. Harold
Thorley is a breezy, spectacular young man; He
would be insupportable in real life—so over-
poweringly good and beautiful is hfe—but
he makes a picturesque stage .figure, and
his singing, is excellent. Edwin Brett
plays General Willoughby, and makes him
a thoroughly diverting old - party, J, W.
Deverell is irreproachable as Gushington, the
London youth of fashion, Cromwell is a waiter—
the sort of moody, changeful, introspective
servitor whom one would look to encounter, among
the “harmless” cases in an asylum for the in-
sane. He is funny in such innocuous wise as not
to offend even a Methody elder. Miss Essie
Perrin and Tom Payne are other members of a
strong cast.
** * *
Lady Dudley’s Bush Nursing scheme is to
be boosted up, financially, early in the coming year,
by a star theatrical show. Mrs. “Jim” Osborne
(the fair Miss Maud Jeffries that was) has con-
sented to emerge from her sheep fastness and
play Galatea to the Pygmalion of Julius Knight.
She is incomparable in the part, and Julius is an
exceeding good Pygmalion. Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney) will be supplied free, and various maidens in-
terested in the cause intend to vend programmes
without a hawker’s license. All round, a fair
fat wad of money should be torn from the public
in the pleasantest of fashions.
** * *
George Hackenschmidt turned up in Mel-
bourne last week with a large smile and some
surplus avoirdupois. He is a little thinner on his
top-piece than he was and fuller in the face, and
his elbow and knee trouble has vanished. Gener-
ally speaking, he is a sounder Hackenschmidt
than the one that arrived in Australia some
four years ago. On the occasion of his former
visit he had to be patched up in a Sydney
Hospital before he could take to the mat
Hack will commence a five-nights’ season at Syd-
ney Town Hall on January s—wrestling, posture-
posing, physical culture exercises and sundries.
"Gunner” Moir and the stupendous Herman the
German will help, and a vaudeville entertainment
will lighten the proceedings. Anyone with the
price of a seat clutched in his hand can get further
information at Paling’s.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli runs a good show these
days of clammy heat, when the universe feels like
a boiled blanket. The little De Dio lady is still
there, though her days are numbered. Bert
Terrell, a singer of tonnage, has joined the show.
He sings baritone when he feels like it, and when
he doesn’t feel like it, or when he feels differ-
ently, he sings soprano. This quality enables him
to be Romeo and J uliet simultaneously. Franco
Piper is an acrobatic musician. He throws six
pianos in the air, and by playing a few notes on
each one as it comes down and then throwing it
up again, he keeps the tune going very accurately.
His execution is good, but nothing like so remark-
aide as it would be if one of the instruments
dropped on his head. It is an amazing spectacle,
and suggests six elephants all flying at once. Oil
further reference to his notes, the writer finds that
it is four banjoes, not six pianos, that Mr. Piper
keeps in the air; but otherwise the description is
strictly accurate.
*** * '
For three weeks the Asche co. is playing
“ The Merchant of Venice ” at Melbourne Royai,
and for that same period the laws of Venice will
be preposterously libelled in what is generally
known as ‘‘the. trial scene.” There isn’t any
trial of Shyloek or Antonio at the precious Court
of Venice. No indictment is formally laid against
anybody. A foolish Hebrew person puts in a
claim for fulfilment of a bond. The signee admits
the justice of the claim, likewise the doddering
old Doge upon the bench. Its fairness
is unquestioned. Nevertheless a he-girl is
allowed to bound into court and take possession
of the case ; and when this violent young partisan
makes her own law in favor of debtor Antonio,
the flabbergasted Hebrew accepts it as final with-
out asking to be represented by counsel, and the
doddering Doge takes it for granted. There is
much absurdity in ‘‘The Merchant of Venice.”
Portia’s consent to let herself go as a prize in a
guessing competition seems most inhumanly
foolish, seeing that she is in a position to buy the
best man on the market. Bassanio’s long solilo-
quising over his good luck, previous to putting his
arms around his girl, is even more inhumanly
foolish. But the trial scene beats the record. It
takes the Passover cake. As an exercise of
dramatic license it puts “The Face at the
Window” to the blush. If “The Merchant”
were as thrilling as “Othello,” as humorous as
“The Shrew,” or as daintily picturesque and
moralistic as “As You Like It,” one could
forgive the narrative for being so unconvincing.
It is none of these things. Of all the best known
comedies of Shakspeare the one that lives on the
notoriety of Shyloek and Portia is the least re-
markable for truthful characterisation or stirring
action. The general effect is dull.
*■* * *
Needless to say that Oscar Asche scores
somes new points of scholarly interest in the pro-
duction. The staging is bright and original. The
interior of the Jew’s domicile is shown for the
first time; and the exterior, with Shyloek
framed within the shop front as it were, is
an ingenious departure from old precedent.
Still the performance, in five acts, seems
unnecessarily protracted as compared with Beer-
bohm Tree’s condensation of the play into three
acts. Moreover, Tree’s picture of a very Jewish
and low-class usurer—the writer saw it last year
in London—which was distinct from the ascetic,
dignified Shyloek of Irving and,his imitators, had
more artistic force than the grunting, red-headed
Fagin whom Asche presents. Almost any sort of
Shyloek is permissible in illustration of the Bard’s
uncertain original; but Asche makes the man
unduly repulsive and mean in character. Proba-
bility is sacrificed to novelty, and on the first
night Shylock’s bursts of passion fell short of ex-
pectation. There was a want of intensity in the
performance.
» * • *
Miss Bray ton is a pretty Portia, most in-
teresting in her sombre moments, and least natural
in her sportive moods. Herbert Grimwood makes
a brief, impressive appearance as the Prince of
Morocco, whose scene with Portia serves as an
antidote to one’s recollection of how Desdemona
doted on the other black man. Kay Souper plays
Bassanio in manly, warm-hearted style ; Anson is
a grotesquely amusing Gobbo ; Doran is a digni-
fied, monotonous Antonio; Miss Clement and
Miss Bay ley are very pleasing as Nerissa and
Jessica, respectively ; and among several men—of
whom Tripp Edgar, as usual, is conspicuous for
his elocution—only lan Penny is unsatisfactory.
Penny paints his face too much, and poses too
much as a beauty man. Besides, his enunciation
is both indistinct and affected.
** * *
“ Aladdin,” at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne),
was to be strengthened by the arrival of Phydora
on Boxing Night, that estimable comedian having
recovered from the mishap which kept him out of
the bill last. week. The panto, couldn’t afford to
lose the services of a leading funny man. As a spec-
tacle it is all very fine and large ; two or three song-
atid-chorus numbers have the harmless necessary
devilin them, notably the rousing refrain of “Bells
on my Fingers” ; and every time Price or Revost
falls off the table, as though he were getting hurt,
the audience is worked up to a pitch of enthusi-
asm. Still, there has been something wanting in
“Aladdin” thus far. It reminded of the old
proverb that “money doesn’t always bring
happiness.” For instance, the imported Prin-
cess (Miss Clara Beck), who was not men-
tioned in last Bulletin, doesn’t bring as much
joy to the panto, as she should. She’s
a pretty-looking little lady .despite her long black
sausage ringlets, and she has a respectable singing
voice, but there’s no snap in her. Which dis-
paraging remark applies with tenfold force to the
small Amurkan gent, who takes the part of
Abanazar. Abanazar is understood to be a
magician and a designing uncle, but Bob
Barry (the programme calls him “Bob”) merely
takes the character in a casual youthful manner,
as though it were that of a jaunty little drummer
from Chicago in the wooden nutmeg line of busi-
ness. He might at least disguise himself in a
black beard and a lurid scowl.


I CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new n
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, B
parts, and accessories stocked. Write. 9
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney. 9
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 230 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years’ Reputation .
The Anderson panto, at Melbourne King s
was more or less constructed on the premises by Alf
Lumsden, and as regards dialogue, it seems to
want some building up. The spirit of frivolity
animates “Babes in the Wood,” but the story
happens in disconnected fragments which appear
to be blown upon the scene by vagrant winds.
There is a fairy who professes to have banished
the Demon King to the North Pole, and a princi-
pal boy named Jack, and a bad Baron with a
daughter, and two Babes in their early teens, and
two robbers who don’t murder them, and an
irresponsible man in petticoats, together with
other orthodox ingredients of a grand Christ-
mas annual. The intentions of all these people
are strictly pantomimic. In a loose, dis-
ordered way they carry out their intentions
They are often humorous and never reasonable.
Forman and Fannan, patter comedians, formerly
of Rickards’s, impersonate the bloodless mur-
derers. whilst Nat Clifford and George Dean
stand for the mad governess and the bad uncle of
the Babes. James Hughes, whose big baritone
voice was heard in comic opera a while ago. is an
impressive demon, and there are others who can
sing and gambol. As for the ballet, it is mostly
young and inexperienced and comely.
«■ •* * , *
The brightest “ turns ” are in the first act,
where Forman and Fannan make a droll en-
trance, and Nat Clifford has a scene wherein
to spread himself. Individually and collect-
ively, the comedians, being at liberty to be as
funny as they can, are quite as amusing as cir-
cumstances will permit. Miss Lilian Lea, the
“ boy ” imported for the occasion, is also a slick
and tuneful toiler in the Anderson vineyard, so
one may say of the players in general that they
might have capably supported a weightier panto.
The burden of magnificence is not more than they
can bear. Probably it is enough to meet public
requirements. A couple of processions in the
second act are expensively-dressed spectacles, and
when more than 100 figures in gaudy raiment are
gathered upon the stage at one time, the roar of
approval indicates that Anderson’s panto, at
popular prices is considered to be offering full
value for the money.
** * *
On a sweltering Boxing night, before an
audience that was shockingly attenuated by the
heat, Walter Bentley and Miss Duggan presented
themselves as Mr. and Mrs. Macbeth at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. Thk Bulletin would fain
speak with sonje reverence of this ill-fated pro-
duction of a respectable play ; but when it tries
to sav “Anien,” the word sticks in its throat.
The stage management is too rough and unready,
the supers too crude about the legs, the super-
natural effects too suggestive of lunatics suffering
a delusion of mixed bathing on a barren moor;
and the performance, for the most part, too,
stodgy and ill-spoken. Bentley at the best is
a plain, timid Macbeth, hoarse, husky and rather
elderly, but a likeable murderer in his dull
way. Mrs. Macbeth, as Miss Duggan depicts her,,
might be the heroine of a drama entitled “The,
Worst Woman in Scotland”; and although she
possesses a certain amount of natural strength,
especially in her first scenes, her elocution
shrouds the blank verse in mystery and re-
duces the, sleep-walking episode to a failure.
Rutland Beckett as Malcolm and George Cross as
Macduff are fairly satisfactory veterans; Alf
Boothman is a more acceptable Banquo in the
silent apparition than in the vociferous flesh ; and
among the- long array of other characters are some
that help tft.make amends for the rest. Judging
from the size of the first-night patronage, “ Mac-
beth” will have worse luck than it could have
expected.
** * *
Until next Monday night Hackenschmidt
and Co. will have the stage at Melbourne Town
Hall. A mixed entertainment opens with a short ■
speech and introduction of the massive gladiator
by one King Morgan. Then comes some wrest-
ling by Hacky in contest with his old col-
league Gunner Moir, and with James Bain, a fine
lump of a wrastler whom he discovered in S’Africa.
The second part introduces Hacky in feats of
weight-lifting and exemplary exercises, whilst
King Morgan talks on the subject of strength
manufacture. Finally, the star performer gets on
a pedestal to show his muscles as of yore, and the
orchestra plays “ Gorsave.” The athletic features
of the show are relieved by a number of variety
turns. There is a biograph, a magician, and some
songs by a resonant baritone and a melodious
contralto lady.
** * *
“Fools of Fate,” Taits’chief exuberance
at Melbourne Glaciarium, is quite a study in
mordant irony. It is the tale of an amorous and
flighty young woman who tries to swing between
her husband and “the other fellow,” and is
savagely punished by losing them both. The;
Taits are also showing some jottings of the* Mid-
night Sun, which is a more reliable phenomenon
than a midday moon; “Japanese Fantasy,” an
oddly entertaining picture of Japanese toys;!
“Professor Cigarettes” and “Prison Bars and
Fetters,” which are humorous specimens of fake
photography ; and “ Unspokeh Good-Bye,” which.
displays the alliterative sequence of a trifle, a tiff
and a tremendous tragedy.
*****
Besides his usual incitements to optimism.
West is showing two striking films at his Mel-
bourne palace. They are entitled “ Carmen ” and
“Joseph of Canaan,” and treat secular and
sacred stories with an absence of cheap theatri-
cality. “ Carmen,” perhaps, is the more animated
picture, since the principal lady is a most decor-
ative beauty whose glances misconduct them-
selves. “ Joseph of Canaan ”is said to fall short
of absolute Biblical accuracy, so cannot be entirely
pleasing to theologians. All the same, it is pretty
and conclusive. One scene in it. however, is
lacking in cold dignity. This is where Joe
declines to co-respond to Mrs. Potiphar.
** * *
Melbourne is to have a “ Pageant ” at the
Exhibition Oval on Saturday night, .January 8,
and quantities of vivid posters are glued to the
city walls proclaiming that 2000 performers will
be engaged on the job. The Pageant will run to
novelty in spectacle. There is to be a representa-
tion of the 17th Lancers by 100 girls all sft. Bin. tall,
who are rumored to march like one amazon and
wield a sabre with far more grace than an expert..
Every amateur sport and game is to be repre-
rented by squads of 16 men in the,garments of
their respective hobbies There will also be buf-
falo hunts, fox hunts and ferocious battles between
redskins and cavalry. The entertainment should
be a fast ana furious shilling s worth. The matter
of thumping the public on the napper with a vivid
a( T 1S in hands of M. 1. Adams,
** * *
The very latest newcomer at Melbourne
Opera House.is Lillie Langtry, of whom a few
words anon. Other recent arrivals are the Wille
Bros., acrobats and equilibrists, described as
astounding, and acting up to the description,
One Wille Brother performs with hiS heels'turned
upwards, as a rule, whilst his biggest relative sup-
ports him on the end of a pole. Coming at the
same t ; me as tke Kremka Bros., the new “turn”
] oses Rome of its effecfci and the pu blic probably
thinks it could have been happier with either had
t’other clever lot of performers been away. Bertha
Stuart, the Two Bells, the Wheelers and Fanny
p owers are j n tbe bil! for the second part. In the
« rsfc part are some pe ople over whose graves the
present writer would gladly shed a tear,
“THE CATCH OF THE SEASON," AT
HER MAJESTYS, SYDNEY.
Florence Vie as Lady Caterham, and Victor
Gouriet as Mr. Gibson.
Adelaide broke out into a rash of more-or-
less sacred concerts on Christmas night, and since
then there has been a pleasant variety of amuse-
ments. Hassan is dealing in magic and spells at
the Tivoli, and doing his unpleasant trick of lifting
a heavy weight with his eyelids. Athmore Grey
is dancing, Athos is skating, and Harold Parkes,
with a fine make-up as a Dago, scores
heavily with a curious song complaining
that he is called “Wop, Wop,” which is
what no Dago known to this paper ever was
called. At the Royal, Anderson’s co. has got
back to its best work, “ The Squatter’s Daughter;”
Roy Redgrave is the remarkable hero who has to
keep having his life saved by a girl, and pa,rt-
autlior Bert Bailey is the comic-relief Johnnie
who comes uncommonly near being the real hero.
Amy Castles has decided to take a rest, and when
Peter Dawson—who had the odd distinction of
being encored in the middle of “The Messiah
made a final appearance at the Town Hall the
soprano of the co. was Miss Muriel Cheek—like
Peter, aS. Australian, But the best news is that
Wirths’ Circus already has its canvas up.
A recent programme from the Empire Palace, Edin-
burgh—one of the two-shows-a-night halls—haSfiveturnis,
out of 11 in all, that are of ancient Australian interest.
Three of them are Horace Wheatley, who was engaged
for a Williamson panto, long years ago. Lydia Yeamans
is still giving the “ Baby ’’ song and “ Sally in Our Alley,”
which were her principal items at Rickards’ when the
century was young. Also there is Paul Ciriquevallj. It
is sometimes remarked that Australia never gets the stars
of the ’alls until their brightness is dimmed. It is certain
that Britain keeps them going for a long time afterwards.
The combined ages of Wheatley, Lydia Yeamans and
Cinquevalli, for instance, cannot'be less than*l 70 years.
Maeterlinck’s play “The Blue Bird,” produced this
month at the Haymarket, London, to the accompani-
ment of much press whoop, is a fairy story in five acts.
In the first act the aged hump-backed fairy visits the
two poor children of a woodcutter. “ Have you the grass
that sings or the bird that is blue?” says she. One
of the children turns the diamond in the old
lady’s hat, whereupon the cottage becomes a palace
and the old girl a princess. The clock releases the hours,
and the souls of Light, Fire, Water, Bread, jSugar, t n e
Dog and the Cat are awakened, and begin a voluble and
excited conversation. All the Animals and Things siart
one with the Fairy and children in the search for the
Blue Bird. In the Land of Memories the children are
welcomed by their grandparents and their dead brothers
and sisters. The adventurescontinue through the Palace
of the Night and the cavern of Sicknesses. Perhaps the
most remarkable part of a remarkable production is the
animated scene in the Kingdom of the Future, where the
unborn babies live. Over this kingdom Time rules, and the
babes-to-be are sent earthward at his behest. Finally,
the Blue Bird is discovered, and the normal conditions
return to the woodcutter’s children and the domestic
animals, to say nothing of the Bread, the Sugar, the
Water, the Dog and the Sundries,
“ Busker ” : Another Bandmann yarn. He acted Charles
de Moor in Schiller’s “Robbers” at Melbourne Royal.
At rehearsal he graciously said to George Leopold, who
acted Spiegelberg, “You may make your part a leetle
gomical.” “ All right,” said George. In the last scene
he rushed upon the stage with a red nightcap on. “ Don’t
be too vunny,” whispered Bandmann. “ I Won’t,” said
George. The dialogue proceeded—Spiegelberg : “ The
soldiers are upon us ! ” DeMoor: “ How many, knave? ”
Spiegelberg: “More than the hairs of my head!”
With that he drew off the nightcap and showed
a bald pate. Everybody laughed except Band-
mann. He raved. Leopold fled and was out
of the theatre in. quick time. Bandmann had
a lengthy dying scene. When the curtain fell he
rushed around furious. 1 “Vhere is dat vellow? I vill
grucif.v’im ! Bali! . You call yourselves ardisdes ! You
are mountebaiigs, glowns !” Bandmann was accused of
striking the unfortunate Mrs. Rousby during a London
rehearsal. There was a tussle between them over the
MSS. of a play called “ Madeleine Morel.” Bandmann
clumsily stabbed Adelaide Bowring, Jack Steele’s wife, in
the last scene ot “ Othello,” at Melbourne Royal. She
was Emilia, Bandmann waslago, and Steele was Othello.
She got a sword-wound in the hip and was laid up for
three months. When she gave a wild shriek, the house
was delighted with such powerful acting. Down flopped
the curtain. Bandmann rushed in front, wildly excited
and with his worst German accent, crying, “ Vill zome-
hody £o vor a zureheon ? ” For a few frenziedmoments
if was thought that Bandmann had achieved the dignity
of homicide.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The recent stousb whic.h K. Rumford dealt out to the
London Times critic, because he pad made some dis-
paraging remarks concerning Mrs. Butt-Rumford, recalls
a somewhat similar sfoush in Melbourne a score of years
ago. Alfred Moule, who was musical critic on the’ Mel-
bourne Aon, unfavorably criticised a Mass composed by
the late Giammona, of that city, i Happening to meet
subsequently in Collins-st'reet, the large and lumpy
Italian hit out wildly at Moule, who summoned him for
assault and battery. Giammona was fined 10 lovely
sovereigns, which he paid with manifest pleasure, re-
marking as he counted out the money: “I would give
another £lO for the pleasure of hitting him again.”
“ S.T.S.” : Had the iuck to see the late Lionel Brough
in perhaps the best work he did—“ Rip Van Winkle ”
(operatic version)—with Fred Leslie (who died soon after-
wards) and Violet Cameron. Brough was heavily made
up as the old Dutch innkeeper of the first ,part,’with a
catch-phrase, “Chall-uk it up.” In the second, not
made up at all, he was the young Americanised iunkeeper,
“ son of the above ” as the tombstones put it; and occa-
sionally he gave a lifelike imitation of himself : “Chall-uk
it up, as my poor old dad used to say.”
“D.”: I would admire to know what the Order is to
which Iligginson belongs in “ The Catch Of the Season.”
He wears the Ribbon of-it across his left shoulder, from
which one may conclude he is a K.G. Not so,
however, for the Ribbon he affects is of a heavenly-
azure (whereas the conventional K.G.’s chest-decora-
tion is dark blue); and, furthermore, Higginson
sports no visible garter. We turn to the theory
that he belongs to -the Order of St. Patrick,whose
members trick themselves out in sky-blue ribbons when :
on festivity bent. However, the K.P. is disqualified,
absolutely and for ever if he wears his ribbon in any way
but across his right shoulder ; so the possibility of Hig-
ginson belonging to the St. Patrick crowd also vanishes l
into thin air. There then arises the distressing thought:
Does he belong to any Order at all? He is in the very
act of coming of age when we meet him. Are these Orders
hereditary? I havealwaysunderstood not. Could Higgin-
son belong to one of them before he was 21? I doubt it.
Even in the case of such a decoration as the Garter, which
is not bestowed for services rendered (Palmerston, it will be
remembered, said it was the only, one he hankered for, as
“ there was no damned merit, about it”), it is not con-
ceivable that Ed. VII. would rush at Higginson and hold
an investiture over him the instant his 21st birthday
arrived. All things considered, I conclude that Higgin-
son as an Order-possessor'is largely bogus. Another pro-
blem that puzzles me in connection with Higginson
is: What regiment does he belong to? He wears
kilts, and they shdi-v his legs off well and
stultify the carpifig hounds, who suggested that
he padded. But when he gets married, and the eight
trusty war-dogs who comprise his regiment arch their
swords above him and Fan :Dango, it is seen that they
(the war-dogs) are, if anything, Lifeguardsmen. True,
they have dispensed for this particular wedding with
the tin-plate, buckskin breeches and immense boots of
their tribe; but they by the nodding
plumes in their hats. I conclude that Higginson’s regi-
ment is a personally-raised Jawbone Xeild sort of affair-
one of those which makes up in diversity of fashion and
originality and color what ft lacks in fighting strength.
“Bloggs”: The Daily Telegraph (20/12/’oft) assailed
Boy Seaton, the clever youngster who' plays Bucket, the
Pagein “ The Catch of the Season,” for what the papei
called his “Australian intonation.” A slab: “In his
song, ‘ The King of Babylon,’ be wrongly pronounced the
word as ‘ Bab-o-lon ’ more than once.” The youth came
back the next morning with the following acid and
effective retort: “ I said * Babylon ’ the way I did pur-
posely, because as Bucket, the boy in buttons in ‘ The
Catch of the Season,’ I did not consider it right to speak
with a Piccadilly bleat. I took special lessons in Cockney
for all my lines.” It is certainly rough that one
who is portraying a 10-year-old London “ buttons,”
should be carped at because he omits to employ the cul-
tivated speech of a University Prof, of Literature, in
any case the Australian or Cockney or other child who
habitually pronounced the word “ Babylon ” with the
meticulous correctness demanded by the Telegraph,
would be insufferable and ripe fora sound flogging. It
will be interesting, by the way, to note what rod or
scorpion the D.T. reserves for .J. Knight, if, in his next
presentment of the McHaggis of Parritch that actor
omits to pronounce the phrase “Hoots, mon ” in the pure
English of Oxford University.
“Ceph”: Is J.C.W. never going to give Australian
artists more than half a show in their own country?
Failing the upheaval of a genius in the vaudeville line— A
Carrie Moore or one of that class—-the local product is
turned down with dreary regularity in favor of any
sort of import. Before Lydia Flopp arrived Connie
Milne was playing Sophia in “The Catch.” I saw the
Milne performance in Melbourne, and adjudged it
as one of the best things in the show. Connie
Milne is a first-rate dancer; she sings tunefully
and is as pretty as a picture. The warmest friends of
Miss Flopp would, hardly claim that she was a songstress,
and for the life of me I can’t see in what other respects
she surpasses the damsel whose place she has taken.
Presumably, J. C. W. knows his business, and it is as
a result we are offered theatrical imports where home-
grown articles were more pleasing. There is a class
here, by all appearances, that would rather pay to hear
an import it didn’t like than a local product it did.
“M.P.”: Melbourne is at present suffering a revival
of the cinematograph cum phonograph. At Wirths’
Olympia Spencer is dealing out Harry Lauder, per
medium of the Gaumont chronomegaphone ; and at the
ice-chest opposite Taits’ bio-megaphone is responsible for
sundry flickers and noises. Some few years ago Harry
Rickards went to considerable expense and imported a.
couple of these voice-picture machines, but he soon put
them on the shelf. The West Picture people gave the
cinephone a run, with a similar result. The einemega-
phonograph, or whatever it is styled, Seems to be before
its time. It fails to synchronise. The’phone end of the
show reels off yards of voice that - resemble a wheezy
bottle-ho bawling through a drain pipe. If Harry
Lauder’s voice is anything like what the implement
serves out, it cannot be his singing that draws £lOOO a
week.
“Busker”: With a profound admiration for Oscar
Asche, I object to the casting of his plays and think he
fails to make the best use of his company. After gaug-
ing them in “The Taming of the Shrew,” I sketched the
“ Othello ” cast, and was altogether out. Similarly did I
fail in the “As You Like It ” and “ Merchant of Venice”
casts. You might almost think the actors drew their
parts from a lucky bag. A man is on the topmost rung
in one cast and almost at the foot in another. When
Grimwood appeared as Baptista in “The Shrew,” I
thought him a tol-lollish old man. Behold, he is a good
lago ! Penny, as Montano, looks a Walking gent. He is
hoisted to Orlando. Then I think, of course, he will be
Bassanio, but he is Gratiano. I chalk Grimwood for
Antonio, but he is only the Prince of Morocco, after suf-
fering purgatory as Adam in “As You Like It.” Surely
this process must be discouraging to actors. An old
managerial dodge, practised by Maeready on Phelps, is to,
thrust a subordinate down whenever it can be done-
safely. This tells in the salary list. But I acquit Oscar
of all dodges. At all events, he gives every actor his stage.
“ Harrison O.” : The ways whereby men are murdered
on the stage are various, though not very various ; but
the manners in which assault and battery may be com-
ihitted are Strictly limited, decreed by ancient usage,
demanded bv popular predilection, and observed with
hide-bound conservatism. Thus there are but two (2)
ways in Which the villain may attempt to assault the
“pewer” heroine.: He may either fa) grasp her by the
wrists, whereupon she will, in all probability, relapse
into unconsciousness ; or (b) encircle her waist with his
ari.ii,- Which action will (1) cause her hair to come down ;
(2) make th.e limelight nian turn on the glare; and (3)
bring about , the hurried entrance of the hero—that is,
of course, in l a strictly moral play. There is but one
way in; which the characters are permitted to assault
the comic Servant ; viz., by administering, a kick, or a
series of kicks, about the root of his tail. Moreover and
furthermore, ■ the one wav in which the villain may
assault otie of the hero’s old retainers, or a pore ole swag-
man who makes a request for a meal, is by waving his
(the villain’s) hunting-crop in the vicinity of his victim’s
back. And, finally, the hero himself would never dream
of assaulting the villain by any other than the time-
honored, vest-grabbing method. Thus doth custom
hedge Us in and >varri off originality.
“ Melb.” : The rose blooms under another name. Mel-
bourne’s new Criterion Theatre is late Majestic Square,
late Hippodrome, late Cohen’s furniture shop, late
Turkish baths, late Coppin’s Iron Pot, late Royal Amphi-
theatre, late Rowe’s Circus. And it is back again to can-
vas. On Saturday night I went to see “ The Lancashire
Lass”.played there. H. J. B.vron wrote it about 1865,
and it was first produced in Liverpool, with,Henry Irving
as Redburn, the villain. Byron wrote in a spirit of
bravado, as if he was guying the thing, burlesquing melo-
drama. Yet he could not overdo it. He led the way
with reckless sensation, stuffing some in every act, and
not caring a hang about how the characters were extri-
cated. The villain is squelched time after time. Hawk-
shaw, the detective, palpably suggested'the “ party by the
name of Johnson.” “The Lass” was first seen in Mel-
bourne at the old matchbox Princess’s, with Rose Evans
as Ruth Kirby, Rogers as Jellick. Daniels as Spotty,
Eloise Juno as Kate Garstone, and Greville as Johnson)
You cannot- help noticing how well the dialogue is
written, as with Boucicault’s. There are long speeches,
but they are in beautiful English. Audiences used to
relish this. Now they don’t.
(.Continued on page 29.)
THE PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The interpolated' “ Rabbit ” song, with its bright theme
supported by plucked strings and runs for the piccolo.
All this music was within the range of Miss !s powers,.
so that she was very effective. The story becomes thin
in the second act, and the piece is thus assisted by variety
“turns.” Mr. has a §ong, “Fame,” wherein local
allusions are heightened bv admirably-produced tableaux,
of a cricketer, a sundowner: a boy' scout and a military
officer. An acrobatic ballet by eight children wearing:
military uniforms of black with red, facings and short
skirts of orange provoked marked enthusiasm, the young
dancers being encored twice, while Miss , by whom
they were trained, had a “call.”— Elderly newspaper
critic on a short-skirted play of the period.
Playwrights whom we never met—
Ye whose plays are read to-day—'
Much your passing we regret,
Grieving that ye might not stay.
Solid was the fare ye set
To your patrops long ago—
Different from the stuff we get
When we go to see the show !
(Wherefore art thou, Romeo!)
Not, mark ye, that modern plays
Are not great —with one consent
Famous “ critics,” lavish prais ■
(See twelve-inch advertisement).
Read The Blot and Daily Sin,
Note the admiration hurled—
Greatest triumph witnessed in
This or any other world, ! ” , ,
(Is the hill-side still dew-pearled?)
In your day, departed friends,; i -
Actors were not much-in' vogue ;
But this age makes great amends
To the “ vagabond and rogue:”
Gilt-edged stocks—a title, too !
Are bestowed on them these days.
And (a thing you never knew)
Always undiluted praise—
( Who, then, fills their arms with bays ?)
Could you, breaking Nature’s law,
Live again (we wish you could),
You would see what Gop,once,saw—,
Everything is very good !
Melodrama, problem-play,
Comic (?) opera, pantomime,
Are—so all the papers Say-
Nothing weaker than V sublime.”
(Do we build the lofty rhyme!) '•
Ah, the Play—“ the Play’s the tliiny”—
As one playwright neatly said.
What’s his name?, Qh, let it ding,.
For he’s been a long time dead-!
Anyway, the Play’s the dart—
Mighty influence, the stage !
, Bringing Nature up to Ajrt—-
I Filling us with noble rage !
(’Tin a monumental Age !)
•SSschylus, Euripides,
Marlowe, Shakspeare, Moli6re,
Played-out playwrights whom one reads,
Wrought ye aught that may compare
With our modern “ play ” or “ piece ” ?
Off! 'Off! envious ones ! and know
Your poor tragedies of Greece
Feeble, out-of-date and slow !
' (Don't our papers prove it so 1)
Playwrights whom we never met—
Shades now wandering to and fro
In the bounds by Pluto set
Where Regret’s pale blossoms blow—
Cease repining ! ■ Your bright bays
Others wear—and we acclaim !
All our actors, authors, plays
Are the greatest just the same—
(So the papers say. That's Fame).
N.S..W.
O. C. CABOT.
LINES INSPIRED BY A PASSING MUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch the mimelet pace the block
Immaculately dressed;
• His hose-,agl,earn with stripe and clock,
His. trousers neatly pressed ;
Bright as the stream which starts its flow
’Mid Kosciusko’s ice—
And what I ask myself is, how
: »He does it at the price. •
The normal bloque at two pound ten., ; »
Or, say, three quid a week, ■
Wears modest raiment mostly. When
He sports a “check ” or “ streak ”
It does not cheat—this suit of his—
The dullest hack-blocks clown ;
All know it straight for what it is—
A flagrant ." reach-.merdown.”
How different, the actor-man !
Who,- on a weekly wage
A competent chauffeur would scan
With scorn —in fact, with rage—
Contrives ties, shirts and vests to don,
The which not e’en the late
Lamented monarch, Solomon,
Might hope to emulate....
-I think that we the minor mime
Have wronged who, hitherto,
Have dubbed him fool in prose and rhyme ;
Surely the person who
Contrives to dress and lodge.and live
On such a stipend, thus
Claims all the homage we can give ;
He is a genius.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


THREE FAVORITES
from the Reliable Jewellery Store.
Q©
We send
orders by
Registered
Post
without
any extra
charge.
Special 5-Stone Diamond
Dress or Engagement
Ring, £5/5/-, £7/10/- and
£lO.
ChDioe Solid Cold, Pearl and Amethyst Bangle,
M/4/-
Hollingdale & Kessell
Watchmakers, Jewellers and Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for
our
Catalogue.
Ring Size
Car,d with
Catalogue.
Solid 18ct. Gold Wedding’
Ring, 30/-
Also lighter make, 20/-
15ct., 25/- and 15/-
9ct., 15/- and 10/-
l/o you
realize
the immense importance of the unique
superiority of Odol? While all other
preparations for cleansing the mouth
and teeth are effective only during th&
few moments of application, the anti-
septic and refreshing power of Odol
continues gently but persistently for
hours afterwards. Odol penetrates into
the interstices of the teeth and the
mucous membrane of the mouth, to a
certain extent impregnating them, and
thus securing a safeguard and preserva-
tive for the teeth such as no other denti-
frice can provide, not even approximately
Of all Chemists and Stores,
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Archbishop Wright, the imported ecclesi-
astical Dreadnought of N.S.W., will be a soothing
balm to deaconesses and young widows. Deacon-
esses have hitherto not had too joyous a time
within the boundaries of the archdiocese, but his
Reverence is going to shake a gaiter on their
behalf. In the little book which he deposited
before the elect on his arrival he pleads fervently
that deaconesses should be allowed to marry,
although the bulk of the C. of E. is against any
such frivolity. In olden days a female deacon who
married was ex-communicated with dinner-bell,
book, candle and any other furniture that happened
to be on the premises. At one period, in fact, she
was put to death. Wright wants to know' why,
CROSS PURPOSES.
SHE (rapturously): “ Ah, what melody! Pd
give all I possess for his execution."
HIS RIVAL (absently): “ Yes, Pd like to haie
him boiled."
if deaconesses are to be debarred from wedlock,
deacons and bishops should not be similarly
treated. In sympathetic words Gaiters encourages
the young women to marry, and quotes Paul to
Timothy in support of the exhortation. If he had
thought of it, he might have added the declara-
tion of the ancient Italian philosopher : “ Remem-
ber that the Jews never had but one good insti-
tution—that of abhorring virginity.”
The gentle jumbuck has a hard life of it
one way and another. When it isn’t starving on
an overstocked run in drought time, or expiring
of thirst beside a has-been waterhole what time
the crows hover hungrily in the neighborhood of
its eye, or being kicked into a noxious bath of
“dip” and prodded under with a pole, or getting
chunks of flesh torn off its anatomy together
with the wool, or having its throat out by
an apprentice butcher, other horrors are
always liable to occur to it. Thus, about
three weeks ago, near Coonamble (N.S.W.),
IGOO members of our great primary industry were
yarded by their owner and forgotten. He remem-
bered about them after eight days, but by that
time they were all at rest, barring about a score,
and these passed gently over when they were
given water. The weather had been unfavorable
for prolonged residence in a waterless yard, the
temperature registering 107° in the shade part of
the time. The Sydney TelegBAPH referred tear-
fully to the incident as “a serious loss to a well-
known grazier.” The sheep’s side of the tragedy
wasn’t touched on.
* * * *
The Old Soldier becomes technical :■ —
The cable is talking again about Brennan’s mono-rail.
We were told in November on the same unreliable authority
that someone in Berlin was going to exhibit something
of the same sort. We now learn, wfiat present writer
knew last year, that the British rights of the invention
were the property more'or less completely of the British
Government, and it is hardly necessary to say that the
German and most of the other foreign rights are pretty
secure. There was a yarn to the effect that some German
connected with the Berlin Lokat, Anzeigrr was going to
forestall Brennan’s demonstration, but that may pass as
the usual cable blunder. The yarn probably had its
origin in the invention of a German, Dr. Schlick,
elaborated before the Institute of Naval Architects
in London in 1901 for preventing the rolling of
ships at sea by the use of a wheel revolving
horizontally instead of vertically like Brennan’s.
The Schlick gyroscope was first tried on board the See
Bar, a discarded German torpedo boat, in July 1906,
Sea so rough that the vessel rolled to an angle of 60
degrees when the balance wheel was not revolving. The
angle was reduced to one dkgfusk when the great top was
set spinning. The Schlick gyroscope is free to oscillate
either in the direction of the length or breadth of the
ship. That seems to explain the failure of the experi-
Fnents of Bessemer, the inventor of the steel furnace, who
in the ’eighties spent more than £50,000 in trying to
keep a single cabin on board a steamer steady by meansof
a gyroscope thatdidnot oscillate freely. He failed because
he tried to keep a,part steady instead of the whole mass.
There is no doubt at all that the Brennan railway will
be a great deal cheaper to construct than the present
two-rail pattern. It will be possible to„carry a single
rail along the slope of a hill without side-cutting. Further
than that, the wheel-base, being a line and not, as in the
present railways, a rectangular rigid surface, it will be
possible to make the curves of the Brennan railway much
shorter in radius witho\it increasing the danger of acci-
dent. Reducing the radius of curves and lessening
the earthwork at once reduces the cost of the
permanent way; while the total abolition of one of
the two rails, though it may involve making the
remaining one stronger, will be another important
economy of perhaps 25 per cent. Then the abolition of
at least half the wheels of a train will reduce the axle
friction by half, and that lessened friction and lessened
strain in other wavs mean not onlylessened cost for con-
struction and haulage, but less liability to accident. It
will be possible to carry much heavier train-loads without
increasing the hauling power. Australia cannot lag-
behind ih> the race if, as is broadly hinted, the Indian
Government and the Cape-to-Cairo railway people have
sec Fired interests in the Brennan patents. It'will simply
fie impossible for the Commonwealth, with its two new
transcontinental lines waiting to be begun, to stand still.
The single-rail is necessary to it.
*.* * *
“ Polstan ” : There’s nothing on earth
the l£ic. Railway Department can't lose, except
its hnported Cigar Furnace. A couple of years
ago a cadaver was trucked at Spencer-street, and
consigned to a country town. On the arrival of
the t’Hgjn at the town, everything was in readiness
for the reception of the deceased. The* sympa-
thetic undertaker stood around weeping his
stipendiary tear. The nice,
plumed hearse was backed . up,
and all the town awaited in
its collective buggy. The only
thing wanting was the late
lamented'. The lamented was
later than usual. He had given
way. to procrastination, and
was behind time. In fact,
he wasn’t there. The guard
hadn’t seen him and the
engine-driver hadn’t burnt him.
No one had noticed him get
off anywhere with his coffin
under his arm. Nor was he to
he found at Spencer-street.
Even the usually invincible
inquiry office clerk wasn’t wise
to the whereabouts of the
missing one. But corpses can’t
be lost for ever, and this one
was discovered a week or so
later stowed away with the bacon in the goods
sheds at Melbourne. The discoverer got such a
shock that he sprang through the skylight and
lobbed into Corio Bay. He was docked two days
for absence and fined ss. for broken glass.
* * * *
Of all the sufferers by the recent crop of
bush fires in Victoria, farmer Hansler, of War-
raeknabeal, had about as vile luck as any. He
had not smoked Ins pipe near his wheatfield for
four years; but on the Sunday before Christmas
lie showed a friend his ripened crop. They lit
up. and the head of Hansler’s match flew off on
the grass. That little lapse lost him 30 acres of
standing wheat, together with 140 bags already
harvested. The bill was £2OO for one smoke ; and
Hansler didn’t have the smoke even then.
Strikes may be a crude, ragged way of
settling troubles; but it is time the stupid old
gag concerning the vast amount of money lost by
the strikers was given decent or any other handy
burial. C. H. Hoskins, of the Lithgow iron-
works (N.S.W.). is one of the last to give the
weary old device an airing ; and, as usual, the
Telegraph spreads the heading to the fatuous
remarks over two columns—“ What the Men
Have Lost.” Probably the Telegraph could
make a profit by selling all its printing paper in
a lump without smudging any ink on it; but
because it doesn’t complete that deal and make the
profit which it might make, it doesn’t bury its face
in its whiskers and moan that it has made a loss,
In fact, it no doubt reckons that it would be a fool if
it didn’t hold off so as to make more profit by-and-
BATHING COSTUME.
WIFE : “ That's young Miss Form, from Randwick.”
HUSBAND : “Dear me! When I looked at her costume I thought she came from Coogee."
bye. And when its squatter friends put wool up
for sale and don’t pet what they think the stuff is
worth, wherefore they don’t sell it, the Telegraph
doesn’t howl at them that they have lost a heap
of money—it knows that they have gone
on strike to-day in the expectation of getting
more money to-morrow. That strike doesn’t
always come off, and a labor strike doesn’t always
come off either. Neither for that matter do you
always get the tenant for the desirable suburban
residence that you advertise in one issue of the
Telegraph. But even the Telegraph wouldn’t
advise you consequently to knock off advertising
in its own innards. Its probable advice would be
to have another shot—and risk a second “ loss.”
* * * *
Just when S.A. had walloped N.S.W. by
an innings and four runs E. W. O’Sullivan wrote
to the Sydney Telegraph “I am dead against
the Bowling policy.”
* * * *
Hopes are still entertained that the Wara-
tah may be afloat, a little black speck on the
illimitable roof of the sea ; and another search is
proposed. There is no real reason why it shouldn’t
be afloat; even if 20 times as much se arch had been
made there would still be many square miles of un-
inspected sea within the ship’s possible radius. If
it is afloat the horror and monotony of these months
of drift and sameness must be maddening to all on
board. And all the uncertainty and expense, and
all the possible misery and terror, and the possible
thirst, starvation and lunacy of those on board
are, due to some economical fool who sent
a great ship to sea without the “wireless”
on board. With the “wireless” the Waratah
would either have got assistance in three days or
else its failure to ask for assistance would have
shown that it had vanished off the seas. Yet
there is no news of any attempt to make the
carrying of “wireless” compulsory. That aspect
of the case hardly gets a passing mention.
* » * *
“Hassan” writes about “a Silly Old
Law ” :
The way of an eagle in the sky or the way Of a man
with a maid are mere second-rate wonders compared with
the way of a Victorian mother with the chuckleheaded
and antique Vaccination Act. This Act declares that its
fracture is only worth £2. If it had been framed with
the intention of meeting a real live danger, the man who
broke it would deserve six months without the option.
But as there has never been a serious outbreak of small-
pox in Victoria, as the Quarantine Acts of the various
States are really excellent safeguards, and as, vaccination
being only effective for about seven years, any child over
that age is very little safer than his unvaccinated neigh-
bor, it was evidently passed because London has such an
Act, and because Bills were scarce during tbe-session that
wals’responsible for it. If it had been intended as a real
safeguard against smallpox, it would have provided that
everybody should either be vaccinated every seven years
or at least when, by some failure of the Quarantine
Act, smallpox had actually made its appearance. It
would also have provided that any breach of the Act
should be punishable by imprisonment. That it did not
do these things shows plainly that the legislators who
passed it either desired to raise revenue by fining the
numerous objectors to the idea of giving their children
a certain attack of cowpox to save them from a thousand
to one chance of the graver disease, or to please some
particularly clamorous minority which desired vaccina-
tion.
The objecting mother or father has several means of
evading the law. Personally, I propose to evade it
honestly, because I have a great deal of contempt for it,
by paying my £2. But it is responsible for the falsifica-
tion of the vital statistics of Victoria by at least a few
hundred births a year. Poor parents, who are unable to
afford the luxury of breaking laws, get out of the diffi-
culty by neglecting to register their children. This costs
more if you are found out, but then it is almost impos-
sible to find you out. Another and more humorous
method of cheating the Act is to take the baby to the
doctor, submit it to the operation, and, arrived again in
the sanctity of the home and marriage tie, put
a bread poultice on the infant’s arm and draw
the poison out. If you poultice too hard the
lymph doesn’t “take,” and the doctor does it again,
with the same result. After the third time he certifies
that the child cannot be vaccinated. Or you can use
enough poultice to just allow two of the punctures to
form a little sore. Then the doctor certifies that the
vaccination has been entirely successful. A little for-
malin, applied immediately after leaving the doctor, is
another good way of beating the Cowpox Act. But for
those who think these too troublesome, and who like the
luxury of treating silly old laws with contempt, the
amount of contempt you can feel is fully worth the
money.
“Billy B.” : Despite the urgent appeals
of the press that the wealthy people of Syd-
ney should hand over a few bob in the inter-
ests of benevolence at least once every twelve
months, the response has apparently been almost
inaudible. The Telegraph on Christmas Day
witnesses that itself, for I find it saying of the
arrangements at the hospitals, homes and
asylums:—“The Christmas dinners to-day will
be a particular feature. Arrangements have been
made to provide at least a plum pudding-, and
there will also be poultry and jellies and other
sweets, including a large quantity of chocolates.”
ONE pudding for the whole lot of the hospitals,
homes, etc ! It's a scandal! I observe, incident-
ally, that Dr. Ward classes poultry as a sweet,
I thought it was a musical instrument.
There has been another strike in Sydney ;
but you might look for a week and still not find a
word about it in the papers; and Waok didn’t
rush down to the House and fix up 12 months’
gaol for any of the strikers or their organisers,
When the trouble started at Newcastle the big
tramp steamer Navarino was lying alongside, just
ready to load coal. But the railways collared the
coal, so the Navarino was brought on to
Sydney to load wool instead. Now the
Navarino doesn’t happen to be in the shipping
ring, and the agents were also outside that circle ;
consequently when they looked around for a steve-
dore to dump the wool cargo, there wasn’t a steve-
dore who would touch the job. It was the
most complete strike on record—so complete that
the Navarino was obliged to steamout of Sydney
with its cargo undumped and leave 1500 bales
behind it. Yet, as remarked before, Wade
doesn’t propose to give anybody 12 months’ gaol
over the business ; and the articles in the daily
papers on the subject have been models of pro-
found absence.
SUTTEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Harper t T ie offer of a gift of a Dreadnought to Eng-
land was accepted, as showing that we looked upon our-
sfelves as being an integral portion of the Empire
The Prime Minister : Soand or fill together '.—Parlia-
mentary report.
Lo, the poor Indian, in his obscurity,
Having strange notions concerning futurity,
When a prince threw a seven,
And wandered to Heaven,
Made a big fire—
A funeral pyre,
And piled all his wives on it,
Sacrificed lives on it,
Burnt’em to cinders, with savage barbarity,
Probably calling it “ justice ” or “ charity ” ;
Bent upon giving the prince, in futurity,
Of matrimonial bliss a security.
This rite, Mister Peakin, would you have us follow it ?
And, if you would, do yon think w; should swallow it?
Are you really supposing
That we would be closing
Our national life
Like an Indian’s wife?
Tnat we’d get in the fire
Should our mother expire?
D) yon mean us to follow this practice historical?
Or was it said for effect oratorical ?
Plowed if I think it would do for Australians,
Though it may probably suit colored aliens.
S and ? Why, most certainly ; shoulder to shoulder.
Never were Britishers facing ’em bolder.
Bit fill? Hold on, Peakin!
Your manner o’ speakiu’
Gets on my nerves.
Though eloquence serves
Very well, not a doubt of it,
You’re a bit out of it.
The sons of the Empire stand by one another ;
But hanged if we’ll lie down and die with our mother.
I-i that Patriotism ? D m’t make any blunder ;
We'll stand white we're able, whoever goes under 1
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Very Latest Bag
for Ladies ———5/11.
Dorothy Bag's, in Irish Crochet Lace, are
quite the latest style, and can be furnished
to match any costume—white over the color.
Size about Bin. lon<f. Price, 3/11 each.
sdf
In the same stj'le—
in Brussels Lace, 5/11
and 7/6.
One of these would
make a splendid little
present for a lady
friend inexpensive
and sure to please.
Order to-day.
We pay the postage
to any address.
We can supply
Dorothy, Peg g y,
Devonshire, Motor and Bead Bag's of every
kind, and prices to shit all'pockets.
Ask for de at .
AXTENS & CO.
(La Maison
Parisienne),
24-SO THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
P'6
m
aj dl
*
Light Underwear for Summer.
Half the comfort in underwear depends upon its
perfect fitting quality—the other half upon its
weight being suitable to the season. We illustrate
here a grand style of underwear for warm days.
It is cut to correspond correctly to the figure—it is
of light weave, of pure wool, soft to the touch and
guaranteed unshrinkable.
The quality is absolutely high-class. We strongly
recommend these Undershirts and Pants for present
wear.
Pcapcs’ Light Blue Summer
Undershirts and Pants
5|6.i
Posted Od. extra.
State size round chest for Shirt and size round
waist for Pants.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 George Street, Sydney.
Lucid slab from Sydney Telegraph
(23/12/’O9) under the caption “The City Tele-
phones ”
otnhnnsDttybgk cmfw cmfw cmfw cmfwpcrnf.
Tlii,s is the same sheet that holds that the occa-
sional hitch in the telephone system (the latest one,
which caused the Telegraph to break into head-
lines and vituperation, was due to bush fires
which melted the ’phone wire) is utterly inex-
cusable.
THE MONSTER.
"If you refuse vie this time I’ll never ask you
again."
“If you can he so cruel now perhaps I'd better
say no right away."
Said that a charge of conspiracy is being
worked up in connection with certain evidence
given in a notable Melbourne libel case. The
charge involves a question as to whether the son
of one of the parties to the suit was the victim
of a perjury job “ put up on him ” by an ex-con-
vict whilst the suit was pending, or whether he is
to be the victim of a conspiracy which was planned
subsequent to the event.
This year’s results in the Sydney Medical
School are out, and the honor list at graduation
includes eight names, and four are the names of
women, while two more skirted candidates are on
the pass list. That is to say, six more lady doctors
are fledged. The system in force at the two big
hospitals allows the Prince Alfred and the Sydney
to take an alternative pick out of the first dozen
or so of the graduates, those selected to act as
house doctors for the ensuing 12 months. Each
hospital is bound to select the best passers at the
final, a billet as house or resident doctor being
one of the admitted prizes for the highest passes.
So that the four 1909 honor women must be in-
cluded in the coveted list. It is only a year or two
since the Prince Alfred Hospital was shaken to
its operating room because a woman student was
ignored by the joint committee and refused the
right of appointment. This year the rights of
four females can’t be overlooked.
* * * *
“ Floater,” from Yarra-side :
Have just taken a glimpse at the annual show of the
Melbourne Gallery students. It is not so interesting as
last year—it lacks last year’s works for the Travelling
Scholarship— but still it contains some instructive
feats in paint and charcoal. The best and most
advanced exploits are by a student possessing the
tasty name of Ilonev. They are two studies of half-
naked men, not wanting in vigor and spontaneity,
and, above all, displaying a gleeful humanness in their
flesh tints. Some students develop from rawness to
deathliness in their painting of flesh. They flee from
crude warmth to ghastly anaemia, with just the under-
hint of putrefaction. Bub this Honey has a gay sense of
the glow of life, so that his (or her) efforts, as it were, de-
mand no requiem Mass for the repose of their souls.
Another thing that takes my fancy is a nice bit of
still life by a Miss Lewis. The composition comprises
some plucked poultry, a knife, a plate, portion of a hard-
boiled egg, and a bottle whose sensuous greenishness in-
vites the eye. Drawing in charcoal from the nude, except
in the cases of young Mclnnes and one or two others, is
lacking in strength, and, here and there, in elementary
draughtsmanship. Still the drawings are informative,
if only for their iconoclastic assaults on the alleged
glory of the female form divine. Some well-modelled
and broadly-treated hands by one Orozier look promis-
ing ; a head in charcoal bv Sturgess is a decided
feature ; and an anatomical figure bearing the signa-
ture “L. McOubbin ” proclaims that artist Fred
has an artistic son. The heads in paint I dis-
like sincerely. Most are physiognomicall.v correct
in owning one nose, two eyes, two ears, etc., but, some
are in other respects the mere gibberish of art.
The bulk are levities in reds and browns, and betray
visages that are grimaces and Color that is a debauchery.
Of course, young students always paint in italics or in
inverted commas, so. to speak : hut such exhibitions
ought to be isolated and put in the Chamber of Horrors.
* * * *
There were pathetic happenings about the
Williamstown fire, when a fierce, hot wind helped
the flames to sweep away
a slice of the suburb in a
fraction of the time it took
to build it. Seeing the
firemen standing about
hopelessly with empty
nozzles in their hands, the
women, whose men were
away at work, strove
valiantly to save what
few possessions they
could. Two, who lived
across the road, got their
furniture into the street,
only to see it swept away
in smoke, while their
houses were saved. Pas-
sengers in passing trains
ran through a shower of
sparks, and so fierce was
the heat that the carriage
windows were cracked or
broken. Some of the
men-folk work at the
Newport engine - shops
and came placidly home
to lunch—only to meet
distracted wives and cin-
dered homes. One vic-
tim picked up a little
lump of melted gold—it
represented 97 sovereigns
and his wife’s watch.
Another gazed helplessly
at his motor cycle—it
looked like a coil of
twisted wire and a few
old jam-tins. While the
blaze was fiercest a
woman dug furiously in
her garden, her cheeks
scorching and sparks
lighting on her dress
every second. At last
she dug up a tin box. con-
taining the deeds of her
place. The house was
gone by then, and even
the flames couldn’t hurt
the land. But many
lost everything; their
whole earthly possessions left to them were the
plain, working clothes they stood upright in.
The people who travel by the Illawarra
(N.S.W.) Steamship Co.’s boats are having a lot
of luck these days and nights. Not so many
months ago one of its four or five boats turned
over in a tired way at sea, after giving the passen-
gers and crew just enough notice of its intentions
to let them leave with their socks. Now the co.’s
other crack boat, the Eden, has butted into a
headland at the entrance to Jervis Bay, making a
hole big enough below the water-line for a
well-fed mermaid to crawl through. There were
about 100 people on board ; and only a water-
tight compartment saved them. By a coinci-
dence, the master of the Eden was the skipper of
the Bega when that tired craft turned over fur-
ther down the coast, and both misfortunes hap-
pened during a big strike. A desire to save coal
may account for the sharp course taken by the
Eden, while the Bega wasn’t helped to keep
upright by the fact that its usual officers had
, been replaced by aged master mariners who were
all bosses. Like the Ly-ee-moon, the Eden struck
just under a lighthouse—within a few yards qf
where the Orient liner Chimborazo came to grief
some 20 years ago.
No one can feel well and strong unless
their bowels, move regularly. Chamberlain’s
Tablets make the bowels act naturally.*
OVERHEARD AT
THE SHOW.
SHE: “Yes, I'm awfully
fond of dogs."
HE (thinking of making her a present): “And
would you like to have a pet puppy? ”
SHE (coyly): "Oh, this is so sudden.”
The Anglican Church in South Aus. has
just discovered a strong, fresh argument against
Australia’s habit of relying on England for its
religion. It was about to ordain two young
clergymen, when it discovered that they were
under 23, and that by an English law of 1804 (105
years ago) they cannot be accepted under that age
except by special permission of the archbishops of
Canterbury and—-Armagh ! A cable to him of
Canterbury brought just the answer that might
have been expected—he had “no precedent” for
doing as was wished. So the churches have to go
without their clergymen, and are talking mutin-
ously about the law of 1804 being “ musty,” and
the Australian Anglicans being “in no way tied
to the apron strings of the Church in England.”
It is said that the last Bishop (Harmer) of Adelaide
was faced with exactly the same situation, but he
consulted the Archbishop in Sydney and then went
ahead without worrying over Messrs. Canterbury
and Armagh.
. , v * * * *
Kogarah rose up last week and directed at
Sydney motorists a veil like unto that of a punc-
tured bull-elephant. Kogarah has endured almost
every ill imaginable at the hands of motorists. It
gets absolutely nothing out of them barring blood-
shed and smell. The pubs of Kogarah are
passing fair; but they are not the sort to
allure car-owners. The suburb boasts no surf,
scenery, shooting or fishing. It hasn’t even
a skittle-alley. Wherefore motorists regard
it simply as a place to streak through at a
great pace. No motorist in the memory of living
Kogarahite has ever voluntarily disbursed a bean
in the town, or halted there a moment unless
forced to by disaster to his vehicle. All roads for
the traveller whirling South Coastwise out of
Sydney lead through Kogarah ; and so the hordes
who go to bathe at Cronulla, equally with the
herds on their way to National Park and the
South Coast towns, insult the place by whizzing
into it, and immediately leaving it as though it
were Gehenna. Kogarah started discouraging
motorists years ago. It erected a line of lamps in
the middle of its main road, calculated to slay
any night-faring car-owner who was unwary or
drunk. It lavished blue-metal everywhere, and
it organised the most effective “trap” in the
State. In vain. It is still about 720 times more
popular than it wants to be. There is hardly
a dog in the bailiwick that hasn’t been run over at
one time or another, and most of them de-
served it. In an infuriated tone Kogarah con-
tinues to demand of its enemy in the car what he
proposes to do about it, and the enemy continues
to answer not, but follows the even tenor of his
whiz towards Tom Ugly’s Point.
At Auckland (M.L ) recently Justice
Edwards dealt a blow at the local police force that
sent its helmet flying over the roof of the Christ-
mas holidays into next year. An old Madame
who had given up the prophesying game was in-
duced by a large constable to resume it for a
moment "and tell the fortune of himself and a com-
panion. Sherlock Holmes then lugged the lady
off to a magistrate. The S.M., however, chased
the case off the premises on the ground that the
peeler was an accomplio". The police appealed,
and Justice Edwards biffed the appeal with all
the authorities he could lay his hands upon.
He also urged the force to go and get work,
whereupon the traps rushed into the street to
show cause, and four of them simultaneously fell
upon one solitary drunk. Meantime the local
Education Board has been shrieking to the police
to capture an incendiary who is burning down its
schools. Two attempts were made to burn a
teacher’s house at Awanui. An adjacent school
was incinerated. A temporary school was also
destroyed by fire. The Maori church was hired
for school work, and it, too, went up in snioke.
At the time of writing the detectives had had a
look round and established beyond doubt that
there seemed to be a wave of incendiarism directed
against the Board’s property.
Sam Mauser’s Anti-Sweating Society fer-
rets out some weird cases of overwork and under-
pay. It considered recently the case of a shop
employee at Sorrento (Vie.) as follows :
The writer stated that he and eight others started be-
fore 7 a,m. and worked till dinner time ; then in the
afternoon till 6p.m. ; and afterwards till lOand 10.30p.m.
every night, and 11 p.m. on Saturdays. They also worked
Christmas day and all holidays. One of the shopkeepers
was asking for a permit to work on Sundays.
When the scandalous narration closed, and the
members had recovered their senses, the meeting
continued :
Mr. C. C. Salmon : They seem to have a law on their
own account.
The Chairman said the Wages Board did not apply to
shires.
Mr. Salmon : It is one of the most glaring cases I have
ever heard of.
And yet, whenever a resolution is moved in Par-
liament for the purpose of extending the Act to
shires, a howl of protest is raised like unto the
roar of battle, though there is really more need
for Wages Boards in the country than in the town.
Gentlemen who wisli to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
THE PATRIOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were many regrets associated with making a
fresh start at the other end of the world, but wherever
duty called there he was prepared to go.— G. 11. Reid.
G. H. Reid was absent from his seat in the Australian
Parliament on 47 days last session—the worst record of
anj' member not an invalid.— News Item.
Where duty calls, there I proceed —
That is, I beg to state,
When the remunerative meed
Strikes me as adequate.
As Rep. I snared a paltry dole—
Twelve pounds or so a week ;
Although it racked my patriot’s soul,
I simply could not speak
Or sit or vote in Parliament;
I rarely neared the place—
Yet, understand, my heart was rent,
My grief showed in my face.
The trouble was, though Dutj - called,
The price it called was low.
Who could expect though Duty bawled '>
That one should rise and go
From Sydney with its fees galore
To Melbourne far away ?
Who’d save his bleeding country fow
Two pounds each working day?
Quite otherwise is it, howe’er,
When, in tones loud and clear,
This duty-call impacts the air,
“ Five thousand pounds a year ” i
For fifty hundred sov’reigns down
I would m.v duty do
In Yass, or Hell, or Chinatown,
Or arid Timbuetoo.
Envoy.
Where duty calls there i proceed—
That is, I beg to state
Where the remunerative meed
Strikes me as adequate
N.S.W.
J. D.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT STS
Roval Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Ruston
Proc+or, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically, new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR
BELTING
». ■ wuk W/.l
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining-purposes. Sole Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE,BALLARAT & BENDIGO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia , '
Writ- Added
ten , to
Sept Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1899 .. £499,753 £222,764 £91,058 £7219 £178,712
1900 . 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1901 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902 . 583,149 286,953' 100,852 400 194,944
1903 .. 034,071 303,836 112,270 217,965
1904 .. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905 .. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
I Kill . 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907 . 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
1908 .. 970.6L1 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909 .. 1,219,980 449,957 157,147 427 612,449
This co. has just arrived at its 40th year; and it cele-
brates the event by a deal which makes its figures swell
visibly. The tired old Australian Alliance Assurance Co.
usid to do life business once on the good old Private
Enterprise plan of collaring' a large slice of the profits ;
but long ago the public found that Private Enterprise in
life assurance wasn’t what Private Enterprise is cracked up
to be ; so the Australian Allianbe dropped out as gracefully
as possible, and, so far as that branch was concerned, sat
•down to wait for the last insurer to die. The co. kept
■on doing some fire ahd marine business ; but it got weary
in that branch, too, and lately sold out to a foreign office.
As the foreign office doesn’t handle life business, that
part of the concern was taken over holus bolus by the
.National Mutual on re-insurance terms. That is one
thing to be said for this office: it is keen after business
even if the business isn’t quite fitted by any particular
table. In that respect, it differs a lot from some
othb'r Australian insurance offices —life and fire—
which have allowed themselves to be hobbled with red
tapb. Helped by this Australian Alliance business, the
income for the year passes £1,000,000 for the first time.
And there is no apparent reason either why the office
should in future slip back behind that million mark.
The Alliance policies total £253,207, and, though the
amount received by way of a single premium isn’t dis-
closed. it was probably about £175,000. But as the in-
come for the year was £219,980 in excess of the even
million, apparently the million was passed without the
help of the big lump received from the tired office.
Twenty years ago, when the National Mutual was just
half as old as it is now, the total funds amounted to
£898,453, which is less than the premium income was'for
last year alone. ,A very vigorous co. is the National
Mutual.
The total funds are now as follows
Assurance fund .. .. .. .. £5,857,979
Investment Fluctuation Reserve .. 79,296 >
Total £5,937,275
The small amount shown as written off during the past
year was struck off the-Investment. Fluctuation Reserve.
Something besides (£1338) was written off furniture and
fittings; but that wear and tear can fairly be reckoned
in with expenses. Furniture still stands in the books at
£8693, and it will be,a good thing when the unproductive
item disappears altogether. The depreciation fund is
fairly substantial; but no Australian life office is more in
.need of such a reserve. For the National Mutual has a
weakness for mortgages ; no less than 55.6 per cent, of
all its assets are represented by plasters on somebody
else’S premises. The A.M.P. has a shade over 40 per
cent., and the more modern Citizens’ has only a little
more than half that'proportion. The Citizens’ nails most
of its faith to public securities ; ‘they give leks interest,
but, unless the bottom falls ’ out of the country,
the office which puts its. money into those securi.
ties is sure of getting 1 20s. in the £ of : its prin-
cipal; and no mortgagee can.be sure of that. The
National Mutual aygues evidently that the extra income
is worth the extra risk. It has £3,369,666 out on mort-
gage ; and an extra 1 per cent, on that means £33,696 a
year. Probably 1 per cent, is more than an office would
average extra for mortgages as compared with Government
securities ; the A.M.P. last year averaged £4 9s. Bd. per
cent, for the one and £3 12s. fid. per cent, for the other,
while municipal and similar loans brought in £4 3s. 2d.
per cent. The ■ chances are, therefore, that the
National Mutual is getting at the most £25,00,1
a year more than it would if the money
it has in mortgages were instead invested in
Government stock. It is a good deal of money; but it
isiPt.by any means all profit. It wouldn’t be all profit fevetl
if there were no slumps iii property values and no fore-
closures ; for mortgages inevitably mean more expenses.
Unfortunately, there are,foreclosures; the co, now has
£96,945 (book value) on it.s hands. The first essential in
life assurance investments is security ; and seeing that
mortgages cannot be secure, every office which goes in
largely for them should put to a special reserve some
portion of the extra interest which they produce. One-
fourth per cent, per annum might be a fair thing
until, at any rate, the special reserve amounted to 10
per cent, of the mortgages and foreclosed properties.
The big lump of premiums received or receiv-
able from the Alliance makes the yearis expense rate wear
a rosier look than it is honestly entitled to. On the total
income for -the past few years the rate; works out like this:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
IfiOi) .. £l6 14 11 per cent. I 1905 .. £lB 2 9 per cent.
1901 .. 16 1 3 ~ | 1906 .. 17 13 9 „
1902 .. 17 5 11 „ I 1907 .. 17 10 8
1903 .. 17 14 1 ~ 1908 .. 16 14 -6
190(4 .. 18 1 5 ~ | 1909 .. 12, 17 7
But it isn’t fair to put it that way so far as the last year
is concerned. Knock off from the income £170,000 on
abcbunt of the Alliance transaction, and the rate works
out at £l4 19s. sd. That, or even £1 more than that,
would mean a very good reduction ; but there’s plenty of
room for it. When it comes to £ll per cent, under nor-
mal circumstances, it inay be regarded as satisfactory ;
and then another £60,000 or so a year will be
available for bonuses—which, so far, haven’t been
oppressive. So much new business has, however,
been done hitherto that the expense figures are really
better than they look. Assuming that old business costs
7 per cent, of the premiums, and new annuity and single
premium business costs 3 per cent., then the other new
business for the past year cost about 104 per cent, of the
year’s new premiums. The only offices which do better
than that are, those which have an industrial department
to feed the other.
Interest earnings, already referred to, work out
as follows
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1902 .. £4 11 7 per cent.
7903 .. 413 11
1904 .. 413 9 „
1915 .. 413 7
1906 .. £4 12 8 per cent.
1907 .. 411 6
1908 .. 411 8
1909 .. 4 11 6
These figures are net. after deducting rates and taxes
(£8527). The Alliance’s lump was actually not received
during the year.; it appears in the balance-sheet among
the outstanding premiums. Deducting that from the funds
a very substantial improvement on the previous years’ re-
sults would be shown. The co. still persists in including
the- Very doubtful item, “ Deferred instalments of annual
premiums” among its assets, a practice which no other
first- 01 even second-class office in Australia adopts. It
is a paper item which inflates the accounts and does the
society no good whatever.
■X * * *
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance, ship-
ping 1 and timber people :
Written
off Pre- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. mises. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1890!. 85,5:17 8 p.e. = 80,000 5,537 155,976
1900.. 90,086 8 ~ ~ 80.000 10,086 166,063
1901.. 80,971 8 ~ ~ 80,000 —97 L
1902.. 84,848 7 ~ ~ 70,000 14,848 181,881
1903.. 48,825 5 ~ ~ 50,000 180,706
1904.. 64,802 5 ~ ~ 50.000 14,802 195,50 S
1905.. 85,892 6 ~ ~ 60,000 25,892 221,400
1906.. 103,981 7 ~ ~ 70,000 33,981 255,381
1907.. 142,743 7 ~ 70,000 30.000 42,743 298,124'
1908.: 142,187 7 ~ ~ 70,000 30,000 42,187 340,311
(5 p.c. on prefs.)
1909.. 156,502 | p r gf C ’ = 50,460 390,771
This co., one of the biggest in Australasia, was formed in
1834 to take over an old-established wool business ;
and, although it arrived at a time when it was
easy to make a fine collection of bad debts, it
had the remarkable good fortune, not only to keep all its
capital intact, but to go on paying 8 per cent, all through
the troubles of the early ’nineties. It certainly had a
great deal of money which didn’t cost it anything like 8
p.c.; and it had the further joy of knowing that most of
that money was lent to it on interminable debentures.
Therefore while J. Bull and J. Mcßull were worrying
other Australian concerns, and wanting their money
back, and forcing 1 them into disastrous sales, this co. was
able to sit down and wait for the recovery. Certainly it
hadn’t made the mistake of rushing dividends up to 20
per cent. ; it just kept down on solid earth and
paid 8 per cent. —if it made more it put the .
money by for the droughty day. So it pulled
through wonderfully well, and didn’t have to
make any distressing explanations either to its share- ,
holders or to its creditors. And the co. thatdidn’t have to 1
make those explanations had a big pull during the next
few years. The same safe policy seems to have been
followed a few years later on : in 1903-4, when the next
big drought happened, the div. was promptly pulled
dovvn to 5 per cent., though in 1904, at any rate, there
was £14,802 left over for reserves. A co. which does
that sort of thing inspires some confidence. In the
past 10 years the advances have grown about 50 per
cent. ; and, as there had been no increase of capital,
the directors rightly reckoned that it was about time to
do something 1 in that way. Again their affection for
cheap money showed up, and an issue of 5 per cent. pref.
shares was decided on. The issue of £1,000,000 was
authorised; but only £500,000 was sent out in this first
lot. The expenses in connection with this issue totalled
£17,826: and the whole of that has been charged against
the year's revenue. The position for the past 10 years
with regard to capital and other items is shown here-
under :
1899. 190 S. 1909.
£ £ £
Capital 1.000,000 1,000,000 1,499,147
Perpet. 41- debentures .. 620,000 620, 1 000 1 ,620,000
~. 4 „ .. 1,643,210 1,643,210 1,780,000 i
Termin. 4 ' 119,570 486,500" 544,778
~ 3| 3,200 Nil Nil
~ 3J .. .. .. 24,385 43,980 33,600 i
„ 3 .. .1 .. 124,370 1,000 ' 1,000
Sun Iry Creditors 1,327,997 4,173,667,2,962,487:
Advances, etc. .. .. 4,575,113 7,380,494 6,832,372 :
Premises, etc. .. .. 258,773 579,445 601,257
Oish deposits, etc.. . .. 95,122 177,730 209,198
Reserve Fund Investments 130,000 235,000 270,000
The most striking difference between this year’s figures
and last year’s is the reduction of the sundry creditors
item. This includes various liabilities—customers’ bal-
ances, balances in transit between branches, bills pay-
able, etc. The total has been reduced by £1,211,180, a
shrinkage which has been provided for partly by the in-
crease of capital and partly by the reduction of advances.
These advances, by the way, include£222,lsBof merchan-
dise. “ Advances, etc.,” isn’t much of an item to include
it in ; but.it is only recently that it has been shown
separately—it used to be included with the “ advances ”
lump, so the practice is continued here in order that the
comparison may be fair. The reserve fund Continues to
grow : and, apart from the reserves that show, there are
the hidden reserves in the shape of the large amounts
that have been written off premises. Of the fdrmal
reserve fund (4320,000), £165,000 is represented by Don-,
don premises and £105,000 by British stock. The whole
position smells sweet and looks clean ; and one comes
away from the post-mortem with the idea that things
could be made ,to look still better if the management was
inclined that way.
* * * *
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and Dairy
Produce Export Co. (Maoriland): —
Written To Re- Re-
Nov,, Profit. Dividends. Off. serves.' serves.
1899.. £10,484 Bp.c.= £4,356 45500 £O2B- £6,920
1900.. 9,492 8 „ „ 4,500 . 5000 6,912
1901.-. 9,151 8 ~ ~ 5,344 4000 6,719
Premiums on new shares .. .. 2,500 9.219
1902.. 11,610 8 p.c. = 6,000 5000 610 9,829
1903.. 12,213 8 ~ i, 6,000 3500 2,713 12,542
Premiums on new shares ... .. 5,400 17,942
Loss.
1904.. 2,315 4 p.c. = 3,927 11,700
Premiums on new shares .. ■...' 1,329 13,029
Profit.
1905.. '15,074 - 0,406 19,435
1906.. 23,833 - 70,639 30,074
1907.. 20,810-J 6 ” PJd ' yOOSf 5000 2,612 32 > 68G
1908.. 15,071 6 p.c. = 11,023 3500 548 33,234
1909.. 17,493 6 „ „ 11,023 3500 2970 36,204
This co., established 27 years ago, has now a paid capital
of £183,727 ; there are 14,497 ordinary shares paid to
£7 10s., and liable for another £2 10s., and 15,000 prefer-
ence shares fully paid to £5. For many years it worked
on a much smaller scale; even 11 years ago the capital
was under £50,000, all in ordinary snares. In the begin-
ning the object was chiefly to get rid of surplus stobk on
fair terms ; but with better and cheaper 1 facilities for
handling and shipment, Maoriland began to breed for
export, and this co. now gets most of its business, that
way. The results are still affected by the meat
market at the other end. But they are not so
dependent on weather conditions as those of the
Australian meat-freezing cos. ; for in Australia prac-
tically the only stock that goes to the works is the
surplus accumulated at the end of three or four fat
years. In the past 10 years the Maoriland export of
frozen meat has never been under 189,000,0001 b., and
never over 270,000,000 lb.; but the Australian exports of
mutton and lamb have swung-between 35,883,0001 b. in
1903 and 109,227,7571 b. in 1907, while the value of the
frozen beef exported was £1,175,145 in 1901 and only
£441,925 in 1905. The business of such a co. as this isn’t
therefore the gamble that it at present is in Australia.
No doubt it will improve in the Commonwealth as it has
in the Dominion, when the big estates in the country
which has a reasonably certain rainfall are put to fuller
use.
Though the shareholders’ capital has been
largely increased it hasn’t been quite sufficient for the
purposes of the business. In IS9B the liabilities to the
public totalled £112,007 ; but they have since been re-
duced to £89,181, plus £39,474 drafts against ship-
ments and proceeds in hand. The works and premises,
valued at £85,234 in 189 S, now stand in the
books at £282,497. Whether the amount written off
is sufficient there is no way of telling: £3500 doesn’t
look much to write off works, etc., that stand at £282,497.
Included in the “ works, etc,” is 1402 acres of land ; and
that may not be depreciating. Also repairs and certain
additions may be paid for out of revenue and charged to
working account, though whether it is so or not can’t be
told for certain. If something of this sort is not being
done the chances are that enough is not being written
off; which would mean that the net profits are over-
stated. In a case of this kind a great deal has to be
taken on trust—which is another way of saying
that this kind of investment has its own risks.
What the investor needs to find out is whether the
capital is intact —whether enough of the earnings are
being put aside to counterbalance the wear and tear of
the plant, etc., which represent the capital. And as
wear and tear of a plant of this character is very heavy,
the inquiry is an important one.
‘ * * * *
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Go. (Sydney):—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £l4Ol H per cent. = £lO9O £3ll £40,922
19)0.. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41,065
1901.. 2369 3 „ ~ 2271 98 41,163
1902.. 2922 3 ~ ~ 2308 614 41,777
1903.. 2590 3 „ ~ 2477 113 41,890
1904.. 3044 3 „ ~ 2584 460 42,350
1905.. 3017 3 „ ~ 2595 422 ' 42,772
1906.. 3349 31 „ ~ 3061 —28 S
1907.. 3872 4' ~ ~ 3534 £lO,OOO 33,398
1908.. 4858 4 „ ~ 3587 1,000 271 33,667
1909.. 4142 4 ~ ~ 3597 545 34,212
This co. is in the land-subdivision business, buying whole-
sale and selling retail. Among other properties it bought
the Furracabad estate, near Glen Inuea (N.S.W.); and,
though some people have made a heap of money by buy-
ing estates and loading the subdivision farmer with tre-
mendous prices, this co. doesn’t seem to have had
much luck that way. Apart from city properties
it held £106,314 worth (book value) in 1900 ; at
present it holds £124,542 worth (also book value).
It may, of course, have bought heavily meantime, and
sold heavily also ; but in view of the high prices which
have ruled during the last few years it would look better
if the big holding of properties had been reduce-l instead
of increased. And.thefact that the co. is hanging on to
so much property makes one doubt whether it didn’t pay-
such a high price in the first place that it can’t even now
sell without making a loss and being obliged to write
something off reserves and capital. The co. an-
nounces that it has a formal reserve fund of
£23,150, besides other reserves; yet if the directors
were offered 355. for their . 40s. shares, the man
who made the offer would probably be damaged by the
rush. For years past, anyway, the shares haven’t been
worth more than 225. 6d., and are not worth quite that
much now. Evidently, therefore, the market hasn’t got
the smallest confidence in these published figures; and
in a general way that means that the “ insiders ” haven’t
either, because if the “ insiders ” had, and assuming they'
possess some means, they' wouldn’t let 40s. shares be
available for 2is. Yet, according to, the published
accounts, the shares are worth more than 40s;
they are worth Vnuiplus their proportion of the reserves.
It is time, therefore, that the whole thing was cleaned up,
and the assets were revalued. Until that is done, so
much suspicion roosts over the published figures that it
is hardly worth considering them seriously'. So far as the
depositors and other creditors are concerned, there is,
however, no apparent cause for any alarm at all. This
shows the position now and at some previous dates :
Nov;, Nov., .May, ’Nov.,
1900. 1908. ! 1909. 1909.
Capital . .. ■ .. £75,176 £89,862 £90,001 £90,113
Deposits. .. .. - 80,689,- 41,960, 39,967 , . 42,019
Other,liabilities .. 45,559 47,056 .63,532 64,279
Advances, etc. .. 42,003 63,60 - 67,370 70,410
City'properties 57,803 36,359 36,339 36,359
Other properties.. 106,314 113,708 -126,426 124,542
Cash, etc. .. ... 7,459 630 707 1,110
The total liabilities of all sorts are thus £106,298; and
against that there are advances and purchasers’ balances,
4.70,410 (and most of those are probably worth 20s. in the
£), city properties £36,359, and other properties,
£124,542. If the advances and purchasers’ balances were
only worth £60,000, the properties would make up all the
rest of the money owed to the creditors even if they only
brought ss. in the £. And that, without any doubt at
all, is a ridiculously low estimate.
Meetings of bank shareholders are mostly flatter
than the gingerbeer that was uncorked for the children
on Christmas Day ; but one shareholder tried to liven
things up at the” meeting of the National Bank of Tas-
mania at Launceston a week or so back. The member,
an ex-may'or of Launceston, gave notice that he would
move—“ That, in the opinion of this meeting, it is desir-
rable—(a) That a second auditor be appointed ; (6) that
no overdraft be allowed to directors ; (<;) that no advance
be granted on the bank’s stocks ; (d) that the retiring
director shall not be Eligible for re-election ; (e) that each
shareholder shall, on payment of a small fee, be entitled
to receive a printed copy of the list of shareholders, and
new' shareholders be entitled to receive printed copies of
previous balance-sheets. And if the above resolu-
tions or any of them be carried, that it be a
direction to the directors to have immediate steps
taken to have legal effect given to same.” Whether the
shareholder who wanted to move these things tripped
over some legal formality, The Bulletin doesn’t know ;
but, if lie did, the chairman didn’t give that as the reason
for tossing them out. They are out of order,” said the
chairman. “ That is my ruling. While I ain in the chair,
1 will not allow any shareholder’s business to be discussed.”
Apparently,therefore,if the directors choose to advance to
themselves the whole lot of the bank’s resources, and
accept the b ink’s own shares as security, or don’t trouble
about any security at all, the chairman won’t allow- the
matter to be discussed, on the ground that the directors
are also shareholders. In that case, the chairman has
such an extraordinary idea of a chairman’s duties that it
might be just as well to try whether somebody else has
the same view of the position. And since the question
has been raised, the sooner shareholders and de-
positors know ivhat the practice of the bank is in
one or two respects ttie better. For instance: Is
it its practice for directors to grant one another
overdrafts? Also is it the practice to advance against
the bank’s own shares? Now that a shareholder has in-
ferentiall.v asked the questions, and the chairman has
declined an opportunity to answer them, the feeling with
regard to this bank won’t be as easy as it might be until
the matter has been cleared up.
The North Shore; Gas Co., which supplies (or
otherwise) all the northern suburbs of Sydney, has done
the gas cos. of N. S. Wales about the worst service they
have ever had rendered them. Though all through the
strike coal has been purchasable at some price, this co.
apparently has no affection for paying away money
except in diva., with the result that last week the
northern suburbs were in darkness. Unfortunately just
at that moment the papers printed a statement that at
Bathurst the works (which are municipally owned) had
been kept going in the face of worse trouble than struck
the North Shore; whereupon it was mentioned that (1)
Bathurst now gets its gas for 3s. per 1000, which is 25 per
cent, less than Sydney pays, although when Private
Enterprise ran the business the town paid 250 per
cent, more than Sydney pays; (2) the Municipal
Gas Act provides that gasworks may be compulsorily
resumed at a price to be arrived at by capitalising t he
average net profits for the last three years at 5 per cent. ;
and (3) the same Act fixes a maximum dividend for
N.S.W. gas cos., which maximum, it is alleged, has in
some cases been exceeded. Apparently there are gas cos.
which, having a charter, are exempt from this law ; but
the North Shore Co.’s accident, followed by the unearth-
ing of the Bathurst experience and the provisions of the
Act, are not likely to make- country and suburban gas
shares any more popular as investments.
* ■* * * -
One desirable innovation in Premier Murray’s
Amending Water Bill moved 4ihe Melbourne Board of
Works to great grief. The trouble was a clause ordering
the Board to start a sinking fund, not at on&e, but in
1914, the fund to be not less than \ p.c. of the Board’s
indebtedness, so that the whole debt might be wiped off
in about 75 years. It wasn’t much of a sinking fund. It
was the same as a man borrowing £5 and paying it off at
the rate of 3d. a year. But thp Board’s lamentations
and groans were dreadful. Premier Murray was, however,
deaf or asleep, and Ministers Watt and Graham openly
jeered at the Board of Shirks ; hut the House of Fat
Landlords was naturally sympathetic towards procrasti-
nation and selfishness, and enthusiastically struck the
clause out. The only alleged argument for this proceed-
ing was that Melbourne’s water and sewerage schemes
were planned for a population of a million, and, there-
fore, it was unfair that the citizen of to-day should be
asked to pay 16s. 9d. per head per annum in order that
his grandchildren need only part up 3s. 3d. per head.
All which is rubbish. Melbourne’s water supply is
already insufficient for its half million ; the principal
mains are utterly inadequate for the needed supply ; and
the fire chiefs have been crying aloud for years for
larger mains and a greater pressure. As for the sewerage,
some of the larger drains are already fully engaged, the
Spotswood pumps can do no more work, and the suburban
population is by no means fully catered for. As for the
tale that the grandchildren will reap all the benefit, this
generation and its immediate predecessors have had a
gaudy old time in selling the easily-acquired lands and
piling up the just as easily acquired debts, and to talk of
“ burdening the present generation ” with a quarter per
cent, sinking fund is just plain meanness and cowardice.
♦ w •
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., some years ago
took over the affairs of the Melbourne Assets Co., the
Federal Assets Co., and the English and Australian Assets
Co.—the three concerns formed to bury the badly-busted
City of Melbourne, Federal, and English and Australian
Mortgage Banks. In the last notice (B. 24/6/'O9) the early
disappearance of the balance of the Trust’s debentures
was foreshadowed ; and it was also shown that, reckoning
in the estimated surplus from sales, etc., about 3s. lOd.
per share would be left in addition to the 4s. which
the share represents. But it was also pointed out that
there was very little cash in hand ; the big surplus was
really merely a paper surplus, the result of a re-valuation,
made in 1906, of assets previously written down. Never-
theless, for a couple of years past it has been whispered
that something was going to happen in connection with
the Trust; and the something was recently announced—
a division of 3s. 6d. per share byway of bonus. But there
is a good deal of dissatisfaction over it, because only 6d. is
to be in cash and the balance is to be in 4 per cent, de-
bentures. Yet a bigger cash distribution wasn’t possible;
in fact, the co. will have to squeeze to get out fid. per
share (there are no less than 1,366,666 shares). The terms
of the debenture issue are not yet known in Australia ;
but they are most likely to be paid off as properties are
realised. Last year (to Oct., 1908) the profit was £23,616,
and the 8 per cent, dividend absorbed £22,777 ; and that
was only the third year that any div. had been paid at
all. Unless the accounts hitherto issued have been quite
misleading, it is a mystery how the co. is going
to pay 4 per cent, on another £205,000 and continue the
8 per cent, dividend. For it has to be remembered that
the co. isn’t to get any of this £205,000 —it says it has it
already and has had it all along.
* * • *
The scandalously mismanaged Cobar Gold
Mines (Fort Bourke of the old days) are to go to the
Great Collar. The cable only mentions “ negotiations,”
but these things are never mentioned at all until they are
practically fixed up. Great Cobar hasn’t any cash to play
up, so it hands over 20,000 shares instead. Great Couars
are worth about £6 3s. 9d., so the Cobar Gold Mines get
equal to £123,750 for the property. There are 176,507
shares in the co., so the purchase price works out at
about 14s. Id, per share. On top of that there are, of .
course, the co.’s own cash resources, which ought to allow
of a dividend of 4s. per share. In the hands of the
present co., Oobar Gold .Min.es seSmed to have no
future worth mentioning; and yet it is so good
a property that the Great Cobar will make a
wonderfully good deal if the transaction is completed on
the lines mentioned above. In 1904, when the oxidised
ores were getting near their end, and when the co. knew
that it was up against the sulphides, it had £66,000 in
hand, after providing for all liabilities ; but since then
about £25,000 of that has been frittered away.
Shareholders in Broken Hill mines are likely to
have an unpleasant feeling when they read that Block 10
has bought the South Comstock, at Zeehan, for £5OOO.
Block 14 was offered the mine lately, but passed. Yet
Block 10 doesn’t want a mine quite so badly as Block 14 ;
for apparently Block 14 has got to the bottom of its
sulphide resources, and Block 10 has still a few hundred
feet to go.
The Ore Concentration Co., which owns the
Elmore process, isn’t as downhearted as it might be over
the House of Lords’ decision in favor of the Minerals
Separation, Ltd. (the people who own the process worked
by the Sulphide Corporation). Ore Concentration, Ltd.,
has issued a circular, saying, among other things :—“ All
this litigation centres round the old Elmore Patents only.
The Vacuum Process, which is now universally used by
our licensees in different parts of the world, is not in-
volved in this litigation at all. Therefore, notwithstand-
ing the decision of the House of Lords —which in any case
relates only to Gieat Britain—our general business is no*
affected.” The German Patent Office, it is mentioned,
refused a patent to Mineral Separations, Ltd., on the
ground that it infringed the old patent.
Theoretically, at any rate, the Torrington
Swamps Co., in the New England district (N.S.W.),
has the right idea in connection with its new sluicing
scheme. Instead of the old portable engines and boilers
it has installed an electric power station, and the motors
to work the pumps will be mounted on trucks, so that
they may be easily shifted. This should save time and
timber ; and timber is becoming a very heavy item with
some of the New England cos.
* * * *
Mt. David (N.S.W.) cleaned up 3250 z. from
640 tons, with 1390 z. from 490 tons of tailings; total,
4640 z. for eight weeks. This should have given a small
profit if the gold was worth £4 an oz. If the report
stated the time it took to raise a crushing and the value
of the metal, it would convey a good deal more real infor-
mation. During the year 4550 tons were crushed for
£8690, so the stone didn’t average £2 a ton. The
deepest level (No. 4) has been driven 130 ft. from
the winch winze, and it is now under a block of ground
proved at No. 3. Sloping has been started, and the
stone appears to be pretty good for a width of Ift. Mount
David also owns some deep alluvial ground, but it is un-
certain if it is connected with the cement lead workedby
the Main Ridge Co. The country is very broken, and the
leads beneath the basalt are of a different age and run in
a different direction to the shallow creeks and gullies.
Reports about the cement wash indicate that it varies a
great deal in value and thickness ; so the battery returns
may also be expected to vary.
Emmaville (N.S.W.) tin miners are on the war-
path against their own particular-monopolist—the M.C.P.
holder. The men complain that thousands of acres, com-
prising the best of the tin ground in the district, are
held under this tenure, and have not been worked
within the memory of the oldest inhabitant—that, in
fact, the visible evidence of the country being anyone’s
property under any form of mining tenure is often so
scarce that the miner doesn’t know where he is until he
bottoms on something good. Then the “ shepherd ”
arrives hastily and explains. An instance: A party lately
pegged out a prospecting area in the Torrington locality
on ground that hadn’t seen a pick for 25 years, so
they assumed it to be unalienated. The disillusion-
ment came after they had delved out aenice
parcel of tin, and it came in the shape of a
furious person who demanded what in Sl>eol they meant
by mining on Ms ground wdthout permission. Rose Valley,
Y Water, The Gulf, McDonald’s,--Reef, and Ottery are
some of the particular places mentioned as the browsing
ground of the “shepherd,” The miners want the Mines
Minister to get a report on the district’s M.O.P.’s; and on
the evidence the request dcSfegn’t seem extravagant.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) is crosscutting at a
lower level to try to strike the gutter of tin wash. The
first drive was taken 125 ft., but proved to be at too high
a level, though a,little Wash was seen on the steep sidling.
Nothing much can be expected while the rock bottom
takes a steep angle, but this seems to indicate that the
gutter is not far away, and will be reached by the drive,
if the latter is deep enough to drain the ground.
* * ■» *
A few months since the notoriously patchy
Gold Hill, in the Peak Hill district (N.S.W.), woke up the
Sydney Stock Exchange with a few rich returns and two
sixpenny dividends. One of the returns was 2310 z. from
118 tons stone ; but since then there has been a horrible
slump. All that can be said of a gamble of this kind is
that the punter who buys when things look bad stands a


For Security
Stability
Economy
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE.
Manager.
SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. V?
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:. Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgroorlie.
[2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
chance if a pateh of specimen stone is struck. The face
of the 300 ft. level is said to at present carry payable stone
for a width of 4ft., but the stopes overhead are not rich.
* • » *
Before it starts work again Queen Bee(N.S.W.)
is going to have a shot at raising more capital—a thing it
should have done over 12 months ago.
Golden Horseshoe was hit up in the Perth
Supreme Court the other day for £4275 shortage in
dividend duty. The Government’s case was that between
1003—when the Act came into force —and 1909 the co.
distributed the gross amount in dividends without the
deduction of the £5 per cent. duty. The co. denied that
it owed the State anything, and doggedly declared that
it had paid Is. for every £1 divided among shareholders.
Justice Burnside decided that the co. was bound to pay
duty out of the dividend, and deduct it from the
dividend, and gave judgment accordingly. What the
co. did was to pav, say, £lO,OOO to shareholders, and
then hand over £5OO to the Treasury; while the Court
decides that the £10,500 was dividend, and the tax should
have been £525 in that case. As the suit was a test one
the other mining cos. in the soup will have to fork out
an additional £27,000 among them, as well as pay their
share of the Costs, unless some sympathetic higher
tribunal can be induced to upset the verdict.
* * * *
Westralia has only piled up trouble for itself
by truckling all these years to the big foreign mining
cos. ; and now that necessity has simply driven the
Government to alter its attitude, the big men on the
London Boards are trying whether the old bounce won’t
work again. F. A. Govett led off at the Lake View meet-
ing. First of all he railed against Newton Moore for
putting up the price of water in the face of what he
alleges was a distinct Ministerial promise that, owing to
the mine’s reduced circumstances, a lower rate would be
charged. Then he hit out about the State’s dividend
tax, and especially at the belated discovery that the past
seven years’ gatherings from this source of revenue were
not as much as they ought to have been. Finally, brim-
ful of disgust, he told how an unspeakably ungrateful
Government had refused to afford financial assistance
towards the geological survey of Kalgoorlie which Dr.
Maclaren is now doing for the Lake View, Ivanhoe
and Oroya-Brown Hill cos. Then he sparred for breath,
apd passed on to other things. The difficulty over
the water rate is said to have arisen through the Minister
for Mines having based his promise on certain mistaken
assumptions about what a colleague had really said.
Additional money has to be raised from somewhere to
keep the leaky pipe-line in order, and meet the sinking
fund instalments ; and, as the Minister had no power to
cut the price of water, the Department thinks it is en-
titled to go ahead just as if the Minister had said nothing.
Touching the matter of the geological survey, Govett’s
grievance is a ijit hollow ; for Maolaren’s investigations,
if they benefit anybody, will benefit the three big cos. If
the Government is the proper party to pay for the sur-
veyor’s work, it is also the proper party to pay for a great
deal of the boring which the big cos. have done. And it
is not as though the cos. were hard up; even the Lake
View has money to burn in burrowing for lead in Eurmah,
ill boring for oil in Russia, and in going on the blind as
regards something else in Peru —all money dug out of this
Westralian mine. Under the circumstances it is, to say
the least of it, cheeky for Govett to kick at the Govern-
ment for not sharing the expense of the survey, seeing
that money which should be spent in sinking the shaft on
the co.’s Kalgoorlie property and finding out what the
deeper ground contains is being splashed up in foreign
lands.
* * * •
Principal Westralian results for November
Value
Ton- Revenue. Profit, per
nage. £ £ ton.
Golden Horseshoe .. 25,742 49,079 19,616 38/2
Gt. Boulder .. .. 17,847 50,118 27,101 56/1
Ivanhoe .. ...' .. 19,488 41,395 20,005 42/5
Kalgurli .. ~. 10,760 28,464 ' 15,025 52/10
Associated .. .. 11,327 18,734 3,914 33/1
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,500 23,631 9,994 35/-
Great Fingall .. .. 10,736 15,045 1,729 28/-
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,710 21,568 8,551* 36/10
Lake View Consols .. 11,037 13,293 2,613 f 24/1
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,457 11,228 ' 4,133 50/4
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,089 12,519 2,674 27/6
Hainault 5,814 7,811 1,481 26/10
Boulder Perseverance.. 5,059 11,005$ 43/6
Chaffers .. .. 4,004 6,567 1,074 32/9
Maranoa .. .. .. 2,564 ,4,572
Black Range .. .. 2,121 6,780 2,807 63/11
Hills Proprietary .. 1,315 3,370 2,332 51/3
Associated Northern .. 3,630 4,346 601 23/11
Marvel Loch .. 1,474 2,297 573 31/2
IdaH 1,000 1,980 417 39/7
Peak Hill.. .. .... 5,111 2,204 43 8/8
North White Feather.. 2,190 3,050 272 27/10
Boulder No. 1 . . 2,128 2,426 28 22/9
Sirdar .. .. .. 1,073 830 158' 15/6
Orion .. .. 783 1,143 70 29/2
LO3S.
Gwalia South .. .. 701 1,583 2,052§ 45/2
Vivien .. • *.. .. 3,440 3,125 695 18/2
Northern Mines.. .. 7,284 7,390 171 20/3
Cumberland .. .. 344 610 334 35/6
Sandstone Development 1,500 2,440 689 32/6
’Special clean-up prior to handing over plant and leases
to Oroya Links, Ltd., and removing £17,023 bullion
reserve to a place of safe-keeping,
tineluding £lO9B derived from the re-treatment of old
residues.
♦Mill ran 10 days, when a fire put an end to ore treatment
for six months at least. An additional £7OOO or
thereabouts is expected to be recovered from the
final clean-up.
§The month’s bill for new development amounted to
£2062.
Kalgurli (W.A.) held its annual speech-day in
London on the 14th instant, when a managerial cable on
the subject of recent mine developments was read. This
showed that the length, breadth and thickness of the
outlook had increased somewhat since the date of the
annual report, and that a brightening up of things had
taken place. Provided preseut profits are kept up, there
should be no fear about maintaining the dividend.
Hannans Star and Boulder Deep Levels, which
now trade under the name of Hannans Star Consoli-
dated, are hung up pending the completion of the
transfer of the two properties to the fused undertaking.
This isexpected to happen about ,thg end of December,
after which the erection of the new treatment plant and
the clapping on of development is to be started.
« * *
Gwalia Consolidated (W. A.) had a cash balance
of £33,441 at the end of last June, of which £28,000 was
lent on the Stock Exchange with “ ample security.” The
Profit and Loss account for the year showed a credit of
£25,325 ; with the £2109 brought forward, the total was
£27,434. Of this amount £13,901 has been written off for
this, that and the other thing, leaving £13,533 to be car-
ried forward. Upwards of £32,000 was, however, spent
on new machinery and more or less permanent works
during the term, and charged to capital account, so that,
when'’everything is reckoned up, the co.’s outlay was
much in excess o£ its income. There is, of course, nothing
very wrong about this ; but somehow, like most concerns
similarly circumstanced, the co. thinks it a good move to
refer flatteringly to what it has made and what book balance
is left to carry forward, adding only a word or two at the
tail end about capital expenditure. This method is much
like the ostrich trick of sticking its head in the sand.
The annual report mentions that there is enough ore
developed above the 100 ft. level to keep the enlarged mill
of 30 stamps running for two years ; and in view of this
cheerful outlook, the directors, other than the chairman
(who is well provided for), talk of collaring the £l5O a
year remuneration sanctioned by a previous generation
of shareholders over nine years ago. But there are likely
to be ructions if they try it on.
* • * »
The Board of the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has at
last brought itself to take a more cheerful view of things,
and has "decided to fix the monthly yield at about
£23,625, which will allow of an easy 15d. per quarter.
It is printed in the West that no more calls are
needed to complete the mill oh the Westralia Waihi Co.’s
Norseman property, and that ore treatment is expected
to start in January. This is very cheering; but is the
mine going to turn out as well as the local papers allege,
or will it prove the frost that others in the district have
done after t.he public has been let in and the insiders
have skipped out? So many bare-faced frauds round
about Norseman have been palmed off on the unsuspect-
ing public that every property thereabouts is regarded
nowadays as a guilty party until it can prove its inno-
cence.
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) dug out £45,823
for the year ended July last; but, although a “profit
balance” of £5317 is shown in the accounts, there is, as
in former years, nothing left for shareholders. Aided by
a reconstruction which apparently netted £22,000, and
the issue of some £6OOO worth of debentures, theco. has
been carrying on business in this way for over 14 years ;
but up till now' only those on the wages, salary and pick-
ings list have benefited by the co.’s existence. On the
present occasion ore reserves are estimated at two years’
supply ; but, taking the present outlook as a guide, these
reserves might just as well be so much foul air for all the
good they are likely to bring the heart-sick people who
hold the scrip.
The people who run the Australian mine, Clon-
curry, evidently mistake it for a marine store. They
started smelting a couple of years back with a plant about
a quarter of a century old, and soon closed down, finding
it unprofitable to smelt with the antiquated appliances.
Now they have acquired a 17-year-old plant in the
Northern Territory, and are shipping it to Oloncurry.
Fdrtunately they can’t spoil the mine, which is One of the
best in the district. The co. is mostly English.
* * * *
The McGregor, Oloncurry (Q.), is a huge
deposit of silica and schist, with irregular bunches of
copper ore. The working out of the various patches
will be most difficult, while taken out in a face the lode
would not pay for mining and cartage. The shaft and
other workings are poor things, and the plant is slipshod.
The compressor is erected so far away that two sets of
engine drivers are necessary, while a permanent water
supply could only be got at heavy expense, and a railway
through such rough country would break any ordinary
mining co.
* * * *
East Mexican, Oharters Towers, continues to
enliven the'local market. Speculators are watching the
boundary level and the four rises going up towards it
from the N. B. Freehold’s No. 1 level. No. 3 rise is 270 ft.
east from Mills’ United, and No. 4 is still further out. It
is hardly likely that all the good things will pinch out
near the boundary ; but it is doubtful how far the good
stone will carry upwards into Mexican ground. The latter
can only gain access to its boundary level by favor (Mills’
United is to the west and N.F. B. to the north). This diffi-
culty has proved so exasperating that the Mexican has at
last decided to sink a shaft from the 760 ft. level; but it
will be a long and expensive job. N. B. Freehold might
befriend the struggling Mexican and help it to prove the
Day Dawn ; but the Fatman doesn’t always help the poor
fellow on the other side of the fence.
, Scottish Gympie (Q.) is one of the few bright
spots of the field. It has struck the Inglewood reef 6ft.
wide below the 2000 ft. level, and is now cutting a
chamber at 2207 ft. The returns for October and Novem-
ber tot up 15,535 tons for 44350 z., which makes the Scot-
tish the biggest producer of quartz in Queensland. There
are 660,000 shares, so the dividends are reckoned in ha’-
pence. Other Gympie mines that have the Inglewood
formation have had only moderate luck. South Glan-
mire and Monkland certainly reports 1056 tons for 4170 z.
gold from the Inglewood, lloz. from No. 1 reef andlsooz.
from a clean-up of the plates ; total 5780 z. But that sort
of cake only comes once a year. No. 2 S. Great Eastern
shows an improved output and declares a dividend of 3d.
per share. In both these mines the Inglewood reef gives
payable returns, but is much smaller than in the Scottish
Gympie.
* * * *
From Randolph Bedford : “Inspected Balfour,
the new copperfield on the Tasmanian West Coast, ap-
proachable now from Stanley, the Tasmanian port nearest
Melbourne, by 87. miles of coa,ch and saddle, up one side
of a triangle and down the.other. A railway, Stanley
to Balfour, in 45 miles, will take along the base, cutting
good agricultural lands ; but the right route may be from
Zeehan, through the Pieman country to the Interview.
Meanwhile, the toy harbor of Whale Head, 12
miles from Balfour, is good enough for all purposes
until Balfour has made a field of itself. Except
for the discovery by one Smith of a little good
ore in the side of a creek. Balfour might be de-
serted to day. Tin was got in the valley west of the
Central Balfour outcrop 25 or 30 years ago, and then
scratchers won £30,000 worth of oxide. There is no granite
anywhere for 12 or 15 miles. On the strength of the ore in
the creek, and following on an application for forfeiture
of the unworked ‘ Reward ’ lease, Murray Bros. put. two
tunnels into the eastern side of the hill and struck good
ore, of which in two years they have shipped to Waratah
(N.S.W.) 1100 tons of over 30 per cent, stuff. Following
on this, prospecting of- the Central Balfour was started by
Aloysius Kelly for a syndicate of the old Broken .Hill
, group, and developments are excellent. Then the field
jumped into publicity.
“ On surface value most men would turn Balfour
down cold. . Button grass covers up slate and schist
country, carrying quartz reefs as fold veins; the only
apparent possibilities of mineral are in the lorig quartz
outcrops which are each the backbone of a long undu-
lating hill. And on surface these outcrops of vitreous quartz
are as hungry as a hound’s tooth. Superficially their one
interesting feature is their persistence, some having a
continuity of a mile and two miles almost without a
break. I have been over 13 x 3 miles of the country, and
am told that they continue for a further 15 miles south.
These Outcrops have generally a course 20 deg. W. of N.,
and are wide enough—often up to 50ft. There is a second
kind of outcrop—a very arenaceous quartzite; but
the more massive form predominates, and if any
rule has been established the massive form is the
more likely metalliferous capping. , When opened the
outcrops are found to carry iron pyrites almost to
surface, and in most cases where work of any appreciable
extent has been carried on the iron sulphide carries
copper sulphides, glance and covellite. The prospecting
is, in early stages, the blindest of blind stabbing. The
future of the field is likely to be an aggregation into a big
co. like the Lyell, and that aggregation may make the
railway start from Zeehan or Queenstown —nobody can
tell yet. It is too much to expect all these outcrops
to cover profitable mines ; yet one undeveloped show is
on face value as good as another and many of the
despised may become stones of the corner. The per-
sistence in length may be taken to argue continuity in
depth, but it may be continuitj' of silica and not of ore.
Personally I think on the evidence of the Central develop-
ments that the ore will live, and size will have to make
up for poverty.
“The Central has developed a shoot of ore
220 ft. long of varying widths, in an ore channel 38ft.
wide, and has won from exploration at the .tunnel level
and in crosscuts from the winze 1500 tons ore, which will
probably bulk 15 per cent. In the workings from the
winze westerly there is a make of Oft. of ore and another
of 12ft. of ore, both bulking 9 per cent., and easterly
there is 7ft. of ore worth 4 per cent. The winze is 35ft.
below the tunnel, or 80ft. front surface. The shallow
workings were unavoidable in the necessarily cautious
prospecting adopted, but a main shaft is going down now
and is to be equipped for 500 ft.
“ Murray’s Reward, adjoining the Central, has
stoped 4ft. of rich ore for 300 ft. to a height of 42ft. south
of the No. 1 tunnel, and northerly for 90ft. to a height of
42ft. A third tunnel from the west or opposite side of
the hill is reported to have cut the west lode of the
Central. Rich ore is reported in the winze, and
is showing in the end south, and there is a lot
of ore standing and on the dumps which will
be good grade for a local smelter or a rail-
way. But Murray’s ought to sink. The day of
shallow tunnels has passed for them. Alleged that this
show cannot be floated, as one owner (his name is not
Murray) cannot be found.
“For the rest of the field developments are
either good enough to swear by or good enough to lead a
roan on.”
» • * •
Central Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), now retaliates
in a gentlemanly way. Dodds and Bryant and Toole, of
the Cathcart, thumped out their belief that the Cathcart
lead does not go through the Central ground. Let the
bores do the talking, savssquare-jawed Jimmy McCrorey ;
and the public, now that the bloom is off the Cathcart
rye, thinks the same. More than that, adds the same
truthful James, the whole slope of the country is to the
south, and you can’t expect the lead to run up-hill. This
is horse-sense ; and the said James McCrorey, having
heaved out the home truth, jerked out his chin and blew
out his chest as if he were facing Jim Mace instead of Harry
Dodds. This little duel of words has occasioned no end
of fun, especially as McCrorey adds that he hopes all the
Central people will be able to buy estates and city houses
out of the proceeds of the mine, and not out of share-
booming. This is a left-handed slap at someone. Every-
body asks who. The only landed gent, in the Ararat swim
is Uagelthorn, M.L.0., who shows on the register
of the Cathcart Co. with 16,000 shares. The market
inclines to McCrorey’s opinion that the Central has a show
to get the extension of the Cathcart lead; but, seeing
how coarse the gold is, it hasn’t much faith that the Cen-
tral is going to pick up rich wash beyond the influence of
the tributaries.
• • * •
There has been a slump in the little Junction
Dredging Co.’s divs. the last few months :
Re-
Gold, etc. Profits. Dividends, serves
May, 1907 .. £4125 £l9Ol £lOOO £1696
Nov., 1907 5390 2491 2000 2187
May, 1908 .. 5234 2161 2500 1848
Nov. ,1908 .. 5869 3103 3000 1 tiki
Written off .. 800/
May, 1909 .. 5049 2220 1875 1496
Nov., 1909 .. 36Q8 861 500 1857
Nearly all Gippsland(Vic.) dredges go on the blind. Very
few of the properties have been prospected, and in less
than half a dozen of them have bores been put down sys-
tematically. So the co. rarely knows what is immediately
ahead of it, and when it strikes a poor patch, or when its
two or three dredges strike poor patches simultaneously,
all it can do is to plug away and cheer up shareholders
with the remark that things look like a change.. That is
what happens in this case. Still shareholders can t
growl. The paid capital is only £9625, or £10,158 includ-
ing premiums on a late share issue, and the three years’
work shown above has given £10,875 in divs., with only
182 acres dredged out of a total of 418 acres.
» » • •
The last bit of luck to come the way of share-
holders in Williams’ Fancy, at Berringa(Vic.), was late in
1906, when the Northern Territories Mines, Ltd., took an.
option and talked about giving £50,000 cash and 24,000
shares in a 160,000 share co. But even that bit of luck
turned dog on the co., and all that it ever saw of the
£50,000 was the £5OO deposit. Since then things
have been far from good with the Fancy. In
1906 the yield was poor enough—4dwt. 16gr.—
but now it has got down to 2dwt. 22gr. That
was the past half-year’s average ; for the half-
year before that it was about ldwt. less. And that ldwt.
made most of the difference between a profit of £632 for
the past half-year and a small loss (£152) in the term
behind it. Expenses have been got down to a very fine
point : 11s. lfd. per ton covers the lot, management and
all. Of course, that doesn’t allow for much development;
but there is a fair amount of stone in sight, though it is
very poor. From first to last £16,800 has been paid in
divs.; but, with debts of about £l7OO to wipe out—mostly
for the new suction gas plant—there isn’t much likelihood
of a taste in 1910, even if the new plant should come
right up to expectations and save the talked-about £l2OO
a year.
J * • * *
Bendigo’s figures for a few years past
Yield. Dividends. Calls. Profits.
1901 '. 193,0150 z. £183,780 £136,109 £47,670
1902 192,8220 z. 207,990 131,631 76,359
1903 .. 233,5890 z. 322,415 141,977 180,438
1904 .. 248,7850 z. 367,896 168,094 199,802
1905 ‘ 218,6830 z. 230,009 175,281 54,728
1906 '.. 223,7330 z. 246,254 221,262 24.992
1907 .. 196,9440 z. 122,017 208,779 Nil
1908 .. 193,1420 z. 126,268 135,923 Nil
1909 .. 212,0340 z. 159,865 110,762 49,103
So the calls were less than half of what they were
in 1906; and that tells a tale of many disap-
pointments. In fact, there probably never was a time
when Bendigo took a more dismal view of its deep work-
ings. One by one the c* s. which have been sinking to-
wards Gehenna (and, judging by the temperature, had
j list about reached it) are turning back and probing
further out in their upper levels. And there’s very good
reason to believe that many of them will do well at it.
* * * *
Geologists Twelvetrees and Ward have worked
for three months at Zeehan to tell whether the shoots of
ore live down or no ; and their labors haven’t brought
forth much. All they say is “ Yes !” .written in poster
letters as big as Geology Dunn’s “Illimitable Bendigo.”
There is a lot of talk about primary rocks and denuda-
tibn, and theorising galore. That may satisfy those who
have not stood up to a waning concern. But the man
who sees the ore gradually fade out in a primary forma-
tion as depth is achieved, doesn’t want geology. He wants
a lively market and a fast train in which to clear away
after he has made his last sale and left the other people
in the soup. The two good points made by the Twelve-
trees-Ward combination are tna,t ore is now being devel-
oped north beyond the big slide in the Montana mine,
and that, as the best ore is contiguous to that fault,
prospecting should be done from existing levels along its
course. This sounds like a bit from Prof. Gregory’s re-
port oil the Lyell mines. The Professor’s advice in
that case was followed, with the happiest result, at a
time when the claim looked of the bluest tint. But as
Zeehan-Montana ends the year with a debit of about
£BOOO, J. Bull doesn’t appear to be inclined to put up
money; so the Government will have to do more than
publish its geologists’ reports if Zeehan is to look up.
The Transvaal (S’African) dividends for the
quarter ended September amounted to £543,949, of which
£250,250 was disbursed by the Ferreira Deep Co.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * • *
Jodelite Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants, Dry Rot, Fungus, Teredos,
ravages of rats, damp walls, etc. Used by all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney ; also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
« V; ; * *
In the Supreme Court of New South Wales, in
Equity, a suit lately brought by Bell’s Asbestos Co. Ltd.,
of 315*Kent Street, Sydney, against Perdriau Rubber Co.
Ltd. for infringement of trade mark and selling engine
packing as “Dagger,” not of the plaintiff companys
manufacture, has been settled upon terms agreed upon
between the parties, the defendant company acknowledg-
ing the plaintiff company’s right to the-exclusive use of
the device and the word “Dagger” in connection.with
engine packing, and consenting to a perpetual injunction
against the use by the defendant company of such device
and word, and paying the plaintiff company’s cost of suit.*
+ * * *
Mount Elliott Limited are now reconstructing
the whole of their smelting plant, which reconstruction
means entirely new steel buildings throughout, new blast
furnace, complete new forehearths, traversers, converters,
matte ladles, double slag pot carriages, mould cars,
gathering cars and electrically operated haulage gear,
weighing machines, drilling machines, a complete new
generating set with electric cranes for transporting con-
verters and various other motors, also a complete new
tramway system. The whole of the foregoing work has
been placed in the hands of the well-known firm of
Mining Engineers, Messrs. Walkers Limited, of Mary-
borough, Queensland.*
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally' effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by' means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
m * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
We desire to express our regret to our various
clients for our inability to execute their orders as
promptly as they have a right to expect, but owing to an
unprecedently heavy rush of orders our stocks have
become almost depleted, but full supplies will be here in
January, when all orders will have immediate attention
and prompt despatch. We have been severely handi-
capped in getting our shipments forward owing to the
iriegular opportunities of shipment from South Africa,
but this difficulty has now been overcome and no further
trouble need be expected on this account. CAPE
. EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.*
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under date
October 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited:—“ln every branch of business
success has been marked with sagacious management, and
it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note that
the huge surplus at the last valuation has been put to
most excellent and practical use in strengthening its
resources.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grinnvade and Go. Sample
o-rinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory’ ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
■* * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street.Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.— Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now’ taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large: stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Austro-li&hy Babcock a-nd Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of tlie
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, tic
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria,*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sii.berbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


m
CORTICELLI SPOOL SILK wears well in the garment :
the seams don't rip. and each stitch holds secure We guaran-
tee CORTICELLI SILK is smooth, even elastic, and strong,
and that every spool is “ Full Measure.”
CORTICELLI COSTS YOU
LITTLE more than Common Silk, but YOU GET MORE
SILK, better Silk and stronger Silk, when you buy ” CORTI-
CELLI.” which has held the WORLD’S RECORD for
superiority for over 70 Years.
Think of what this Means!
Corticelli Silk Mills,
ESTABLISHED 1838
AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE : 91a YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL, S
i
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
EDUCATION BY POST. ?'
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of This
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no wav connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney *
EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/0. Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
FOR
W
8
i
w-3.
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
BLACKMAIL.
"Hi, stop that, Sandy. Ye’ll turn the milk wi’
ye blastin’.”
"Hoot, mon! I'll nae stop for milk. Hae ye
naethin' stronger? ”
“ Itan ” : There is again talk of doing
something hostile to the insidious pest, Patter-
son’s Curse, in Riverina, but probably it will not
go past the stage of hurling defiance at the vege-
table. Like some of the thistle importations,
this weed provides food during drought times
when the indolent farmer’s stock have a
poor lease of life; but it is an in-
significant advantage compared with the dis-
advantages. The legend along the Murray is
that a settler named Patterson was the first to
import the weed, although no one is clear where
he got it from. He had an eye for the beautiful,
and coddled the thing in his garden for the hand-
some blooms it produced. Eventually it took
charge of the run, and Patterson, after a strenuous
battle with it, fled, leaving the Curse as a legacy
to the country. Like the lovely water hyacinth
and the dandelion, its wealth of color is a poor
recompensfr for the way it strangles other vege-
tation.
“ Marloo” : I wish to butt a decision into
the crocodile discussion. Some aboliars averred
that the croc, did not include Binghi as an item
of its menu. Mr. A. Meston, who devotes his
time to the study of black brudder, explains the
case thus : “ Binghi and Co. will bathe fearlessly
in a stream while the resident crocs, sun them-
selves on the opposite bank. If the blacks recog-
nise a visitor from another stream they postpone
the dip. The strange saurian bears the same
enmity to the local blacks as one tribe to another.
It is the visitor which samples the unwary
Binghi.”
* * * «
“F.J.W.” : This is the story of Spiller,
who dabbled in the drink traffic in Maoriland.
Spiller’s friend Burge was working on the big
railway job, and it was at his wicked suggestion
that Spiiler left his native, town, some 20 miles
distant, in a gig in which, besides himself, were
four carefully disguised cases of whisky. He got
out at dusk, and struck the navvies’ camp—and
Burge. By nine o’clock he had disposed of two
cases in small lots at a sovereign a bottle. The
boys thought the price steep but Spiller smoothed
their with talk of the risk and the freight.
When things were approaching a state of ripeness,
he sneaked off and planted the other two cases
down by the creek. Then he took a hand in the
revels, and by midnight the camp, including
Spiller, was a raving jest. Next morning Spiller
awoke with the same old thirst, only worse, and
made a bee line for the creek. The creek was
there all right, but the whisky wasn’t. He was
a bit hazy about the position of things, and con-
sulted Burge. Burge explained that late in the
evening Spiller had sold the lot, and that he
(Burge) had bought a good deal of it. He called the
camp to answer if that wasn’t so, and the camp
was quite positive about it. However, Burge
said Spiller could have some back at the same old
price—£l. During the day Spiller bought 14
bottles; and now that he’s home again and has
had time and a clear head to do some thinking, he
can’t understand the talk of big money in sly grog
selling. Still, on general principles, he isn’t quite
so sure about Burge as he used to be.
* * m «
“J. Skimp”: In the Westralian mining
towns that are in anything like a decent state of
animation, the cum-an-av-a-drink monster is at
its worst. A man’s class is decided by the num-
ber he shouts for, and the J. Woodseris unknown.
To shout for the room is common; for the
“ house ” nothing extraordinary; and if the
shouter is “brassed up” at all, he says : “ Call in
them chaps outside.” One of this type had just
arrived to knock down a cheque in Perth recently,
when he dropped into a crowded billiard room,
and let go the astounding challenge : “ Play any-
thing in the room, 50 up: drinks for the crowd.”
There was a pause, the magnitude of the scheme
so amazed everyone. But the outbaeker explained
that it was the usual thing where he came from,
and the marker—a 100 break man—took on
the job. As soon as they started, the conse-
quences of a possible defeat rushed through the
marker’s brain, along with visions of the unpaid
tailor’s bill, the things that uncle was minding,
and his theatre-loving girl. He tried to esti-
mate the size of the audience, and the number
that would “go honest,” and keep themselves
down to a “tray’s worth,” till he could scarcely
hit a ball. But the bushman’s rotten play pulled
the marker through, and he won by a narrow
margin. Then there was a free house for 15
minutes, the crowd marvelling at the wealth of
this eccentric millionaire. (As a matter of fact
he “shovelled muck” at far-out Mertondale.)
“Are we all here?” said the cheque-smasher.
“We played for the crowd! Dammit all, call in
them chaps outside ! ” Had anyone succeeded in
lining-up the five or six thousand more or less
thirsty citizens in Hay-street it would probably
have been a record middleweight shout.
* ■* * *
“ Arraunook ” : To the men of the Back-
blocks the axe is more than a mere implement for
cutting down trees. One day lately I met a party
of eight young bushmen riding along, each with
an axe over his shoulder. I thought at first that
the Jap invasion had happened and that I had
struck the advance guard of a regiment of fron-
tiersmen. On inquiry I found that they were
merely off to a trial chopping match on a neigh-
boring place. Next afternoon I called at a little
log hut to ask my way. An old chap was stand-
ing outside the door, and was using a tree-stump
as a table whereon to cut out with a sharp axe a
moleskin patch for a pair of trousers. “Yes,” he
admitted, “the axe is a mighty handy thing.
This one cut every bit of timber for that hut, and
ever since I lost me scissors two years ago I’ve
used it for cuttiu’ cloth and such things.” A day
or so later I happened to call at a settler’s place,
and the young bushman I found at home
invited me to stay for dinner. “You’ll have
to take pot luck, though,” he laughed.
“The women folk are away, and I don’t
bother much with cooking this hot weather.” I
entered the cool kitchen, and my host busied
himself setting out his store of cold meat, pickles,
bread and butter, all the time chatting about the
weather, the roads ana the cows. Suddenly an
idea struck him. “ We’ll have a salad ! ” he cried ;
“it’s just the thing this hot day!” He dis-
appeared and returned in a minute or so with two
crisp lettuces and the usual gleaming axe. Then
he started to cut the vegetables up with it.
“ That’s my way,” he explained as he put in the
finishing touches. “A girl would take an hour
fooling round with a knife ; but you can’t beat the
axe.” Whilst we ate he told me that he had won
three chopping matches with the salad-making
implement. Before I went he showed me three
more axes, all of them sharp enough to shave
with. “Beauties, aren’t they?” he said. “I
spend all my spare time on them getting them
ready for work.” I departed in a humble frame
of mind, for I remembered the timber-thumping
affair about as sharp as a Family Bible in our
suburban back-yard, and mv conscience hurt me.
A FORTUNATE PROVISION.
BILLO: “ Thort you couldn't afford to marry?”
NEDDO : “ Well, I couldn’t if it hadn’t been fer
that dollar I won on Speedwell.”
Another vegetable curse has been doing
hard work in the Beaudesert district (Q.). Mys-
terious horse-deaths, extending over a number of
years, led to a long series of experiments, and the
result is that the State’s principal vet. (Mr. 8.
Dodd) has coine to the decision that the wild
passion vine is the cause. This anathema was
imported from Brazil. Most of Australia’s curses
have been irniiorted from somewhere.
* * * *
“ Cict ” : Be the curse of Patterson
(B. 2/12/’O9). The vegetable is cursing first-rate
in this end of Riverina (Brocklesby), and pro-
mises to be foaming at the mouth next harvest.
Have noticed lately scores of single plants cursing
on their own in the lanes hereabouts, and doing
their best to produce as much seed as possible ere
the season escapes them. Last year the tracks
under consideration were free from the execration.
Moreover the cookies over here merely poke their
pipe-stems at it, and convey the information that
“ Thet ther’s a pizen plarnt.” Not more than 10
per cent, bother to root out the few lonely sprouts,
even when close up against their fences; this
notwithstanding the fact that a few miles off the
blight has deposited its purple curse over hundreds
of acres of good wheat and grass lands, and is
raging onward like Doomsday with a cinder in its
eye.
HIS FAULT.
CHAP ON THIS SIDE: “I wouldn’t have that dog
as a gift.”
OTHER CHAP: “ What’s wrong with the dog?”
IST CHAP: "He's too blessed — uin — er” (with in-
spiration) "dogmatic.”
Concerning the discovery on the East Coast
of M.L. of a skull of a very low type, estimated
to have been buried 4000 years, it is claimed by
H. M. Stowell, who is engaged by the M.L.
Government to examine into Maori relics, etc.,
that the arrival of the historic canoes 500 years
ago was simply the last migration of Maoris from
the mythical Hawaiki. The brown cannibal folk,
he reckons, had been in the country ages before
that.
“Silas Snell”: Struck
a curious cave some years
ago a few miles outffrom
Gordon, which is attach-
ed to Ballarat district,
Victoria. I was the dis-
coverer of the remarkable
subterranean vacancy in
question, and it bore my
name till the date of its
demolition, a few months
later. One afternoon,
with the battery hands
from the United Miners,
I went hunting wallaby
on a whim horse, and
riding over a pleasant,
grass-grown hillock at a
little distance from my
friends, I suddenly dis-
appeared from public
view. I hud dropped
right into the interior
of the hillock, horse and
all ; but Neddy landed
square on his four hoofs,
and I remained firmly
wedged on my mount.
The aperture through
which I had fallen was
about a foot above my
head, and let in light
enough to show me that
I was sole occupant (dis-
counting Neddy) of a
large black cavern, car-
peted deep with wood
ashes, and grimed with
the smoke of the pit.
After two dull, unevent-
ful hours. I was dug out,
and the situation was
explained by an oldest
inhabitant from- three
miles back. Years earlier
a sawmill had stood on
thisspot, and animmense
bed of sawdust accumu-
lated. After the passing
of the mill a cake of soil formed over the sawdust.
Later the bed of sawdust had been ignited by a
bush fire. It took the bed fully a year to burn
out, leaving the-thin-roofed cave, through the
hard-baked crust of which I had the luck to be
precipitated.
“Phil Harum ” : Though, as “Yeeyah”
says (8.18/11/’O9), J black brother is a muss of
superstitions, and frequently sits down and dies
when superstition tells him that he ought to, the
corpse doesn’t always happen. I knew a black
brother named Japardy who was employed a few
years ago in horsebreaking on Mount Margaret
(Q.). To the dark-skinned beauties in the station
camp came agin who had been carefully brought
up by the family of a nc.ghboring run-holder,
but had ’verted iio the old nomadic life
when she reached womanhood. She found
favor in Japardy’s eyes, and the court-
ship was running smoothly when a rival ap-
peared who “pointed the bone” at Japardy for-
all it was worth. But Japardy didn’t die. He
met the bone-pointing gallant with something
more effective than a fragment of a dead-and-gone
blackfellow. and it was the pther fellow who died,,
A little while later a Roma jury found him guilty
of manslaughter, and a white Judge presented
him with 18 months, as a reward, presumably, for
trying to put down heathenish beliefs and devices
with a firm hand.
* * * •
“ The Cruiser” : ’Tis a common and fast-
growing custom for girls in select circles to
imitate Mimosa San’s scanty wardrobe, and dance
“ Chow Keeno ” or some other Jap caper without
knowing the meaning thereof. I first came
in contact with the obscene “Keeno” in a
yoshiwarra in. an Asiatic port, where
morals are as plentiful as ice on the
Equator. It was being sung and danc< d
by the chrysanthemum lady of flimsy
clothes and zephyr virtue. Operation
consists of one damsel singing “ Chow
Keeno”with samisen accompaniments,
what time other dancers perform the
sensuous body undulations. Then the
music ceases suddenly—which it does
frequently—and the Flossie who stops
dancing last is compelled to divest her-
self of a garment (the Jap lady hasn’t
many). This proceeds until they can’t
divest any more. Next time I met
“Chow Keeno ” was at a Coolgardie
concert, wh’en some clean-living little
white girls, garbed in Geisha dress,
lustily yelled the old chorus. When I
heard the ancient, familiar tune I in-
stinctively expected to hear the music
cease and the draperies to fly. But nothing
happened. Still, here’s my warning.
“ San Remo ” : Snakes don’t get drowned.
A heap of snakes die during flood-time, but it is a .
case of being struck by too much velocity, for one
thing. Exposure, cold feet and colds in the head
carry off snakes wholesale in the wet season. The
lack of medical attention and the difficulty of
getting to the drug stores in wet weather plays
Old Benjamin with the snake tribe. You want to
live on the banks of a western river in flood-time
to get a notion of the quantity of snakes in this
country. I dwelt beside the Nogoa River (Queens-
land) during my school days. When the river
came down a banker you couldn’t see the ground
for snakes, either alive or stranded. Hair-width
escapes frbrhshakes were almost a daily occurrence.
I think the chief reason (other than those men- .
tioned above) why so many snakes pass in their
checks during floods is the battering they get in
the passage down the river. It mustn’t be for-
gotten that the slightest scratch means certain
death to any snake. A wounded snake is the
target of ants and every stinging insect that crawls
or flies. They never let up on him. The snake
is the Ishmael of the world.
THE COOT CANOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While the white mist curtained the sleeping stream, the
blush on the eastern sky,
Glode round the bends in the coot canoe a fair little girl
and 1 ;
For the redbills perched in the willow trees’when dark-
ness was on the corn,
And ’long the river till harvest home they raided the
crops at morn.
In the bows I sat with a waiting gun, when voices and
wings were still,
And watched the scrub for a shaking leaf, the glint of a
flaming bill ;
The flash of white ’neath a flickering tail ’gainst the
plumage of dusky blue ;
And, her brown hair bared to the morning breeze, she
paddled the coot canoe.
The mullet schools by the selvedge weeds broke up Avith a
plunge and fled,
And the turtles propped from the cobra logs as ’long bv
the banks we sped,
With a shot anon, and a puff of smoke that hung in the
misty air,
And a pause awhile ’neath the drooping limbs retrieving
a fallen pair.
The dilbong tinkled a symphony from the top of a
-tamarind,
And the wonga hailed in a liquid note, far-sped on t\ie
scented wind,
And sharply over the river reach the ory of the whipbird
rang,
From dim-lit depths of a scrubby haunt, the home of the
tallewang.
To the hum of bees where the bluebells grew', and the
gossamers built their swings ;
By rush and reed where the dragon flies e’er hovered on
shimmering wings;
We glided downward on duty bent, and a length between
the crew,
But side by side on the homeward way we paddled the
coot canoe.
’Twas narrow amidships where we sat, and, pressed for
the want of room,
Our pace was slow ’neath the cherry trees, along by
the fragrant broom ;
Nor heeded we when the regent crossed with a flashing
of gold and jet,
Or the glittering sheen of the rifle-bird gleamed under an
arboret.
The wind sprite lifted her flow'ing hair, and twined it
around my neck—
Did the redbills know in that nerve-thrilled hour ’twas
Cupid’s look-out on deck?
Ah, cherries that painted the craft blood-red, crushed
under a dainty shoe,
Were not as sweet as the lips of her who paddled the coot
canoe.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


Ask for
Schnapps-
“ the beverage that benefits’’—Wolfe’s
-it does nothing but lasting good.*
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with all plans and repo ts
available, to “MINE." care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
With folks on the outpr Barcoo,,
Who live upon beef and buryoo,
The seurvy'd'be chronic
Were not Laxo-Tonie -
A parr, of the regimen, too !
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, IOId. and Is. 6d.*
“Henry Phelthatt” : I have coached
(that is to say, walked) up Caiubewarra and
Talbingo (N.S.W.), either of which might lay
claim to the doubtful honor of excessive steepness
without being called egotistical. But for sheer
uprightness Tucker’s Hill, on the Hargraves-
Mudgee-road, must have a great chance. It is
an eminence of about three miles in length, or,
rather, height, and the incline is so great that
road-metal refuses to remain in position; it just
rolls down into the valley below. Trees which
are really perpendicular appear at a little distance
like so many logs. In most districts it would be
called a precipice. It received its name from one
Stephen Tucker, an aristocratic publican and hard-
drinker of the ’fifties, who was himself a pretty
steep proposition.
Tk"Fx.6R.”
WATCHES
are J-plate Levers.
They have Brequet hair springs.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
Thev are guaranteed for 15 year's, and
kept in order for two years (break-
ages excepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
Write for Catalogue.
L JL
1
*
/
Wa,
S
sa
4
Gent.’s Oxidised Open Face, J-plate " F*. and R." Lever Watch,
15 jewels, 33/- ; with 7 jewels, 28/-
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Robert C. C.’ : : Horses working in the
coal-mines, as referred toby “Lantana” (B. 2/12/’O9)
don’t fare as well as those in the leading Broken
Hill silver-lead mine. There all the horses have
their eight-hour shift the same as the men. They
go underground with the men, and are brought to
the surface when the shift is finished. It takes a
couple of months for the young ’uns to get used
to the mine cages in which they are lowered
underground ; but after a while they walk in
without coaxing. As for their annual holidays,
each horse receives his few weeks’ spell on full
pay regularly.
“ Jakay ” : I am with “ Boy ” (B. 9/9/’O9)
every time re difficult navigation of the Papuan
coast, and offer my humble experience re same.
Lately I had the doubtful pleasure of visiting
Meuraki, a port in Dutch Papua, in company
with a cargo of Newcastle best for the Dutch
Government. The Admiralty charts of that
region are not quite up to date. ( r I he last surveys
were made in the days of Van Tromp, and they
don’t speak good English.) So I found it necessary
to glean knowledge of this unknown port from
sundry ancient mariners, who remembered being
told all about it by the captajn of a vessel that
was afterwards wrecked and lost with all hands
and the cook on that very bit of coast. A sum-
mary of the sailing directions gleaned from the
ancients is attached :
Meuraki is a Dutch Papuan port, and when discovered
is on the Meuraki River. Find that, and you’re there.
There is plenty of water for navigation when the river
is in flood. The last flood was in 1870.
There are no dangers at the entrance except rocks.
Almost all the wrecks there are caused by rocks.
There are no landmarks by which to find the port
except a clump of very tali trees which was blown down
five years ago.
The fairway buoy can be seen one mile if your sight is
good and the weather clear. It is nearly always away
from its moorings.
There is plenty of fresh water for drinking purposes,
hut it is only fresh at certain times of the year. Times
are uncertain. Gin is used as a substitute.
Fresh stores may be obtained for the sailors daily if
they can eat cocoanuts.
Fever and beri-beri exist, and the mosquitoes are of
the Dreadnought type.
The natives are sometimes friendly. They are great
head-hunters.
No English is spoken.
Be humble and lowly to the Governor. He is lord of
all, and only breathes canned air.
These were my sailing directions, and they were
all true.
CLINCHED.
“I tell yer I ’AVE known ’im longer than you.
I’ve known ’im fer about 20 years!”
“ Oh, yer ’ ave , ’ave yer? Why I knew him
when he used to go to work!”
A 12ft. grey nurse type of shark, caught a
few days ago at Maclean, Clarence River (N/S/W.),
when opened up was found to contain 12/young
nurses, or curses, each 2ft. long. When the/Lprd
was nailing together this old earth, he remarked
(as the Sydney Telegraph says of its London
cable artist), “Let the waters bring forth, abun-
dantly the moving creature that hath life ! ’’ ; but
if He had added, “bar sharks,” Thk Bulletin
would have been more satisfied with the job. At
the same time, if the Maclean shark had been
found to contain 12 State Frighters, or even one
Coal Vend, its views on the usefulness of sharks
would have been modified—temporarily, anyhow.
HE DID.
BOSS (abruptly): “ D'ye drinK!"
APPLICANT FOR JOB: “ Sir, I will
endeavor to be perfectly frank
with you —I do."
“Scribo”: Have noticed treat numbers
of the Jew or frill-necked lizard commit suicide in
the same way. Only last week I found the corpse
of one. When alive and crawling it had by some
means got inside a tree-guard. In order to get
out Shylock had tried to get through the netting.
He succeeded in getting his head through the ljin.
mesh, but could not squeeze his body through,
and his “frill” stopped his retreat; so he just
had to stay there and die.
•* * * *
“ W. 8.” : “Paroa’s” par. (B. 4/11/’O9) re
mutton-birding professes ignorance as to why
the Maori ties a string round the bird’s neck.
Having a 40 years’ acquaintance with this annual
native sport, I will explain : Round the coasts of
Maoriland and its distant outliers, the Aucklands
and Chathams, wherever, the plant nau (Lepidium
oleracium) grows, the mutton bird—native name
titi— makes its three feet deep horizontal burrow.
The reason for the partial strangulation is to pre-
vent the bird vomiting oil and greasing the
feathers, which would render them difficult to
pluck. The mode of capture is this : Arrived at
the breeding ground, the fowler carries a four-foot
rod of supplejack and chews one end into a burr.
Then he inserts the rod into the burrow, and
t . • T . .. 1 T£ «
makes a twirling poke around. If a
young bird is in residence, that fact
will be revealed by the adhesion of
fluff upon the burr. He then re-inserts
the rod, measures the depth of the
burrow, notes its direction; withdraws
the rod, lays it upon the surface, marks
the indicated spot, digs a hole there,
reaches in his arm, gropes around,
and withdraws his loot. The ancient
Moriori of the Chathams did not leave
the hole thus. He cut a fern tree
butt and plugged it up ; next year he
lifted the plug, took out the bird,
replaced the plug, and thus ad infini-
tum. Before the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals nosed
round, both Moriori and Maori, upon
the capture of the bird, pulled forward
the lower mandible, forced the point
of the upper through the V part of
the lower, and thus stitched the two
members together. Then they broke
the leg bones at the thighs, and with
a deft click interlocked the wings
across the bird’s back. After that they
cast it aside, while they proceeded to
the next burrow. When the birders
returned at sunset, the birds were tied
in fours by the wing ends and slung
across rickers lashed to uprights, and
there, still alive, they were left to
squeal and pipe in muffled agony, and
dangle their broken legs until they
were plucked the ensuing day. Native
sentiment knows nothing of cruelty—
has not even a name for it. The birds
pluck better warm ; when cold, the
fat comes oft' in lumps adhering to the feather
roots —especially at the breast. Have seen birds
pitifully flutter on the rickers over two days
and nights. This is altered now, and principally
by reason of remonstrances and threats of legal
action by the present writer.
* * * *
“ Marloo ” : I was recently initiated into
a novel method of deciding who should shout.
Mr. Public-House handed down eight corks,
which McCann stood a foot apart on the bar.
We then toed a line 3ft. from the bar. McCann
explained that when Mr. Pub said “Go” the
game began. The last man who annexed a cork
was to shout. lam pretty good oft the mark, so
I wasn’t anxious about the result. We all stood
ready. On the word “Go!” I annexed my
stopper with a leap. The other seven persons
remained motionless. I asked if it was a false
alarm or what. They said it wasn’t; I had lost.
I said I had grabbed my cork first, so I had won.
They replied that I had also done it last, for no
one'else'had grabbed any cork. I gnashed my
teeth, arid said" that I might be last now but I
wouldn’t be when they had taken their corks.
They said thpy didn’t intend to take any corks, so
I would continue to'Be last. Then I spent 4s. in
great disgust, and called thern Beelzebub.
“ Itan ” : Artesian bores are females ; like
a wife, you never know how they’re going to turn
out, never know whether they’ll blow hot or cold,
and often when you think you’ve lassoed the lady,
you haven’t—she’s been merely flirting. South
Australia’s deepest bore is at Patcliawarra, 4863 ft.,
but the supply sought after has not yet been
struck. If they ever do reach it they reckon tha,t
they won’t have to boil the billy thereabouts. Ihe
deepest bore in that State, yielding water, is near
the Hergott country, 4850 ft., and even from that
depth the water is only five degrees from boiling
point. Still, as previously remarked, yon never
can tell. The deepest bore in N. S. Wales is at
Euraba, Moree, and is down 4005 ft.; yet the tem-
perature of that spout is only 125 to 130 degrees.
Many other quaint things happen in connection
with these females. Near Camooweal (Q.)
there is a whistling bore, resulting from the
rush of air with the water. It is in limestone
country, so the assumption is that the sinking is
through huge caverns filled with air. This lime-
stone formation continues northward from this
place towards the Gulf, and at the foot of a de-
clivity the water bubbles out on to the surface and
forms a stream which feeds the Gregory River for
100 miles. While there are doubts about the per-
sistency of the flow in the deeper bores many
Queenslanders believe that the sub-artesian
waters are more easily reached now than they
used to be. The theory is that the supply
is brought up a certain distance by the
deep bores, but escapes into the limestone
strata and spreads over large areas at compara-
tively shallow depths. • Especially is this the case
in the Far West of Bananaland, where so many
squatter-men in the past failed because they
weren’t able to breed a Domain dosser type of
sheep, which could go more than a year without
water. Now they have given up the attempt to
produce Domain sheep, and the men who have
come after the pioneers are stabbing the earth
with gimlets instead.
DRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drunk as an earthquake, merry as a clown
That joys to hear the hob-nailed cackle run
From bench to bench about the steaming tent
At some world-hoary jest—with shaking sides
And bobbin;;, pendulous whisker he appeared
On Murphy’s back verandah. Red his locks,
And flowing as the flaming thatch of Thor.
His robe, ungirt, revealed a hairy breadth
Of heaving chest, and laughter such as shook
To imbecility the elder gods
Winked in the wanderings of his rosy eye.
Thrice he essayed in sportive merriment
To loose his hold on the verandah post,
And thrice with elephantine gambols reeled
Back to'his moorings. Then, with humble gait,
On hands and feet, with elevated rear,
He wobbled tortuously athwart the path,
And with loud grampus-splashings set his bulk
In comfortable attitude to damn
The burbling water-race. There raised his voice
And sang with quavering thunder to the sky,
“Hie! Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, little star!”
iMAOBILAND.
D. M. W.
BUT NOT TOO PLAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a tall, imposing man,
He bore a mighty chest;
His suit was loud in green and tan,
With checks much like a building plan ;
He wore a fancy vest
Much louder than a rainbow, and
His straw hat had a purple band.
His spats were palest shade of green ;
His tie of many hues
Was like a transformation scene,
Or some demented Chinese screen ;
Brown leather were his shoes,
And down his shirt of dainty grey
Writhed twisted links in colors gay.
He strode about the city street,
And turned a burning eye
On any man he chanced to meet,
A sight to knock one off his feet.
“ What’s that?” a man did cry.
His friend was scornful. “ Can’t you see?
A plain-clothes constable !” said he.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
jfo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken o f
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is wider-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stumps (of any State) accompany.
Cornstalk: “The Call of the lßush ’ is melod-
ious enough, but too ordinary. It harps on the same
note as a thousand other bush calls we have met
J.S.N.: Sentiment of “Austral Song” is all right, but
it is crude and umnetrieal... F. Agar: “A Ticket in
Tattersall’s” proved a stumer... .Mathan S. : The prodi-
gal came back after five years and found the widow of a
murdered man inhabiting the house which used to shelter
his late father. Nothing in that to make a yarn about—
Fin gall: Hideous story of your method of inducing a
W.A. “bingarra” to hunt rabbits has been turned down....
Allotus : The cook at your pub may make an 'ash, but
she doesn’t make an epic.... Boyd C. : “Song of the
Wharves” far too rough. The rhythm is anyhow, and
the verses contain every metre we ever saw in a night-
mare A. 1.: Not striking enough for such a well-worn
theme. ’.Kelson ; Seem to remember you vaguely as an un-
successful contributor. Why in thunder don’t you spell a
little better? “ Bullitin ” suggests deficient education...
H.T.: “ The Seekers ” is hauntingly mournful, and so on,
but too vague .. Ardup : “ Ode to Mother is dead. It
should never have lived.... J.S.G.: “ Parslow’s Chestnut”
ran well, but was outclassed F. Brennan : There have
been over a score of appeals from the High Court to the
Privy Council. Don't recall one at the moment of
writing, but they are transpiring every month or so.. . .
Lorenz: This paper is asking the Archbishop to promul-
gate a special prayer for contributors who imperil the
souls of sub-editors by rolling their MSS... R.C.M.: Very
uneven in quality... .Joan : lair album verses, except
that you make the yellow rose “ nestle on her bright
bosom.” There are many sorts, we know, but the electro-
plated bosom is new to us Orion: Too many faults,
including the painful attempt to rhyme “Joss” and
“ Anti-Sosh,”also “ laid ’’and “ Hades.”... .Stitch in Time :
“In the event of this country being taken by a foreign
Power, how would freehold property, hank deposits, etc.,
go’” Ask the foreign Power—he would be top-dog then ;
and the top-dog decides little matters of that kind. How
he decides them depends upon the sort of dog he is. The
text-book observation is—“ Personal property may be
captured as prize ; if lands, it may be seized and confis-
cated at the pleasure of the sovereign ; if it be in debts
or stock, it may be equally liable to confiscation.”....
A.V. (N.y.): Nail has no point Boronia : One missed
the "bus by a short distance, the other by several miles.
Fin McC. : You wonder what would happen “ if you
and I wandered down the old country lane ”? Just plain
murder R.G.W. : Only fair in its best spots... .J.M. :
You guessed right—the Kelly poem has corns on its feet.
It also has now a bruise, and not on its feet either
E.U.: Evidently not accepted, though we don’t remember
W hy—which suggests that, if they weren’t good enough
to print, they weren’t bad enough to make a mark in the
office’s memory Sirius: If the verse was as good as
the sentiment we’d print it somewhere alongside the
leading article. But, alas, it isn’t. It seldom is
Novice: Frankly, it’s the worst sort of doggerel
Wilburra : Neat and very nearly good enough Eugene
O’B. : Can quite believe that they were “written
inside 24 hours.” They read just like that. Don’t send
us any more till you’ve thought over them for 24 days....
Ohloe - : It isn’t much as fiction, and you don’t assure us
that it’s a fact If it’s the latter, submit it again ..
Mammon : Far too wordy. It could only go into a five-
line par J.8.R.: You’re no poet. Your yarn cost us
Bd. short postage, and it would have been dear if the
office had taken it in peanuts (1 peanut = l penny)
J.F. (Vic.): Meritorious in a mild (very mild) fashion, but
quite hopeless so far as this paper is concerned W.H.1.:
Paine’s views on the House of Lords are too aged to be
worth reprinting, and your views don’t exactly enthrall
Us by their newness. We have views of our own about
this Ohamber, the which we propose to publish when the
laws against blasphemy relax somewhat A Voice:
Thanks ; ditto to you. But the article doesn’t get on to
a new track Pat: All unsuitable R.S.T. : “Castle-
reagh” full of good Australian sentiment, but it scrambles
alone very heavilv John Pro: Grievances too trivial,
not to say piffling.... A. G.M.: “Contracts” is merely a
dream of dead swindles, and not over-exciting ones at
that... Warrenjella: “The Tall Yarn” is now a dead
yarn. Mere altitude doesn’t establish a yarn’s right to
live in print Ballon : Shaky verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Phleeta : The Bulletin’s jackeroo isn’t always a
weakling with a receding chin. Some of the most
gorgeous and inspiring males that have ever adorned
these pages have been jackeroos. ..J.8.H.: Can't even
read the joke, much less appreciate it T.McL. : A
drunk who mistakes a horse-trough for a. telephone in
the dead of night doesn’t amuse u 5.... Will Mac: Poor
Scripture item ...Jack Plane: Worn out ...Alec Mac:
The man’s legs’are too short, and all the people are Bft.
high .. .Chris M. : Very bad drawing of youth in an im-
possible state of intoxication L.I. : Don’t see any
points about bad egg joke. There are seldom any points
about bad egg jokes... .E.H.P. : Another drunk, and a
most shapeless one at that.... J.W.P. : A scratchy and
cloudy style of art. Why should your characters seem to
have bristles growing all over them? R.L. : Among all
the people who have tried to draw George Reid, you are
probably the worst so far as catching the likeness goes...
J.E.M. : No use for sketch of bald policeman Dun-
woodie: Poor drawing hung on a worse pun P.H.:
Suppose there is a joke concealed about it somewhere, if
the dog hasn’t eaten it. ..R.S.L.: The world hasn’t time
for the allegorical picture that takes so much explaining.


ANOTHER GRAND ANNUAL PANTOMIME.—(SAME OLD OPENING SCENES
THE DEMON KING CAPITAL (addressing his gnomes ): —
Attend! ye imps, who ever in the past
Have faithful been, and shall be to the last.
I bid ye circulate north, south, and east, and west,
And comfort give to every Tory breast;
Drop Lies around, and daily plot and plan
To check the progress of Prince Working Man.
With statements false and innuendoes vile,
That please the foolish and provoke their smile,
Strive all the time to injure Labor’s cause
w P r £ . m y ends—aye, work without a pause,
Ot Vested Interests in glowing language speak ■
Assist the Strong in contest with the Weak,
If toilers suffer Wrongs, the truth deny,
And guard the Rights of good old Propputy.
Do this, and do it well, my minions dear,
And I will bless you in the coming year.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


t
*
1?
Bruce Smith, at Ashfield : “Tut, tut,
who is Mr. William Kelly?”
The Fusion Government has commenced to
select its candidates.
Deakin: “Make a note of it, Cook. Mr. Bulge wins the nomination by
2'/ z inches.”
,hat thc
CAMPA«,k ToLICIZS
J>UomJ)JfANp.
COOLING OFF.
State Premier Wade has gone to the
hot springs at Rotorua (Maoriland).
He probably regards them as cooler
than the hot water he has been in at
Sydney.
Three men have been killed in a
North Queensland pub through the
liquor exploding. Whisky advertise-
ments will now have to be recon-
structed.
Tory Politician (to daily paper editor) :
“Have you got a good election lie
in stock?”
Editor : “ Weil, the Six Hatters are about
used up. How about Unification ? ”
PASSING EVENTS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
THE catch of the season is
surely CHERRY BLOS-
. SOM POLISH, for it
shines above all others with a
brilliancy that pleases. And
you’ll find it very good for the
boots, too—easy, effective and
economical to use. Black or
Tan tins cost 3d. and 6d. each
from all leading dealers.
Write direct to us if you can-
not be supplied.
df
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connoll Street, Sydney,
Piles Rapidly Cured.
“I had been suffering from piles for sometime,”
writes Mrs. Maggie Munro, Cooper Street,
Balmain, N.S.W., “and had tried various oint-
ments, but only grew worse. I gave Rexona a
trial and was completely cured in four days.”
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
J. «T. Miller’s date book for 1910 (which is also
incidentally a diary for 1911) is on the market at the
harmless necessary price of one shilling. As a handy
vest pocket book of every-day utility and frequent refer-
ence, primed with dates and statistics of Australian in-
terest, J. J. Miller’s publication deserves to increase in
popularity ; and, seemingly, it is getting its deserts.*
The fe«E
CHRISTMAS NUMBER.
dd
THE SURFERS,
THE AUSTRA-
LIAN GIRL, by
Eight Australian
Artists.
Pictures in Color.
A PLETHORA
OF HOLIDAY
FICTION.
Price 1|
TaKe it with you on
Your Holidays !
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MADDER AND BLINDER THAN EVER.
Toreador Hughes states that he will have nothing more
to do with the coal strike. “My mantle has fallen on
Mr. Wade. Let him go on with it! ” —News Item.
The strength of the Teutonic element in
S. Aus. is suggested by the fact that three of the
candidates for the Central District at the next
Legislative Council are Germans. Muecke (Ger-
man Consul) and Councillor Prinsdorf are to be
nominated by the National Ass, J. Klauer by the
Labor party.
A strenuous mother in Israel lives at
Camperdown (Vic.). She has had seven children
in four years—two sets of twins and an arrange-
ment of triplets. She is quite a small woman,
and faces her responsibilities (13 of them) with
all the small woman’s pluck and cheerfulness.
W. R. Bayly, second master at Prince
Alfred’s College, Adelaide, for years past, goes to
Geelong College (Vic.), to succeed Norman Mor-
rison (lately shot) as headmaster. Bayly, himself
an “old Prince,” is president of the Old Boys’
Association, and had worked its membership up
to 1200. The telegram offering him Geelong
reached him in Adelaide after he had been fare-
welled for a visit to England, and he unpacked
the trunks that were ready for a start two days
later. He lias Adelaide University honors in
classics and chemistry, and was chosen from a list
of 43 applicants.
The billet of Anglican Bishop of Papua
has at length been filled by a parson carrying the
name of Gerald Sharp. Gerald is a pyrotechnic
expert in sky navigation, and a member of the
English Church Union and the Confraternity of
the Blessed Sacrament, both of which encourage
an embroidered Protestantism. That is to
say, they are whales for the eastward posi-
tion, candles, fasting, incense, vestments, con-
fession and things like that. Sharp ought to
arouse mixed feelings when he arrives in this
irreverent portion of the vineyard. He may be
very welcome to people of his own way of pray-
ing. but bitter Evangelicals will give him a starchy
glare and think of him only in asterisks.
That George Salting whose art collection,
so the cable says, estimated to be worth £2,500,000,
is bequeathed to the British nation, was a graduate
of Sydney University. He got his degree as far
back as 1857. Old man Salting made a pile,
partly in conjunction with Challis, the University
benefactor. This Salting has spent his time
between his Club and the South Kensington
Museum, which houses liis collection of valuable
china. He thought nothing of paying four figures
for a rare Toby jug. an old Worcester jam-pot. or
some other alleged rarity. Yet if Salting had
been taxed to the extent of a few paltry hundreds
for the privilege of spending all his money away
from Australia, whence he drew most of it, the
Messina earthquake would be nothing to his rage.
So far, the only return N.S.W. has had from all
the money it has supplied to Salting and to
Salting’s dad is a miserable £25 scholarship tenable
by a Sydney Grammar School boy at the Uni-
versity, and maybe a few microscopic bequests.
“J. 0.8.”: When N.S.W. ’s ex-Governor
Carrington arose in the House of Lords and
Brewers to champion his Government on the
Budget Bill, he missed something. He looked
bewildered, but did not speak. Presently he
remembered that it was his speech, elaborately
composed for the occasion, that was missing. He
searched his pockets—the Lords giggling. He
searched his despatch-box—in vain. No Lord
was so unreasonable as to ask him to search
his head, so Charley did nothing but stare.
It happened, however, that our old pal Beau-
champ. who, having spent some time in Sydney,
knew how absolutely necessary a written speech
was to a peer, dived out of the Chamber and in a
short time returned with a typed oration. It
was either the missing one or another. It mat-
tered not. Charley grabbed it, and clearing his
throat, jerked his words at his audience. It was
a great crisis, but Carrington, with brother
Beauchamp’s help, emerged proudly.
Justice Gordon, who was Johnny Gordon
before he was the other thing, doesn’t pretend
that he doesn’t know anything but law. Hearing
an industrial appeal by the S. A. Carriers and
Drivers, he cut short the expert evidence as to
skill required, with a suggestion that he knew all
about it already. “ I could tell you the names of
every noted driver in the Hills 20 years be-
fore the train began to run,” said his Honor, who
was a country lawyer at Strathalbyn in those
days; and he went on to do so, including “Jim
Wilkinson, who is a close friend of mine, and I
correspond with him to this day. For some time
I regularly drove a four-horse team of my own,
and on hundreds of occasions I have driven Hill
and Co.’s five-horse teams on stages along the
Strathalbyn route. Further, I have backed a colt
and broken him in from start to finish.” There
is still a lot of mail-coach work in ahd out of
Adelaide, owing to the hill-country close up on
the south and east; but amateurs don’t tackle it
nowadays, and Gordon’s reputation as a practical
sport has gone up. Of S. Australia’s Judges,
Bundey was an expert in yachts and Boucaut in
Arab horses; but Chief Justice Way has never
tackled anything swifter than a foundation-stone.
At Sydney, the other day, Daniel Morrissey
(aged 47) set off on his journey to cross the Styx.
He was in turn builder, detective,
and dealer, and was the founder of
the Sydney Bottle Exchange, a firm
supported by the Cordial Factories.
As a rule, the sodawater bottle is
worth four times the enclosed tack
that does not cheer or climb lamp-
posts, and unless it were retrieved
from the suburban backyard for
refilling, the trade would be on the
road to ruin. Thanks to his old
detective experience, Morrissey fre-
quently got a clue to the where-
abouts of the dead marine, and some
of his arrests were very clever.
An amazingly tough Australian, farmer
John Gerrand, was last week kicked on the head
by a horse, with the result that the brain pro-
truded. In this unusual condition the agricul-
turist drove 31 miles into Kerang (Vic.) with only
a small boy for company, and there he was tre-
panned, had some bone extracted from his think-
ing apparatus, and was generally repaired. If
Gerrand recovers lie should get into Parliament
with ease. To the people of Kerang and the 31
miles of road leading to it he has demonstrated
the possession of brains, and that is more than
many candidates have done. A man with 31
miles of brains ought not to be overlooked at a
political crisis.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are a pure, honest,
harmless, reliable medicine for the prevention and
cure of all diseases of the stomach and liver.*
VICTOR HOOD, bodyguard to Governor
Carmichael of Victoria.
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
John Hardy, founder of the firm of Hardy Brothers,
jewellers, of Hunger-street, Sydney, who died last week,
aired 79 years, came to Sydney in 1851. In the mid ’fifties
he founded, at 25 Hunter-street; the firm with which he
was connected until his death. When Mr. Hardy started
business he had as neighbor on the same side of the
street Dan Tierney (Mrs. Tierney still lives), who kept
the Currency Lass pub. It is said that the original
Fairfax of the S. M. Hkrald never smiled again after
receiving a letter which described his newspaper as
“opposite the Currency Lass,” as if it had no identity of
its own but was merely the thing opposite a threepenny
pub. On the same side were L. Moss, music seller ;
Richard Harnett, broker(who practically owned Mosman),
Edmund Thomas, artist ; S. Palmer, naturalist (dentist
Bertrand’s father-in-law); H. G. A. Wright, surgeon ; and
Henry Parkes, Empire Printery Office.
Wilks, Federal member for Dailey,
(N.S.W.), is probably the most terror-stricken of
all the Fusionists at the near ap-
proach of the day of reckoning. The
three State electorates of Rozelle,
Bahuain and Leichhardt are included
in the Dailey Federal division, and at
the last State elections the three
sitting Freetrade and anti-Socialistic
Derryite members were defeated, in
each instance by a Labor man. These
results made Wilks’ hair stand up to
such an extent that he publicly re-
nounced his Freetrade fanaticism
and gave it as his opinion that Cob-
den must have been talking through
his neck. Bill went even further ;he
gibed at Cook and treated the Fusion
with contempt. As the time ap-
proached, however, for the Deform
League to select candidates, William
once more became tame and respect-
ful ; but having secured the Deform
nomination, he again ran amok. He
told Cook in effect, to go and get his
hair cut, and (when it was safe) voted
with the Labor Party. Wilks may
consider himself a very astute person, but his
trimming is of too transparent a nature.
Perth Sunday Times was lately called
upon t,o pay a farthing damages to William
Henry Boardman for having alluded to him
as ‘‘a police fizgig, pimp and blackmailer.”
William Henry Boardman, commonly known
as “The Doctor,” is a brother of “Paddy”
Boardman, of Melbourne, who is also sensitive
on any question of alleged intimacy with the
detective police. At the term “fizgig”—as he
informed The Lone Hand in an amusing burst of
candor—he begs to draw the line. By the way,
the word is spelt “phizgig” in press reports of
the Perth libel case ; but seeing that it applies to
the laying of a train of gunpowder for a brilliant
display of police intelligence, rather than to any
matter of facial identification, the original school-
boy orthography seems the more suitable.
Bob Sholl, M.L.C., who had a gorgeous
funeral at Perth (W.A.) recently, was the father
of pearling in Groperland. More than half a
century ago pearl shell was brought down from
Shark "Bay by a survey party charting the coast
for the Admiralty. Several nice pearls were
exhibited, but if a gold mine had been put under
their noses the Shentons, Stones, Burts, and the
rest of the Six Families would have sniffed the
unclean thing off the premises. Bob Sholl, how-
ever, reckoned that pearls might be more profit-
able than stock-raising in dry country ; also he
found that the coastal natives would do him more
good if they dived for pearls than if they
merely kept on spearing his sheep. There was no
difficulty in getting a band of niggers together,
and they soon had hundreds of tons of shell piled
up close to various landing places. Bob was
then joined by his brother Horace, and the pair
amassed much wealth, and only gave pearling up
when the employment of niggers was stopped by
Government. It was too much like slavery for
even Downing-street to stomach.
Tiie oriflamme of Pumpkin Smith no
longer blazes in the front of events. He even
failed to get the Fused party's nomination as its
candidate for Calare (N.S.W.), preference being
given to a local agent named Piggott.
The officers of Chief Secretary Wood's
Department (N.S.W.) presented him with a hot-
water kettle on the occasion of his marriage. Mr.
Wood will now be able to boii more energetically
than ever! And that was quite unnecessary.
Wood has always been the boilingest person in
the Ministry, if not in the whole State Legis-
lature.
Judge Paul is the second im-
portant member of the Johnsonian Club, of Bris-
bane, to die within the month. The other one
was Essex Evans. The Judge had the heart of a
boy—the gay, youthful spirit of the Florentine
which never tires. A paralysis of 20 years ago
could not damp his cheerful courage. He was
sorry only for one thing. A company with which
his life was assured for £4OOO offered, at the time
of his paralytic attack, to commute the policy
into an annuity of £lOOO a year. The assurance
people believed Paul could live only about six
months, and so did Paul, so he refused the offer.
He never forgave himself for throwing away
£20,000 for the pleasure of continuing to pay
premiums. Paul’s death makes the North seem
not so youthful as it used to be. He gave it an
aspect of cheerful irresponsibility and merry
devilism, which died with him.
From the Wanganui (M.L.) Chronicle
14/12/’O9.
"DU"ANTED Known—Caution. It having come to
my knowledge that certain rumors are afloat
that I have been appointed “ Hangman,” I absolutely
give this an emphatic denial, and hereby caution
anyone making use of the term “ Hangman ” as
applied to me that proceedings will be taken against
them.—W. F. WALL, Ranger.
Tom Long used to be the official scragger in M.L.,
but evidently he has retired, been sacked, or gone
to that country where the gallows cease from
creaking and the ear-knot is at rest. The genial
Thomas once examined the writer’s neck on the
occasion of a hanging in Wellington gaol, and de-
clared, it to be well up to the requirements of his
profession. And now, alas, if the necessity arises,
the jerking process will have to be done by a
strange hangman. Life is full of disappoint-
ments.
“Old Lawyer” writes :
The office of N.S.W. Solicitor-General, revived by Wade,
afforded salary, if nor, occupation, to some of the gayest
spirits of the N.S.W. legal confraternity. There was
somehow a thick blue halo about the job which never
attached to the Attorney-Generalship. The first of a
Wild race was John Bavley Darvall. He understood law
to an extent, but devoted his sparkling talents chiefly to
the manufacture of hilarious jests and indecorous puns.
Many of the variegated observations which Parkes traded
off at a later date as his own were derived from the mine
of Darvall’s imagination. Alfred Lutwyche came
next. He made his way to Queensland, and in
his day held his own with the rowdiest of the
then budding and rowdy settlement. After Darvall and
Lutwyche, Hargrave and Wise were considered stolid.
Peter Fauoett was a careful garnerer of taboo yarns, but
never could tell them properly. Isaacs and little
Salomons, however, had a way of introducing anecdotes
that restored the Solicitor-Generalship to its ancient rose
color. It might be as well for the kirk to administer to
Jock Garland, one of its idols, an admonition in advance.
The job may corrupt him.
A GRAMOPHONE CATASTROPHE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MAN once invited some friends to his house
(Some friends who were dreadfully proper),
And tried to amuse them with gramophone tunes ,
But his dignity stiffened a cropper.
He put on a record, he THOUGHT, of a song,
By Melba , quite cultured and mellow.
BUT IT TURNED OUT TO BE A PINK MUSIC-HALL
SHRIEK,
AND THE WORD'S MADE HIS AUDIENCE
YELLOW!
VICTORIA. CYRIL DOBBS.
VIATICUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Leopold of Belgium (who made £10,000,000 ster-
ling out of his rubber properties on the Congo and then
sold them to Belgium for £2,000,000) received the Last
Sacrament on the day he died.— Cable.
By the close curtains of the darkened bed,
Where Odin’s raven flaps his funeral wing,
The hireling Bishop, by Convention led,
Doth shrive a coward king.
The silken jalousies are tensely drawn ;
The palace portals fast; the palace hall,
Silent as death—for death shall come this dawn
To a great criminal.
Fear gathers in that evil brain and heart;
Night and his life together are nigh spent. . . .
'* Draw near with Holy Faith, while I impart
The Holy Sacrament.”
iVhile the priest drones, come all the Congo slaves ;
The Martyrs of Red Rubber, dead by dead,
Gather, advance and break again like waves—
About the darkened bed,
“And for this Holy Sacrament prepare !
And the commandments of High God recite.”...
But, to the dying, curses fill the air,
And clamor to the night !
“ Holy to keep alwa.v the Sabbath day ! ”...
“ Honor thy father that thy days lie long !” .. .
He hears the slaves, whom stripes and death did pay,
Sobbing their ancient wrong.
“Thou shalt not murder ! ’’—but the priestly drone
Dies to a silence in those mind-heard screams ;
Tiie wails of women, beaten to the bone,
Disturb his dying dreams.
“ Thou shalt not he adulterous! hut he,
Who spared no woman in his cruel lust,
Sees hut the ghosts, whose lives lie wrecked in glee,
Swift beckoning to the dust.
“ Thou shalt not covet! ” and “Thou shalt not steal ! ”
To him who slew, and thieved, and reived and lied !
To him who choked a race beneath his heel,
And robbed them as they died !
“ The very God of Gods ! The Light of Light! ”. . .
But, to the tenant of that stertorous clay,
Darkness had been most kind ; Cimmerian night
That lie might safely slay !
“God conies with glory, judging quick and dead ! ” . . .
He hears it not, although he yet is quick ;
The groans of tortured men are round his bed—
Tiie moanings of the sick.
“ Lay up no treasures for the moth and rust! ” . . .
His dying fingers clutch at all his gold
For which he sent bright youth unto the dust;
For which his soul was sold.
“ God is not nioeked ; and that which a man sowetli,
That to tiie little least a man shall reap ! ” . . .
Sf true, his soul to a long anguish goeth
Anil knoweth newer sleep.
“Give alms of all thy goods ! turn not thy face
Ever from sorrow of the poor away ! ” . . .
He heareth it, whose glance was black disgrace,
Who killed them ev’ry day.
This travesty of cowardly remorse !
This soul that filths the night—calm—star-besprent!
This honor to this Greater Herod’s corse !
This farce of Sacrament!
Rapine and theft! the mem’ry of slain men !
The mutilated breasts of nursing wives !
The wails of children in the swamp and fen,
Minting his gold from lives !
Murder, and theft, and greed, that made a waste
Of happy villages, and brought to dust
A score of thousand slaves, that gold might haste
To serve impotent lust.
Pretence ! Convention ! make the Church a thing
Of scorn and loathing ; callous as a clod
That for Self-Interest fears a dying king
More than a living God.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLTH BEDFOICD.


NEW SOUTH WALES (AUSTRALIA) GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
r
FKOM
LA VV’ s ON TO LITHGOVV J^HUTCS
i 1 Jjf Fheir topographical Features Pleasure Resorts. *1 kiP
o/jtf Points op Interest
Scale t 1 ! i 4 Wile*
THE first
map of the extraordin- > NV
ary natural formation at * y VV
the Blue Mountains has been pub- t **> c \ " Xv - ..
lished by the Government Tourist
Bureau. The map is the work of ' q
Mr. 0. Trickett, the well-known
geological surveyor of the Mines
Department, who has done so much
invaluable work in exploring and . •! n/j’jh'm,
developing the Jenolan and other
limestone Caves systems of tlie State. ' v
The map now published — a reproduction "Village of ill
of which is seen on this page —gives a Hampton T!cc<>;
most graphic idea of the physical con- X-Y
figuration of the Blue Mountain country, all the
puzzling topographical features, which give such a
confused idea to the average tourist, being clearly
exposed at a glance. The fact that the railway line
traverses the only possible route from Penrith to
Mount Victoria is easily seen, and the huge lines of
sandstone cliffs frowning over deep sunken valleys and
facing opposing walls are delineated, so that the area
bears a resemblance to a mammoth harbour with bays,
inlets, islands, and promontories. The map deals with
the country from Lawson to Lithgow, with an inset
showing the Jenolan Caves and Kanangra Walls, and
is creditable alike to Mr. Trickett and to the Govern-
ment Printer. The new publication makes the Blue
Mountains more interesting than ever, and no one
should make a visit to them without first securing a
copy from the Government Tourist Bureau.


Walter Bradley & Co.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore von
must not disregard the facts revealed "bv
scientific investigation. To heal speedilv and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may oe present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restored
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to anv
address upon receipt of price—3/6
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Can’t Shake it Off.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark ; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
NERVES ON FIRE
WITH NEURALGIA.
♦
This Case Resisted all Kin.h
of Treatment,
#
Until the Nerves Were Restored
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
When Miss Malvina Pettit, of York, W.A..
was suffering agonies with neuralgia, she found
that rubbing the face with liniments didn’t do a
bit of good. This treatment couldn’t be expected
to, as neuralgia is caused by weak, run-down
nerves. Liniments and poultices couldn’t pos-
sibly build up the nerves. When she tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, which have a reputation for
being such a splendid nerve tonic, Miss Pettit
found prompt relief, and was finally entirely
cured. She gave the following account of her
illness to a reporter.
“When I was about fourteen my health started
to fail, and I became a victim to neuralgia,” said
Miss Pettit, c/o Mr. Mercer, storekeeper, Avon
Terrace, York, W.A. "For weeks I had to stay
away from school. The pain was in both sides of
my face ; it seemed as if every nerve was on fire.
I used to rub my face with all kinds of liniments
trying to get a little ease. My appetite became
extremely poor, and I lost all my color. My gums
and lips were white, and my face became so blood-
less that people said I was going into consump-
tion. I used to get headaches in my temples that
would last all day. I got very little sleep at
night, and in the morning I was horribly drowsy.
A little bit of housework would fairly knock me
up, and I dreaded a hot day. My blood was thin
and colorless; it looked just like water. I was
so weak that I would have to rest a dozen times
in half an hour. At last it was decided to give
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a trial, and it is to them
that I owe my restoration to good health. The
first box alone worked wonders. I began to
regain my appetite, and soon I could eat a good
wholesome meal. My blood grew richer with
every dose, and I began to shake off that feeling
of utter weariness and depression. The headaches
eased off and so did the neuralgia. My color
improved so that I looked quite a different
woman. I have kept in splendid health since I
finished Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I might say
that my health has never been better than it is
now.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into taking
something said to be just as g6od. Of all dealers
at 2s. fid. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. ; or from the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Sydney.*
This Elastic Truss
t
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ihe Sydney daily papers that barracked so
strenuously for Wade’s Coercion Act are now half
sorry they spoke. They were the first to suffer
from its effects. Whereas before the passage of
that Act they were able to supply reliable strike
news from official quarters and spread themselves
a garden of cross-headings in heavy type, now
under the Act they can get little information.
Ihe Strike Congress has dissolved, and the
direction of the campaign has apparently devolved
upon a secret society. Neither papers nor Govern-
ment can get news as of old, and a fine attractive
subject for copy has shrivelled up.
THE GREAT MAN’S COMING.
Fancy picture of Lord Kitchener’s welcome to
White Australia at Port Darwin.
The next House of Reps, is to be spared
one threatened infliction, anyway: Bruntnell,
the man who learned how to be a howling failure
by practising as a brigadier or barnacle or some-
thing tremendous in the Salv’army, has been
refused even the Fusion’s nomination for the
Richmond (N.S.W.)—the seat T. T. Ewing won’t
contest again. Fuse’s nominee will be a young
man who used to be something in a bank.
Newton Moore tried his luck the other
day and it was rotten. The Westralian Treasury
had been paying out fire insurance premiums for
years, and it hadn’t made a claim worth mention-
ing ; wherefore, the hard-up Moore decided to cut
off fire premiums, and save the money to make a
sut plus vvith. But the beautiful scheme, which
only started on Dec. 1, hadn’t been going a fort-
night before some devil smuggled a cinder out
of Gehenna, dropped it on to the Midland Junc-
tion railway workshops, and £40,000 went up in
smoke.
When you or some member of your family
is seized with a bilious attack, take Chamberlain s
I ablets.*
Members of the S. Aus. Parliament take
their duties seriously. In the Assembly session
just closed, 32 of the 42 members attended every
one of the 56 sittings. McDonald has been absent
only five times in 22 years, Archibald never in 17
years, and Speaker Jenkin Coles never in 20
.years. Even Lance Stirling, president of the
Leg. Council, has attended every sitting since he
first took the chair eight years ago.
The Victorian Attorney-General shows a
strange indisposition to appoint another official
assignee for Melbourne, in place of E. N. Brown,
who resigned his position some weeks ago. In
the meantime, Melbourne has only three official
assignees, an obviously insufficient number see-
ing that Ballarat has two and Bendigo also pos-
sessed a couple of them until lately. E. N.
Brown was a conscientious worker, and he did his
best to assist the Official Accountant in his
attempt to stop the illegal touting for business
which is practised by certain trustees and affidavit
commissioners. A man of the same stamp is
needed to fill his place, but for some reason or
other the Attorney-General professes to think that
a fourth assignee is unnecessarv.
The Victorian House of Landlords begins
to shift its ground. Attorney-General Drysdale
Brown went out into the Western District the
other day to support a Landlord candidate who
favored the land-tax; whereupon Balfour, M.L.C.,
wept bitterly. “As the father of this House,” he
said, “he was jealous of its honor. The question
was whether they were going to allow this to
become a partisan House.” To that Davies added
that he didn’t think there was one member
who was “ not prepared to deal fairly and
impartially with any measure brought forward
by any Government.” Evidently,' now that
there’s a chance of more than one party getting in
the House, the old, ignorant, bigoted obstruction-
ists are going to try and side-track the public into
the belief that, in the House of Landlords,
opinions shouldn’t count any more than in the
Supreme Court. But the public isn’t likely to be
caught with that sort of chaff. The Supreme
Court isn’t a legislative body, and the House of
Fat is.
The senatorial battle in Victoria will be
strenuous. Best, Trenwith and Skene will carry
the Fusion’s ragged and depraved banner, while
Barker, Blakev and Findley will represent Labor.
The only other candidate will be Miss Vida Gold-
stein, who need not be counted. It is instructive
to see a one-time Labor apostle like Trenwith,
ex-tribune of the people, running on the same
ticket as a crusted Tory like squatter Skene.
One time the Argus looked upon Trenwith as a
person only fit for hanging or drowning or some
such pleasant thing. Now the one-eyed publica-
tion will have no option but to support him. The
Age willbein a worsepositioneven than the Argus
because it will either have to support the Labor
three, or else the other three. It will not have
the hardihood to bring out candidates of its own
creation as it once would and could. The Age
hates Trenwith even worse than old Nicholas—in
fact, its violent hostility, when he stood for the
Senate six years ago, secured him hundreds of
supporters who “just gave Trenwith a vote to
nark the Age.” The Tory paper’s bitterness went
so far that, in addition to completelv ignoring
Trenwith and his speeches, it wouldn’teven pub-
lish his election advts.
Having slain the Land Tax Bill, and
deprived nurserymen, liverv stablemen, and tram-
way employees of Wages Boards, the Victorian
House of Landlords naturally gave no quarter to
the Murray Coal-Mines Bill. Almost every
liberal provision for the protection of miners was
cut out, so that the measure has been almost dis-
embowelled. The clause to make mine-owners
responsible for underground accidents caused
by negligence was scooped out with but
little discussion; and the age limit of boys
to be employed underground was altered from
18 to 16 years. Proceeding on their cantankerous
way, the Landlords changed the age limit of boys
to be employed about any mine from 15 to 14
years, and practically provided that where coal-
miners are paid on the amount of fuel obtained
the coal shall be weighed after and not before it
has been screened and cleaned. Likewise they
amended the definition of a miner’s working hours.
Where before it stood to count “from the time that
he commences to descend the mine until he returns
to the surface,” it now counts “from the time he
leaves the working place and commences to
return, thus lengthening the time that he must
spend in the earth’s interior. And that is the sort
of cross-grained, ignorant devilment that the land
pirates always perform. It makes this paper
wonder at times whether they are quite sane.
A small, stupid thing like a fact doesn’t
seem to trouble some men. According to the
Sydney Telegraph, C. H. Hoskins, of the Lithgow
ironworks, discussed matters with some of his
staff the other day, and told them that Wages
Boards were giving workmen tens of thousands
of pounds, and the employers were not passing
the extra expense on to their customers. Conse-
quently—
By returns published of dividends paid by New South
Wales companies they would see the dividends were
diminishing in quantity, and the return from capital was
anything from 4to 8 per cent. It was getting down to a
point at which business could not be carried on success-
fully. If wages were to go on increasing, what were they
to do when bad times came ?
Mr. Hoskins is going to give an address on Private
Enterprise versus Public Enterprise at Lithgow,
it seems; and he might, while on that job, pro-
duce the alleged return he talks about showing
that “dividends paid by N.S. W. cos. are diminish-
ing in quantity.” And just by way of indicating
that Mr. Hoskins has even a tougher job than
steel-making on hand, this paper undertakes to
match every N.S.W. co. which he can show has
reduced its dividend in the last four years with
five which have increased their dividends during
the same period. It is just as well, in a case of
this kind, to get to details, and give large, vague
generalities a rest.
d lie output of V ictoria’s State coal-mine
at the Powlett River is already greater than that
of any in the Murray State, and
by the middle of January it is expected to
yield as much fuel as all“the other Victorian
mines put together. Also settlement is raging
in the locality. Shops are going up; stores are
being opened ; a bank has appeared ; and a most
recent addition is a church. Likewise there are
four feedenes and one barber. These things in-
dicate the sex of most of the folk at Powlett
River. As yet, the existence of woman is hardlv
even suspected—except, perhaps, on an occasional
clothes-line on washing-day.
NOT ON THE HILL.
“ Waiter! I’ve just found a pin in my soup. Sup-
pose I hid swallowed it? ”
“ That wouldn’t hurt you, sir. You’ll notice it’s
a safety pin.”
Ttiifc, of the Victorian railways, has flatly
refused ‘time off” on full pay to railway men
who desire to take part in the Kitchener camps.
He declares that, according to Regulation 18,4704
Z, Sub-section A (92), or something like that
men will only be granted this special leave on
condition that it is deducted from their annual
holidays or is regarded as “ time off ” without
any pay. Seeing that most private employers are
accommodating their soldier employees with the
requisite leave without any wages’ reduction, this
action on the part of a State Government official
looks disgracefully Yiddish and unpatriotic.
A recent creation in Melbourne is the
Livery Stablekeepers’ Association. Its object is
to protect itself from grasping employees in the
stable business. At any rate, it has been moaning
about the motion for a Livery Stablemen’s Wages
Board, which was lately passed through the Vic.
Assembly ; and was petitioning the Upper
House to throw the iniquitous thing out—which it
did. The reason for this course is that stable slav< s
hardly require a Wages Board, because they work
so long that they haven’t any time to think of
wages. Besides, they can hardly be said to have
any wages to think of. Their pay is practically
the same thing as snakes in Iceland.
The political lawyers of the Commonwealth
seem to know well how to take care of themselves.
Australia has had five Prime Ministers—three
lawyers and two laymen. Deakin, lawyer, still
flourishes affably at the head of affairs. “Barton,
lawyer, moved on to the High Court Bench—a
steady job with many pleasant privileges attached ;
and now Reid, the third lawyer, steps into the
High Cojpmissionership, with £5OOO a year. The
tvvo laymen—ex-Prime Ministers Watson and
Fisher—haven’t secured any good billets, nor is
there a ghost of a billet on their joint horizon.
Concerning the 50,000 tons of coal ordered
by the N.S. W. Government from Calcutta. What
there is of East India coal comes from a place
called Rajmahal, about 175 miles from Calcutta,
on the main I.P. Railway line, and the Ganges.
The collieries there have been working in a per-
functory way for 55 or 60 years, and their pro-
duce has gone chiefly to supply the river steamers
and the railway. It is very doubtful whether
50,000 tons of coal from Rajmahal could be put on
board ship in the Hugh, either at Howrah, the
shipping and railway suburb of Calcutta, or
at Diamond Harbor, about 30 or 40 miles
below. If it could, it would be confoundedly
dear. The Bruce Smiths, Wades and other
ignorant people have an idea that because the
Indian laborer will work from daylight till dark
for 6d. a day, he is cheap. It is a delusion. The
Rajmahal pitman will pick down, with a very
small and light pick, about 3cwt. of coal in a long
day, and it cannot be sold at the pit’s mouth as
cheaply as Newcastle coal can, nor can the rail-
ways carry it so cheaply as the N.S.W. railways
can. As for the coal itself, Solemn tee and
Twaddell will find they have made a shockingly
bad bargain, unless, which is very likely, they
have really been buying Welsh coal instead of
what they imagined.
Within the last month Sydney Telegraph
lias been rending its whiskers every time anyone
mentioned the idea of State-owned coal-mines.
This paper turned up the back files of the Tele-
graph recently in search of the complementary
“Yes” to the above-mentioned “No,” and found
this under date 20/5/’OB :
With the present trend of politics no formidable objec-
tion is likely to be raised to the general theory of a State-
owned coal mine.
ft is characteristic of Anti-Sosh that in its calmer
moments it never does raise a formidable objection
to the State control of anything—in fact, when it
is really collected and in full possession of its
faculties it is wont to howl frankly for Socialism
in every line, from seed-wheat to trams and
trains.
George Graham, the Victorian Minister
for Agriculture, who has spent most of his life
finding out what the Australian farmer really
wants, came to the conclusion some time ago that
almost as much as anything he wants a Common-
wealth-owned line of steamers to carry his
goods to the European market. He wants
cheap land, of course, but he wants cheap
freight as well; and Graham reckons that
nothing would attract population harder
than the announcement that these two
things were waiting for the new arrivals.
When Graham, who isn’t even a Labor
man, but is simply a farmers’represen-
tative, says that the farmer wants this
steamer service, it is pretty certain that
the service isn’t far off ; for the farmers
plus the Labor party can get what they
want almost any day they like to ask
for it. And the fact that the Commonwealth
is pretty certainly going to run a deep-sea
steamer service makes it all the more necessary
that the Commonwealth should look round and
get hold of a few coal mines to feed these steamers,
as well as the navy it is also going to possess.
The S. M. Herald reports that (thanks to
Australia’s refusal to have anything more to do
with its deranged old fiscal creed) still another big
factory is about to start near Sydney. The great
importing firm of Henry Bull and Co. is no longer
able to profitably import blankets and flannels
because of the tariff, so it is going to make them
here. A great industry is to be started at Liver-
pool, a place which badly wants something of the
kind considering the shameful way its population
decreased during the last years of Foreign-trade
in N.S.W. Liverpool has been selected because
“there is an excellent water supply, which is a
great thing.” That idea, turned upside-down, was
why the Herald shouted so for Canberra. It was
desperately anxious that there should be no
manufactures iu the Federal city, so it considered
the want of water a great thing.
Business men should take an occasional
dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they clear the
brain.*
BRUCE SMITH (THE ONLY REALLY CONSISTENT
MEMBER OF THE FUSE) ON HIS DEFENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Voice: Kelly says you have not upheld the Liberal
policy.
Mr! Smith: Tut, tut; who is Kelly? (Laughter.) I
will deal with him when the time comes.
—Daily paper report of B. Smith's Ashfield meeting.
Did someone hurl what Kelly said at me !
Tut, tut! Again I say it —tut !
Has’t come to this that I, B. Smith, shall be
Heckled and ragged by voters, cut
Because a Kelly sneers,
And rails at me and jeers ?
Look on my critic’s record ; then on mine.
Inspect these Empire League reports.
How oft does Willy Kelly’s last name shine
Among; them? . . . Quite so. . . . No retorts.
He never saved the Throne ;
I did it on my own.
Does Kelly still—as I do—talk Freetrade
(The cry whereby in former days
We both scored votes)? Or has he gently laid
That creed to rest like some wild craze
Whose proper bourne’s the tomb
Or other place of gloom ?
How of Defence ? Does Kelly still oppose
A fleet of local origin?
Not he. He favors it. In fact, he glows
With ire, these times, at us who pin
Our faith on hired ships-
Of-war from English slips.
Kelly, in days gone by, attacked with vim
The Arbitration Act. With glee
He leaped on Old Age Pensions. Unto him
These smacked of Sosh ; but since then he
Has changed—like other men.
I ? I think now as then.
Kelly may gibe, and yet the self-same views
I hold to-day were also his
Before the consummation of the Fuse.
My attitude unaltered is.
Am I to blame for that ?
Is he or I the “ rat ” i
N.B.W.
H. SINGKMOTNE.
GOOD-BYE AND—THANKS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been thechoice of East Sydney,in King Division,
in the State or Federal Parliament since 1880, taking
part in 15 contested elections, with a short break in mv
service, which occurred more than 25 years ago.
Thousands of my friends have passed awav—thousands
more have passed from manhood to old age, from child-
hood or youth into mature years—thousands of my sup-
porters were unborn when I began mv Parliamentary
career. To all—a thousand thanks !— G.'Reid’s.farewell.
To thousands of my ancient friends
Who sleep by Jordan’s tide ;
To thousands of the ageing pals
Who’re nearing Jordan’s side ;
To thousands who from little kids
Have sprouted to the roll;
To thousands who have come to light
Since I began to poll—
To all of you a thousand thanks ;
And, ere I head for sea,
I’m sure that you will all be glad
To hear it now from me,
That, while I'll never poll again
As once I used to here,
I’ll poll in London easily
Five thousand once a year.
N.S.W.
GIDEON.


58/e
Ready-To-Wear
Suits
IN FLANNELS.
Mens-Wear Catalog
ON APPLICAII9N.
Wr
SUPPLY
Every-
thing
for
Men
&>
yy
\K
*
lit
r»nqi
MELBOURNE, S,E.
OUR SOLE AGENCIES
INCLUDE THE WORLD’S GREATEST PIANOS.
STEIN WAY,
BRINSMEAD
FEURICH,
a Trio of Instruments that
represent the highest
artistic attainments of
America, England and the
Continent.
OUR OWN SPECIAL MODELS—
THE MICWON & THE NANOH.
We have embodied in these two moderate=priced instruments,
as far as possible, all the leading features of the most expensive
pianos, and we can assure the heads of families that they
cannot procure better values.
WE ARE DISPLAYING A VERY EXCELLENT ASSORTMENT OF
VIOLINS,
BANJOS,
VIOLIN CASES,
ACCORDEONS,
MOUTH ORGANS,
MANDOLINS,
CONCERTINAS,
MUSIC STANDS,
GUITARS,
FOLIOS.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS and the NEW AMBEROL RECORDS make Excellent Presents.
The Celebrated CHASE and BAKER PIANO PLAYER, with Wide Selection of Music Rolls.
SHEET and BOOK MUSIC IN INFINITE VARIETY.
NICHOLSON & CO. Ltd.
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-EDUCATION-
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS .
Stott’s Correspondence CsUSS
Can Train You —ByPoat
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. : ,
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once foi* particulars.
lt is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, whihh outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested.- “THOROUGHNESS” is our motto.-
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE., VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brooktnan’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Why Pay More ?
Model N° 7
k
H
&
v
Xv.’l
■•WSBS
Ball Bearing: Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
: f( Keyboard'.
. Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight 121 b.
Don’t wait till your business grows before you
get your typewriter.
Get a typewriter now, and your business mill grow,
THE BRITON is the popular typewriter, because to merchants,
professional men, telegraph operators and journalists it means full
guaranteed value at the lowest possible price.
OUR OFFER . —We carry stock in every state, and will ship you a
Briton typewriter, charges prepaid. You use it for ten days’ free trial.
If you return it we pay freight, and you incur no obligation whatever.
If you want to keep it, remit the cash price, 10s., or if you prefer to
pay in instalments, we charge 10s. extra.
WRITE AT ONCE TO
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor, GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
T 7 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St., Wellington, N.Z.


e *er F
, !^Hxng
'"islx*
A H
© W
n
ev e*W
on e
a Ppy
©ar
Falling Hair —Its Cure.
Nature never intended men or women to go bald, and
the absence of a luxurious growth is a sure sign of an
unhealthy scalp.
What is required is a restorative treatment applied
t,o the individual requirements of the case—not some
mixture professing to cure any and every scalp disease
under the sun. Mrs. Cowling, of the Ilygeia Institute,
is. a specialist in scalp troubles, and has had marked
success in treating the most serious cases.
One patient wrote recently
“AH the irritation has ceased. I do not notice any
dandruff, and the hair is not falling now. It had. been
falling badly for years.”—A.L., Melbourne.
Free consultations are given every day but Saturday
between 2.15 and 4.45; and, by appointment, on Wed-
nesdays from 6 to 7.
Write full details if you cannot call, and address your
letter to the Hvgeia institute, Dept. B, Ocean House,
opp. Government Savings Bank, Moore Street, Sydney.
ROBU3
(>ZL
1
«r
/
&
x
CA
They are better
than last year !
Grocers have them
to give away—ask
yoars to send you
one.
The “Robur” Tea Co.
James Service & Co.,
Proprietors.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 28, 190!).
My Dear Arini,—
Contrary to the expectation of shopkeepers,
they had a raging busy Christmas. Money was
the .coyest and shyest of things during strike-time,
but during the three days preceding the 25th it
poured out of its secret fastnesses even as the rain
poured from the clouds. In some of the big Pitt-
street houses the staffs lost control of the crowd of
shoppers, and the police had to take a hand.
There was no disorder, but simply servers and
shoppers became somewhat scared, and felt glad
of the Law’s long arm and large flat hand.
After a gasless interval of some days, North
Sydney and Mosman were last week vouchsafed
a glimmering of the monopoly. Residents on the
iieights fared as usual in the matter of gas pressure,
but the dwellers who get off at Musgrave-street
and the Cremorne miserables hadn’t enough to
cook their food or light their billiard tables. Like
the ferry companies, which ascribed their re-
stricted steamer service and dismissal of hands
to the strike, the N. S. Gas Co. blamed the
strike for its total eclipse and afterwards for its
partial eclipse. But not all the people who live
on the northern side of the harbor are such fools
as they look. Doubtless it was the strikers who
caused the furious winds and dust of last week,
and caused your Akenehi’s plum-pudding to fall
into a thousand bits at the psychological moment
when it was being tipped from its coming-out
gown.
Five Christmas dinner parties raged at the
Australia on the dismal holy day. It is a wise
way to let someone else have the worry of pre-
paring the elaborate Birthday feast out of your
house, then all you have to do is to get into an
evening gown and sally forth to tear it—
the food, not the gown. Pere Smith, of
the Australia, had bought a lorry-load of
potted hydrangeas for dining-room decora-
tion, and the indeterminate mauves and
dull pinks of the huge plants went very well
with most of the hair and frocks. Miss Grace
Palotta, who came along after dining elsewhere,
added to the gaiety of the winter garden in a
mandarin coat of oyster-white, embroidered with
distractingly beautiful flocks of butterflies and
roses.
Amongst the returned Australians by the Morea
was Dr. Odillo Maher. The eminent eye-
specialist has been having a look-in at the princi-
pal sight-mending institutions of the Old World
to see if there is anything new in the way of eyes.
Unfortunately, the doctor did not bring back a
set of optics which would enable Premier Wade
to see himself as others see him. Presumably,
therefore, Wade will just continue to do his worst.
An orange-blossom from the id. M. Herald :
UHR—BURTON-BRADLEY.— September 29, at St.
David’s Church, Surry Hill, by the Rev. George Brown,
D’Arcv Roxburgh Sherwood, only son of \V. G. L
Uhr, of Uhr Park, Abbotsford, grandson of the late
William Cornelius Uhr, Esq., of Bickleigh Vale, Five
Dock, and Sheriff’s Department, Sydney, great-grand-
son of the late Captain John Uhr, Royal Navy, great-
grand-nephew of the late Lieutenant-General Sir
James Robert Henry Innes Iverr, Duke of Roxburgh,
Earl Innes (English Peerage), and Marquis of Beau-
mont and Cessford, to Clare Burton-Bradley, youngest
daughter of the late Burton-Bradley, Esq., solicitor, of
Llewellyn, Lyons-road, Five Dock.
And it befell at Surry Hills, where the bottle-oli
has his lair ! Yet I suppose if 100 or 200 people
were bitten to death by a motor-car the hero of
that Surry Hills marriage would be Duke of
Roxburgh, and reign in Galloway or Canongate or
Mull or the Saltmarket, or wherever the family
throne is situated. And why shouldn’t he ?
Miss Blanche Curnow, one of the two daughters
of a late Herald editor, the Rev. Mr. Curnow,
was married last week to a Mr. H. R. Clark, of
this State.
Last week Bishop Barlow, of Goulburn, waved
his mitre frenziedly aloft and marrow-froze his
congregation with the following :
He declared that gambling gripped the people in this
country with deadly force. Some of the houses of the
supposed best classes were at times turned into veritable
gambling dens, where people alleged to be assembled out
of friendship Sought to take from other people what they
had not earned. His experience in Australia of gambling,
with its sinilous, snake-like, soul-destroying forces, left
upon liis mind the sad impression that it was worse than
one might expect from the lowest haunts in Italy and
the slums of Naples, etc.
Whereupon Sydney Sunday Times, taking as its
text the cabled news that the late Mrs. W.
Astor’s “pearl necklace” was found to be largely
bogus, said :
Diamonds have before to-day been replaced with paste
to pay Bridge lulls—-even in Australia—and it is possible
the pitiful pearl story was caused in the same way.
It strikes me that the time is ripe for an assault
on the theory held by a multitude of clerics
and by various newspaper offices that the
woman who Bridges in Australia is a reckless
punter for high stakes, and that she brings the
desolation of insolvency on the family hearth in
consequence. I would ask my readers, affluent
and otherwise, to ransack their memories and try
if they can call to mind one female who habitually
plays Bridge at (say) £1 a hundred. Do they
know, or know of, half a dozen who play, as a
regular thing, on a 10s. a hundred basis? Are
they acquainted with many who are chronic
gamesters to the extent of even ss. a hundred ? I
am inclined to wot not. The plain, unromantic
truth is that the women of Sydney (“society”
and otherwise) are not such stuff as
gamblers are made of for two good reasons: (1)
hardly any women are gamblers, (2) the local
females, of all classes, have had, in 95 per cent,
of oases, to sit by and watch their parents or
husbands struggle for such money as is at their
command. The real gambler has no conception
of the value of money. To attain a really com-
plete ignorance of the value of cash it is necessary
that the subject should be unborn while the in-
tensely urgent stuff was being garnered. The im-
memorial type of gamester is that young lord of
Charles Fox’s day who, having lost £lO,OOO in an
hour at hazard and then recovered it
in a single coup, remarked languidly : “Gad. if I
had been playing deep I might have won quite a
decent sum.” N.S. W. doesn’t possess people like
that except in the heated imaginations of bishops
and Sabbath day editors. It is too middle-class, too
financially respectable. The average woman of
wealth ventures a shilling a hundred on special oc-
casions ; on others she confines herself to 3d. or less.
Asithas been calculated byaßridge authority that,
even at £1 a hundred, any normal player may
gamble hard for a twelvemonth and then not find
him or herself in or out more than £l2 or £l5, the
diamond necklaces of this State’s Best People may
be held—on the gambling score at any rate—to be
safe insurance risks.
The Willie Kellys have taken, for six months,
Denver, a big house in Ocean-street, Woollahra,
once the home of the good-looking Caro family,
and later a paying guestery.
A day or two back I came across a copy of
“Lady Cardigan’s Recollections.” Since the
British press uprose as one moralist, and de-
nounced the old lady’s effort as “a blot on Eng-
land’s fair fame,” “a stain on the hitherto un-
smirched British hearth,” and so on, it has been
well-nigh impossible to secure the “Recollections”
at any Sydney bookshop or library. The book has
been rushed like a bargain-sale, and none but the
ultra-privileged has been able to get near it.
Having studied the volume, I am fain to own that
I fail to grasp the reason for all the excitement.
The writer doesn’t make such vice as she touches
alluring. For the rest, her action in suggesting that
naughtiness isn’t altogether non-existent among
the “upper classes” of Britain, isn’t likely to
wreak any national or imperial damage. The
majority of us suspected something of the sort all
along. Her Memoirs have a distinct literary
value. For one thing, they betray the writer’s
genial, cynical personality as frankly as the pages
of Pepys Diary disclose the character of the in-
comparable old life-lover who was responsible for
them. The Cardigan dame has set a fashion
which might do an immensity of moral good if it
were persisted in. It is accepted that the pub-
licity of the courts minimises civil misdemeanors.
Why shouldn’t the publicity of the Memoir have
the same effect on social breaks? Even in this
sainted city I know an old lady or three who, by
the mere process of giving to the world in book-
form her recollections (plus imaginings) of the
past 10 years, could fill every departing mail
steamer for the next three months with our very
best people.
I hear that Rupert Clarke is to settle down in
our midst for quite a while. He is to take on the
late J. Gunn’s job of Sydney stage-manager for
the fused Firm. At the Cri. the apartment that
was Miss Lily Brayton’s dressing-room is being
fitted up in lavish style, and here the theatrical
bart. will address his intellect daily and nightly
to supplying N.S. W. with what it wants in the
show line.
Talking of shows, the heir of one of our
haughtiest alderfolk has been and engaged him-
self to a chorus-girl. The parent of the lucky
youth is a passionate lover of Hingland, a gener-
ous host (the earliest of morning callers is always
sure of a goblet of champagne at his house) —in a
word, a typical Imperialist. The romance had
not received parental sanction when it last came
under my notice ; in fact, it was not known if the
parents of either party had yet learned the glad
tidings. The heroine is tall and dark, and orna-
ments the J. C. W. comic opera combination
which left these shores last week.
It was a stirring spectacle when the Combine in
question departed for M.L. There was more
bright and variegated color than one would see in
any stage transformation scene. The domi-
nating hues were mauve, blue and peroxide, but
there were a thousand others beside. As the
vessel moved away the effect produced from the
shore was as though an exceptionally striking
rainbow had exploded on board. Multi-
tudes of our young town bloods who
have been adoring the female members of this
co. for months past were there, some frankly lach-
rymose ; some gay with the hysterical merriment
which bespeaks either a breaking heart or drink ;
a few bearing up bravely—their stoic calm being
engendered conceivably by the consideration that
at the worst the ship’s departure would connote
the dawning of a much-needed cash-saving era. I
haven’t found myself in such an encompassing
atmosphere of adoration for quite a while. It was
an object-lesson in the sway of the maiden who
wears short skirts in public places.
“ One Who Knows Her ” writes :
Miss Geraldine Ward, who “debuted ”at Sydney Lieder-
tafel smoke concert is a “ hello-girl ” at theSydnej' G.P.O.
The young lady is the possessor of a very fine contralto
voice with a mezzo-soprano range. Prior to the smoko at
the Town Hall, I had been under the impression that the
only voice cultivated by “Central” was a vinegar-acid
with an ice-chest range. This impression, I find, is quite
incorrect. There are angels in the G.P.O. and much
cherubim —lashins of cherubim, in fact.
A wedding of some theatrical poundage occurred
at Neutral Bay last week, the contracting parties
being Miss Eve Truman (of this city) and Mr.
“Bunny ” Bentley (an import), who made some-
thing of a hit with Julius Knight in “Raffles.”
Mr. Aubrey Mallalieu, another overseas mummer
of note, supported his brother actor in the hour of
embarrassment, and a host of theatrical and musical
people attended to see the young couple off the
premises of celibacy.
Four streaks of ill-luck combined to spoil the
financial aspect of Miss Sylvia Blackston’s con-
cert at the Town Hall. They were strike-time,
Christmas-time, a gummy variety of heat and a
savage Wagnerian rain storm. After the concert
was announced the gummy heat stopped people
booking. Most folk were tired ; a lot were short,
or thought they were going to be short, of money
from strike causes, and nearly everybody was
dragging youngsters around the shops. Just
before Christmas there is no time for anything
but buying toys and preparing the beastly brown
cannon-ball pudding. If the Angel Israfel him-
self came down, flew into Paling’s and announced
his intention of giving a concert, Southwell would
try to dissuade him. Hear the dialogue :
Southwell : You haven’t a hope, Angelicas. ( Strong
emphasis on the last syllable .) Iso one here has seen your
English notices. You would have to he Caruso to get
a paj’ing audience at this time of the year. And, as you
probably know, there is a serious disturbance in the labor
market.
The Angel : Surely I am greater than Caruso or any
mortal singer that ever was, is or will be.
Southwell (earnestly) : Yes, yes, Celestial Highness. I
know it, so do several others ; but directly Sydney saw
your name on the posters it would ask “ Where has
Southie picked up the Dago yid ? ”
The Angel : You might tell them that I am the leader
of the Heavenly Choirs, that I have the sweetest voice of
all God’s creatures, and that my heart-strings are a lute.
Southwell (beginning to cry) : I assure you sir, that I
would then get letters from the Amateur Orchestral and
Liedertafel Societies remonstrating with me for using
Bland Holtian and Will Andersonian methods of adver-
tising an unknown performer. They would say the lute
is as out of date as your methods must be, and that you
would not come here unless your voice was too worn for
Elysium. If only you had sent a smart press-agent
here months ago
The Angel ( interrupting) : Nevertheless I am deter-
mined to give this concert. You may take half the pro-
fits as well as your fee. {Fans himself gently with one
huge pinion. All the sheet-music in the shop is blown
violently about.)
Southwell (resignedly): I will do my best; but there
will be no profits. Will 3’ou let me have the programme
you suggest?
The Angel : Would it not be well that you invite the
leading critics to hear me privately?
Southwell : I am afraid it would do more harm than
good. They would write about you as an advertisement
for Wilbur Wright’s aeroplane, not as a musician. And
if there was a woman amongst them she would go mad
over your looks, and write of you as the catch of the
season.
The Angel ( preparing to depart): Is it possible my
Lord created such fools !
Southwell {soothingly)'. No, no. He never created
critics. They just sprang. If you’ll allow me I’ll
see you to where you are staying. Nothing with
wings and feathers is safe at this season. It is killed for
Christmas by the fools 3’our Lord made.
But this is digressing far from Miss Blaelcston
and her concert. -A few hours before the Town'
Hall doors opened, the long and windy drought
broke with much noise of thunder. Nature had
been reading in the Herald lamentations about
Sydney’s water supply and the dryness of the
catchment area. Leaning her massive elbows on
nothing, and casting her large eyes over every-
thing, she mused : “Um-m, they do want rain,
and the dust is blinding them. It would be doing
them a real kindness ; but an unqualified kindness
is a thing of which I’m not capable. Le’s see.
That Mayoral Taylor person is just testing a new
dust-arrester. Bain will queer the trials. Good !
Then there’s a girl going to sing to-night in a big
hall. I abhor a vacuum, but so will she—the
kind of vacuum she’ll get. Then there are
thousands of hats and white frocks to suffer. Ho!
Above there! Open the flood-gates!” And
Nature smiled. We all saw the smile. Three
miles of a curve of lightning. That’s so like
Nature.
The contralto went bravely through with a
high-class and exacting programme. Naturally
she has profited greatly by her many years of
foreign study. And in her gown of buttercup
charmeuse with its glittering overdress she looked
first-rate, carrying and holding herself with grace
and resolution.
Miss May Peach, a Sydney girl—she lived at
Mosman—who left some two years ago to have
the high lights put on her singing voice, will re-
turn in the winter, covered with glory and fine
furs, to be Meynell and Gunn’s leading damsel in
“The Arcadians,” a merry opera which opens in
Melbourne in April.
“ A programme that will prove unusually in-
teresting to ladies” is the promise made on a post-
card issued by the managers of Hackenschmidt,
“ the world’s greatest athlete.” They promise a
refined entertainment of wrestling, posing, pos-
tures, muscle-culture and many etceteras —all to
occur at the Town Hall on Jan. 5. A post-card
back view of H. showing a mountain-like range of
muscles across nude shoulder blades, and a pair of
arms like unto those with which Samson I. knocked
over the walls of a fortified city or some such, are
amongst the refinements very visible to the un-
lensed eye. By the way, Samson could never
have been a prize-fighter or wrestler. An'
adversary would soon have got a grip on his long
hair and wiped the Hebrew sidewalks with him.
Now his hair was a “refinement” (provided he
kept it shampooed), and I’ve long been of
opinion that Delilah cut it off for her own
personal wear. Sorry we haven’t a Julia
Bureau here, so we could learn the truth from
shearer and shorn.
Paling’s Annual has some capital items lurk
ing between its artistic covers, the front one of
which is decorated with a portrait of Amy Castles.
Gounod’s “ Ave Maria,” Mendelssohn’s “ O Rest
in the Lord,” and a “Swords and Roses” gavotte,
written by Miss May Summerbelle for the pretty
dance introduced here by Mrs. M. Boult, are
among the numerous inclusions in the melodious
contents.
The English girl has changed more radically
than most think. A curate is no longer as a match
to her tinder. She never falls in love with him
now, and her mother isn’t interested in his after-
noon tea talk. A curate has been talking to an
English pressman. He, the curate, asserted that
he, and all the curates he knew in London as
well, were bitterly lonely and miserable in their
lodgings after their work in the mean streets was
done for the day. In vitations and worked slippers
are amongst the things they never get nowadays.
One of the gentlemen made a series of experi-
ments by making 20 afternoon calls on persons
of his own walk in life: “In every instance
save two (where there were invalids in
the house) I was shown into a cheerless
room, kept waiting several minutes before my
hostess arrived, and I was not offered tea. It
was generally assumed that I had come for a sub-
scription.” In Australia the nice curate is still
very welcome. In fact, he gets so much welcom-
ing that, if he was not an earnest “ curick,” he
would neglect the people in the mean streets for
those living at the various Points. The Immigra-
tion Bureau might bring out a lot of picked
curates and run them for the matrimonial prizes
against the penniless naval officers, who so far
have scored more heavily than they deserved.
Reasons for going into bolidav retirement are
waxing numerous and curious-like. Three de-
moiselles of this State have taken a four-roomed
furnished cottage at—well, never mind the atness
It is in a most secluded place. They are quite
well, thank you. They don’t want to write or
paint, and they are rich enough to go to a first-
class holiday hostel. But for a fortnight two of
the trio will keep their scalps soaked with crude
petroleum. Their respective hairs (heads of it
understood) have been in a parlous condition, and
they are quite convinced that they’ll return with
hair on the way to be like Lady Godiva’s. The
third girl’s hair is flourishing, but she says her
face skin looks starved, so she is going " about
masked. The mask has an inner lining of soue
material that is permeated with almond oil.
The following advts., cut from the same issue
of the Herald give me pause :
'V'OUNG Man would like a Companion for Xmas
holidays.
( i EXT., respec., lonely, wishes to meet refined Conn
panion for holidays.
A fewdavs earlieran Englishman, newly arrived,
advertised in the same guileless old sheet for “are-
fined mate for surf-bathing, etc., during Christmas
holidays. All expenses paid.” In none of these
heart-cries is the gender of the required mate or
companion specified. However, it is unreason-
able to suppose that any man, even “a newly-
arrived Englishman,” would pay “ all expenses ”
of a man to go surf-bathing with, etc. I fear the
advertisers’ intentions are strictly dishonorable,
and that after the companionship and the holi-
days they will walk off gaily chortling—
Gee whiz! I’m glad I’m free.
No wedding-bells for me.
Apropos, it is now quite an established custom
to advertise in the Herald for a “well-developed
lady, view Matrimony.” Of course, some of the
advts. are bogus; others are evidently genuine,
such as this pathetic proclamation: “Wanted, a
wife with blue eyes and a little money.” Blue
eyes and money—romance and reality.
England is a queer old place. London Daily
Mail (18/11/’O9) tells of a Dog Show that was in
progress in the West End of the Empire’s hub
when the paper went to press. There was
£20,000 worth of Dog on exhibit. Also :
Some of the elaborate companion cases for the use of
the dogs created almost as much interest as the animals
themselves. One of these contained :
Small spirit stove, for taking the chill off the dog’sfood.
Bottles of sterilised milk and filtered water.
Scent spray.
Bottle of meat extract for beef tea.
China box containing breast of chicken and pieces of
prime beef.
Ivory-backed brush and comb.
Feeding spoon.
Colored ribbons.
The tiny dog for which all these things were intended
arrived in a motor car and reposed in a silk-lined box
upon a down, silk-covered pillow. There was a small
eiderdown quilt for a coverlet. All day the dog’s mistress
sat by the box feeding, spraying, and talking to her pet.
And even as those lines were being set in the
Daily Mail office 2000 human beings, male and
female, were trying to sleep on the Embankment
near by because they were too destitute to hire a
sleeping place anywhere else.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


li
<
i
8
ss
m
m
B
r
v.
t.
7
r
52
V
v-
,S^
K-' y?s%
m
s^''
C-O-B-R-A S/6e Boot PolisK l
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Plays a little
Cricket too ;
When the bear
With “COBRA” Polish
All three wickets
Would demolish,
Chunder trembles
In his shoes.
(Which reminds him
YOU should use
“COBRA” on the
Shoes YOU cherish —-
“ COBRA ” will not
Let them perish.)


i/
Always Order
SCHWEPPES ’
DRY GINGER ALE
Awarded Grand Prix
London. 1908.
':sn
f/-
Q?
DUNLOPS
for Speed and
<- Reliabilihy.
DUNLOP
TYRES
AGAIN CARRY ALL BEFORE
THEM—WINNING THE
“AUSTRAL”
AND PRACTICALLY EVERY
EVENT AT THE M. B. C.
MEETING FOR 1909.
None Genuine
without this £gT
Trade Mark
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
Brisbane, Christchurch. N.Z.
f
V
■>l
m
V-
Once
Use a
Dunlop
Tennis
Ball 4
and
You
Will
Use
No
Other.
DUNLOP
TENNIS
BALLS
being freshly made and free
from perish, ensure you satis-
faction that is not obtainable
from the imported article.
Just try a “Dunlop” Ball
and note the difference.
Obtainable all leading Sports Depots
DUNLOP RUBBER CO, all State* and N.Z.
sfd
Medical & Toilet. Black & Green ftcket
MISS HILDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
Miss Hilda Spong, the beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia,
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP :
MESSRS. P. H. FAULDING & CO. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C., July 31, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —Your Solyptol Soap was recently brought under my notice, and you may be interested to know that
I have found it absolutely the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water,
its perfume is delightfully refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
any other soap. It is particularly gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithfully, HILDA SPONG.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 27, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The Victorian League cats mewed angrily
and cried out, “Moll Roe, Moll Roe, were
you at the Cat Show ? ” There was a
party given for the Dudleys, and the Lauch-
lan Mackinnons lent their abode and garden
for the flutter. The mote in the joy of the
Leagueitesis that the Mackinnons seemed to have
all the glory to themselves. They received vice-
royalty in an impressive fashion, and the rest of
the people interested were included with those
who also ran, or were among the people who
carried a banner and came on with the crowd,
and cheered Henry V. or clamored for the blood of
the French aristocrat.
The Lauchlan Mackinnons are among the many
“ recently returned ” (which sounds as if the goods
sent out are not good enough) from abrawd.
Lauchlan never travels without his piper. A
tragedy happened at Colombo. If Lauchlan can-
not travel without his piper his missus cannot do
without her maid. The pair landed at Colombo
and drove to the Mount Lavinia Hotel. What
was the horror of missus to see Francoise,
exquisitely dressed, having dinner with a male
tirst-class passenger. Missus sent a waiter with a
message: “Your mistress will require you at
11!” Thereat Frangoise rose and gave notice on
the spot. And after that there were complications.
Mrs. Herbert Syme, of the Age, gave a monster
party for the extreme youth of her acquaintance.
There were 500 guests, all young enough to appre-
ciate the flavor of Punch and Judy. The grounds
were turned into a pandemonium, borrowed from
the Arabian Nights or the Midsummer Nights’
Jim-Jam. There was an electric railway with
a full-fledged train, and a switch-back to till up
odd corners on the lawn. Mr. Herbert left the
office business to go to the dogs while he rushed
round with hands full of shillings as prizes for
small youths who hit Aunt Sally or won a race.
It was a jolly Christmas shivoo for the local small
child, and a hideous next day for mamma and
nursie when Benjamin felt too full of bun. The
amount of bun that Benjamin can hold is wonder-
ful.
Senator Best, who was murmured about as
High Commissioner before the all-embracing glare
of the burning-glass in George’s eye frizzled up
the job, is rushing off to the Tasmanian Isle of
Dreams to rest after the struggles and blithers of
the long session. The Best lady and her two
armfuls of pink and white plumpness, together
with a retinue of nurse and maid, have gone on
ahead to the orchard banks of Brown’s River.
Senator Keating’s spouse has been settled in her
native island ever since the racket of Cup time.
The Keatings occupy Rosemount, at Launceston,
and the person who knows not Rosemount knows
nowhere, say the Tasmanians.
The Tartes, of Fiji or the New Hebrides or
somewhere thereabouts, have departed to their
island or islands. The Tartes are not a native
tribe—they are in no way related to the cannibal
King Cold Pie—but a distinguished family of
whites, who sit among cocoanut palms and watch
wealth roll in upon them like the car of Jugger-
naut. Papa Tarte is a high panjandrum—so high
that you need an aeroplane to reach the top of
him—in whatever politics the lazy tropics
possess. He is close up to Mahaffy, so
I am told, and Mahaffy is so next to
Governor im Thurn that you can’t see daylight
between them. Yet it is difficult to believe this,
for to be so near to anybody in that climate would
make you hot, and you would have to call wildly
for iced drinks. Anyhow, Mamma Tarte is the
dearest old lady, with white hair and a motherly
smile ; and daughter Tarte has annexed one of
Sydney’s most choice medicoes as a prospective
husband. They all departed this Australian
sojourn in a boat packed full of cows and pigs of
blue-blooded pedigree, and these animals are to
browse under the ancestral cocoanut.
The sound of Harold Hunt’s waistcoats is no
longer heard in the land, and sassiety butterflies
weep honey tears. The beauty man, who is like
a Christmas calendar illustration, has departed to
Ballarat, where his Wagnerian vests may have a
chance in a South-street band contest.
Two universities —one Australian and one
American —are implicated in the latest matri-
monial engagement. Professor Brailsford Robert-
son, assistant lecturer on physiology at the
University of California, is to marry Miss Stirling,
the daughter of Professor Stirling of Adelaide.
The Stirling family is responsible for the name of
the little township centre on Mount Lofty,
which is to Adelaide what Macedon is to
Melbourne or the Blue Hills to Sydney.
A man friend who knovvs San Francisco enthuses
over Berkeley University, where the Brailsford
man hails from. It is a suburb of the earthquake
dty—just across the bay—snuggled into hills and
overlooking the Golden Gate. The Stirling girl
should not be too homesick, even after the
Adelaide hills become a memory, because the
whole campus of the University, with unique
grouping of colleges, library, museum and Greek
theatre, are set in masses of Australian trees —
gums and wattles. Even the street trees in
Berkeley are Australian wattles—a feature,
curiously enough, never in evidence in Australian
towns. The foliage is always beautiful, even
when bereft of the blurred golden glory of
blossom. The Californians use our eucalyptus
and wattle profusely. The wattle they raise from
seed—never import the grown plants, because of
a natural borer pest that riddles our wattles
after a few years. It is noticeable in Australia
that few wattles attain great age or size; the
wattle that the gods iove dies young. As for the
rest of the University campus, a winding stream
is fringed with Californian oaks—undersigned
trees of gnarled and twisted branches of great
beauty. An Australian artist, Frank McComas,
painted himself into fame in Western America by
his appreciation of these beautiful dwarf oaks.
His pictures of them are everywhere.
Talking of Berkeley University, Long, a tennis
champion who tried to grab the Davis Cup this year
from the Australians, is an undergraduate there,
and has returned thither with the dogged deter-
mination to play better next year. In the hour
of his despondency a man managed to create a
joyful and surprised smile bv yelling “Give ’em
the axe.” It was the Berkeley man who
smiled. Berkeley and the Leland-Stanford
Universities (about 40 miles from each other) are
deadly rivals and enemies. Once the Stan-
ford football team visited Berkeley, and was
defeated. The Stanford boys always carried an
enormous axe as a mascot. This implement of
butchery was taken from them by the winning team.
The ravishers keep the much-prized trophy (which
has been with them for the past 10 years) locked up
in a bank safe. It is taken out once a year and
triumphantly waved over the Stanford men, who
yell with rage, but who get even at times.
Berkeley’s past successes in the football field
are recorded on the pedestal of an imposing
bronze statue. At the back of the Univer-
sity an immense white O is cut high up
on a hill-side. It can be seen from San
Francisco. One night the Stanford players
during one of their periodical visits to Berkeley,
climbed the hill carrying pots and brushes, and
painted the beautiful white letter an enraging
red. Red is the dominant color of their own
University. Berkeley boys took a laborious week
to wash it white again ; and whenever the rival
team visits Berkeley, a squad of sophomores hold
vigil the night through round the C. The mean-
ing of that cry, “Give’em the axe,” is faintly
visible through this dense foliage of information.
Judging from the crowds of Christmas shopping
visitors in the Melbourne “Block” district last
week, Victoria must be bulging with prosperity.
Every year the line of distinction between the
accoutrements of town and country womenkind is
being narrowed, and every year the proportion of
strange men in uncouth hats and boots seems to
diminish. The girls are getting a monopoly of
Collins-street festivity. They swim around the
haunts of fashion in shoals. They pour into the
tea-rooms and “shout” their own refresh-
ments. Anything in the shape of a man
is so unusual in their midst that they
treat it seemingly as an accident, and
leave it out of their conversation. Proba-
bly they are paying for its tea. There are
men in the city as usual, of course, but the sexes
mingle hardly at all from 3to 5 p.m. Evidently
the Christmas girls are a more moneyed class than
they were. They don’t receive presents in kind.
They capture the cash from their victims, and
subsequently show them the results with the
casual remark of “ See what you bought me! ”
Under this up-to-date system the shops find them-
selves left with large stocks of useless articles on
hand. There are no men in the market to buy
them.
The hot north-wind day, which saw a big patch
of Williamstown burnt down for want of an
initial bucket of water and owing to the mur-
derous inadequacy of the water pressure, amused
itself with another disastrous fire. The Children’s
Convalescent Home, along the Sandringham
beach, was burnt down. By the way, Chief
Fireman Lee, exhausted and rushing at full speed
in his motor from one burning suburb to
the other, was fined for furious driving. These
motor-fining people bring things to the fine point
of a joke.
At the hospital, not only were all the babies
saved, but every stick of furniture. Two nurses
were on duty—the Children’s Hospital ladies
take turns at duty in the Convalescent Home.
Nurse Mackenzie and Nurse Hart (whom
the babies lovingly call “Big Nursie”) were
in charge. They rang up taxis, bundled
the infants into them, and then flung the furniture
out into the gardens. The amazed babies were
bundled into cots at the Children’s Hospital
before they understood what new game “Nursie”
was making them play.
“The Merchant of Venice,” with the Aschesat
the Theatre Royal, has even gone farther, re-
garded as an inspiration of color, than the previ-
ous Asche triumphs. From the initial street
scene to the house of Shylock is not even a push
of a back-cloth. Green shutters open in the
white walls, and there is the Jew’s window
with the big, glowering, dirty Jew sitting
within. Shylock, with his red beard and fur
cloak, is a color scheme despite his grime.
The scenes, almost unbroken, one after another of
the same part make for a realistic snap of Venice.
The gondola that inevitably arrives is not too
obvious, and glides frdrn apparent water. Jessica,
in black, climbing over a balcony in the dusk and
scuttling to the white boat is a scenic joy in
herself. She scrambles off like a black rabbit—
with an awkward girlish run that is realistic.
The whole thing is good except the scene in
which a very pretty, but most unconvincing,
Portia, in bright red, outwits a Shylock who is
about as bloodthirsty as a tame vegetarian. In
every other scene Asche is such a very Shylock,
and rounds Shakspeare’s words like a magician,
while Lily Brayton’s Portia is a woman she is
effective. A very peacock in blue-green and gold,
she challenges the casket hunters.
To her Arabian Knight, who chooses badly,
says she, “So fare all of his complexion.” I’m
sure I don’t wonder at it—poor dear !—consider-
ing the awful time she had with her last black
husband.
The Morocco Prince knew how to bring color
into the affair. He is followed by six servants,
each in a white burnous ; and the servants range
themselves in ghostly line against a shadowy
white background. It is an inspiration of effect —
two whites to background his polished ebony face
and gorgeous trappings.
Those who want to know what moonlight is had
better see the setting of “The Merchant.” It
out-moonlights the very moon in effect. The
Jewish Jessica gets into gold and purple when she
has plain white walls and brown corners for home,
and Lily Brayton floats in sunset colors of no more
thickness than a spider’s web.
Portia, in peacock hues, lets four blue minstrels
play on silver harps an accompaniment to Bessie
Martin (also an azure circumstance), singing
“Tell Me Where is Fancy Bred.” A singer of
our city, Mrs. Marion Alsop, who makes many
melodies, put music to the song.
Beatrice Day. back from Maoriland, is in Mel-
bourne. She is staying with Mrs. Forrest at
Bell-Moor, St. Kilda.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
A week of Polar weather has broken off from an iceberg
somewhere and slipped into our December ; and our sole
consolation during the trying time has been the Choral
Society, the Castles co., and three oratorios. The first
of these three was the “ Stabat Mater,” wherein the
Castles damsel was arrayed in a pink and creamy
raiment, while Peter Dawson wore his best voice and
was surrounded by the Society that brought him up.
Every night the home-grown singer scored an ovation,
consisting of noise, umbrella and hanky. On the second
night “Gallia” was given, and Amy wore heliotrope and
silver. For the “ Messiah ” she clung to spangly-white.
There wasn’t a particle of vacancy on this occasion, and
if the populace wasn’t clinging to the rafters it was owing
to the absence of rafters and not the lack of populace.
Conductor C. J. Stevens had a laurel wreath thrust upon
him by the Society as a good conduct prize, and
Josiah Symon made the necessary decorative remarks to
accompany it. The contralto of the party was a local
maid, Laura Humphreys, a pretty and graceful girl with
a charming voice, and considering the unnerving circum-
stances she was a credit to us! She, like Amy, had
pyramids of vegetation handed to her. No Excellencies
appeared at the solemn outburst, though they must have
been there in spirit, for on the first night the orchestra
solemnly arose and played “ God Save,” and the crowd
gazed deferentially at the empty chairs.
The Castles damsel is now holidaying, while tenor
Nichol and our Peter, with Muriel Cheek to help, sing
pretty songs to the rural population.
The Adelaide Rowing Club has had its regatta on a sort
of chance river called the Torrens. The Edwin Smiths
(he being president) intimated in the usual manner
that there would be tea and tunes; so the world
arrived—mostly a young he-and-she-world, of course. On
this occasion, tea emerged from the boathouse and
wandered over the lawns while the tunes sat upon the
balcony. A young heat wave submerged several com-
plexions, and in this respect the riff-raff on the other side
of the river had distinctly the best of it. They had
willows to shade them while the Rowing Club lawns are
bald, and no one knows where to buy a bottle of tree-
restorer.
Henley Beach got its electric cars for a Christmas box.
The line was opened with a flurry on Thursday afternoon,
and many of the local satraps and thanes and hidalgos
were given a free ride, with afternoon tea and decora-
tions. This is one of S.A.’s prettiest car jaunts, for the
route doesn’t keep to the common or barn-door roadway,
but meanders through parks and paddocks and over
creeks. The intervening country has an uncomfortable
habit of getting drowned every' winter, so in places the
lines have been built up in the air, and the drivers have
either to be birds or belong to the Naval Reserve. Before
the electric current was turned on they were attached to
the Horse Marines.
Dr. W. G. Duffield, the wealthy young man who wears
half the alphabet behind his name and knows all the
stars to speak to, has gone back to Britain to look after
the solar plexus or something. His job will be at Man-
chester University. Since he tripped out to his native
Adelaide, a year ago, he has collected a new degree and
one wife (also new). He did have hopes that a Com-
monwealth Observatory would come his way ; but when
it didn’t he turned north again.
Artist Jimmy Ashton, who has painted more miles of
seascape than any fish has ever seen, and is the father of
the better-known Will Ashton, has dropped his palettes
and sailed to Colombo for a rest and change, though
Heaven knows he could have got more of both at Oodna-
datta. Will Ashton migrates to Sydney in a week or two,
and he is going to do great things before he’s much older,
or else disappoint S. Australia.
The new Rhodes scholar from S. Aus. is Harry Thomp-
son, whose father and grandfather both travelled the
inky way. He is 21 and a brilliant youth, who got his
LL.B. degree at the Commem. last week.
Fiddler Cade, with Edith Ward and Elford Mack, had a
classic matinee at the Lyric Club lately, and all the local
men who wear long hair and a profound expression sat
through the service and punctuated it with gasps of
admiration. The recital was a kind of final plunge into
rhapsody for our benefit on the part of Mr. Cade, who
carries his fiddle and Italian-looking countenance to
Europe almost at once. Singer Oscar Taeuber takes his
voice along, and the two will dwell together where the
German sausage grows wild on the hedges.
When the big Broken Hill Proprietary imported Guil-
laume D. Delprat, 10 years ago, to manage its big mine
and works, he brought with him a family of Dutch dolls.
Also he brought a Dutch wife who was horrified to find
that Australian society mothers spent more on their
clothes than on their children’s education. She didn’t.
Though papa Delprat is one of the biggest-salaried men
in Australia and can drive a good bargain on his own
account, all the Dutch dolls had to learn to be some-
thing. Mary, the eldest, chose medicine; and she
has just finished the most brilliant course ever
taken by a woman at Adelaide University. She won first-
class honors in four years out of five —the only time such
a thing was ever done. Another of the dolls took
medicine, too ; but she is a year behind her sister. A
third adopted music ; she has made a stir in Brussels,
and is leader of the Conservatorium orchestra. There is
only one son : he is a mining man, like his father—a
graduate of the Adelaide School of Mines. But nobody
ever accused him of a brilliant course.
Sinoerely yours,
JOHANNA.
The Capetown to Cairo railway is to be
5700 miles long, and already 3547 miles have been
constructed, while the job of laying the remaining
2153 miles is being pushed along hard. Also,
cross lines are being built east and west. And
Australia’s transcontinental railways—well, the
less said about them the better !
“ L’Fou ” writes :
Recently I saw a unique volume—bound in worked
leather by an amateur. It had no title. As the literature
is of a private nature I leave the names of the hero.and
heroine blank. There is a laconic preface : “ Those who
have health let them multiply it; but letnot the sick
spread evil.”
The first pa<re is written in manuscript by a lady doctor
with a foreign name. Her medical achievements seem to
have been better than her English. It is dated “ London,
14/1/1589,” and reads : “ Elizabeth , being" about to
marry, and having a commendable forethought for her
children, and having consulted me, and I, being in a
position to know, do most surely say that the said Eliza-
beth , virgin, is bodily a splendid woman, having
most good health and youth, and very beautiful.”
On page 2 is its logical complement. “ I hereby certify
that John is in perfect health, of sound constitu-
tion, and free from all taint of hereditary disease.”
Having thus satisfied their own and each other's con-
sciences, page 3 is composed of the marriage certificate.
It is dated over 20 years back. Nine monotonous leaves
follow, each with a birth certificate upon it. Then comes
a sheaf of newspaper clippings re the achievements of tl e
children as they grew up. The clippings deal with
school athletics, a tennis championship, four scholar-
ships, musical honors, a special gold medal for
dancing and one for life-saving, and the record of swim-
n^ nfr /u a^S B ' alo r e - Lastly comes the death notice of the
eldest boy, aged 19. It wasn’t disease which cut his life
short; he was doing rescue work in a burning building
when a wall fell on him. The tome has plenty of blank
sheets at the back on which to record the future deeds of
the tribe. As none of the family has as yet attained the
age of 21, they may be needed.
At present, as Dr. Springthorpe put it the other day
anybody can legally marry anybody else by simply
strolling before the registrar.” It is interesting to specu-
late how far the future kid would benefit if the State took
a more militant interest in him ; if, f’rinstance, it de-
manded that he should be bred at least as scientifically as
horses or poultry—which he generally isn’t.


Why Not Have a KODAK for 1910 ?
mm
Saw
tiO
Every man and woman should have a hobby-
something that will take away the thoughts
from worries of business, the strain of
home cares, or the exigencies of everyday
life. Can you imagine any better pastime
than photography, which is not a merely
fleeting pleasure, but which gives definite
results for your endeavors, and enables you
to store up many pleasant reminders of scenes
and events through which you have passed?
It’s wonderfully fascinating, wonderfully in-
teresting, and yet it’s as easy as falling off a
log—if you use a Kodak. That’s the point!
The Kodak has simplified the process of
photography so that now anybody can indulge
in it with pleasure and profit. The taking,
developing and'printing of the pictures is
so easy from start to finish that a child
can readily master it. And the Kodak
secures better results, too. The Kodak
Film does away with the dark room for
loading and unloading, and the Kodak
Film Tank enables you to develop in day-
light. Kodak means, in short, photography
with the bother left out.
No. 1 FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
This compact Camera takes pictures
x 3Jin., and has a capacity of 12
exposures without reloading. It pos-
sesses a Meniscus Achromatic lens, a
pocket automatic shutter, and a bril-
liant reversible finder. The weight is
only IGoz. Price £2 2a. Postage Is.
extra.
No. la FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
This is an ideal instrument for the
tourist, as it folds up into such a small
space. It takes 12 pictures measuring’
2%in. x 4|in. without reloading ; is fitted
with a Meniscus Achromatic lens, a
pocket automatic shutter and a brilliant
reversible finder. The total weight is
20oz. Price JE2 10s. Postage Is. extra.
No. 5 FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
Simplicity and compactness, combined
with great adaptability to a wide
range of conditions, have made this
Camera a remarkable success. It’s a
Quarter-Plate Camera with a 12-
exposure capacity, and is beautifully
finished throughout. Price £3 12s. 6d.
Postage Is. 3d. extra.
We stock all Kodak supplies at English list prices, and will
be glad to forward our Illustrated Catalogue on request.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
Sole Agents for Australian Kodak Ltd.,
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
No. HB92S—lsct. Gold Pearl and Tourmaline Set
Bangle, £B.
No. I)l27(i—Whole Pearl and Diamom
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
No. H6oio Pearl n i
Tourmaline Set Pendant,
9ct. Gold, £2/2/-
No. H7729—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Set, 15ot. Gold Tortoise
Safety Brooch, £2/15/-
No. H8929—15et. Gold, Pearl and Green or Pink Tourmalii
Set Banyle, £lO/10/-
No. H7o76—Pearl and Tourmaline
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch Pendant,
£7/15/-
No. Jll7—9ct. Gold Safety Pins,
Turquoise Set,
11/6 and 7/6 each.
No. FB7lB—lBct.
Gold, Five Rows
Assorted Gems,
Bangle Ring, £7/7/-
No. G9l4l—lsct. Gold Brooch, Set
Single Diamond, £2/10/-
No. F22s2—Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£l/10/-
No. G3341—15ft. Gold, Opal and
.Rub.v Brooch, £2.
No. H 4723 —Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch, Real
Coral Drop, £l/7/6.
r
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd
WE aim to supply all conditions of people and all size
purses, and so satisfactorily do we do it that we, at
some time during the year, get all the lovers of
pretty things as customers. These are examples of the
Newest Designs and Range of Prices. If you cannot call,
write for our Fine Art Illustrated Catalogue. Postage paid
on all articles ordered by post. Money back if goods are
, not up to representations.
No. C3334—15et. Gold,
Pearl, and Australian
Ruby Set Ciooch, £3/3/-
No. J62o—Finest Quality
Diamond Ring-, £l6/10/-
No. C36lo—Whole Pearl, Ruby
and Diamond Set. Brooch
Pendant, £3O.
No. H3Sl2—9ct. Gold Heavy Twist Bangle, set Diamonds
and Rubies, £4/10/-
No. H7732—Pearl Set loot. Gold Flexible Bangle, in Case, £7/7/-
Magniticent Diamond “ New Moon and Orescent ” Brooeb, £7O.
No. 14S—Fine Diamond and Ruby Set Bangle,
9ct. Gold, £4 10s.'
No. Diamond Sunburst
Brooch or Pendant, Finest
' Quality,£s7/10/-
No. 03343—Pearl Set Lace
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 9/6.
No. C3342—Pearl Set 9ot. Gold
Safety Pin, 9/6.
No. Gloo—loot. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Spray Brooch, £l5.
No. G9sl2—Fine Sapphire or Ruby Brooch
15ct. Gold, £l5/10/-
No. OlO'J—Finest Quality Single Stone Diamond
Brooch, £65.
No. 2003—Dianiond Star Brooch
orPendaut, £57/10/-


A MATTER FOR YOUR OWN TASTE.
The article you select is a matter for your own taste. The price you pay is a matter for your own judgment. But when i
comes to quality of goods—to honesty in manufacture, and to up-to-dateness in style —that is our lookout,
our responsibility, our work.
AND WE DO OUR WORK THOROUGHLY.
a. sauxders.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethysts,
22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set with Fine White
Pearls and Amethysts,
30/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
27/6.
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE.
The continued and increasing patronage
of people all over Australasia is a sure
sign that our Up-to-date MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT has given satisfaction in
the matter of Prompt Service, Quality of
Goods, and Low Prices.
FREE CATALOGUE.
A request will bring you a copy of our
Illustrated Catalogue.
WRITE FOR A COPY TO-DAY.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
25/-.
A. SAUivDERS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethvst,
»«*/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT, Rib-
bon and Spray Design,
set with Amethyst, Peri-
dot, and Tourmaline,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Band BRACELET, Richly Embossed, Floral
Design, with Safety Chain,
30/-.
Other ■ Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Wishbone and Bird Floral
Spray BROOCH,. Bell and Chain
attached,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
get. Gold Bamboo BRACELET, Half-chased, with Safety
Chain attached,
£2/15/.
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Peridot, Garnet,
Amethyst, or Tour-
maline,
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Music BROOCH, “Dearest,”
Very Neat,
15/-.
Pearl Set, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll and Ivy Leaf BROOCH,
Garnet Centre,
6/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold MEDAL,
Hand Engraved,
12/6
In 15ct. Gold, 20/.
Other Styles, 15/,
17/6, 20/.
sfdsfd
sfd
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Curb Padlock
BRACELET, with Safety
Chain attached,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Larger £3/10/, £4,
£4/10/. Smaller, 25/,
30/, 35/, 40/, 50/. 15ct.
Gold, £4/5/, £4/15/,
£5. 18ct. Gold, £7/10/,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold MEDAL,
Nicely Engraved,
' to/-.
15ct. Gold, 17/6.
Other Styles, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird, Spray and Heart BROOCH,
Neat a i oral esign,
8/6.
S ===% ss: = S^ !S H^ iSSi^
-A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pure Golden
Sapphires,
£ 5.
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, tale Blue, and
Dark Green Enamel,
7/6.
Smaller, 6/6; Wider, S/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6..
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold BROOCH, pure Diamonds,
Pearls, and Rubies or Sapphires,
£6/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUNTAIN PEN, Sterling- Silver-mounted “Paul E.
Weir” or “Glide Easy,” 15/. 14et. Gold Nib,
Plain, 7/6. Other Styles, 4/6, .'5/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold lvnife Edgre Pearl Cluster and Spray
BRACELET,
£2/10/-.-
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT PIN, Coloured
Enamel and Silver,
Strong Steel Stem,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set
Pearls, Ruby, and Turquoise,
or all Pearls,
£B/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls,
£4/10/.
Silver HAT PIN,
Strong Steel Stem,
Solid
Silver,
£2.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/.
Silver HAT PIN,
strong Steel Stem,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Crescent
BR0 Ar ' T U set Fine
White Pearls,
£l5/10/.
Silver HAT PIN,
Amethyst Top,
Strong Steel Stem,
3/-.
iimilßlWHMlßWllWlWll>iWllwliHwWHinilliaWlWtw«illiiiiiiiir.;ai'iim. | » r| -
m
n
A. SAUNDERS. 3 „ , .
15-t Gold BRACELET, Diamonds, Opals, and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l3/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Hall-marked
Shield and Dumbbell
LINKS,
20/-.
Initials Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Watches,
Stem Set, f-plate, Fully Jewelled Compensa-
tion Balance, Perfectly Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3/10/, £5/10/,
Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £l2/10/, £l5,
£2l. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dot. Gold LINKS, Heart
and Dumb-bell,
20/-.
Smaller Size, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Fine White Pure Double-icut
' Diamonds and Opals,
£3O.
Smaller Diamonds, £25.
Open
Face,
10/-
Higher
Grade,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Faced Key-
less WATCHES, Short-wind, Stem
Set, Perfectly Regulated,
10/-.
Higher Grades, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Dinha Forget” Bird and Heart
BROOCH, Floral Design,
10/6.
A. .SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hall-marked
Motto RING,
Neatly Chased,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Set Fine Double-cut
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£l5-
Diamonds and
Emeralds, £l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Juvenile Padlock Curb BRACELET,
Nicely Finished,
10/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/-.
Larger, 12/6.
. A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set with
Fine large Double-
cut Diamond-
£s.
Smaller Diamond, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and
Spray Heart CHARM,
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, set Fine
Double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires,
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less Watches, Richly-engraved Case,
f-plate, Lever Movement, Patent Ad-
justed Balance.
25/-.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3, 4 Years.
Solid
Silver,
25/-
Solid
Gold,
£3.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE NEW RAILWAY STATION.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


At Daybreak.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
£ m 7 HEY lay, grey shapes in the gloaming
m When the sunset streamers paled ;
M A light at a masthead flickered,
A voice in the darkness hailed. . .
When the townsmen looked, in the morning.
They saw no cruisers there,
Only the wild, white horses
Leaping at moorings bare.
They wakened the watch at midnight
With the muttered words “ Eight Bells,”
Down at the fires they mustered,
As the stokehold log-book tells.
“Light up ! ” came the hoarse-toned order,
“ Light up ! ” the word went round —
At four o’clock in the morning
She was showing her “ thirty-pound.”
A signal spoke on the flagship,
And its message was handed on
To the men at the capstan-engine
Where lever and oil-can shone.
The steam rushed, hot, to its labor
Till the links of the anchor chains
Crept over the decks like turtles,
Leaving their muddy stains.
Up came the first slow anchors
Setting the cruisers free,
To follow the roads that Britain
Has measured on every sea.
While the townsman, tired with his toiling,
Still slept in his easy bed.
The quick flags spoke in the dawning,
And the squadron moved ahead.
And e’en as the townsmen slumbered,
The men who had lit the fires
Slept; and they heard no clamor
Of tingling telegraph wires,
Nor the engines quivering, turning ;
The clatter of shovel-blades,
Nor the foam at the forefoot pouring,
Roaring in white cascades.
Grey shapes, in the growing daylight,
Ghosts of the sea they seemed,
As, each ship keeping its distance,
Out of the port they steamed.
Counting the revolutions,
Slowing or quickening speed,
In the glow of the dawn they flitted
With the flagship in the lead.
Out past the lighthouse warden
Where the sun was kissing the foam,
They flung brown smoke from their funnels
Laying a course for “ Home.”
Outward, beyond the horizon
They hurried and faded and went,
And left behind them, unguarded,
Australia’s continent.
The watch turned out at midnight
To the muttered icords “ Eight bells-!”
“ He wants full steam at daybreak,
And don’t wake nobody else.”
When the townsfolk looked, in the morning.
There ivere no cruisers there,
Only the wild, white horses
Leaping at moorings bare.
MAOKI LAND.
WILL LAWSON.
About Alien Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALONG, low line of street, malodorous
of opium.
From shop-sheds slink humans—sleek,
slant-eyed, Mongol. Sometimes they salaam.
The aspect is a blur of black, brown and
brindled.
Here, on Thursday island, Queensland’s shell-
ing centre, the color curse screams; though it
knows enough not to scream too often or too loud,
lest hefty young Australia in the artillery barracks
on the hill be annoyed and smite it to silence with
a stick.
When the Jap makes merry he shoots his
woman; then creeps away alone and does hari-kari.
The Kanaka imbibes bad beer and hand-balls
the bottles.
The rest of Brother Brown runs amok amongst
himself with a krese.
Practically every colored creed in creation has
some of it employed here in shelling, fishing or
commerce. And they intermarry.
And the offspring sit side by side in the State
school with the children of wealthy white folk,
who are too color-blind or indifferent to make it
matter.
The colored child, sitting so serenely by us, is,
most of him, heir to mysterious maladies, the
horrors of which are unthinkable.
And, circled so by the color line, a community
is apt to become color-blind.
Each not-white race has had its day at diving.
First. Rotumah man, then Malay and Manila, and
now Jap.
The Japanese diver owns Thursday Island—'the
shelling and the sheller, soul and script. He is a
commercial combine two thousand strong.
Two years ago he struck en masse, and held up
the industry till the white sheller shelved igno-
miniously. Now white men salute him in the
street and dummy for him in luggers and beche-
de-mer.
And Japah knows more about the Barrier Reef
than we do.
Since the strike the Japanese diver gets £B5 a ton
for shell, and tuckers the crew of six-Gnostly with
bad rice that begets beri-beri. And .all pearls are
his. Hence our most perfect Australian gem
must be purchased from the Jap. •
Publicity is rather vague as to the price of
pearls. The present London market value is £4 a.
grain. Over 20 grains, the price doubles on each
grain. A perfect pearl is worthuwhat one asks.
First-class divers average about six tons of shell
a year. Forty-two fathoms (252 ft.) is the deepest
dive recorded. In addition to paying £B5 per ton
for shell, the white owner provides boats, gear
and wages of crew. He says shelling pays.
The Chinese community deals mostly in com-
merce. It is an article of.faith with the Japanese
that he purchase nothing from a European store ;
and every month thousands of pounds are sent
from Thursday Island to-Japan.
White population is some 500, including 100
soldiers and three officers. But Thursday Island
doesn’t take its soldier seriously. Still he looks
pretty on church parade.
White children thrive. Women look none the
worse, and the men, apart from the color question,
are of the big-built best.
And, away from those shop-sheds where the
slant-eyed people slink, there is loveliness over
all! Down on the beach blood-hued boats sleep
in the scintillant sands. About the horizon’s rim a
curve of palm isles smiles in scented somnolence.
Here is a sway of scarlet sarong, there a glint of
green. And above and beyond are boundless blue
—eternities of blue—so many eternities that if
you drop one it isn’t worth while picking up the
pieces.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.
The Pathway of Golden Promise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR a moment or two, she felt as if all
things tangible were crumbling and crash-
ing about her and life itself had come to a
sudden stop. Then she heard once again, with
horrible jarring clearness, the laughter of the
summer boarders lounging on the broad verandahs
and lawns, and smelt once more the rich heavy
scent, thrown out by the big magnolia overhead,
which seemed to suddenly stifle and sicken her.
“ Come and tell me— everything,” she said. And
they went on along the quiet path under the trees,
while he laid bare the tragic spot of his past life
for her judgment.
Ten years ago lie had been tried for murder and
had been discharged, for it had not been proven,
A NOTABLE EXCEPTION.
“ Yes, me boy, experience is a great teacher!”
“ Umph ! I'm not so sure about that. Plenty of chaps commit bigamy!”
but he really had killed the man. Though it was
done under great provocation, and although he
would do it again under the same circumstances,
the fact remained that he had done it, and there
were a great many people who thought that he
should have hung for it.
He told her in savage, reckless and even brutal
words, glossing over nothing, hiding nothing—
but not daring to trust himself to look into her
face.
“ You killed somebody, you — you — you.” she
whispered, looking around her hastily and fear-
fully.
“Yes,” he said hopelessly. “So you see now
why I’m running away from you. I wish to God
I had gone yesterday—last week.”
“Oh, if you only had, if you only had—but no,
that would have been ten thousand times worse
than knowing,” she,moaned. And then, in a per-
fect hurricane of passion, her arms were around his
neck and drawing his'head down untd she Could
rain tender, defiant kisses upon his bent face.
And she told him in incoherent, sobbing words,
that even this would make no difference. She was
willing to bear anything—to help him live any-
thing down. What did it matter what anybodv
thought, so long as they could make happiness for
themselves?
He tried to school himself to act calmly, and
not be carried away by her emotion—and yet he
longed to take her at her word.
“No, I won’t let you try,” he said decisively,
in harsh unusual tones, as he gently unclasped her
arms. “It would always be coming up to con-
front us in unexpected corners. It has already,
several times, although I have even gone under
another name and tried to bury it all behind me.
It is a hideous nightmare to me, whenever I come
into civilisation. Do you think I could see
you suffer for an action of mine? No, this is
good-bye”
“No, no!” she cried, in an agony of sorrow.
“ Oh, how am I going to live without you ? You
must think of me—and of what my life will be if
you go.” And she put out her trembling hands
so hopelessly that he caught them to him sud-
denly and fiercely, while his forehead, as it faced
the darkness above her bent head on his breast,
beaded with the agony of the temptation.
“Marion, it will be such a terrible experiment
to make—you don’t know,” he cried.
Well, but isn’t ten years’ wretchedness
punishment enough for one minute’s action ? ” she
whispered. ‘Stephen, it has got to be now,
come what may !”
* * * »
After an exhilarating honeymoon trip he pur-
chased a large station, having a water frontage'to
the great river. It was an ideal home spot.
Smooth lawns rolled down to the water’s edge
from the wide-verandahed, comfortable house.
There was a small landing stage and boatshed for
the business-like motor-launch, which was their
principal means of communication with the out-
side world and carrier of their supplies, as well as
for the small well-cushioned pleasure boat in
which they spent no inconsiderable time on the
water. Morning, noon and night, it was at all
times and aspects delightful; but evening was the
very best. Then they drifted idly down towards
the sun as it was setting at the distant end of the
pathway of waters—the Pathway of Golden Pro-
mise, as they named it to themselves ; and when
the rich glowing splendor had faded into quiet,
grey hues they would row back in the soft dreamy
twilight.
They had to take care not to drift too far on
the|e occasions, for there were dangerous rapids
to negotiate further on down the river. More
than once they had hair’s-breadth escapes from
being drawn into the vortex ; but these in no way
interfered witli their pleasure. Rather they
added piquancy and zest to life.
For life generally was not exciting. There
were seldom any visitors, and often the only fresh
life seen for weeks at a time was the sparse traffic
that went past them up and down the broad
stream at their door. The establishment front
first to last comprised about 30 persons. Of these,
an elderly married couple were all who resided in
the house itself. They lived practically cut off
from all their fellows—and yet their days were
full of a placid happiness. Stephen had or made
work in connection with the estate, and she had
her housekeeping—and her happiness. . . .
Then one day a few idle, thoughtless words
seemed tp wither up everything worth living for.
They were sitting on the broad, creeper-grown
verandah facing the river. The fussy, noisy puf-
fing of the launch which had brought the mails
and had just finished unloading at the small jetty
was still audible in the distance, when she uttered
an exclamation of impatience and threw down
the newly-arrived newspaper she had been en-
grossed in.
“ What’s the matter now ? ” he asked quizzingly
from the depths of his cane lounge, as he watched
her through the smoke-clouds.
“Why, they’re going to reprieve that woman,
Sanders, and I know she killed the” And
then she stopped, with a horrified, distracted gaze
at his whitening face.
“ Stephen, Stephen ! What have I done ? For-
give me ; forgive my thoughtlessness. You know
I didn’t mean it,” she said wildly.
“Of course you didn’t. Don’t be a goose.” He
recovered himself with a shudder, and patted
her shoulders as she knelt by his chair.
“ That’s all right. I sav, the funniest thing
happened to-day ” And he talked fast and
furiously to divert her thoughts. But for a long
while the queer grey look remained upon his face.
And for the first time she realised with a
shrinking dread what it really meant. There was
a great subject tabooed between them. It mustn’t
be hinted at in the remotest way or spoken about.
Until now she had always been able to dismiss the
whole incident from her mind. She would not
think of it. But now its influence seemed over
everything.
“I won’t think about it,” she moaned ; but it
clung to her and haunted her.
“ I am not going to think of it,” she insisted to
herself. And she flitted here, there and everywhere
in search of forgetfulness.
“Stephen killed somebody ! Somebody died by
Stephen’s hand,” a voice mockingly whispered ;
seldom at first, but by-and-bye it never left her
until Stephen himself came in, and then she
feverishly waited on him, played and sang to
him, and talked fast and furiously to keep from
thinking. But her temper became sharpened and
fretful by the long, continuous struggle.
Stephen soon began to understand. He came
home one day earlier than usual and found her
sobbing hysterically among the cushions upon her
lounge. He put his arms about her and kissed
her before she knew he was near her. With a
shriek she broke loose and rushed as far away
from him as she could, gazing at him fearfully.
“ Why—did you burst on me like that for—
prying around,” she panted, shudderingly.
He fell back dismayed, but with an effort she
pulled herself together.
“ It’s all my nerves,” she said at last, brokenly.
“I’ll—l’ll have to get a tonic.”
“Marion,” he said, quietly, “you’re regret-
ting?”
“No, I am not, but I can’t always be the same,
can I?”
“ Come out on the river,” he said. “ It’s cool,
and will do you good.”
“Oh, I can’t! I hate the river, the sickening
river, the horrible, eternal river ! Don’t ask me
ever again.”
He started watching her more closely after that
and noted many little tilings. Of course, she was
fretting because of the loneliness of it all. Even
a little child now would have made all the differ-
ence in the world to them. He said so to her,
timidly, one day.
“ No, thank God we are spared that,” she cried,
harshly. “To have heard the helpless little
thing prattling around and know that”
“ What? ” he asked, hopelessly.
“Oh, the old thing,” she sobbed, burying her
head helplessly on her arm. “I believe it’s
getting almost too much for me to bear.” Then
she suddenly started up. “ What folly ! It has
to be borne. Stephen, dearest, you’ll have to put
up with an awful lot from me. It looked so easy
at first—to be your wife and make you happy and
comfortable ”
“ Yes, I know,” he said, comfortingly, but
with a strange, drawn look upon his face. “I’ll
tell you what, we’ll have to make another change,
something that will stir us up thoroughly. I’ll
see to it, and hit upon something, and we’ll do it
at once. Now are you quite sure you are snug?”
as he put another cushion to her back and tucked
the rugs about her; “ for I’m going out for a
while, and I’ll have a smoke and a good think.”
“Stephen, where are you going?” she asked,
faintly.
“ Oh, anywhere, where it’s quiet.”
“ Where, tell me”
“Well, the river, perhaps; it’s near sunset.
I’ll go down our Pathway of Golden Promise.
You are sure you don’t want me any more ? There
is nothing I can do for you ? ”
She shook her head with a shiver at his light
touch.
“Then I’m off. Good-bye!” But before he
had reached the door she had sprung up rapidly.
“Stephen,” she cried, in a voice she hardly
knew for her own, and she snatched up a thick
shawl and wound it about her shoulders as she
ran: “Wait; wait—l am ready—l am going
with you—we will go—and—think it out to-
gether.” . . .
.And when he would have protested, she cried
again, almost joyously and happily ; “No, together
—together ! ”
And together they pulled the boat into mid-
stream, and, with eyes steadily fixed on the radi-
ance beyond, they drifted gently and placidly
with the current down the Pathway of Golden
Promise.
R. A. KENT.
The Coach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A BLACK coach through the Silent Town
Rolled silently. The air around
Was quiet as the quiet ground,
And quietly the rain came down.
There was no stir along the road,
No taper made a lonely spark ;
No dweller in the houses dark
Stood by the door of his abode.
But evermore the rain came down
And softly tapped, with fingers, light,
Upon the doors that glimmered white
At midnight in the Silent Town.
At times a shrouded shape would glide
From underneath some mournful tree,
And join the voiceless company
That in the sombre coach did ride.
O, some were young, with eyes still bright,
Though they had lain in darkness long;
And some had heard Life’s evensong ;
And all were pale, and clad in white.
And there were tender lovers there,
By cruel Death kept long apart—
True heart divided from true heart—
And one heart left to black despair.
And husbands, too, were there, and wives.
Who once did their bereavement mourn,
And say they had been left forlorn
To drag out weary, empty lives.
Now these long-parted ones had met
Once more—at last—in wondrous way
Would they together dwell for aye?
Alas, their doom they knew not yet.
And though they met in friendly-wise
There was no sign of ecstasy
In wife or husband, and—ah me !
No passion in the lovers’ eyes.
For they were Twain who once were One—
What compact ever fast was found
Betwixt the cold clay underground
And warm flesh laughing in the sun ?
The dim road endless seemed to be;
And, while the sombre coach rolled on,
There fell dread weariness upon
Each soul in that fond company.
And was it on the earth, or air
As dense as earth, now ran the road ?
They knew not; but afar there glowed
A growing light with dreary glare.
“ Would God their happiness destroy ?”
Wives, husbands, lovers cried aghast, t
Then kissed and said farewell—the last j
Farewell—and wept—to hide their joy. j
Then spake a voice : “ Sad, weeping eyqg, ...
Be dried ! and hearts that pined so sore
Be glad ! for ye shall evermore
Together dwell in Paradise.” ;
Then those fond souls with faces wan, :
And eyes made awful by despair.
Did at each other dumbly glare—
And silently the coach rolled on. >
VICTOR J. DALEY


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressih i for ladies’ hair and for Children it is'invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland •& Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
HEADACHE.
Thk First Symptom op Every Form of Disease
Sick and nervous headaches are but the symp-
toms of other ailments to which they are merely
sympathetic, such as indigestion, biliousness, con-
stipation or some other irregularity of the system.
Many women habitually suffer from headaches,
which make.life a daily purgatory. Indeed, tin.-,
complaint may be regarded as peculiarly an
affection of the feminine sex, an ailment common to
all women from girlhood to old age.
“ After years of suffering With sick headaches,
writes Mrs. Josephson, 14 Parsons Street, ltozelle.
Sydney, “I was induced by a friend to try Dr.
m
Mrs. Josephson
(From a photo).
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and although I
was dubious of their
doing me any good, 1
made up my mind to
give them a trial, and
before I had finished
the first bottle I felt
considerably relieved.
I kept on taking the
pills occasionally until
I had taken three
bottles in all, and I
found I had quite over-
come my ailments; they
have made quite a neyv
woman of me. It is
over twelve months
since I took the pills, and as I have had no return
of the trouble I can honestly recommend them to
anyone suffering as I was. You can use this in
any way you like.”
To overcome headaches it is absolutely necessary
to get at the cause. Drugs which act on the heart
and reduce the pulsations only have a temporary
effect. If you suffer from indigestion, biliousness,
constipation, disorder of the liver and kidney?, <>r
from any weakness peculiar to your sex, there is
no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LA<S€R
E. HESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governbr-Ghfiefal.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOBUE and_COOLCARDIE : _^
Brkweky and Omens:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The event of the week was the battle at Sydney
Stadium between Bill'Laps of Australia and Robert Fitz-
simmons of the Earth generally. Cornish by birth,
Maoriland by upbringing, Australian by adoption, Yankee
by domicile, Fitzsimmons had wandered back to Aus-
tralia after an absence of 20 years with 320 fights, mostly
victories, to his credit. In his sparring matches, his ball
work, and the rest of his training operations, he showed
himself to be a wonder. His old, old face, his strangely
youthful body, his undoubted ring generalship, his skill
as a boxer shown in a dozen friendly sparring matches,
bewildered people generally, and puzzled experts who
tried to estimate his chances. “ Youth must tell I’’ said
some. “Much science and some force is better than
much force and less science,” argued others. Personally
writer figured it out that if Lang' managed to survive the
ring craft of the veteran for eight rounds Youth would
prove triumphant; Lang’s parlous period would be the
first five or six rounds when his aged opponent would be
fresh. After that the old man’s strength would begin to
ebb.
There was a time when, as Fitz told a Son in-
terviewer, he used to announce with unerring accuracy
in which round he would lay his man out. Asked to
mention the number of Lang’s final round, he declined
—things were changed, and he was getting old. And
when writer bad Seen Fitzsimmons finally laid out in the
glaring sun of Mclntosh’s Stadium, he had a faint recol-
lection of having read a description of that fight some-
where before. And it was in, the 12th chapter of Ecclesi-
astes, the third verse : “In the daj's when the keepers
of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow
themselves, and those that look out of the windows be
darkened.” And that was the Lang-Fitzsimmons fight.
As a boxer, there was no comparison between
Lang and Fitzsimmons ; but as a fighter the aged pug
had no hope against the youthful and somewhat un-
generous Australian. As Lang bored in and roughed,
leaning his weight upon him in clinches, the old man’s
legs trembled. When Lang showered blows, wild swipes,
wrist and elbow bashes, and jabbed and wrenched and
played the wild animal generally, the old man bowed' him-
self almost double to get out of the track of the blizzard,
and when in the 12tli round he was caught in the very
vortex of the cyclone, he was dazed, helpless and unable
to see sufficiently to even duck out of the way of the wild,
aimless swipes.
It was apparent after the fourth round that
Fitz’s strength had gone. He shook ominously when the
younger man occasionally landed. Then there would be
flashes of the bygone “ Freckled Freak,” and Lang would
be slapped and bashed in a way that made him look a
perfect novice. Clean through his guard the quick,
sudden jabs stung into his face, his head was banged
from side to side, drives caught him in the stomach, and
short-arm jolts on the jaw made him rock and hang on
for safety, Then he would back away, to come again
with wild rushes which, in Fitz’s heyday, would have
caused Lang’s head to be knocked into the middle of the
fourth row of seats. But the flashes of the ancient Fitz
were short-lived'. He would ■ suddenly tire, and the
venerable face would become drawn and wearied, and as
the masSiOf yopthfql muscle walloped down on to him
his legs would totter pjtifuliv. He had shot his bolt, and
although the shooting' ’o£ it had been so pretty
as to reduce the odds on Lang from five to
one to five to four, there was little doubt what
the end would be. Still, if he could weather it for 20
rounds, Fitz would win on points, and there was, of
course, always the possibility of a sudden knock-out.
Lang said he never doubted that he would win, but
he appeared to be anything but confident, and seemed
afraid of the reputation of the man he fvas up against.
Fitz, watching him grimly, with that once terrible right
ready to swing to the jaw, was obviously looking t for
the ‘knock-out. And when the apcient eye fixed him
Lang looked afraid. ’This fear was probably the cause of
his unpopularity; 5 it* claused him to fight wild, and
several times, probably quite without, intention, he
butted Fitz with his head and gave him some nasty
blows with his elbow. The crowd howled demands for
FITZ. STOPS A RUSH.
Photo, by Hurley & Jeffries, 4 Dailey-street, Sydney.
a foul. Also it hooted and made insinuations, and finally
worked itself .up into suph.a state of excitement that it
wildly applaiided every blow Fitz got horde and yelled
when Lang smote backs ,! '
Right upto theend of the 11th round Fitzsimmons
seemed to hold his own on poirits. Truly, he had been
knocked down twice, and once would have gone clean
through the ropes on to the ground but that Lang caught
him by the arm and pulled hint back; But, somehow, his
wonderful skill, and the way he would* make play all over
Lang for a few moments would make him level again on
points. Lang’s offence was a sudden ; straight rush with
the left thrown out and the right covering his jaw, and
a heavy right swing after*-getting to close quarters.
Again and again the right swing just missed the point by
what seemed a hair’s breadth, or went inches wide round
the old man’s neck. . In the in-fighting Lang’s youthful
strength gave him all the best of it, and he battered the
old man badly. The veteran gave it all back, but Lang
could stand it and Pitz couldn’t. When he started the 12th
round Pitz’s body was quivering, and Lang rushed him
fiercely. Again Pitz was knocked through the ropes at
the N.-W. corner, but came up again, dazed and blinded.
Lang was so excited he didn’t know what to do, and
automatically the tottering veteran evaded, and they
skirled away round the ring till, at the opposite corner,
Lang again got him on the ropes and bashed him with
right and left. Pitz fell back against the ropes, and as
they tightened tottered forward and went down to be
counted out.
There is no doubt that Lang has improved
enormously, but writer fails to see any signs of a coming
world-beater about him. Unusually strong, fresh from
much practice with Johnson, better and stronger in
every way, it took him 12 rounds of frantic effort
and much battering to knock out an old man of about 52.
For writer doesn’t believe the yarn re Fitz being only
46 or so. The man is over 50. As Lang said afterwards,
Pitz is a hard man to hit, yet with the tactics he adopted,
Lang, had there been in him any of the stuff of which
real world-champions are made, would have flattened out
the ancient inside four rounds. But as the matterstands,
Pitz as a boxer is still far ahead of him. It was shSfer ex-
haustion on Fitz's part that gave Lang the victory.
Never before in Sydney Stadium has there been
such a splendid exhibition of skill, of graceful
glove work, of rapid evasion and quiet, confident
JUST BEFORE THE END.
Photo, by Hurley & Jeffries, 4 Dailey-street, Sydney.
ducking as that put up by Robert Fitzsimmons,
the hero of 320 fights, who had come back to the scene
of his first successes to bury his fame. Probably he
would have lasted even longer but for the heat, which
half roasted the writer in his place at the ringside. It
was like fighting in a Turkish bath, and the old man
dripped as he moved about the ring.
The fight was not nearly so gory as the sparring
match with Tommy Burns. One old wound which
opened up on Pitz’s face and a gashed nose on Lang con-
stituted the whole list of visible damages. The crowd
was most orderly, and it was highly pleased with the db-
play made by its hero. Although he was knocked
out it felt that it had got its money’s worth, and
went away satisfied. Two sets of cinematograph
pictures were taken. They will be exhibited in Sydney
and Melbourne simultaneously, and should be well
patronised bv admirers of stoush ; for if the pictures are
anything like as good as the fight, they will present as
fine an exhibition of boxing as it is possible to see.
* * * *
One could not help comparing, the downfall of
Fitzsimmons with that of Tahmmy Burns in the same
ring exactly one year before. In the latest fight there
was not one word spoken by the two men after the scrap
started. They came out and fought in absolute silence.
When Fitz was outed, Lang, immediately the result was
declared, waved his gloved fist in the air, shouted
his triumph, and then rushed over to see how it
fared with his opponent. When he found he
was all right he went away quietly to his dressing-
room, called on Pitz in his, and afterwards asked him to
join in a glass of champagne. Which Pitz did. Appa-
rently the only man in the Stadium who
was not displeased with Lang was Fitz
himself. He said afterwards for publica-
tion that Lang fought a most gentlemanly
fight, and that the referee had nothing
to do but count him out. Which was
generous of Pitz, for the referee had 'a
lot of mighty hard work to make Lang
break properly. The knock-out was, accord-
ing to one professional on the spot, “ most
artistic.” Just enough to place the matter
bevond all doubt, and yet do the victim
no injury. Pitz described the sensations in
his quiet way. “I wasn’t exactly uncon-
scious. I could see them all, and hear Mr.
Scott counting; but for the life of me I
couldn’t get up. I tried to —no hope. Some-
thing seemed to shout to me that time was
running out, and X would be outed, but I
couldn’t get up. Then the mist cleared, I
was helped up, and found that I had
been a beaten man for the best part of two
minutes. It was wonderful.” Apparently
it was the first time the old man had been
really knocked out; and he had found as a
new experience what the average novice
learns at the very beginning of the game.
* • *
Richard Arnst has definitely de-
cided to race English sculler Barry on the
Zambesi River, in South Africa ; but before
going there he has to defend his champion-
ship against that game little bantam, George
Whelch, of Akaroa, the Canterbury town
enveloped in willows from Napoleon’s tem-
porary tomb at, St. Helena. Writer has
but little doubt that uhder any circumstances the bis:,
strong ex-c.vclist will outpace the clever little man.
Rowing is a game in which the good big man is always
better than the perfect little one; unless Deity takes a
hand and deliberately outs the big man for the humor of
the thing. But as Providence is not often in a
humorous mood, there is but small chance of Arnst
not going to the Zambesi because Whelch has an-
nexed the laurel-wreath. Arnst will not make much
profit out of his trip, speaking comparatively, as there is
only £lO5O in it for him if he wins, and the expenses of
himself and his trainers, caretakers and other camp fol-
lowers will make a considerable hole in that. But, pre-
sumably, it was the only chance to meet Barry, who
frankly admits that he cannot afford the time to visit
Australia to row on the historic Parranfhtta, much a,s he
would like to see that river. And as Arnst has a hanker-
Lloyd George says we shall have a New
Earth when his party have finished with the
House of Lords. Well, we’re in for a New Year
anyway, and if it be dominated bv the influence
of that genial spirit of wisdom, D.C.L. Whisky, it
must be a Good New Year. D.O.L. Whisky all
round, and we shall have a glad, new Earth as well
as a glad New Year.*
ing to see the Victoria Falls and also to meet Barry, he is
going to combine business with pleasure, and, if possible,
kill two birds with one brick.
Champion sculler Dick Arnst raised a consider-
able smell by his action in the Tiinaru-Ohristchurch (M.L.)
bicycle road race recently. He started from scratch with
big-brother Jack, and paced him for a considerable dis-
tance. Growing tired or something, he dropped out
of the race and took a lift in a motor-car. When he
was nicely refreshed he remounted his machine and,
again joining in the race, paced his brother some more.
The irruption of this fresh pacer broke up the field, and
naturally gave Jack Arnst a tremendous lift and secured
him the fastest time. In spite of much opposition, the
Christchurch Cycling Club has biffed Jack Arnst right
out, spoken severely of Richard and given the fastest
time to A. Birch, the well-known Maoriland rider who
shaped so well in a couple of “ Warrnambools.”
* * • *
• The big motor race for the Vanderbilt Cup took
place, as usual, over the Long Island (U.S.) circuit, which,
being traversed 20 times, gave a total distance of 278
miles. The track was lined with over 100,000 spectators,
who got their money’s worth, although they probably
didn’t think so, for of the 16 starters —the world's best-
only two managed to finish, all the rest coming to
grief on the track. Apparently the smashes were
not wildly sensational, as no one was killed;
and the Yankee dearly loves the Roman element
in his sport. The winner turned up in a Yankee-made
car, the Alco, with a Fiat driven by E. Parker second and
only five minutes away. The Alco was driven by a local
chauffeur named Grant, and as he traversed the circuit
in 4hr. 25min. 42sec. he established a record for the race ;
the previous fastest time being that of 1905, when
Ilemery, in a Darracq, ran through in 4hr. 36min. Bsec.
The finish of the seemingly-competent XI. sent
by N.S.W. to Adelaide was disaster, and inter-State
cricket has suddenly become more interesting in S.A.
than it has been for years. Since the decline of George
Giffen and Lyons, the State has won regularly one match
a season and no more. All through the time of Darling
and Hill it has spoiled somebody’s chance for the Shield,
but that trophy has not gone to Adelaide since 1893-4.
Last year S.A. beat Victoria twice, each time by a narrow
margin only. This year it has beaten Victoria (no Aus-
tralian XI. men on either side) by an innings and over 200
runs, and N.S. W. by an innings and four runs. In
this last game the claim to play Crawford, who has
settled in Adelaide as a schoolmaster, was allowed, and
his share was two wickgts for 31, six for 59, and a Drisk
14 runs, made in four scoring strokes. In the first in-
nings of Diamond’s team E.L. Waddy put up a score of
118 (missed several times); next best score, 11 ; total,
184. In the second innings of 209 the captain, with 47,
and Barnes, with 46, were on top. Bardsley never seemed
happy ; his share was leg-before (2), and caught, apparently
off his wrist (31). S.A. found one knock sufficient —total,
397. Clem Hill (205)andGehrs (72) broke up the bowling.
Solly Hill’s 29 came next, and O’Connor and Whitty both
got into the twenties, having evidently learned some-
thing in England. N.S. VV. had not been beaten in Ade-
laide since last century! The S.A. team to come east
during the coming fortnight is practically unchanged ;
but it will meet much stronger opposition in the return
games.
° m * m *
The awful smashing of N.S.W. cricketers by
the South Australian XI. has resurrected the yell for
the reinstatement of the 11 old and reliable ” players, and
if the Victorian match ends the same way the yell will
become terrific. And yet the South Australian victory
was due to practically two circumstances—Hill’s 205 and
Crawford’s fearful bowling ; both of which would probably
have come off had the N.S.W. team been composed of
nothing but the “old” players. However, yells ire
transient things, and it is to be hoped that the rulers of
the game in the Ma State will stick to their guns and con-
tinue to give the young men opportunities. If they don’t
it will only pave the way for a worse disaster.
Dave Stewart, another item of the remarkable
Maori football team which roamed over the world •in
1888, died the other day. Only 11 now remain of that
glad brown band of 26 players who bumped so vigorously
that opponents who went down weren’t quite sure
Whether it -was an avalanche or a mob of elephants which
walked over them.
*9• * *
The A.J.C. Summer meeting on Boxing Day
was ah uninteresting episode. Of the 37 mentioned in
the book for the Christmas Handicap only 13 breasted
the tape, and of these Gidyea was the favorite at fivei to
two against. He broke away at the start, and kept in
front till the winning post-was passed, closely attended
by Penniless, who was making his first appearahee
at Randwick. The December Stakes brought out
a field of seven after the blue pencil had
done its work. Maribyrnong Plate winner Desert
Rose carried the bulk of the public money at 11 to 8
against, although Precious and Beverage gave some
assistance in that respect at 7to 2 and 4to 1 against. A
somewhat confused start saw Precious suddenly flash
A CLINCH.
Photo, by Hurley J Jeffries, 4 Dalley-street, Sydney.
away in front, and he stayed there some time with
Desert Kose and Beverage within striking distance. At
the St. Leger Precious was still in front, with Desert
Rose clinging closely and Beverage a length and a half
away. Then the Rose took first place, but Beverage came
with a fine rush on the outside and passed her, reaching the
post with a length and a half to spare. The only other race
of note during the afternoon was the Summer Cup,
which, in accordance with the necessities of the weather,
should have been filled with iced champagne. Thirteen
faced the barrier, and Golden Slipper stepped forward
first. Then Beau Vive and Black Range made the pace,
and the field streamed away like a rag of many
colors right to the mile post. At the mile
Beau Vive and Black Range were still leading,
but before the straight was reached they had given place
to Ungarie, followed six lengths away by Brackenburg.
There the affair looked like a relay race, with Ungarie
far in front, Brackenburg second, and Footpad a length
away, third. The backers of Ungarie were lucky ; they
got five to one for their money, and the shrieks of the
bookmakers were heartrending to listen to.
THE END OF FITZ.'S BRILLIANT
CAREER.
Photo, by Hurley & Jeffries, 4 Dailey-street, Sydney.
“ S.S.S.” : Cocoanut oil pushes its smelly
way all through the lives of the Torres Strait
Islanders. They cook fish and sea-beasts in it;
they apply it to their skins to cure or ward off
sunburn; they anoint their hyacinthine curls
with it, and one seldom sees a white-haired or
thin-thatched native.. The islanders’ method of
making the oil is lengthy. They take 12 old nuts
and shred their kernels into a pan. A little
ancient oil is added, the compound is put over a
slow fire, and as the oil rises it is skimmed off into
another receptacle. It is put aside for 12 hours,
then refined several times and macerated with
scented orchids. The natives say they can only
make cocoanut oil at high tide ; the oil will not
rise when the tide is low.
Two years ago an idle piece of State land
that was loafing near Cooina (N.S.W.) was thrown
open for selection. Tim Land Board considered
all the applications, and decided by a majority to
give the land to one of the members of the Board.
A disappointed applicant took legal steps to upset
the decision. When the case came on for hearing
the point was taken thkt appellant had lodged a
£5 money-order as a deposit, and that a money-
order wasn’t a legal form of deposit. Litigation
over this absurdity raged for 18 months, the appel-
lant finally losing the race at the last hurdle, which
was the High Court. Unless there is a coal
or diamond mine on the selection its capital value
must, by that time, have been sunk in law costs.
No other applicants dared to appeal, but the
Minister of Lands next butted in and lodged “a
reference ” with the Land Appeal Court that the
case be remitted to the local Land Board to be
heard again from the very beginning. After a
fierce legal fight on the rights of the Minister to
butt in. the Court, by a majority, allowed him to
butt. Now either the unfortunate bit of land will
have to be wrangled for all over again, or the
State will be plunged into more expensive litiga-
tion by a review of the Land Court’s decision.
A party of health, sanitation and chemical re-
search which was holding a congress or something in
London recently paid a surprise visit to the big
Bovril Factory with the object Of seeing one of the
world’s great food factories under its ordinary condi-
tions. When it had gone through the huge establish-
ment, and seen the innards and _ the workings
thereof, it came away with the fixed idea that
cleanliness, properly carried out, is an absolute art
and science in itself. The managing director, in asking
his visitors to sit down to a snack and a bottle of some-
thing, remarked that Bovril Ltd. was ,a purely business
concern. It was in existence to make money, and it hail
found that cleanliness paid ; so it decided to have
as much as possible of the payable article.
Bovril is not a cure-all, and is not advertise I
as such. It stimulates the nerves without in-
ducing subsequent depression, it aids indigestion, and
is therefore invaluable in the sick room and to the man
who is leading the strenuous life. Absolute purity is n
rare thing, and therefore there is money in it, and for the
sake of good business the management lias made the fac-
tories of Bovril Ltd. the cleanest in the world: And in
all the company’s overseas premises it is the same.
Which is a reassuring thing to know of any stuff one eats,
drinks or smokes.


sfds
Money Talks, but Time Tells
Says the B. & B. foolosopher, because, although many a cycle
is offer'd ai fancy prices to attract you, time will prove the
B. & B. MODEL 3 worth every penny of the £ll we ask.
It is built of best imported parts by competent Australian
workmen, and has the best tyres, with a guarantee of
12 months.
Write for our 1910 Catalogue, mentioning this paper.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Building:,
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagti Street,
Sydney.
Publications.
CHESS.
New and Standard Books on Chess. Any work or
publication on the subject supplied to order. An in-
teresting' Catalogue of Chess Books, new and second-
hand, containing- many rare items referring to Chess,
Draughts, Card Games, etc., free on request. Tub
Chess Monthly, volumes and parts supplied from the
commencement. Chess literature is my speciality.
Frank Hollings, 7 Creat Turnstile, London, England.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of FREDERICK
PORT, brother of Charles Port, or anyotio
knowing his whereabouts, please conjinunicate
with his niece,
FLORENCE DUNDERDALE PORT,
c/o Dr. Williams,
Rossall School,
Near F. Wood, England.
Business Announcements.
sdf
THE KEY TO
SUCCESSFUL MOTORING.
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT,
as used oH record trips:—
Adelaide to Melbourne, in 20hrs. 5 min.,
Murch 1909.
Melbourne to Sydney, in 21hrs. 19min.,
December, 1909.
By Lieut. G. G. White.
Clean-Polish
E 3
a
3 in One Oil immediately
removes stains, spots and
scars from piano cases and
all fir>e furniture. It restores
the original lustre and a
bright lasting finish. Just
a gentle rub with a rag
moistened with 3 in One and
any varnished or veneered
surface will shine like new.
Contains no grease or acid to
soil or injure; has no dis-
agreeable vatnish odor. Try
it at our expense;
fs
Write for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept. A ). Australasian
Representatives—Wellington, New Zealand
ALWAYS SHARP
AUTO STROP
Safety RAZOR
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND EFFICIENT.
[±
Distinctive Footwear!
Those men who want shoes with an air of
style, character, individuality, will be abun-
dantly satisfied with The Rigney footwear.
It’s dependable high-grade footwear.
Notice the shoe illustrated—its attractive
perforations—elaborate punching and perfect
finish.
It’s a tan Willow Calf Shoe—Bespoke Style.
Prices: 22/0, 25/-* 27/0
Write for Booklet.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Crade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
sdf
HOMOKORD (Homophone) DISCS
if
DOUBLE FACE.
Adaptable to any
Disc Phonograph.
LENGTHIEST DURATION OF PLAY.
Most Durable Material.
Largest English and International Repertory.
CATALOGUE SENT FREE AND POST PAID.
List of Agents furnished by the Manufacturers :
HOMOPHONE CO., Berlin, C 60, Klosterstr, 5/6.
sfd
\
©
For Your Bare Face —Use Capillarine.
You have done wrong: to despair of growing- a strong permanent
moustache. CAPILLARINE will do it for von. A little rubbed
on each night will in a few months produce a moustache you’ll be
proud of. o '__ YO /iS sw Is* a» Posted to any ad-
#C//0 CL %/CLt . dress in the World.
SEND FOR OUR POST PAID PRICE LIST.
Craig: & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
sfd
sfd
sfd
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., YI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten ...
... Cd
... 5d
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving* the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged' and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
1
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
i
np A U
rLAK
Matchless for the Complexion*
“ Prosper Freshfield ”: The actress’s street horse-
whipping scene, as applied to the offending male, bobs up
now and then in the big cities; but I never realised its
value so fully as when I was connected with a vaudeville
co. that toured Victorian townships a few years back.
From the depths of his wisdom our “ world-renowned
entrepreneur” decided to pay a sunburnt, bushnian-like
fellow (sunburnt on city racecourses) to publicly insult
one or other of the Citronella Sisters (Evie—lvie) in each
of the places at which we showed. The offended Sister
would always retaliate soon after with a horsewhip. The
dodge helped business along beautifully till Ivie per-
suaded the official insulter to say shocking things at her
out of her turn. Then Evie got “ the spike,” and said
she didn’t know whatever made her take such a
hold-faced thing for a Sister, and for two pins she’d
tear off the collar she’d lent her for their turn,
and show her up in her true colors. Ivie replied with
becoming assertiveness. Then the manager interfered,
and said he’d take the horse-whipping job from both of
them if they said much more, and give it to our cele-
brated-operatic balladiste, Madame Smith. This brought
the Ci'tronellas to their senses; but I’m sorry to say
there was a certain apathy about the street disturbance
for the rest of the tour.
“ Wex ”: Mice make trouble in other places than old
maids’ parties. I have known one to break up a drama,
though it was a strong drama with nine murders, a Are
and a wreck in it. The boss, who was also the hero arid
the sole survivor, was struggling ashore. I was in charge
of a big wave which broke in dusty foam on the beach,
and my colleagues heaved the rest of the troubled sea.
The boss had just struggled to his feet, and was beginning
to remark that there was no living object in sight when
a mouse rushed over the heaving deep, fled
across the island, took some more heaving deep in its
rush, and vanished. This was embarrassing, but the
boss started his remark about the absence of life all
afresh. Just then the property man’s cat, which had
heard of the mouse, appeared on the top of a wave, and
also tooS; the ocean in its stride. The boss made a
desperate.atterhpt to prevent the scene breaking up, and
might have managed had not another large vessel hove in
sight. It was the carpenter’s dog, which hated the pro-
perty man’s cat, and was making heavy weather in pur-
suit, with its mouth open. Then the curtain fell.
“Jason”: Numerous impressionable youths and bald-
heads have waxed enthusiastic over the beauty of the
Williamson chorus. Other baldheads have asserted that
the damsels who invaded Australia with the first Gaiety
co. were the finest galaxy of feminine loveliness that
ever happened. Others again, who have been to London,
contend that the Gaiety holds its own against all comers.
Now, I’ve seen all these and consider myself as good a
judge as Anybody. The most charming lot of girls
it was ever my good fortune to gaze on for two solid
hours composed the chorus of Walker and May’s “In
Dahomey” company of colored comedians which
toured England in ’O3-4. I struck them in the London
Shaftesbury, whither I went anticipating an aggregation
of coons of the Irving Sayles type. I found three of these,
all males. The female side of the co. was composed
wholly of alluring nymphs, whose dusky ancestry would
never have been suspected but for their association with
such a show. In about half the cases it was possible to
trace the touch of the tarbrush in the light of previous
knowledge, hut had a stranger strolled into the theatre
without seeing the bill-board or the programme, he
would never have suspected that these weren’t All
White. Not only did they look Caucasian; they also
looked lovely. Every one was a sinuous, supple Venus
that made all the old Greek sculptors look like improvers
who had been granted exemption under the Industrial
Act. But however beautiful may be the girl who is
fifteen-sixteenths white, there is always the strange
tendency of Nature to throw back. The progeny of the
white man who marries an octoroon, even though she be
golden-haired like the morning, may be a small coon as
black as Cain’s back door.
Englisly variety-halls have a new attraction in a
“sketch,” written by G. R. Simsand called " Bonaparte’s
Boy.” Ibis played by one Juan 8., who takes the char-
acter of Napoleon 8., and claims to be his descendant.
The resemblance is said to be extraordinary.
“Kaban ” : Ever since, in 1863, an ingenious Yankee
contrived a roller-skate that would travel round corners
as well as go in a straight line, and so placed what was
before a professional aerobatic turn within reach of the
reckless and enthusiastic amateur, the skating mania has
recurred s f)eriqdically. It started in Melbourne in 1872,
when MgKee, .Raymond and Co. opened a “skating
assembly.” in the Manchester Unity Hall in Swanston-
street, and in a couple of years was one of the most
fashionablje amusements of the day. The roaring times
of the begun saw another outbreak of the roller-skate on
an extersBiv6 scale, and from 1887 onwards rinks were
built and opened ' n rapid succession. One of the most
amhitioift of these, from an architectural point of view,
fulfilled its original purpose barely two years, and has
long been devoted to the warehousing of agricultural im-
plements. The others were gradually utilised for clothing'
factories, bicycle schools or other purposes. By 1893
a ten-years frost had set in, during which the roller-skate
languished on the dusty shelves of the pawnbroker or led
a degraded existence ministeripg to the amusement of
suburban street-urchins on sloping asphalt footpaths.
The present recrudescence of the skating disease, though
undoubtedly helped ion bv the Glaciarium novelty, is
probably pnly p reflection of conditions in Europe, where
most of the vagaries of fashion are carefully-engineered
commercial speculations.
“ Harrison O.” : The spirit moves me to say a word or
two (2) in praise; of the Australian chorus-girl. She is
superior to both' the English and American products.
The American chorus-tart is often a female who has been
concerned! in a big idivorce ease, or has gained notoriety
in some similar fashion, and she receives an absurdly large
number of dollars wepkly for exhibiting herself to the
gaze of a sensation-loving public. All that is demanded
of the Cold Country chorus-maiden is that she should be
possessed of large teeth’and a certain fatuous prettiness.
Plumpness and prettiness, are mere incidentals so far as
the local girl is concerned. She must be able to sing and
act, and be of good physique. In fact, the Australian
operatic choruses are, to a large extent, composed of the
•cream of certain classes of the female community. Only
'healthy, good-looking, strong, bright, intelligent girls,
•with good voices, cheerful dispositions and sensible ideas,
need apply for a billet in anv of Williamson’s shows.
Here the chorus is made up of hard-working girls earning
•an honest and decent living ; in Bull’s land it is composed
mostly of odalisques. The girls of the London Gaiety chorus
are of poor physique, and without, a suspicion of how
to sing. They spend most of their time posing before the
•camera, with or without dress, in various attitudes and
motor-cars ; but always with the same stereotyped, inane
■grin. They vary little one from the other. Pinero gives
■us a fine, clear-cut picture of the Bull-land lady in “ The
Second Mrs. Tanqueray.” Cayley Drummle is speaking:
“ Miss Hervey—Lady Orreyed, as she now is—was a lady
who would have been, perhaps has been, described in the
reports of the police or the divorce court as an actress.
Had she belonged t.O.a lower stratum of our advanced
civilisation, she warttfiyin the event of judicial inquiry,
have defined-her calling with equal justification as that
of a dressmaker. To do her justice, she is a type of a
class which is immortal. Physically, by the strange
caprice of creation, curiously beautiful ; mentally, she
lacks even the strength of deliberate viciousness. Paint
her portrait, it would symbolise a creature perfectly
patrician ; lance a vein of her superbly-modelled arm, you
would get the poorest vin ordinaire ! Her affections,
emotions, impulses, her very existence—a burlesque !
Flaxen, five-and-twentv and feebly frolicsome ; anybody’s
—in less gentle society I should say everybody’s—pro-
perty ! . . . Dost thou like the picture?”
“ Fitzwilliam ” : I have just balanced my
cash by the ancient, method of breaking open the
kids’ money-box. 2 have quieted my conscience
by representing to them that a better and nobler
man than myself habitually does the same thing.
I refer, of course, to Mr. Wade, who works the
device in a better way than I do with my crude
tin-opener. The kiddies give their pennies to
their School Savings Bank. The master hanks
the accumulated treasure in the State Bank.
There, of course, it earns interest. It might be
unreasonable to ask that the infant depositors
should be credited with this interest, but at least
it might go to one of the funds for libraries or
other accessories which under the alleged free
education of N. S. Wales have to be cadged by the
teachers. But no; the schoolmaster receives a
curt intimation that the interest has been “ passed
to Consolidated Revenue.” It seems a pretty
mean sort of swindle, but the State benefits con-
siderably. I know one school where Consolidated
Revenue made £1 ss. lOd. in six months by this
method.
Mr. A. Jackson, land revenue, collector at
Nasik, in the Bombay Presidency!(lndia), who
was recently shot at a theatre by a native, was at
first reported to have been butchered because he
had Sentenced a man to penal Servitude for life.
A later statement was that the collector was mis-
taken for the Sessions Judge at Aurangabad.
This is curious. Aurangabad is not in British
territory, but in the Ni/.am’s State, quite 100
miles from Nasik,, which is a station on the
Bombay-Nagpore railway. And the murdered
official could not have sentenced anyone to penal'
servitude, because he is only concerned with the
collection of the land-tax. Nasik is in the centre
of the country of the Wahrattas, Who were a
dominant crowd in Western India for more than
300 years. Since they lost their power, they have
never ceased to intrigue for its recovery. The
systematic murder of white men to establish a
funk seems to be their present policy. Death has
no terrors for them without loss of caste, but
penal servitude implies ceremonial pollution, and
is worse than death.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling 1 at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINK STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
MRMtooRNK Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
ADKT.AIDE & FRKMANTI.It Aoknts 1 GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA E N GLAN D.
ORSOVA .. Twin-Screw .. 12,036 Tons.
OTWAY .. „ „ .. 12,077 „
OSTERLEY „ „ .. 12,129 „
ORVIETO .. „ „ .. 12,000 „
OTRANTO.. „ „ .. 12,124
ORONTES.. 9,023
OMRAH .. „ „ .. 8,282
OPHIR .. „ „ .. 6 ; 8 14 „
ORMUZ .. .. .. 6,465 ~
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The goionial |l)otual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hfad Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring- £33.838.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders. £4.727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without resr.riction as r.o
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Oiiif.f Offick for New South Wares :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Ilor.. C. J. Roberts* C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
of j|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700.000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370.000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manag-er: .T P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Co.. Lid.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manag-er: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business. j
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Cipital Paid-up £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 73.500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgfe Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
'J'HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED.
4t2 Colllne-Bt., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35.000 0 0
Diructors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman-;
John Grice, Esq.. Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
TnomasSkene : .1. 11. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW,MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
/■dr*
ry/Afe •
? /I //<>//*> w A y
Gt/sf *■
'Coen^/re
C4#r*f3>CCS
/} CeerA/s/r/
o/r /r — ■
HOLLOWAY’S
are acknowledged the
longest-distance killing
guns in the world. Won-
derful results. Low in price. A weak’s Free Trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or Write to the Agents—
S. COHEM SONS CO.. Hardware Merchants,
310-16 King Street, Melbourne; and at London.
HAVE you tried this beautiful SKIN PREI’ARA I'iuN ?.
VEROKIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying to you that
you would not be without it for one day. Every’ French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishes, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 33. per small and ss. per
larjre jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents onlv : THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS. 42a
Castlereaoh Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactlv opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
l irge d virway. Here also are the finest M micure Rooms
in Sydney. Add 6d. for postage.
Shipping-.
Nord D eutscher X-Woyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSKNGERR booked to Egypt. Naples. Genoa, Algiers
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.'
w Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Sea ? Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safeta Tonnatre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
the Agents! j TY ‘ F ° r ,nrther apply to
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to M A NTT, A
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA ’
m , LOHMANN & CO.,
Te ' 7 Bridge-street, Sydney,
Banking. Public Companies. Sec.
Bank of Flaw Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. 000 poo
Uncalled Capital ” £50()',000
Deserve Fund and Undivided Profits £7lO 998
DRAFTS
finn Ii eland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Drijrbt & Go.): J. Gampbkll-Wood, Esq.
\Y. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
Genera] Manager for Australia : JOHN CQODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* Twin Sqrew. One class only.
FARES-
London
Cape or Durban
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hisrhest standard.
rrrJs/s'lSJ 8, T * rn e-Tahles, &C., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
sfd
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
January 19
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARRS— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London ... .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New \ ork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dnif/etjf ami t oni jhi.hi/. lj<i.,
Agents in Australia.
* HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
■^. v Coastal Mail Steamer
to Coolctown. and thence hr
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby. Samarai. and
"Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shorthand Islands (2 ports).
Solomon Islands (about S
sfd
CRUISES. %
ANP
THE ISLANDS.
ports). Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Semi address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., JO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.-INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands. 1
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
I ull pai ticulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
° ffice- J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
The Perfected Self-Filling FOUNTAIN PEN.
Everyone is interested in the New Invention applied to the “Torpedo” Self-filling- Pen. It has the following
of ? , lts f f ln ,? 1110111 j 7l .*- 1 Cleans itself instantly ;No rubber to perish or other parts to get out
of order ; Does not leak or blot, and is always ready to write : Twin feed and all latest improvements
The Makers claim the “TORPEDO” Self-filling Pen the Best Pen made,
being: convinced everyone should use it.
A REMARKABLE OFFER IS MADE TO READERS OF “ THE BULLETIN.”
The 10/3 “TORPEDO” Self-filling; Pen, with 14-carat Cold Kib, for 4/-; or 3 Pens for 10/6.
Ths 15/- “TORPEDO ” Self-filling- Pen, fittsd with Massive Diamond Pointed 14-carat Cold Kib C/--
or 3 Pens for 15/-. »■ ’ ' 1
The 21/- Cold Mounted Self-filling- Pen, with 14-carat Cold Kib, 8/-; or 3 Pens for 20/-
A THREE YEARS’ GUARANTEE WITH EVERY PEN FOR RELIABILITY, and if you are not satisfied
monej will he returned or Pen exchanged till suited. Points can he had Fine, Medium, Broad or J soft
or hard. Every Pen, securely packed, sent by Registered Post to ensure safe delivery?’ ’
Readers of The Bulletin can have full confidence in the “TORPEDO” Pen. No other pen so simple
reliable, or such pleasure to use. 1 ’
ORDER AT ONCE. Afaierst BLOOM & CO. LTD., 37 Cheapside, London, E.C. Agents appointed.
m
HICHFBELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S. H. McDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA.-
HIGHFIELD.
_The ideal s t mt for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent. J
i
_The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlaced and Re-
furnished. Rejilete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of \ isitors Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation .in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St.. London. W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
s.s. Gran tala, Dee. 31.
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), Jan. 6, and Feb.
1, calling: at all N.-West
Forts to Wvndham.
I (Shortest route to Tanami,
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Onirn
S.S. Allinjrn, Dec. 31.
'S.S. Grantala, Jan. 8.
S.S. Yonjrala, Jan. IC*.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldffi&dSs.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other interstate Companies, on all
. ervices subject to conditions, which can be ascertained'
on application at the Company’s Office. 0
G. S. YU ILL. & CO., LTD.,
. Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANAOIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE;
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest:
Vessels in the World'
crossing' the Atlantic..
For full particulars applj-
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD*.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.= H.
A
Fedcral.Houlder-Shire Lilies.
* or London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET.”
w’f.°u T ? ns ' B ’ G ’ Hayward, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE- . Bth February
” >• » SYDNEY - - 15th February
„ MELiiOURNE - 22nd February
■■ .. .. ADELAIDE . Ist March
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, fdthated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
w e im- !U £! d j hiP j wlth . dinill F >'. 00 »n on the upper deck.
Wel ch ed and ventilated cabins and spacious decks
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
TOMnov B- , , Saloon - " Third Class.
LONDON and } *
LIVERPOOL....f £49 10s * £l3 13s. £LS 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra,
lo be foliowed at regular, four-weekly intervals bv
ortier fast twin-screw passenger steamer's. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
w lß invi?D ( i'’r. l A tcl ‘( Svdne - V and Brisbane;
H. .IONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart:
if t S ppo'^ACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
w
MORRIS'S I
[jireeWtcfiM
CISAr.CTTt3
.viuff/l
10
6° for
Fade
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
"PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.


—i ANDREW McGEE
A SPECIAL NEW YEAR OFFER.
It’s an opportunity to be grasped TO-DAY !
One that offers great price inducements.
A GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR (with 12 Double-edge Blades), 18/6; with New Process
Blades 21/- Also Auto-Strop Safety Razor, with 12 Blades, Strop and Stropping Device, in
’ Leather-covered Case, 25/-
Sydncy's Leading Tobacconist and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 and 7 CASTLEREACH STREET, corner Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
SALOON orr.ft ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
Patronage
Under 1 Vice-Regal
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers f Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists.
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/-
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP.
■ Tails from 7/6
Telephone 2138.
SSxs
m
tD
w
5-'
OSTRICH PLUITES
FMM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, *WhiTE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This ftyle of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swan9ton Streets, MELBOURNE.
s
CORD
TYRES
are Better —Stronger —and More Durable Tyres
than all others .
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision »
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
D
That
name
that name—on your Sadciie can ensure
real Cycling comfort —that comfort upon
which depends your health and happiness
whjTthli “SAY e RR nnK^" yCIiStS Kn °w this-that is
OA i BRQOKS so persistently—and it is the
strongest reason why you should do so too.
Stocked by all Agents Saddle Manual
'free from
J. B. BROOKS & CO. LTD.,
The Saddle Specialists,
BIRMINGHAM,
ENGLAND
X.
Cure Your Rupture
without a Truss !
The days of the torturing truss are over, and now people are rapidly
recognising the futility of such appliances. No permanent good ever resulted
from the use of the truss, and frequently the trouble was aggravated. But
under the Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment many terrible cases of rupture have
been cured, and sufferers freed from the bondage of pain. Here is a sample of
the hundreds of letters on our file :
Dubbo, N.S.W.,
Dear Sir, November 13, 1909.
’ I am pleased to inform you that the treatment I received
from you cured my rupture. I wore the appliance and used
the lotion for about nine months after commencing the
treatment. I left off wearing it then, being thoroughly cured,
for which I feel grateful. Thanking you for your kindness.
(Name supplied on request.)
In the face of such testimony can you doubt the beneficial results of the
Sherman Treatment ? We invite the closest scrutiny, and, as consultations are
free, there is no reason why you should not investigate the merits of the
method. It will pay you take a day or so off to visit us, even if, you live away
in the country. To those who cannot call we will post two books descriptive of
the treatment. They cost you nothing, and point the way to cure your
rupture without any operation or detention from business.
BOTH SEXES ARE TREATED .
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller of the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method,
Dept. B, Gibbs' Chambers, 7 Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
Famous PILTON Estate,
Darling Downs,
Queensland
33,000 Acres, now being subdivided into Farms of various areas, and will be
offered for sale towards the end of December or early in January.
Rich Alluvial Lucerne Flats, Well-Grassed Hills and Nice Agricultural Slopes.
Many of the Farms will be watered bv King’s Creek, which is absolutely permanent.
“PILTON ESTATE’ ' is famous for its Sheep-raising, Farming and Dairying Properties, and we
pan honestly recommend inspection. All good, healthy sound country.
RAINFALL about 30 inches, and a MILD, TEMPERATE CLIMATE, typical of the
Darling Downs.
SURVEYORS are now on the Estate, and Lithographs will shortly be available.
£7ISK TERMS. BUYERS AFFORDED EVERY FACILITY TO INSPECT.
apply to dalqetY & COMPANY LTD., Toowoomba or Brisbane, Q,
\\\>"“'""////////
Cooling—Satisfying ' / /
‘Montserrat’
Lime Jtiice
A healthy drink for hot days and all days. Good for the
youngsters. It communicates its own delightful purity
: and coolness to the blood, and it quenches thirst better
than stimulants. Its delicious flavour appeals to everyone.
Made in two kinds : Unsweetened, i,e„ Plain Lime Juice
Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial, Sold everywhere.
n-y 11 /)) / ) y / > > y
T -y- t | , ,^7'T I fV 7 1H-,^,-,-/-ff^
THE RELIABLE
fsf
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLA VORED.
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL
MERIT.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/G per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100. Suitable for pipe smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/fi per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading- Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
who will acquaint you of the nearest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed.
Postasre—-Add 6d. ner 100 to vour remittance
1111 111
rc,
CL— T'
a
m
BILUARDSF“R
IWE-MQME ■
New fads and crazos come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to ba placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
SYDNEY .
EORGE ST
597
.AND
155 ELIZABETH &
MELBOURNE.
sd
B.S.A.
Motors "k
THE MOST SILENT and
SWEETEST RUNNING
CARS EXTANT.
But silent running is only one of the many good features of this celebrated car.
Its simple 4nd effective control —its clever design and marvellously accurate
construction—make it the car for every purpose.
B.S.A. CARS are designed and built throughout at the B.S.A. works with the
same scrupulous care that has made B.S.A. Rifles and Cycle Fittings the
world's standard —interchangeability and absolute accuracy being special
Write for Catalogues. $ /10,14/18,18/23,25/33 H.P.
WE CARRY THE LARGEST STOCK OF ACCESSORIES IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTORIES LTD
280 Pitt St, Sydney
Opt’. Y.M.C.A. TEL. 4902.
Sole Agents for S.C.A.T. METALLURCIQUE, 8.5. A., “ COMMER ” COMMERCIAL CAR,
RELIABLE DAYTON MOTOR BUGGIES, and the SMART AND BROWN’S MARINE SETS.
A. R., MARKS, Managing Director.
fdf
Guaranteed TWO YEARS!
For TWO YEARS we jrnarantee and keep the PLUM
Razor in order. That guards yon auainst disappoint-
ments and means an exchange if unsatisfactory.
YOU CAN’T DO BETTER.
PRICE
10/6
post free
any-
where.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/5
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for our POST PATD PRICE LIST.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
i Established -5 Years.


If you are one of the unfortunate people
who suffer from chronic constipation, indigestion
or biliousness, you should take a cbfin# nieiiam-
berlam s Tablets,*
rrntYS'
TneAov.se
)VAUT7
Q\Ajr
Bargain Hunters!
Get our Summer Sale Book. The
sale begins 7th January, so you
want to look sharp. The values
will be greater than ever, because
there will be practically two sales
rolled into one.
In point of fact, the Summer
Sale will be but a continuance of
the great Removal Sale —split into
two halves by the coming of Xmas.
We could give you a heap of
reasons why, in these moving times,
our Sale will offer the best sale
values and bargains, but we won’t
bother you with reasons.
What you want is bargains.
We have them !
Write for the Catalogue to-day.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND.
Francis Kenna, of Queensland, desires to
Sfiy that the statement is all wrong. He isn’t
editing a paper at Bowen. The editor at Bowen
is another man of the same name—or else a man
with a different name; The Bulletin doesn’t
rightly know which.
Joey Bell is an unconventional Speaker.
Last session he uprose from the Speaker’s chair
and defended the administration of his old depart-
ment. Last week he moved that the ruling of
Chairman of Committees Armstrong be disagreed
with, and voted accordingly with his sworn
enemies of the Labor party.
The 1 usion s selection of Senate candi-
dates for Queensland—Maerossan, Millican and
Glassey—can scarcely be called a happy one.
Glassey has been defeated three or four times and
Millican twice, and neither would set even the
Cotter on fire with his platform oratory. Maerossan
is put forward principally as the son of his father,
and is probably the best man of the trio. Despite
the weakness of the selection, Labor will need to
work desperately hard to beat them, for the last
State elections show a powerful solid Tory vote
throughout the South, and the bulk of Queens-
land electors live south of Capricorn.
Tom Glassey, Queensland’s first Labor
leader, is now a Queensland Tory candidate for
the benate, the others being Maerossan and Milli-
can—not Billycan. Almost all Queensland leaders
go the same road. Griffith turned Tory, Mcll-
wraith turned Griffithite, Nelson turned dog on
his followers, Glassey turned away after strange
gods, Kidston turned traitor, Morgan turned flat,
Dawson had a turn-up with his party and did a
lot to damage it, and Drake turned so often that
at last people couldn’t tell which was the back of
him and which was the front. The rottenness of
Queensland politics suggests that Parliament
House should be searched earnestly for white ants.
From The Bulletin’s war correspondent:
Thursday Island.—Entire island in white awaited
Kitch. on wharf. Great speech by Resident, although
portions got tangled in his moustache. Unfortunate
contretemps (you know what I mean), owing to army
standing on its sword as the ex-Sirdar lobbed ashore, was
covered by Chinese citizens firing crackers Three
British cheers called for by Sing Eoo. Heartily given by
your representative on behalf of Bulletin staff. Re«ret
vvas expressed that Japtown sat at home, but an explana-
tion was sent that owing to Tokio demanding a plan and re-
port of local fortifications in a hurry, all hands were busy
Apology accepted and three British cheers given for our
allies. Your representative wired B. Smith, congratulat-
ing him on good feeling entertained for him bv said allies
and others. Townspeople took Kitch. to the Institute
and subsequently he was taken in hand by the artillery’
Amongst other things, he was told that Thursday Island
fort is a farce ; that an invader could land guns on the
other side of Hammond Island, get them on its hill which
sentinels the Strait, and blow to blazes the Thursday
fortress and the coaling station it is supposed to protect.
Also, that Endeavor Strait is an easier way round than
Torres Strait. He saw for himself. Later, he had an
hour or so with a pearling fleet, when Cocachi 00, the
Jap diver, bowed obsequiously, and sized him in a side
glance. Dined at the mess. “ Gor’ Save ” in gallons
So-long. Send on files Bulletin—Kitch asking for them!
“Hobo : The man (B. 11/11/’O9) who
guessed that there wasn’t a white baker in Winton
(Western Queensland) guessed right. In fact, he
might guess the same about most of the towns on
the Cloncurry and Central lines. Chows have the
monopoly of mauling the public’s dough, and a
sour monopoly it is, too ; for after paying sd. or
6d. for a 21b. loaf, in nine cases out of ten the stuff
is hardly fit to eat. Chows have almost a
monopoly of the storekeeping as well, and yet
there isn’t another part of Australia which makes
a louder profession of Labor and White Australia
principles. Hundreds of men in this Western
country can spot an encroachment on their
principles a thousand miles off, but they
have no eyes for the little piebalds and
other things that are happening in their
own townships. They are suffering from
what the spectacle men call “long sight”
and it’s time somebody got up and talked to them
plainly about it and gave them the. name of a
reliab’e optician.
The health of your children depends very
largely upon keeping their stomach and bowels in
good condition. Chamberlain’s Tablets are a per-
fect laxative and stomach regulator for children.*
The Kidston Government sustained
another nasty knock last week when the
Assembly, on the motion of Philp, knocked'
out the amount of £40,000, provided on the
supplementary Estimates for the Port Alma
Railway, amid rejoicings among the Government’s
numerous enemies. This makes the second defeat
m afortmght-and at the hands of Philp. The
okl Ridston-Phdp feud is not dead but sleepeth,
and of late it has been suffering from insomnia.
The ghastly news comes to hand that three
men have been killed and two badly injured at a
pub 60 miles from Cloncurry, through the drink
blowing up. It wasn’t the beer that exploded-
even in North Queensland the beer seldom ex-
plodes—but the good old Queensland rum. The
rum went sky-high, and looked like a volcano. It
is assumed that someone held a candle too near
to the refreshment that went off, but
to the slaughter it made there is no one now in a
position to supply particulars. Rumor has it that
the whisky also leaped from its cask with a roar,
and thus added to the horrors of the situa-
mu 11 ’ k ut no reliable information is available
• e u on ly redeeming feature in the case
is that the explosion took place while the
goods, were in the keg, and not when they
were in the human stomach, for in that case .the
- mortality might have been enormous. The inci-
dent adds a new terror to life. In times past
banks and gas-pipes and dams and building soci-
eties and water-spouts have burst, and people have
burst into song or into the room where one fellow
was asking another fellow’s wife to bolt with him,
and men have burst out of prison, and Foreign-
trade theories have burst, and Tom Mann has
called upon the public to burst its chains; but the
bursting of one of the necessaries of life is a new
departure. After this it might be advisable to
enact that rum, while not in use, shall always be
kept under water.
A FLATTERING MISTAKE.
Customer : Here, I say, landlord, what do you mean charging me 10s. a day, and me a com-
; menial traveller 1 ”
Landlord: “ A. thousand apologies. I took you for a gentleman! ”
“ Billo ” : The Queensland Labor Party
is, apparently, purging itself of the extreme
elements that have done it a heap more harm
than good. A short time ago Mat Reid, the
representative, par excellence, of the Out-and-
Outers, resigned from the Central Political Ex-
ecutive. Last week the Parliamentary Laborparty
censured Joe Lesina, him of the trusty toma-
hawk and the wild and whirling adjective, and,
as a result, Lesina no longer sits with the Labor
party but occupies a place on the cross benches.
Some day the Laborites may go a step further
and adopt a definite financial policy and drop
their attitude rc alliances; and the moment they
do so the Kid-Philp cake will be dough and its
name will be either Ichabod or Mud, whichever it
pleases.
Queensland takes pathetic care that it does
nothing calculated to destroy industry and thrift
on the part of “the masses,” and a proof of this
is given in the annual report of the Inspector of
Orphanages. Dealing with the question of board-
ing children out, the inspector says :
The allowance paid to widows and deserted wives is
less than that paid to mothers, being ss. for one child
9s. for two, 12s. for three, los. for four, and ISs. for more
than four. He adds that it is compulsory for foster-
mothers to wholly “ maintain ” the children under their
care, and the State allowed them a rate that would enable
them to do so. It was not intended that widows and
deserted wives should be rewarded for maintaining their
own children ; neither was it intended that the rates
paid should cover the cost of each child’s keep. If that
were done, the inspector states, industry and thrift on
the part of the.mothers and their elder children would be
stifled, and a deserted wife would find herself perhaps in
a better position alter her husband left than before.
Foster-mothers receive 6s. for one child, or Is. i
more than widows and deserted wives. The de-
duction is therefore that, on the strength of an
extra bob a week, a widow or a deserted wife and tl
her elder children would slacken off industry and
thrift, and paint Brisbane red, say on Wednes-
days and Saturdays. But how does the Depart-
ment arrive at the conclusion that only widows
and deserted wives are liable to become reckless
and thriftless when supplied with an extra Is.
every seven days?
My Jewels.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a ring on my hand to-day, nor stone
of a lover’s giving ; •' x
The gems I wear are shut away from the
eyes of the curious Living.
dhough the Life that tore you a wav from me
laughed that she had bereft me,
She took no toll of the string of pearls that, bound
to my heart, you left me !
Pearls of nights of uncounted stars, and pearls of
a moon-white shimmer,
1 hey are strung together with golden days, all
dusked with a twilight’s glimmer ;
Pearls that you gave where the leaf-ways meet,
pearls of unguessed-at blisses,
Caught with the clasp of a perfect love, and linked
by a thousand kisses !
Have you forgotten one moment of it? You by
the frost-still river
Where snow lies soft on the trodden ways and
the splintered ice-points shiver ;
Have you forgotten the road of palms, the edge of
the shaggy ridges?
No ! You are building, with me to-night, the
arch of our great thought-bridges !
My visions flee as the lights go up and the curtain
falls on the mummers,
I see the jewels on beauty’s breast and I think of
our moon-white summers;
And a hand that it weighted with gems and gold
lifts up to a fair hairdressing,
1 he pride of her jewels and costly gauds the
smile in her eyes confessing !
But I feel no envy. I too can smile, and pity her
haughty bearing,
For never woman has gems like those which I on
my heart am wearing !
QUEENSLAND
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Christmas Day.
My Dear Tharromindah,—
Wee Macgregor will depart to partake of a
trtendJy haggis with the Warwick Highlanders on
xonday, but the other members of the Govern-
ment House party are not booked for anything
particular in the way of holiday-making. The
Visum martyred her pretty self, and spent an
hour at the Methodist Christmas Tree on Thurs-
day afternoon, when the atmosphere was bor-
rowed from the inner temple of Sheol. The little
lady had herself well in hand, however, and did
not shudder even when a particularly hideous
book was thrust upon her by a heated Santa
I he scarlet aide seems to be something of
an expert at “picking them,” for on his first
appearance at Ascot he is said to have done
excellently, and to have gone back home with
more wealth than a northern tin-scraper can get
together between Christmases.
Professor David, of Sydney, who has been ap-
proached as • a possible Chancellor for our baby
University, is said to be willing; so the penguin
may be packing his sleeping bag for these climes
ere many months have passed. But credit Rumor
with these things, not me.
Ihe season of the Ward-Palotta co. occurred
during the heated moments of last week. Electric
fans were installed in the dress circle, but it wasn’t
they that made the season memorable. It was
P ,® Ward-Palotta people themselves—they and
Ihe Fencing Master.” Following on the ab-
surdities of “The Honeymoon,” this piece was
like champagne after gingerbeer. It consists of
a bracelet of cameos, each part being a perfect
little character sketch, and each mummer getting a
right good chance. The O’Shea sister and brothers
took charge of the Palotta lady in her brief inter-
valaof rest, and with them were Marie Narelle’s
bonny daughters.
ioowootnba is to be on the jaunt for the coming
week, when the races, the race-ball, and an even-
ing promoted by Mrs. McDonnell will
assist the bill of gaieties. “ floppy's” best
regiment will also wander up to give tone to the
proceedings, and a lot of pretty ladies are packing
up their very gladdest rags against the fray.
In the remote days of January, the Muffs of
Brisbane are to muff in the interests of the Ladies’
Bowing Club, whose members will meantime
exercise their muscle in selling tickets.
A few days ago some 62 Master Butchers held
their annual reunion and feast, and, to enliven
the proceedings, a noted vocalist was engaged,
with carte blanche to keep the gathering cheerful!
Ihe dessert having been removed, the pianist
struck up—what do you think “ The Toreador,”
with its significant passage, “ Mark the bull.’’
Ihe eternal fitness of things. I’ll stake mv life
that it was the toughness of the Brisbane meat
that suggested the ditty.
A blow has just fallen upon Premier Kidston.
ihe (government, after forcing through the Port
Alma Bailway Bill, and using divers means to run
it through the House of Profound Slumber, was
caught on the SupDlementary Estimates which
provided the £40,000 for the construction of the
line When the item was proposed. Philp smote
his followers to such purpose that they took to the
collar as one man, and bang went the Govern-
ment s majority and all hope of closing the session
before Christinas. It looks as if the real Premier
were at length awakening from his job among the
►seven oleepers.
; Certainly for ways that are dark the Kidston is
an adept. He ran a short session, and at the very
pnd of it introduced a bait making the payment
of members payable from the date of their election
to the date of the election of their successors. It
JratihX P t? 7 ° the present Parliament. In
evervtlnn?pl a H^! Se evi dently expected to run
& r through without contention. And
W ‘ sho y c^ng hman a ° d Sm ° te
™ * for , mer colleagues ; and the compliments
Wth « muc i 1 snlphur m their whiskers that at
last the Speaker was called to order—it happened
in commntee of course. Whereupon theoffendedl
agreed withf Chairman’s ruling be dis-
The fat is in the fire as regards the Women’s
-League Kidston, who is a great hand at laying;
down the law has set it forth that the women
.hall vote for his chosen candidates; and his
choice has fallen upon the politically defunct
(xlassey, Millican (a Charters Towers magnate);
and the youthful Macrossan. The last is quite
an unknown and untried colt, and there’s a senti-
mental interest attached to him. But as to the
others, the women have brought down their um-
brellas with a bang, and decided that unless they
have a new plebiscite at which they can
nominate Whittingham, they will lay down arms
as tar as the Senate is concerned ; and that will
mean 10,000 votes missing from the Government
side in one awful lump.
The last week of Parliament was given over
to much that was unparliamentary ; and two at
least of the law-makers fled for refuge to matri-
mony. Barnett Samuel Francis Allan, who !is
the voice of wild Bulloo, was the ringleader ; bi)t
he chose his time badly, and within 24 hours of
his wedding the House settled itself down for an,
all-night sitting, which was poor luck for so new a.
bridegroom. Needless to say he was not spared!
as the hours after midnight dragged on, and much,
advice to get home lest the wife might throw up,
the job was hurled at him. But Spartan bloodl
runs strong in Bulloo, and he stood at his postr.
until the milk-cart had done its round. A few
days later the member for Woothakata, up Cairns;
way, said he would, being aided and abetted!
therein by Miss Esther Mahoney of Toor-
wooniba. Put Woothakata took no risks
of all-night sittings, and paired with an obliging
man on the other side. The knot-tying, however,
did not happen without mishap, for the brides-
maids and the important person who was to give
away the bride missed the train, so the ceremony
had to be brought through with an emergency
staff. Breslin, the youthful member for Portr.
Curtis, filled the breach and gave away the lady
(who after all, wasn’t his to give). He is the last;
>aehelor left in the Labor party, saving the joviali
McLaughlan, and lie’s a widower. And there ar©
intimations that Breslifi may not hold his unique
position long.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Itan : This is the season of the year
when the cocky makes unkind remarks concern-
ing the sundowner and the swagman, and charges
them with throwing down burning matches on
their tracks. In most cases the plaintiff makes
out his case against the unknown and absent
defendant just because of his absence. But
often bush fires have their origin in the spark
of a railway engine, or the sun’s rays focussed
by an empty bottle or a flash of lightning.
1 lie casual Matilda-wanderer is not always to
blame. As a rule, he is scrupulously careful to
extinguish his camp fire and his pipe-light. But
what of the cocky man himself? What prepara-
tion has he made to fight the flames ? There age.
more careless farmers than there are careless*
bushrnen. All the time they put their beans on,’
the chances of ram, and leave the making of fire-
breaks to the “ fools who go to all that expense.””
Die use of a fire-plough, invented by G. Bell, of
Westland, recently saved an immense area of ;
grass land near Longreach. The fire had a face i
of nearly 10 miles, with flames leaping* up to at
height of 12ft., but the 14ft. plough-break checked!
the progress of the conflagration along a line for
22 miles. The cocky who will not cut any off his
surplus feed for his stock during times of seareitv
is not the man to bother with fire-breaks unless
he is compelled by law. But after the fire, hap
pens along he will probably relieve his feelings,
with an outburst of language against Ml hoshmen„ -
wanderers, pedestrians, sundowners and irundlers
of Matilda.


LIST OF FRUITS GROWN IN QUEENSLAND.
Almonds, several varie-
ties
Almond—Fiji
Apples, many varieties
Apricots, many varieties
Averrhoa
Avoeada Pear
Bael Fruit
Baninnas, several varie-
ties
Barberry
Blackberry
Brazilian Cherry
Bread Fruit
Bqrdekin Plum
Carol) Bean
Chalta
Cherries, several varie-
ties
Chestnut—Spanish
Chestnut—Japanese
Chinese Raisin
Citrons, several varie-
ties
Cocoanut, many varie-
ties
Custard Apples (Cheri-
moyas)
Dates
Davidsonia Plum
Figs, several varieties
Gooseberries—Cape
Gooseberries—o t a h e i-
tan
Granadillas
Grapes, many varieties
Guavas, many varieties
Jujube
Kai Apple
Kumquat
Li tchi
Longan
Lemons, several varie-
ties
Limes, several varieties
Loquats
Mandarins, several va-
rieties
Mangoes, many varie-
ties
Mangosteen Sour or
Coochin York
Medlars
Melons, many varieties
Monstera
Mulberries, several va-
rieties
Natal Plums
Nectarines, several va-
rieties
Olives, several varieties
Oranges, many varieties
Pawpaw, several types
Passion Fruit, several
types
Peaches —Persian, many
varieties
Peaches—China, several
varieties
Peaches—Ceylon, seve-
ral varieties
Pears, many varieties
Pecan Nut
Persimmons, several
varieties
Pineapples, several
varieties
Pistachio Nut
Plums—European, seve-
ral varieties
Plums—Japanese, seve-
ral varieties
Plums—American, seve-
ral varieties
Pomegranate
Quince—E uropean,
several varieties
Q uinee—Japanese
Queensland Nut
Raspberries, several
types
Rosellas
Rose Apple
Sapodilla Plum
Shaddock or Pomelo,
several types
Star Apple
Strawberries, many
varieties
Tamarinds
Tree Tomato
Vi Apple
Walnut
Whampee.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth,
No. LI.
FORTUNES IN FRUIT TREES.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald, Barrister-at-Law.
As these articles draw to a close, the writer begins
to realise how much interesting material must
inevitably be crowded out; how many avenues of
investment for capital and labor which open out
their vistas in Queensland’s natural resources
must be neglected. A glance through the regular
official publications of the Queensland Govern-
ment shows that the prospects of wealth or com-
petence in such avenues as bee-keeping, the pig,
lucerne-growing (or alfalfa, as it is called in the
United States), kapok, potatoes, the vegetable
garden in lands near the thicker populations, seri-
GATHERING FRUIT AT MR. S. JENSEN'S ORCHARD, DON RIVER, BOWEN (Q.).
Photo, by E. J. Strange
culture, horticulture, in mohair production from
the angora goat, m fibres, etc. But one avenue
for the employment of the capital or the labor of
the immigrant cannot be passed over, and that is
the prospects o! fruit-growing, and the subsidiary
industries which depend upon it.
No country in the world is more admirably
adapted for fruit-growing than Queensland Mr.
A. H. Benson, instructor in fruit culture, declared
in 1901 that
Owing to the great variation of the soils and climate in
this State, we are enabled to grow a very large number
of different varieties of fruits to perfection, as with the
exception of the extreme tropical fruits, such as the
Durien and Mangosteen and a few of the hardier berry
fruits, we can grow in one part or other of the State
practically the whole of the cultivated fruits of the world.
Already there is a large production and trade in
bananas, mangoes, oranges, pineapples and citrus
fruits with the southern States of the Common-
wealth, and with other parts of the world. But
it is only as a drop in the ocean to the trade which
is to follow. The settlers have now tested the
capacity of soil arid climate; they are familiar
with the conditions of the markets, at home and
abroad. Difficulties in regard to rapid transport—
UNLOADING & STOWING FRUIT, CYANIDING CHAMBER, BOWEN, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by E. J. Strange.
so essential an element in the disposal of ripe and
ripening fruits—have been gradually overcome.
Again the benevolent functions of the State have
been exercised for the advancement of the in-
terests of those who have embarked their capital
in fruit-growing.
During the year 1906-7 there were 1924 acres
planted with orchards, 1973 acres under grapes,
4975 acres under bananas, 2230 under pineapples,
and 316$ under oranges ; and the value of the pro-
duce was £18,585. The production of each line is
thus shown
ARTESIAN WATER BORE, NEAR BAR-
CALDINE, LAKE VIEW, QUEENSLAND.
Apples ... ... 21,-556 dozen
Bananas ... ... 1,343.033 bunches
Mangoes > 541,840 dozen
Oranges 3,199,201 dozen
Peaches ... ... 31,265 bushels
Peanuts .. ... 71,410 Ib.
Pineapples 601,969 dozen
Strawberries... ... 227,973 quarts
Grapes ... ... 3,572,576 lb.
That table shows not only the quantity but the
variety of the fruits produced. The quantity pro-
duced in the Commonwealth is nothing like that
required to supply even the home market, without
troubling at all about exportation. Besides the
fruits enumerated, the following grow in profu-
sjon; some of them (such as the pineapple and the
banana) all the year round: Lemons, mammes
apples, pears, plums, apricots, cherries, fDs ”nec-
tarines, quinces, strawberries, persimmons passion
frulti blackberries, resedas custard
apples, pawpaw apples, cocoanuts. Cape goose-
berries, melons, guavas, loquats and others.
The vreiiest nminenu
• ihe greatest piospects at present exist in the
citrus fruits. Queensland should he able to supply
the world with the most luscious oranges and the
most valuable lemons. Southern California pro-
duces citrus fruits to the value of £5,000,000 ster-
ling per annum ; and dried fruits and raisins
yield £410,000 per annum to the cute Californian
orchardist. There whole regions are given up to
This one industry—fruit-growing, preserving and
canning. In the Pomona Valley, Southern Cali-
fornia, irrigation gives its aid by conveying the
water to the gardens from the canyons of the San
Antonio River. Queensland has a nearer supply
in its underground streams, which can be tapped
AVENUE OF ORANGE TREES, MR. POTTS’ ORCHARD, BOWEN, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by E. J. Strange.
and used to fertilise the surface soil, and enable it
to yield the most delicate fruits.
In an opuscule issued in 1907 by the Los
Angeles Chamber of Commerce, California, the
following statement is made :
A short distance south of the San Gabriel Valley,
charmingly located on the eastern slope of a range of
hills, and overlooking- the ocean, which is about a dozen
miles distant, lies Whittier, named after the good Quaker
poet. The site of Whittier was covered with wild
mustard eighteen years ago. To-day it is a thriving
little city of 5000 population, connected with Los Angeles
by an electric railroad as well as a steam road. The loca-
PRINCE OF PIPPINS APPLE TREE AT
HERMITAGE STATE FARM, NEAR
WAR WICK, QUEENSLAND.
tion being comparatively frostless, delicate fruits of all
kinds grow here.
There are a score of San Gabriel Valleys in
Queensland, and there is no reason why they
should not. attract their five thousands each of
thriving people living upon the profits of the
fruit industry in the best climate in the world.
In California, according to the same authorita-
tive document quoted above, the price of land
adapted to the culture of citrus fruits is from
$250 (£5O) to $5OO (£100) per acre, while in
CROP OF WHITE GRAPES GROWN AT STANTHORPE, QUEENSLAND.
Q'leens'and land is obtainable from a few shillings
pci- acre upwards, and even for nothing, with
assistance from the State. This part of the
contrast must be rounded off by emphasising the
fact that the orchardist in the United States is
quite at the mercy of the railway and market
trusts and combines, if the wonderful picture
drawn by the late Frank Norris in his “Octopus”
is not exaggerated. The laird there is mostlv
alienated, and is held by private speculators, who
are certainly mat setting themselves up as philan-
thropists or benefactors of humanity; nor have
they the same puernal interest which the State
the production of a higher-class fruit; they have
their congresses in which they exchange ideas and
prepare for the conquest of the markets of the
world. Nor are the Canadians—our kinsfolk in
the North-west—asleep over the matter. I have
before me as I write the printed report of. the
fifteenth international convention of the North-
West Fruitgrowers’ Association, which sat, in
British territory, in the City Flail, Vancouver,
British Columbia, in December. 1907.
The papers read at this Convention, and the
speeches delivered, are a liberal education in the
means which may be employed, not only to im-
prove the quality of the product, but also to
secure co-operation among the growers for mutual
advancement. In one of these it was shown that
the North-West fruit farmers, who formerly
received an equivalent of 3s. (Id. per box for Spit-
zenburgh apples (one of the highest grade apples)
from the middleman, while the New York buyer
gave 9s. 6d. per box for them, were now, by a
proper organisation of their selling operations,
and through co-operation and knowledge of the
markets, receiving as high as 13s. per box. These
results were obtained by a group of some 125
farmers, inhabiting a territory seven miles long
and 10 or 12 wide.
Now, one of the sources of wealth which has
been most strenuously developed during the last
few years in Queensland is that of mixed farming,
at the base of which is dairying. One of the
factors in mixed farming is fruit culture; and,
indeed, the latter may be associated with any
pursuit as the properties of the soil are every-
where so prolific that fruits grow wild. The fact
that Allan Cunningham’s peach-trees were found
growing wild in many forest glades has already
been mentioned in these articles. The experts of
the State of Queensland have classified the lands
for fruit-growing purposes, as the result of keen
observation, long experiment and scientific know-
ledge. Mr. A. H. Benson, M.R.A.C. (quoted
above), in his useful little book “ Fruits of Queens-
land,” says :
It will thus be seen that we have in Queensland,
roughly, three distinct btlis of fruit-growing country—
-Ist.—The Eastern Seaboard and the land adjacent to
it, suitable for the growing of tropical and semi-
tropical fruit.
2nd.—The Coastal Tablelands, suitable for the growth
of deciduous fruits, vines, olives, and citrus fruits
in parts.
3rd. —The Central Tablelands, suitable for the growth
of grapes, for tabl • and drying, dates, citrus
fruits, etc., but requiring water for irrigation to
produce profitably.
Enough has been said, or suggested, to show
the intending immigrant that lie has, in fruit-
growing, another string to his bow on arrival in
Queensland. The man who comes from the
strawberry or apple districts of England will find
a ready field for the application of his knowledge.
The man from Spain, France or Italy, who is
accustomed to grapes, will feel at home ; while
both will have an opportunity of becoming the pro-
prietors of their own lands, and at their beck and
call are available all the organised services of the
Government of a progressive and enterprising
•State. They will find in their neighbors men
imbued witn the co-operative spirit, who know the
value of the immigrant, and will assist him by
every means in their power. For their children
and themselves are at hand and beckoning all
these splendid aids to successful settlement and
to better fortune and a higher citizenship—which
have been, 1 fear, but feebly described in the fore-
going articles.
Government of Queensland has in opening up
and developing the country generally, and
encouraging all classes of settlement and the
general productive capacity of the country.
The fact is, the fruit industry in Queensland is
in its infancy. Queenslanders have not set them-
selves seriously as yet to the task of organising it
as they have organised other sources of wealth
and avenues for capital and labor. The fruit-
growers of the United States take their industry
seriously. They are constantly working towards


SCALP DISEASE
PUZZLED DOCTORS
Began with a Little Pimple—ltched
and Spread Till Whole Head was
Raw—Hair Fell Out in Bunches
Suffered Three Years and Cure
Seemed Impossible.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND
EASY CURE BY CUTICURA
“My disease started with a little pim-
ple on my head. Then it began to itch.
The more I would scratch, the worse it
grew until it spread all over my head.
So I went to the doctor. I continued
his treatment for some time but, finding
no results, I decided to change and try
some other reniedy. Little warts began
to grow on my head. I would wash it
every day but it grew as raw as a piece of
beef and my hair commenced to fall out
in bunches. So I changed doctors. This
doctor prescribed a wash and a salve. My
head at this time was so sore I could not
touch it. After trying several doctors
and many patent medicines, nothing
would cure it and I lost much time from
work.
“ Then I decided to go to the hospital.
Several doctors were called in to lo ->k at
it, and after some consultation they .aid
that I had seborrhoea in its worst stage.
They began to treat it but it improved
very slowly. For over three years I was
a sufferer from this disease. I thought
all hopes of a permanent cure were im-
possible. A friend of mine, upon seeing
the condition of spy head which was
a mass of running corruption asked
me if I had tried the Cuticura Remedies.
I told him nothing would do me any
good; but being very anxious to be
cured, I decided to try them. The first
treatment (with Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Pills) brought immediate re-
lief. My hair became alive and stopped
falling out, all the scale left and now I
am perfectly well and have a full head of
hair. I can truthfully say that it was
entirely due to the use of the Cuticura
Remedies and J recommend them to all
sufferers from any skin disease. George
E. Jefferson, 1518 Reed St., Philadel-
phia, U. S. A., Jan. 24, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Complete External and Internal Treatment lor
Every Humour ol Infants, Children and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills to Purify the Blood. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris. 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d’Antin; Australia. R. Towns & Co., Sydney: U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
LEEMINGS
FOR STYLE
IN
SHOES.
v
PBICES
18/6 8 22/6.
The above is the very newest fashion in Men’s
Shoes for Summer Wear.
In Tan or Blaok. Prices 18/6 and 22/6.
SAMPLE LINE OF LADIES’ IMPORTED SHOES,
with Wurtembertr Heels, in seven sizes, either
Black or Tan. Very special value. Price 7/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelitrht.” All that is
newest in footwear is priced in it.
LEE KING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne : 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran ; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne. [1
5
be despondent if l)oe-
tors, Mineral Drug's and
Electric belts have
failed to cure you of
Nervous and kincfted troubles, which embitter life and
ultimately cause Nervous and Physical Breakdown. Con-
sult the old Herl) Specialist, and receive the benefit of his
thirty years’experience in the successful treatment of
such cases. Consultation free. Write or call.
Address : HERBAL DISPENSARY,
Suite 7, 63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
TOXADIEvS
Who lack proper BUST Development we will
send full particulars of a valuable remedy which
will enhance your physical charms and brinjr
about that natural Development of the BUST
which all ladies desire and all men admire.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and
BEST FOR. ME.
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAX A TINE
LAXA TINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXA TINE
LAXATINE
The Peerless Aperient.
The Gentle Regulator.
The Lollie-like Laxative.
The Cure for Constipation.
Sold by All Chemists.
Equally Good for Children and
Adults.
ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
©
K 3
WOW
o
©
B.G. SAND SHOES
For the holidays at the Seaside you will require
SAND SHOES. Like all other goods bearing
the famous B.G. Brand, they are perfect both
as regards the quality of the material and
workmanship.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australia,
234 Clarence St„ Sydney; 289, 291, 293 Swanston
St., Melbourne ; and All States.
THE HYDROBLAST.
A NEW FORGE BLOWER.
Easier to work, more effective, more durable and cheaper
than other kinds. Write for particulars and prices.
THE HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees and Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Excess FAT
REDUCED!
■BBnBBBHBEBBBfIEZXaPMBKBaaBa
Ten thousand fat women have
been reduced in
weight by from one
stone, even to eight
stone. . . There is
hope for you.
‘FATCURE’
cures obesity with-
out drastic dieting
or killing exercise.
It strengthens the
heart and builds up
the entire system.
5 lbs. a week re-
moved in average
cases. Send 2d.
stamp for full par-
ticulars and FREE.
trial Sample.
Call if convenient.
58
<&i
aP
SJ.Z.
£s
Watworth Go., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlcreagh St., Sydney.
is
IN'
a
PAT
NTS
Gollison&Go.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
THE FLUES !
To do this effectually use
S
PURITY.
The very look of
Cerebos Salt suggests
purity, and indicates
the scrupulous care
with which it is made.
Cerebo*
Saif
Agents—Harrison €r Attwood\ Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
?
fS.
r That Have
Caught On!
They’re books every Aus-
tralian should read.
They’re typical Australian
from cover to cover—full of
intense interest from start to
finish. They’re written, printed
and illustrated in Australia—
you ought to read them—
they’re published in cheap
editions.
Here we enumerate just a
few of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry ; price,
cloth, 11- ; postage 4d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning, by T. E. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. McSwocney,
b.vT. E. Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by T. E. Spencer; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by Harry Tighe; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf Brasch ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Ohas. White ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Porter; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d,
The New Chum, by A. U. Adams; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AH Branches and Booksellers.
df
SUMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILOKC,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
sd
GRAND PRIX
PARIS ST LOUIS
1900 IQOA-
The Celebrated
.. . V
lan
THE
BEST PIANO
'or the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable lrom
MAX WURCKER,
99=101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NerronsConghß,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression Immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co's INDIAN CIGAD-
E’ r ' r T'S. Fold bu all Chamigts.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Willy-Willy ” : Broome, the most get-at-able
centre of the Nor’-West pearling: business, is smiling.
At the last London sales, picked M.O.P.—which is short
for inother-o’-pearl—brought £175, or about £5O more
than the top price a year ago. Westralian pearlers now
expect to pull up on the last three seasons of disaster,
when a couple of ruinous blows followed on top of the
American slump in the pearl market. Broome itself has
mightily improved these last few years. An artesian
bore, 1600 ft. deep, supplies the town with water; but
apparently the casing is worn out, as the water is occa-
sionally reddish and tinctured with iron. Besides, it is
too small, and another bore twice the size will have to be
put down very soon. A street railway runs from the end of
the jetty to the most distant part of the town, and tele-
phones are installed everywhere—a big consideration, as
there are really two towns, a mile apart. The settlement
on the ocean side is official and select. Japtown, further
in, is where Chows, Japs and Malays hang out —a low-lying
marshy flat, and about the most unlovely spot in the
Nor’-West. It is in this part of the town that the
tragedy of the Mist occurred. It was whispered to a
Jewish pearl-buyer that a stone of enormous size had been
discovered ; and, as the whisperers expected, he started
out to secure it. Of course, it would have to be a “ snide ”
transaction, so he stuffed his pockets with notes and
gold. He soon spotted the owners of the alleged mam-
moth, and went for a stroll with them among the sand-
hills ; but something went wrong with the plot, and the
intended victim escaped that night. The following day
he was “ given the office” to go on board an old lugger,
the Mist. Next morning the much-battered corpse of
the pearl buyer was found alongside. Three foreigners
were hanged a while ago for that murder. At Japtown
the Streeters, the big London gem people, have a ware-
house, a butchery, and other money-making concerns.
But Streeters are possibly only nominal owners ; at any
rate, two brothers named Male run the show. One of
them is member for the district; the other is Mayor of
the s>own. Both are highly affluent. Streeters got a
lease of something like a million acres which on the land
side Encloses Broome in a close grip, and the concession-
aires take care that no cattle but their own reach the
town. All steamers calling at Broome are big customers,
too; and everybody, white man or nigger, wanting
only a pound of mutton must go to Streeters’ butchery.
A Thursday Island correspondent (B. 10/6/’0f)) howled
about the ascendancy of the Japs and Malays in that part
| of the world ; but it isn’t so at Broome. Practically every'
lugger, and there are over 300, is owned by white men, and
I there is a white man in charge of each boat. He opens
the shell and gets his “lay.” They must have the tired
feeling pretty bad over Thursday Island way, as the
whites on the W.A. side are mostly prosperous, and not
in the least apprehensive of being crowded out.
“Maehaon”: I wish the commercial delegates
from overseas had attended a little conference that
occurred here recently. It would have made such of
them as are interested in ships sit up rather violently.
It had to do with the “ ballast question,” and arose out
of the waterside workers’ demand that they should get
the work of discharging all ballast that arrived in ships.
•To this the shipping agents demurred energetically.
Follow some reasons why they did. As things are, a
ship’s captain comes ashore and engages an agent to get
out his ballast. A gang (say seven men) is sent to do
the work, but the pay-sheet contains the names of
a bogus gang, whose wages are drawn by the agent and
whacked with the captain. Again, the captain arranges
with an agent for the crew to discharge the bal-
last, and a faked labor-sheet is made out, signed
by the captain, and the whole of the money' is whacked
between that gallant mariner and the agent. Sometimes
the crew of a ship deserts, and then the skipper gets a
boarding-house master to put a temporary crew on board
to work the ballast. This crew is paid a small wage, but
the crimp puts in a bill at the top wages of waterside
workers, and whacks the difference with the captain.
Mostly in commercial matters it is the employee who is
swindled. This is one of the rare and hence interesting
cases w'here the middleman is enabled to get in the best
of his dishonest work on the dwner.
“Marloo”: The North Coast (N.S.W.) Hin-
doo, when chasing the elusive job, sometimes offers a
certificate or two from former employers. One turbaned
blotch has been proudly handing this out from cocky to
cocky: “ This is to certify that Bum Khan is a d
rogue and the laziest shirker I ever employed. You will
do a good turn by booting him off the farm.” But now a
Metholeyau, with views about “ the brotherhood of man,”
has read it to the rogue and spoiled the joke.
UNCLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I said to myself as I contemplated the land,
“ It is indeed a fine country—
It is very spacious, very pleasant, very fair ;
Grass and trees abound in it and there are many waters.
It has great natural resources ;
Stock seem plentiful—and various.
Quite a considerable amount of property appears to be
lying about in it —
I wonder who owns it ? ”
And a strange nasal voice replied,
“ Uncle ownth it —Uncle ownth all ov it! ”
I said to myself, “Dear me ! Is it possible?
What! One Uncle own all this?
All this fertile and expansive and expensive land-
This wide and useful Continent—
All those water courses and crystal streamsdescending
to the sea—
These foreshores and grassy flats and forests of magnifi-
cent timber—
These green gardens and gay orchards?
Surely not! ”
And again that snuffling voice replied :
“ Yelk—Uncle month it ; all ov it!”
I said to myself: “ Well, I declare !
This is indeed a surprise !
Three million square miles—all a White Man’s country—
Full of vast possibilities and fashioned to maintain a
mighty People—
A People, one might say at a moderate estimate, one
hundred millions strong ;
A Nation, in short —yea, and a great Nation !
Even now I see round me signs of the coming- of such a
People—
'Twould be a noble and a fitting Inheritance.”
And suddenly the voice cried again :
“ Yeth—but Uncle ownth it! ”
I said to myself: “Am i a dreamer and a vain Imagina-
?
Go to!
Are, ’then,; these signs but perishable stuff?
Mere webs of Fancy, floating gossamers?
These cities —these wharves and quays—
Yon huge cluster of buildings—
Those marts, those roads of shining metal running over
the land—
Those docks, those gallant ships,
Those parks and galleries and offices and the whirring
cars roaring past —
Are they not real ?
Are they not property ?
Are they not the belongings of a new and rising Nation ?
Surely ! ”
And lo ! once more I heard the Voice :
“ Holy Motheth—No ! Ain’dt I tellin’ you, Uncle ownth
them,! ”
I said right out loud and with heat,
“ Blast Uncle !
Isn’t this Australial
Isn’t this our country?”
Tun Voice :
“ Not much—Uncle ownth it ! ”
I said : “ But the people—the four million odd souls?”
(“ Uncle ownth them ! ”)
“ But the £500,000,000 worth of property ? ”
(“ Uncle ownth it!’’)
“The railways, towns, stations, schools, churches,
libraries, theatres, markets, baths, offices, roads, fac-
tories, politics, hopes and aspirations?”
(“ Uncle ownth them ! ”)
I said to myself: “Hell! Things are in a mess. Will
someone please slay Uncle ! ”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


People disagree on the
COOK PEARY
controversy about reaching the
North Pole.
But no one denies that
Lieut. SHACKLETON
penetrated nearest to the
South Pole.
HE TOOK PLASMON WITH HIM!
The Lancet states that to
COOK PLASMON
with your food is to add enormously to the nutritious
value.
Plasmon, Plasmon Cocoa, Plasmon Chocolate,
Plasmon Biscuits, &c., of all Chemists, Grocers and Stores.
PLASMON BS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
■PLASMON LTD., London.
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THE.Y HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
'A POLICY FQtt TPIE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6d. from “'Fixe
Bulletin ” O iiico
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 9 Grand Prize St Louis 1904
RALODERHAB
PREPARATIONS
F. GJOLFF & SOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Knloflerma Jelly
prepared with glycerine % honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
KgMerM Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening # improving the sKin.
Knlodermn Rice Powder
Knloflermq Slmwing Soap
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. ucT Uc/'
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
fl refined luxury at a popular price. jcT uSK Ucr Jc/'
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
HERE’S A SIMPLE HOME BATTERY
9/
Price 35|-
POST
FREE,
and your money returned if it proves
contrary to what we claim for it.
that we want to call your attention to because
of its simplicity in working and its health-
giving results.
It is entirely different from other batteries
—a child can work it with safety.
It has no liquid acids or salts to spill and
burn —no wearing parts—and the only ex-
pense for its upkeep is a few pence about
once in six months for fresh dry cells.
Jerdan’s “Home” Battery
is invaluable for Summer Lassitude, Nervous
Debility, Chronic Headaches, Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica and other similar Blood
and Nervous illnesses.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FREE.
JORDAN’S
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS, i
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
KOYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
ďf
aiu? gite (&uv i?
(Dr. Luuder-Bruuton's)
can be carried in the waistcoat complete.
Place a ligature round the limb above wound.
With the lancet ipako small incision through
wound and rub in the Crystals of Perman-
ganate of Potassiiim—moistened. Send Now.
Post Pree for 1/6
Box 625, G.P.0.. Melbourne.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddocks, in which she explains
her reason ior offering- £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King-and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King'Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
fd
SPBOIAU
Silver
Mounted
Nothing Ever Like Them
Shown in Australia Before
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACp.QNISTS,
-1
OH
IF
U nable
To
Procure
.At Local
Tobacconist
r App'y
Wholesale
Depot
SI Z E
LARGES
7'6
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
i'OLJCY FOB -TUB COMMONWEALTH
I’viee Od, fioui The Beej.ktix Office.
dfd
§
w
w
v/,
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get ,more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done theso
things ho has reached the and. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE EIRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The iailure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Tro<urJpi,le, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Or. IMAUGHLIN'S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worlls while yoti sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothin«-,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With It
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as ;£! in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
IT yon want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful lire ; your eyes clear ; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon )o-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things, that make a man fool
lille DEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-Hv.
or CALL for Pree Consultation. Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the mclaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
Ths McLAUCHL!*] GO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castleraagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
Return of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY in
THE CATCH OF THE SEASON,
THE LATEST and MOST UP-TO-DATE
MUSICAL COMEDY.
MATINEE EVERY AFTERNOON at 2, THE CLIMAX.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 SHARP.
Return to Sydney and FAREWELL TO RUPERT
CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL’S COMIC OPERA CO.
in the London Musical Comedy Succe.^s,
The GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER
Crammed with Pretty Girls and Catching Songs.
Prices—ss., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sole Proprietor and Director: HUGH J. WARD.
EVERY EVENING. LAUGHTER and HILARITY.
HUGH J. WARD’S Brilliant Company of
Comedians, including Miss Grace Palotta,
Miss Rose Musgrove and Miss Celia Ghiloni,
in the Climax of Comedy Conception,
A BACHELOR’S HONEYMOON.
Prices—ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Elvy’s
I*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ls 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICT LJ RES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
An Amberol
Attachment
for the “Gem”
Phonograph.
By fitting this simple attachment
to your “ Gem ” you double its en-
tertaining value, and open up a great
field of new music.
The Amberols play for four minutes,
and give a beautifully clear and
perfect reproduction. Call on an
Edison dealer and ask to hear them.
The “Gem” attachment is easily
fixed and costs only 18s. 6d.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. 0, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Apropos the action of the Victorian House
of Landlords in striking out the sinking-fund
clause from the Water Bill and the taxation pro-
posals from the Progressive Land Tax Bill, Mel-
bourne Age (20/12/’O9) proved by a great and
learned digging-up of the Constitution that the
Landlords have no power to amend money Bills.
That is quite true, but what is the good of it?
The Landlords can’t amend money Bills, but they
do. Their conduct may be, quite illegal, but
apparently they don’t care whether it is illegal or
not. Also, there is no law big enough to make
them care.
The Oldest Inhabitant :
Apropos Lady Mary Fitzroy’s carriage (B. 23/12/’O9).
In the late ’sixties and early ’seventies there was a stand
for hackney carriages— not hansom cabs—in Pitt-street,
on the corner of Bridge-street (Sydney), at- the “ Little
Exchange,” the pub then kept by Janies Hamilton, and
So named; to distinguish it from'the “ Big Exchange ”
opposite (kept in the mid ’seventies by William Gannon,
the well-known, racing magnate). The chief job-master
qn the stand was old Bernard Scully, who had his livery
stables in Chippendale. His son ” Jack ” was in the busi-
ness with him. Father and son did all the swell business ;
tlie.Y drove, and were in groat demand. Bernard told nie
tliat the coach he then dro-ve belonged to Sir Charles
Filzroy, and was the one front which Lady Mary was
thrown aiid killed. Jack Scully is now about' the oldest
guard on the Southern line, running the mail to Albnry.
In the mid’fifties Bernard Scull.v,,kept a grocery in connec-
tion aviththe “job” business in George-street, opposite
Christchurch, and in the mid’sixties he kept the Im-
perial pubbery, on the corner of Forbes and William
streets.
I notice in The Bulletin a
publisher’s ad'vt. of books by “ Alex. Macdonald,
F.R.G.S., explorer and author.” This is the
tremendous bloke who discovered a “valley of
vipers” when he was “exploring” out near
Longreach (Q.), the place to which the locomo-
tive takes the sleeping-car. One of the books
now advertised is “The Land of Pearl and
Gold, a pioneer’s Wanderings in Back blocks
and Pearling Grounds of Australia and New
Guinea,” and another is “The Quest of the Black
Opals : a Story of Adventure in the Heart of Aus-
tralia.” In addition to the matter of the valley
of vipers, Macdonald pulled Sydney Telegraph’s
absurd and telescopic leg with his discovery of the
zircon as a quite new gemstone. Still the anti-
Australian dailies of Sydney and Melbourne
apparently believe in him as an Australian
pioneer, and puff him tremendously. You see,
he has the supreme virtue of not being Austra-
lian; so he was allowed to “discover” the
zircon in their columns, though Coghlan had in-
cluded it in the list of Australian gems for ever
so many years before.
Amusements.
GREETINGS FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
Bertram willison& madame frederica willison
Sole Owners
WILLISON’S AMERICAN CIRCUS,
WILLISON’S Vaudeville Shows,
WILLISON’S Wild West Wonders.
Controlling- the Centres of Civilisation.
Permanently Located. Willison’s Headquarters and
Stock Farm, BLOEMFONTEIN, O.R.C.
The Epitome of Excellence in all that pertains to Tented
Aggregations.
100 Trained Horses and Ponies. 200 Educated Men.
Triplicated Tents, Seats, Lights and Decorations.
Tons of Special Printing- for Every Act in the Business.
Always prepared to Finance any Legitimate Amusement
Enterprise new to South Africa.
Paying Passages, Arranging Tours, Hall, Theatre or Ten 1.
ADVANCING FROM £lOOO TO £5OOO.
Nothing too big for Us to handle in this or any other
Country.
Bert Willison now on tour as Director-General, Madame
Fillis’s Continental Circus. The Greatest Show
in Africa to-day.
Cables and Telegrams, Willison, Bloemfontein, 0.R.C.,
South Africa.
Direct Letters to Lock Box 449, Bloemfontein.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
-J-IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FRANCO PIPER, Skilful Juggler.
BERT TERRILL, Novel Comedian & Tyrolean Yodeller.
NELLIE MAUNSEhL, IRVING SAYLES.
ARTHUR HARRISS. WILL DYSON.
FRED CURRAN. DOLLY HARMER.
Last Nights,of MDLLE. DE DIO.. Incomparable Dancer.
Last Nights of GRAHAM & DENT, Sketch Artists.
TEDDIE, DECIMA & ROY M’LEAN, Specialty Artists.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager,.Mr. Harry Rickards.
WILLIE BROTHERS, Acrobatic Artists.
CORRIE and GOLDING. Comedians and Dancers.
BROWN and ROBINSON, Harmonists.
POST MASON, Baritone.
BERT TERRELL, Comedian and Dancer.
KREMKA BROS., Comedy Acrobats.
HARRY MARTE, Intricate Dancer.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
TPHE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager —William Anderson.
A BIG SUCCESS.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Big Spectacular
XMAS PANTOMIME,
BABES IN THE WOODS.
A GORGEOUS BRILLIANT SPECTACLE.
■ Box Plan at Allan's.
L.JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Grand Annual
Spectacular Pantomimic Extravaganza,
ALADDIN.
Plan at Allan's* Prices as usual.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
OSCAR ASCHE ancl LILY BRAYTON
—IN—
The MERCHANT oe VENICE
OSCAR ASCHE as SHYLOCK.
LILY BRAYTON as PORTIA.
Plan at Allan’s.
f)RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. WALTER BENTLEY and MISS
EUGENIE DUGGAN in
M A C B E T H.
A GREAT COMPANY WITH NEW COSTUMES
AND NEW SCENERY.
Prices—ss., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
■DIRECTION BAKER & TALBOT
GEORGE HACKENSCHMIDT,
THE ALL-CONQUERING ATHLETE,
Supported by GUNNER MOIU, HERMAN, MARK
OSBORNE’, CLIFFORD' ESKELL and W. E. LEWIS.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
UP TILL, AND ON, JANUARY 3.
TOWN HALL. SYDNEY,
Commencing WEDNESDAY, JAN. 5.
N.Z. TOUR OPENS AUCKLAND, JANUARY 17.
Amusements.
|_|OYT’S PICTURE PALACE, MELBOURNE
(NEXT TO THEATRE ROYAL).
THE PICK OF
THE PICTURES.
WHAT YOU MISS AT THE OTHER
PICTURE SHOWS, YOU FIND AT
HOYT’S
(NEXT DOOR TO THEATRE ROYAL).
Popular Prices. Australian Ladies’ Orchestra.
gPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WIETH’S”OLTIPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY at 8. MATINEES at 2.30.
DIRECTION of MR. C. SPENCER.
THE CHRONOMEGrAPHONE,
introducing HARRY LAUDER’S Songs and Specialities.
Popular Prices. Plan at Glen’s.
GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
, THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
U/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices —1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
C 5
ff*
Y
/
nnraßKLr
’' ' V
m
mmrm
Z 3;
TV ■
£
t=i
I.
'll
f
JX
vr
A
7
1—»
s?r
-A
l^cyl
asay
fdf
No woman in
i None of th
\ of the A 1
t\ shown
r 15. Dixon*s Ah
W%md of a set
th
happy
fail
|p|| eautiful pattern,
||p|s dozen
poons o
mb Tea
If |M
j wife
ely
with
save weam
Tho : smaratM^ml
. -. lOlf]
managemmf*
s'’.V'. , ,\vkv
enouimm 1910 j(||§ wer its mst |
Tm^Bpoons
last through
r ?; £2-15-0
a geuwdtyOjOpri
//lie (same
WMeen sold for
f ojm for the ]jpast fi ve //eaftfj|g||
ss||fbas/i ’ ars'jsv\:th by ym£o^j.
Ausm
|fssn at effii 4,
Decemb
ton.pp§|o ||||§||h/ u;on7||||p| v .f/ie o#ney.
«pl§p Railway^stqtion.§ijjUring
for fitiftMarticulaH to
Internatiopgl Company o£^oirica
200 Roma St., §*’• Melbourne
17 Bank
(287)
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
■ 'NEW SERIES- IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. Packet of Ten, 5d


Torn out of the middle of an Australian s
letter from Banjoewangie :
This Java is a very fine country, flowing with eocoanut-
milk and honey, also rice and 26 million people. It
belongs to the white Dutch : but they look round on the
rapidly-increasing millions of black and tan, and then
give up the contract of making it white in the literal
sense. Nominally 7, though, it is quite easy to become
white. When the white man takes unto himself a Javan-
ese missus, which he usually does, the outcome of the
bliss can be put into the native campong, to feed on rice
and chatter a heathen taal; or by the payment of a regis-
tration-fee the finger of reproach is cut off at the knuckle,
and behold you have a Dutchman or a Dutchwoman, who
later on will inform you that it was born at Amsterdam, and
probably discourse on the strange customs of the natives.
You can work other wonders by registration ; and there
isn’t much you can do without it. A permit is required
for everything but eating and drinking—one to reside
for six months, another if you want to reside for more
than six months, another to keep a dog, a fourth to keep
a gun, and yet another to buy cartridges. Each permit
costs 2s. 6d., and means half a day's work in informing
the authorities when and how and why you came into the
land, the name of the ship that brought you, and the
name of its captain ; and there’s trouble ahead of you if
you have forgotten the exact date when it all happened.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
df
PASTORAL-
■ STS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS =
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
d
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It-
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something’ every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS ;
Messrs .Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b ■ I. W. NICMOIL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST. IRELAND.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to" take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
s***- mmmm
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Maehine to do the work.
, A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Garbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
ill
i
The Advantage
of the Gillette Blade
is the ease and rapidity with which it enables you to shave.
Simply hold the handle in shaving position and the curved
blade mafres the proper angle for shaving. There is no
difficulty; you cannot go wrong; you cannot cut
your face.
The Gillette Safety Razor not only makes shaving easy, it
ensures a clean, close shave, no matter how tough the beard or
tender the skin. Moreover, no stropping nor honing are
required.
ALWAYS READY.
ALWAYS KEEN.
NOTHING TO ADJUST.
NOTHING TO LEARN.
HAS NO DANGERS.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
ft\ii pffe Safety
NO STROPPING. NO HONING. Razor
USE GILLETTE SHAVING SOAP,
A Soap worthy of the Gillette Safety Razor.
For sale at all first-class dealers.
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
sffp/iwftl P-'Bs£
(Drawn from phpto)
“The Champion ”
the only machime on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at onpe to,the
ANGLO-AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
gag.
X.
*49
Car
ri
gej
This Cartridge with the large solid Bullet is uneq-
alled for Miniature Range Shooting with .22 Cal-
ibre rifles. It is British made too. Any Am-
munition Dealer can supply you. Agents:
'HE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
A good example is set
by those who use
Calverts
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
*TG U.S.PA^
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
i
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys" DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “AHenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant;
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
A
6r
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.kS.W.
15 he LEADING
HOUSE >»-
CAN’T
B
BEAT
Goods
Fishing TacKle .& Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting; Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
6/0
Vo
OUR
Special
Snap.
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
‘KEY BRAND” FISHHOOKS.
M34—Hi
M34|—
M2O—K
lustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1-2-3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
1/- 1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/8 3/- 3/8 per 100.
Mustad’s Best Rustproof Hooks, Jin. Longer Shanks, Ringed XX Strong—
Nns 1 /A 9ld Q in Ain Kin am r,m /«■»
9/0
3/-
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 ' 7/0’ ‘B/0
1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/8
lustad’s Best Bright Hooks, Kirby Bent, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0
9d. lOd. lid. 1/1 1/3 1/5 1/8 2/-
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free
10/0
3/8 per 100.
9/0
2/4 per 100.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
f
micKroim.
fdf
df
SfSHSHEf
f!3e
d
iff«=
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong’ polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free any-
where, 2/- Do not jniss this chance of obtaining
one of the best and most useful puzzles ever
produced.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicety made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
PMI
The JOKER’S /NDIARUBBER SNAKE.
One of our niosb successful surprise novelties.
Folds up in a very small space, and can be held
in a closed hand without being- noticed. Springs
out of the hand in a most natural way. Made
of indiarubber, and is absolutely unbreakable.
Causes heaps of amusement. Price 1/3 post
free anywhere.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Neiv Edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarkefc Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Ox-ford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King- Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
U/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
fds
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. G- HEARIME & Co., Ltd. s
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic" Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. 411 The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Hpw to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and-the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for tiie
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught; 1/3.
How to Make Sweats, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
śfd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ur-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I*~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
3
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sapplio, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


CHRONIC —
CONSTIPATION
with Other Complications
—A Long-Standing Case
—Speedy Cure Effected.
“I had been a sufferer for a very long time from Chronic Constipation, Liver Complaint
and Neuralgia,” writes Mr. E. J. Taylor, 292 Riley Street, Sydney. “For the Neu-
ralgia I tried many supposed sure cures, but never even got any relief from the pain. I
came to the conclusion that the Neuralgia was a consequence of the poison in my blood,
so I tried what was called constitutional remedies, but the Neuralgia fits still came on at
regular intervals. For the Constipation I regularly took opening medicine till I got in
that state I couldn’t stop taking medicine of this kind. This had the effect of weakening
me considerably. My liver also worked very badly, giving me a dull pain between the
shoulders, and making me sallow in appearance. I lost weight considerably. It is hardly
exa gfferation to say I tried every medicine but Laxo-Tonic Pills, and instead of getting
better I was getting worse all the time. About this time I was advised to try Laxo-Tonic
Pills and did so, and the first thing I noticed was that I was no longer constipated, was
not compelled to take opening medicine daily as before. My general health also rapidly
improved, and the Neuralgia left me altogether. My liver is all right now, too. What I
like about these Pills is that they do not gripe or leave any unpleasant consequences, and
they make you feel lively, and give you a good appetite.”
Laxo-Tonic Pills are sold by all Chemists and Stores at for the Regular Size, or
Is. 6d. for the Double Size, or post free from the Laxo-Tonic Pill Company, 15
O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
'
li. ■ ’
V
I<W
Ott/C
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers! Confectioners!
. Make your own AERATED WATERS
K
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
m
i !
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
u
THOUGHT I WOULD LOSE MY ARM.”
Could not Work or Sleep—Young Man’s
Serious Case of Blood-poisoning Cured.
Many lives are lost every year for the
want of a little common-sense and care
respecting the treatment of simple in-
juries. There is nothing so easy as fox-
poison and infection to enter the body
through a tiny cut or trivial scratch, and
the woman in the home is no more free
from danger than the toiler in the factory
or workshop. Blood-poisoning, in fact, is a
daily peril in hundreds of occupations, and
neglect of the first symptoms may easily
cause the victim the loss of a limb, or even
his life. Zam-Buk, by reason of its absolute
pui-ity and powerful antiseptic properties,
is of incalculable value when applied
promptly to a knock, wound, cut, burn,
scald or laceration, and the prompt and
judicious use of the balm has averted the
worst perils of blood-poisoning.
The following case of Mr. F. ,T. Cramer,:
residing at 52 Durham Street, Christchurch, N.Z.,.
is an instance, and other sufferers should profit,
by his experience.
Mr. Cramer says :—“ For three weeks I suffered!
from a poisoned arm. My arm became swollen and
inflamed, and itched, throbbed and festered. I
could not work or sleep, and my friends thought
■*■l
mm
HiiHii
m
Mr. F. J. Cramer ,
(from a photo.).
I would lose my arm. I was treated by a chemist, and tried numerous remedies,
but could obtain no relief. One day, acting on. a friend’s advice, I tried Zam-TJnk
The balm drew out the poison, and after one week’s
treatment with iSam-Buk I was cured.”
NATURE’S OWN HEALER AND SKIN-CURE.
Two great advantages of Zam-Buk are— first, its remarkable
purity ; and second, the tact of its being so readily absorbed by the
skin. Its refined composition accounts for this, and also for its
superiority over other ointments, salves and embrocations. In Zam-
Buk there are no rancid animal fats or mineral poisons to clog the
pores and irritate the delicate skin. Zam-Buk is an ideal healer for
all injured, irritated and diseased skins.
k
a
Zam-Buk cures all those
nasty skin troubles so
prevalent in Spring and
Summer, such as Pim-
ples, Boils, Irritation,
Rashes and other erup-
tions; and is indispen-
sable for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Scalds, Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash,
and all injured or un-
healthy conditions of the
skin. Obtainable from
all chemists and stores
at 1/6 per pot, or 3/6
family size (holding
nearly four times the 1/6)
The Last Days of the Cables.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Swiss wireless station is receiving messages from a
radius of 2000 miles.
The messages are from the mid-Atlantic and all parts
of the Continent, and are in various languages. — News
item.
THE deep-sea cables in the slime —
The liars of the ooze,
The victims are of Rust and Time,
For now the crackling news
Flies high above the rolling wave
Upon electric wings ;
So on the news-rope by her cave
The gay mermaiden swings.
The crusted, deep-sea liars sprawl
Along the ocean floor,
Far deeper than the sweeping trawl
Where old sea-serpents snore ;
The words of love from Auntie Jane
Unto her own dull folk
Nofv flit above the rolling main
Amid the liners’ smoke.
The ocean wind harps on the stays
That keep the funnels straight;
A sad, wild melody it plays
Of News and Debts and Fate ;
One lonely gull flies in the blue,
But round him there’s a flock
Of messages from people who
Are int’rested in stock.
The albatross thinks he’s alone.
He isn't! All around,
Like 12-inch shells or lumps of stone,
Are little clots of sound ;
Each second words are whizzing past
His eager, outstretched beak,
And roosting on the “wireless” mast
Where he’ll arrive next week.
The wild sea-wastes are full of talk ;
The chatter of the Spark
Speeds safely where the big gales stalk
And where the tropic shark
Swims like a silent ocean spy
Upon the vessel’s track ;
Unheard, the message and reply
Leap nimbly there and back.
The gay mermaidens in the brine,
And their mermaiden aunts,
Around the deep-sea cables twine
Their weedy sea pot-plants;
The little shellfish bring their shells
And take up tiny blocks,
“ For now ” —the small sand-agent tells—•
“There’s little fear of shocks.’’
The ag&d cables in the mud
Like wearied pythons doze ;
The whale comes mooning through the flood
And sniffs each worn-out hose ;
The last news trickles through the slime—
The last lie crawls to town,
And then the slain of old Pa Time
To silence settle down.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
The Shepherd Kings of Canter-
bury.
BOSANQUET LLOYD, ESQ
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the rare occasions on which
Collier, M.L.C., attended to his legisla-
tive business, his handsome wife looked
after the correspondence that arrived at Tarahaoa
station. So in the natural course of events it fell
to her to open the letter from Herbert Lloyd,
Esq., banker of Westminster. It was brief :
My dear (Jollier, —
Although of late years we seem to have gotten some-
what out of the way of corresponding, I am sure we
still cherish the same regard for each other as in the
older, or rather younger, days. You remember my
brother Samuel—the big brother we used to borrow
pocket-money from in our schoolboy time. Well, Samuel
is dead. He was mixed up in a number of West Indian
concerns which may, or may not, yet pull through. In
the meantime, the estate is worth very little, and his
son, Bosanquet, hasn’t enough to live on. So I have
decided to send him out to you to learn the theory and
practice of wool-growing. When he is through, I daresay I
can scrape up about £lO,OOO to give him a start. I had
intended to have given him a berth here, but the young
dog is a chip off the old block, and the usual affair with a
woman at the bottom of it makes it necessary that he
should leave England for a while. He is going out on the
clipper Canterbury, with letters addressed to your good
self. I have made him understand that discipline on
these sheep stations is very rigid, and I hope you will
keep him thoroughly under. Now I trust you will take
him on your own place, if possible, as cadet; and if that
is impossible, get him settled somewhere—anywhere
where the beggar will have to work. Convey my respects
to your wife. When are you coming to England for a
holiday ? . . .
HERBERT LLOYD.
“How delightful!” murmured Mrs. Collier.
“ I wonder if the scapegrace is handsome. It will
be quite a treat to discover a handsome scape-
grace—all I have known have been so aggres-
sively ugly.”
She wrote a reply to Herbert Lloyd, informing
him that they would see to Bosanquet’s woolly
education, and subject him to rigid discipline,
not to say tyranny. Then she wrote to her hus-
band in Wellington, informing him of Bosanquet’s
coming. She declared it somewhat of a bore, but
speculated a£ to whether there might not be com-
pensations. Bosanquet could take a lot of the
overseeing off his hands, and thereby ensure his
attendance at her tennis tournaments. She also
wondered if it would be possible to send him to
Wellington as deputy M.L.C., and generally
managed to instil a lingering note of unsatisfied
longing into the letter that made Collier, M.L.C.,
ridiculously pleased with himself.
* * * *
It was 3 p.m. when Bosanquet Lloyd rqde up
the winding carriage drive of Tarahaoa station.
He was prepared for some splendor, and he had
heard things in Christchurch that made him
expect to see a rather pretty woman. But this
lovely park, and this wonderful woman with her
almost gorgeous beauty ! Bosanquet Lloyd, who
had been in trouble over women all his life,
groaned inwardly when he looked on the smooth
olive skin, the jetty hair, the ripe full lips of
burning red and the eyes that seemed to burn
with an almost feverish fire.
She was dressed in primrose silk, and stood
framed in an archway of her verandah, over
and around which grew magnificent Cloth-of-Gold
roses. The groom who accompanied Lloyd caught
his bridle, and the young Englishman swung him-
self to the ground.
As he did this she noted that he was strong and
well-knit, that he had fair hair, steel-grey eyes,
and a forehead that was half his face. The long,
straight nose, she fondly imagined, indicated
Viking descent.
“You must forgive me not having someone to
meet you ; but your Uncle’s letter only arrived by
the Canterbury, and we have not got our tele-
graph system properly established. In fact, we
are only half civilised,” she murmured.
“If this is what you call half civilised, let us
remain for ever so!” he said, waving his hand
over the gorgeous flower-beds, the splendid holly-
hedge, and the shaven lawns and ornamental
native shrubs.
“You like the place! Will you have some
whisky and soda to keep you up while you have
a wash ? Then w.e will have some lunch.”
A quarter of an hour later he joined her in the
white morning room. She gave him whitebait
soup, grilled trout, cold pheasant, delicious salad
and unlimited bright conversation.
She showed him over, her house from top to
bottom, took him on to the roof and expounded
the faint outline of distant stations through the
trembling haze of the afternoon ; and, as a climax,
conducted him to her fern-house, the most mag-
nificent in Canterbury. Then she challenged him
to a game of lawn tennis, and beat him every set.
The sun went down behind the great towering
peak of Tarahaoa, and the fainting rays were
flashed back from the snowclad sides of distant
Mt. Somers. They stood on the lawn arid watched
the play of reflected light, and while they watched
a cold grey mist crept down the spurs of Tara-
haoa, enveloping the red gashes left by recent
land slides, and hiding the purple spurs in an im-
penetrable veil.
“That always reminds me of Death!” said
Mrs. Collier. “Every night it comes like the
mummy at the Egyptian feast, and I swear to eat,
drink and be merry while I may.”
And the great feverish black eyes were turned
on Bosanquet Lloyd, producing an effect that made
him suddenly shiver and imagine he had con-
tracted either fever or pneumonia.
She led the way to the drawing-room, where
the bright fire of sparkling black pine logs made
for warmth and cheerfulness, and left him alone
with his thoughts. The dressing bell rang, and
he went upstairs and put on his dinner clothes,
and, returning, found her waiting for him in the
drawing-room,
“ If you are ready we may as well begin ; we are
alone ! ”
She slipped her arm through his, and guided him
to where the pink lights showed an old-fashioned
dining-room, with a trim maid in black dress,
white cuffs, apron and streamers, standing de-
murely in the shade. A bright pine-wood fire
was burning on the wide, red hearth. She took
her place at the head of the table, placing him on
her right where he could see the fire. The maid
turned up the lights, and Bosanquet Lloyd felt
that-he had fallen on his feet. If this was typical
colonial life, he wondered why anyone went in
for anything else.
Mrs. Collier was a beautiful woman—one of the
most beautiful of her province and time—and she
knew it. She had studied the art of bringing
home each dainty point to the eye of the admiring
male while appearing to do it in an unconscious
and natural manner. Bosanquet Lloyd, fast man
of the London clubs, thought he knew all about
women, but this was one of a sort he had never
met before. He had heard in Christchurch of the
multitude of her admirers, but had acquired an
impression that she was as unapproachable as the
scintillating snow on Mt. Somers. And as he
sat eating his dinner Bosanquet Lloyd’s mind
went back to that theory of distant impossible
worship. And every moment she revealed a fresh
grace of contour, and her profile seemed to
naturally get into the positions in which light and
shade made the most of its beauty. When she
reached out for some article on the table the red
silk of her dinner jacket slipped back and
showed a perfectly shaped arm of cream and
roses. For this woman had made coquetry
a fine art, and flirtation a science. She
had thought hard over it, and she had
worked hard over it, posing for hours before a
great swing mirror. She had walked, swam and
swung Indian clubs to make her lissom and j
healthy. She had fenced to acquire grace of
movement, and had practised walking for hours
with an earthenware jar on her head to give her a
beautiful carriage. Her voice, too, was a love
epic, and when she asked him to pass the salt it
was a caress. Perspiration ran down Lloyd’s
face. And yet all the time she had said no word,
given no sign that he had the shadow of justifica-
tion for saying “The woman tempted me.”
With glowing cheeks and flashing eyes she led
the way to the drawing-room, ringing the bell as
she went. In the drawing-room she placed a box
of cigars and a decanter of liqueur beside him on a
Damascene table, and gravely seated herself at
the piano where for half an hour or more she played
music in a minor key.
Then she joined him at the fireside, warming
her hands in the blaze after she had lit a cigarette
in a tiny holder of amber and gold.
Lloyd sipped a glass of Chartreuse. The
woman in the red evening dress seemed to grow
gigantic. She appeared to lean over him and
breathe heavily in his face, and her breath smelt
like the scent of wallflowers. Then a pink mist
enwrapped him, and he became unconscious.
* * *
He opened his eyes and stared wonderingly at
the dainty drawing-room in which he found him-
self. Then he remembered. He rose to his feet
and looked round him unsteadily. A smashed
decanter lay on the floor, the Chartreuse making
a wet stain in the pile carpet. A fragment of a
red silk sleeve was also on the floor, and a broken
cigarette holder of amber and gold. The fire was
out, but the lights still burned tranquilly, and the
great marble timepiece showed it was 2 a.m.
He wondered vaguely what it all meant.
Should he ring and inquire if anything had hap-
pened to Mrs. Collier ? Then a sudden fear fell
on him, and he began to imagine impossible
things. The room showed traces of a struggle.
With whom ?
His head, ached horribly. He picked up the
smashed de&rnter and replaced it on the table.
He gathered* lip the fragment of sleeve and thrust
it into his pocket, turned out the lights one by
one, and, striking staggered towards his
rnnm. ' ''
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE affects PEOPLE DIFFERENTLY
Though no two persons alike are
affected in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism—another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous and despondent
her neighbor may have all the
symptoms of dropsy, gravel or stone
in the kidneys. It depends on the
sufferer’s constitution and the nature
of the impurities kept back in the
body by the blood filters the
kidneys.
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills
should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong.
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation; they drive out the
uric acid that irritates the kidney
membranes and clogs the passages.
Doan’s Pills help the kidneys in tlieir
great blood-filtering work, and give
tone to the whole kidney organism.
iff! 4i\
nmmmmnmi
/P
A
m
c^r
c<ud
§
c
imm\
mrmumninwmn
c
x
c
Every picture tells a story. 1
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per
bottle, or posted free by Foster=McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sydney People Cured.
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin Lane, Surry Hills,
Sydney, says : —“ For nine years I’ve been troubled
with the kidneys. In that time I used all sorts of
remedies, but the first to do me good was Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills ; these were Al. I used to
get pains in the back and across the shoulders, hot
flushes of blood to my head, burning pain under
the eyes ; I was frightfully nervous, and had palpi-
tation of the heart. Regarding the pain in my
back, after stooping I would have to ease myself
up. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills started to
relieve me when I had taken a few doses. After I
had taken them for a week I felt so well that I
forgot to take them. Anybody who needs a kidney
medicine should get Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above seven years
later:—“l am still free of every distressing
symptom mentioned above, and have been ever
since, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me,
seven years ago. This remedy is unrivalled for
the cure of kidney ailments.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., 749 Harris Street,
Ultimo, says : —“ Some time ago I strained myself
pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the
effect in the small of my back. For three solid
months I was unable to work, I had a very lame
back, and a dull pain through the loins and the
kidneys, and my secretions became unnatural and
irregular. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and obtained wonderful relief. I am so much
better, I can now do heavy work. lam firmly
convinced that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
a true kidney remedy, and I never fail to recom-
mend them among my friends.”
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement: —“ I am
still well, and have never suffered with my kidneys
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
eight years ago.”
sfd
Backache
Kidney
PHIS
He had no idea where Mrs. Collier slept
although she had shown him over the great
rambling house. He knew it was somewhere on
the ground floor, and his own room was upstairs
right at the end of the northern wmg, overlooking
the great lawn. He dragged himself upstairs,
went into several great empty bedrooms by mis-
take, and at last found his own.
* * * *
He was awakened by a servant with coffee and
a note. His head ached, but the coffee preened
him up a bit, and he opened the note excitedly
For God’s sake see me at once. I will be waiting in the
■big room at the end of the passage that leads from your
room to the stair. Do not follow the servant too quickly.
He dressed himself hurriedly, and in 10 minutes
stole down to the end of the passage where he
saw a door ajar. He tapped lightly. There was
a swift step. Mrs. Collier gripped him by the
arm, drew him inside and locked the door behind
him. Then she faced him. Her lower lip was
trembling and she looked at him pitifully. He
noticed that her eyes were swollen, her throat
was muffled up, and that she moved with obvious
happened ? ” he inquired hoarsely.
“ Were you really unconscious ? ” she inquired.
“I know absolutely nothing of what occurred,
and if I laid a finger”
“You didn’t. You were either drunk or
drugged, and I couldn’t rouse you. Look ! ” (She
slipped her shoulder and arm out of her wrapper
and showed it black with bruises. Then she un-
covered her throat and showed where the fingers
of some man had tried to strangle her.) ‘‘lam
in a terrible predicament. Will you be my knight-
errant ? 1 think you like me a little,” she said
soffclv.
“I’ll do anything in the world for you—bar
murder,” he said stoutly.
The feverish fire came back into her eyes. She
placed her hands on his shoulders and held up her
lips. He kissed them gravely.
"Well, will you walk through that grove of
hazel trees and see if there is a dead man there,
and if there is, help me to get him to the Rangi-
tata to-night ? ”
Lloyd started.
“Yes, I will. Tell me about it ! ”
“ I had a lover. He saw you arrive, and got it
into his head that you were to supplant him. He
drugged the Chartreuse; and when you had be-
come insensible he came in and tried to strangle
me. He would, too, had I not stabbed him again
and again with the poniard I wore in my hair,
He staggered out, and away to the hazel grove,
I’ve not seen him since. I want you to see if he
is there.”
Lloyd pondered, and marvelled at the devilish
ingenuity of the plot, which was to let him awake
to find a strangled lady beside him.
“This man had access to your drawing-room,
Was he in the house?”
“Yes, yes. He brought you here yesterday,
Ask me no more. I have told you everything.”
Bosanquet Lloyd walked down the stairs
thinking. “A groom lover ! Good God!”
He strode out on to the lawn, lit his pipe and
looked at the sky. The gardener touched his hat.
Lloyd nodded a cheerful good morning. Then he
walked down the carriage drive to where a turn
hid him from the house, dived into the shrubbery
and got round to the hazel copse. He walked
through and through it, but saw no sign of a-
corpse till he went to the fence, and, looking over
it, saw the form of a man huddled up in the ditch,
on the other side. He had fallen face downward,
and both hands were pressed to his chest.
Regardless of footprints, Lloyd crashed through
the thin hedge, and turned the man over. Stone
dead. It was the clean-shaven, rather handsome
groom that had met him at the railway station.
Lloyd left him in the gutter, and, climbing back
into the copse, gathered armsful of leaves and
grass, and heaped them over the dead man.
Then he went back to where Mrs. Collier waited
him in the upstairs room. She almost fainted
when she saw his face. He took her in his arms
and held her close while he told her.
He expected a paroxysm of grief, but there
was none :
“You will save my name, won’t you?” she
purred, stroking his face.
“ I will ; but now we must have breakfast as
though nothing had happened. I suppose none
of the servants have any ideas ? ”
“ Heaven knows—they are very sharp; but we
must risk that. What after breakfast?”
“ I’ll take you for a drive, and then, somehow,
I’ll have to get him into the vehicle and away to
the —what did you call it?” •
“ The Rangitata. I will assist you. We can
take the closed-in four-wheel trap. And the rest
is easy, although unpleasant. We must take a
hamper and make a day of it.”
“Won’t this river with the unpronounceable
name promptly.wash him ashore?”
“It may; but when the Rangitata gives up its
dead it has crushed them out of recognition
between its boulders, and no one will guess what
he died of.”
■n 9 * *
It was nearly nine that evening when the closed-
in carriage returned with Mrs. Collier on the box
beside the new cadet. The junior groom took the
vehicle to the stable, and took the opportunity of ■
reporting that his senior had not shown up all
day.
“ H’m ! I suppose he’s drinking ! ” said Mrs.
Collier, reflectively, as she swept inside. As the
man was then in the rolling Rangitata, this was
probably true. Lloyd followed her in, and she
led the way to the dining-room, where she gripped
the whisky jar and pushed it towards Lloyd. He
poured out two stiff glasses, filled up with soda-
water, and they drained them without a word.
“ Don’t be longer than you can help—l dread to
be away from you ! ” she said, simply, taking off
her hat. She made the girl accompany her to her
room and stay with her while she prepared for
dinner, and then, after a hasty toilet, she
rushed into the dining-room and threw herself
into Lloyd’s arms.
He had just time to place her in a chair when
the maid entered with the soup.
Her emotional distress did not prevent her eat-
ing a good dinner, and the fact that he was
accessory after the act did not seem to interfere
with Bosanquet Lloyd’s appetite either. They
made an excellent meal, and washed it down with
much champagne. The bulldog broke out of
Lloyd’s nature, and he crowned her with Cloth-of-
Gold roses from the table, singing how the brave
deserve the fair, and the rule of Fate is Woe to
the Conquered.
To the half-savage, Roman nature of Mrs.
Collier there was something thrilling about the
whole affair. Safe in her new lover’s arms she
dreamed of the dead lover, battered out of recog-
nition on some shingle-bar of the lower Rangitata,
glaring at the moon and stars, while the
triumphant lovers drank champagne amid the
roses.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
In Old Peru.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mined among the Andes or pulled
their ripened maize
In peaceful occupation, those sports of
olden days,
The easy-going Incas ; and if a warning pen
Some hungry poet lifted, his well-fed countrymen
Observed : “ The fellow’s dilly. It’s plain as two
are two
This splendid isolation will serve for old Peru ;
With Inca institutions, athletics, ease and health,
We’re safe from future trouble. Our peaceful
Commonwealth,
“ Mayhap, is quite defenceless. But then we lay
the odds,
Like none among the nations; we reverence our
gods,
Itz-Cotter, Noble, Trumper; we have our farms
and claims,
We simply want good seasons and bread and Inca
games.”
That Socialistic people went down the years un-
harmed,
Secure in isolation, and very much unarmed ;
Till Time, in swift conjunction with unexpected
Fate, *
Came knocking, with Pizarro, one morning at their
gate.
With sinful lack of firearms, with not a fort
behind,
The Government protested, and affably resigned.
The Spaniards seized the Speaker, and shot him
doubly dead ;
To ransom held the Chairman, and filled the Clerk
with lead.
Black Rod was merely hamstrung. Deform
Leagues to a man
Rose up with resolutions and straight for cover
ran.
And great Deformers headed this Army of Re-
treat,
Still shouting economics and stamping with their
feet.
And .Toquokook and Kelly, in yellow cotton
clothes,
Were chased unto Iquique. John Forrest, we
suppose,
Became thereat converted. Our hearts, in sooth,
would ache
To think that portly person were frizzled at the
stake.
But sad the painful duty of this recording pen—
The Spaniards slaughtered Webster and Wilks
and Johnny Wren !
And sent the Upper Houses, despite their wealth
and years,
To napping of blue metal ! Carruthers disap-
pears,
With Murray, Wade and Phidston, in mystery
and night,
They may have died of Fusion, or famine, or State
Fright,
The record’s strangely silent; with all their work
sublime
Of pumps and parish drainage, they vanish—lost
in Time !
The Locked Lands then were opened, but not by
special tax;
The Army seized the Landlords, and with a
sharpened axe
Reverted of their titles (a process fraught with
pain)
To emigrants from Lisbon or absentees in Spain.
The Lima Herald, hinting the outlook for Peru,
Was otherwise than hopeful if Capital withdrew
From that ill-governed country ; in haste to Lima
town
A Spanish captain hurried to burn the Herald
down.
And when he’d done, the Herald, likewise the
Telegraph
On earth were wanting nothing, except a ceno-
taph.
With office-files most sacred the soldiers lit their
pipes!
They shot the social experts and smashed the
linotypes ! !
Could old Peru do nothing? Alas! that story
runs
They were a sporting people with neither ships
nor guns !
Respecting all Convention, they moved on peace-
ful lines—
Extremely poor in rifles, though wondrous rich in
mines.
’Tis true the Inca ladies in conference did bann
The language and excesses of merely foreign man.
They framed a resolution that women should
apply
Their minds to public problems. Resolved, the
marriage-tie
Be held for ever sacred. Resolved, that drink and
dice
By Law should be abolished ; likewise that Sin
and Vice,
With other vulgar failings, should be by Act dis-
solved,
And re domestic service—resolved, resolved, re-
solved.
Conquistadore Pinzon an armored cordon drew
About that chaste Convention ; reserved a shriek-
ing two,
As being somewhat comely. His soldiers seized
the rest;
And so dissolved the meeting. The minutes were
suppressed.
Itz-Cotter, Noble, Trumper ! that sacred trinity
Whose names are largely written in Inca history,
Whom all the People worshipped ; their altars
in the dust,
By ruthless feet were trampled. The People’s
gods were— bust!
E’en Soccer football languished, and ne’er a horse
was run
On Randwicquerque racecourse, or Itzelfleming-
ton !
Yea ! from the pony courses, the punter sad with-
drew,
And all at last was over; the Stranger held Peru.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
A Grateful Mother Writes:
“ My little son suffered ter*
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
m
Jk
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla-not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
USTARD
J
Bird’s
Custard
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
cither hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SHILETOrS ETE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist {or its history—the book is free—or -write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Compulsory Winding-up or the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &CO.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A s
0 0
it is necessary for the Trustees to bring-this business
» - to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price .£3 17 o
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPEClAL,quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. ffcile Price ..£&
3 Single-Barrel Ilammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Gsual
Price, £3. Sale Price •• . .£ll# u
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. •• ••••;• £5 16 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete. _
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. x- u °
12 Bities, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. bale g
All° the above guhs are complete with , Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
- CABTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 65.,6d. per 10Q
A Fair Trial given with every Gun. •
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Othee Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carnage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP”—Cheap Edition NoW On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W. 7d. ;other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6
sfd
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the on.ly
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell. Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
r j
,ollms
Lelfc
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of. Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided byihe test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Ill's 156 pi Is) & 2'9 (168 pills).
' *»* :
.«i
The Only Windmill
for All Purposes
is tiie
“STEEL WINGS.”
It is the only mill in the World driving bevel gearing,
providing power for
Pumping, Chaff-cutting, Sawing Wood,
Generating Electric Light.
We can supply mills to work with a splendid rotary
pump, giving a continuous flow of water at any speed,
fast or slow.
Get one of these splendid machines, and you will be
able to obtain unlimited power free of cost.
Write to Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
c
ritchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pa<tes, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Tjubault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 6
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6,
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Pricks Nett,
VHE bulletin post car
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided P
to any address.
T 1
Wi Britisb=flustralasian
V?
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
D f\(\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
UU « ]jj advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers.may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on'all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
'MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers* tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRAOE LIST
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
I can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters and music; and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street, Sydney.
sfd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours, (ftj
Capsule bears the name
r
THE BALLET GIR]
sfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Proa, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, le.
Sand Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0..
jOd
honestly and without charge.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and' I will advise you
S.H. HENSHALL.
246 Clarendon Street, Soutl
Regd. Chemist,
) by Examination
i Melbourne.


Cricket Footwear!
sfd
Have you put off buying your
cricket footwear till the last
minute? Wait no longer, for our
special prices offer remarkable
inducements.
White Canvas Boots, with leather
inner soles, canvas linings and
white rubber sole. Men’s, 7/6 •
Boys’, 6/6.
White Canvas Shoes, same style
as the boots. Men’s, 6/6 ; Boys’.
5/9 ; Little Boys’, 5/3.
White Canvas Boots, with treble leather soles, fair
stitching, toe-caps and straps. The best for turf
wickets, 11/g.
White Buckskin Boots, in same style, 18/9.
_, ot ]’ e s, Spiting- Footwear is fully described in our
jfo. 22 Catalogue, which we will post to you on request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods," /
270 George Street, Sydney.
HEENAN g FROUDE LTD..
manufacturers of
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES. 39 Pitt Street. Sydney,
DICK’S
belting.
the original and
genuine ba'lata.
sd
TRADk.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT vet
Itverj Beit GUARANTEED. As a iruardt a^ainsnSf^ 1
1 Sole 1 ' 0 ” 3 ’ lo ° k f ° r the TRADE MARK on e '”er.v few^et
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne. 1
T
HE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Scries, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten. sd.
sfd
Tlie beverage
tbat benefits.
At
all
times
asK for and obtain only
sf
McINNES DOBBIE INDICATOR.
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used bv the
Largest Power Users of the World. V
“SENTINEL” A,R COMPRESSORS
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
HIGH SPEED ENGINES Double or Triple Act=
mg, with Forced Lubrication.
J. WJLDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street , Sydney.
sf
sdf
SOLE AGENTS—
DALGETY § COMPANY Ltd.
Miller’s Point,
(Machinery Dept.) SYDNEY.
df
TEL.
f 3236
\5221
mining machinery specialists.
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
- AG*NTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
Clarence
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office! Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address :
“ MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
*
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILLS
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries*
GUTHRIDC GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
wm
Prices from <£7 10s.
ABSOLUTELY SMOKELESS AND ODORLESS.
The “ Guthridg "Destructor is intended to deal with all classes of refuse, and is installed
amongst other places, at the offices N.S.W. Board of Health, South Sydney Women’s
Hospital, Zoological Gardens, a number of Factories, Clubs, Private Houses, etc
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS .
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney
486 Collins treet, Melbourne
