

DEWAR The Whisky for Men of Taste.
». Q-. «SC GO-,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining’ and Contractors Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
soli: agists h»k
ather & Platt’s
lectrical Machinery
See U'tld Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND .
128 William Street, Melbourne,
3E3COBA.H.T.
fjadleys Orient [joteL
aONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowicl & Son Ltd;. 117 VoTk Si.. Sydney
m
Take it back,
I must have
n
Pine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS.
Never yet since Johnny Kent*
snri|t ol syrup.* and such sweete,
Hath a poet thrilled the string*
To Mich rich voluptuous things
As tile laureate (how I quiver 1)
Of Australia t-ings tor ever :
HONEYKISSES
Melt Into luscious blisses.
ail
f
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
Wc make it a point of never being out of anything. We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
THE. SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
I
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
is the Queen of &II Cocoas
FOJ^
l Aroma > Strei\gth*>Purity:;
Now is the time the cold,
wintry winds and rains
penet rate your roofs, giving
you endless worry.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Why not roof with MAL-
TIH)n> ?#a roofing com*
post'd .of a pure mineral, abso-
lutely water and weatherproof.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
C. A. MacDONALD,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
One Star (Si Three Star
BRANDY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA and MILK is
recommended for Breakfast.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 30. —No. 1531.]
[Thursday, June 17, 1009.
‘Registered at the General Post Oflice, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write us for any Books you Require.
We Welcome Inquiries.
GEORGE ROBERTSON &COTPROP. Ltd.
71 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
ACJ3IAJ3U IV3QI NV -JgJ
„saqn[np |oijp®mrs3„ s.uospnn
iiiSONm HJLVOMHJL iSOIOA 3HJ. UOJ
/.t ..." ,
SS®SSfei»i!l
MOST POWERFUL
AUSTRAL! Vt
MEOIOkL GMETTC SAYS
SHOULD PHOVE OP GftCKT
•fd'St
G.HUDSON:
-wiIPSWICH, AUSTRAL! A. rv.
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHGI CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young. * ,
The Lancet say’s: “Proved to be effective baet acidally
as is creosote.” 1 , A
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JU. ÜBES” do
not interetere with the Digestion ; on the er .trary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antisep j properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the fooi when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or ■* ig+ ,
Post Free on Receipt of */ v
COMPANY, LTD., » York st/HK Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
The Poet Militant
It is not every day that we get the red-hot
message of one preaching in the wilderness
to prepare the way for the New Poet.
Whitman remains unique, John Davidson’s
preachments have been so far neglected ; but
Bernard O’Dowd is alive and vigorous, and
commands a hearing. If this were a Yellow
Page he would be reported with a few scare
headlines’:
STRAIGHT TALK TO POETS.
HOT STUFF ABOUT PENTAMETERS.
O’DOWD ON THE CATALYSTS IN THE
COMMONWEALTH.
THE COMING “BLOOD AND FIRE” POET.
The book of his ev&ngel is entitled Poetry
Militant (T. C. Lothian). It is an indict-
ment of the current minor verse and a plea
for Poetry of Purpose. Most Australian
writers, he says, are still repeating the
lessons learned in the poetry school. It is
time to get to work, You, poets, who have
been “combing the hair of your mistress’s
eyebrows with the fourteen jewelled teeth o::
the sonnet ” ; you, who have been “ chopping
the logs of yester-year into regulation bal-
lade lengths,” and you who have been
“making crazy quilts out of pretty words ”
—you ought to be ashamed to frivol “ while
a hungry and thirsty world is languishing for
the help the poets can give it.”
The word of O’Dowd to the poets is this :
Be original, not merely an echo ; a new
message in one verse is worth reams of
verbiage. Be simple ; the fourteen-syllable
line is the Spartan measure. The personal
duty of the poet, apart from the acquirement
of technique, is to labor painfully in the
acquirement of knowledge, and to resist the
hardening influences around him. He must
be courageous and true to his conscience, he
must absorb his country, his time, his
environment. To be a Poet Militant “ will
mean self-sacrifice, perhaps poverty, per-
haps obloquy; certainly loneliness, misunder-
standings, discomfort, hard work, ingrati-
tude, and little or no visible result, perhaps,
in a lifetime.”
The prospect is rather arid. Kendall’s
“ lot austere ” was luxurious compared with
that of the New Poet who is to come. It is
true that the Poet Militant may imbibe at
the Wells of Rejuvenescence, but these are
not Dispensaries of Liquid Joy at so much per
pint—they are springs which abound *in
Fairyland; “in the inner whorls of uanna
lily leaves, in the winter wattles,” etc. Ap-
parently O’Dowd does not expect the present
generation of Australian bards to follow his
red flag as a Poetical Salvation Army to
preach in desert places and live on locusts
and wild honey. Some of them have houses
of their own and money in the bank ; the
New Poet’s Only bank will be that on which
the wild thyme grows. Bernard puts over 30
of the bards in their places with pretty labels
round their necks, and tells them that if all
were squeezed up together they would make
one great poet—which may be some comfort
to each of the fractions. He then calls on
the poets who are now lying low and say-
ing nothing—“the young and appointed
saviours of the people to “Dare to be a
Bernard,” to come out and make this coun-
try fit to live in, worth dying for.
By all means; let them all come. But
what is this Poetry Mr. O’Dowd is talking
about ? The Poet, it seems, is the true
Permeator, the projector of cell-forming
ideals into the protoplasmic future. He is
also a ferment, a living catalyst in the in-
tellectual laboratory, the hurrier of the evo-
lution process. It is good to know that, at
any rate. * ‘ What reproduction is in the
physical world,” he says, “representation
is in the mental world ; that is to
say, the final cause of all Art is, by
means of the selection and perpetu-
ation of the beautiful, the Perfection of the
species.” Therefore “poetry should not
bloom merely for the sake of blooming, but
for the sake of producing seed.” Surely a
rose that has once blossomed in verse blooms
for ever, and there is as much fruitful seed
in Kubla Shan, which is devoid of purpose,
as there is in The Rime of the Ancient
Mariner, which is full of morals. O’Dowd
says: “It is not enough that Poetry Mili-
tant should be useful and beautiful; it
must also be interesting.” Is not beauty in
itself interesting ?
Poetry gets itself written in all sorts
of strange ways; but not according to
prescription. It can do with a Pur-
pose if the poet has one, or dispense
with it if the poem is beautiful. The
poet can take as large a charter as he
pleases v ith regard to subject, and use any
form he likes—provided that he is interest-
ing. The regular “ bing bang ” of the
fourteen syllable line is admirable for certain
purposes : for other purposes—other forms,
or no regular form at all may be better. The
strenuous life of “the young and appointed
saviours of the ” may produce
poetry ; the luxurious ease of Horace did, so
did the thieves-kitchen life of Villon, the
sequestered life of Keats, and the idleness of
Whitman, who “loafed and invited his
soul.”
Poetry preaches indirectly. Wordsworth
wished to be regarded as a teacher or
nothing ; and when he deliberately tried to
teach in verse he ceased to write poetry.
The poet who simply concerns himself
with the creation of beauty will establish
ideals and awaken his readers to a sense of
the beautiful, and thereby wage more effect-
ual warfare against ugliness and evil than
the most bloodthirsty Poet Militant.
The Last of the Yellow-Backs
The Magic of Sport (per Dy mock’s Library),
Nat Gould’s autobiography, is sure to be
read by all tfiose who are mentioned in
it, so that a big circulation is assured.
He relates his own experiences of the in-
fluence .of the Magic—the best being a
circulation of nearly six million copies of his
novels. How does he write them ? Quite
easily. His first novel, now called The
Double Event, was written at Bathurst. He
began with a sentence like this: “Nobody
knew exactly who or what Jack Marston
was.” Gould did not know himself, nor did
he know what Marston was going to do—
but he tvi'ote on till the story was finished.
He acted on the famous advice (was it
Anthony Trollope’s ?) that all an author
needs, apart from pen, ink and paper, is a
piece of cobbler’s wax to secure him to his
seat. Fifteen hours a day he had worked
as a journalist, and never felt it a bit.
“Fancy being tied down to eight hours a
day! No wonder people don’t get on in the
world!”.. . “Since 1895 I have written
on an average four long novels and an annual
yearly, in addition to numerous ngagazine
and newspaper articles.” In nineteen years
he has completed over seventy long novels,
and once wrote a complete novel in fourteen
days. “Literature, what is it? Style, what
is style ? ” he asks, and answers that he doesn’t
know ; but he knows exactly what his public
wants and gives it to them. From the pin-
nacle of a six-million circulation he looks
complacently at the world, and says that it
is good. Australia is a great country, and
Australians are fine sports ; and he even has
a good word to say for Do Rougemont, the
reviewers, and the publishers.
The Yellow Danger
To compare one of Nat Gould’s novels
with Ihe Australian (Jrisis by 0. 11, Xvirmess
(Geo. Robertson and Co.) is' to compare the
gossip at Tatt. s with an oration by Demos-
thenes. _ We do not mean to imply that
Kirmess is of the same class as Dan O’Con-
nor’s friend, but he has similar sterling quali-
ties, and desires to stir up his countrymen
to the dangers of their position. The pre-
face states that “ this forecast romance
is something more than a novel: it is
a work.” The pity is that it is not
more of a novel and less of a “work.”
The form is that of fiction ; but it looks as
heavy as a treatise. The author displays a
constructive imagination, a logical mind and
wide knowledge of Australia.' He ought to
be a good chess player, and not a bad general.
There is enough incident in the book for half
a dozen novels; but it needs aerating.
The events do not take place, they are re-
ported ; conversations appear mostly in the
third person instead of dialogue form, and
there is no dramatic unity in the story.
The conditions he sets forth do exist, and
the Crisis is a possibility ; but it needs some-
one like IS! at Gould to bring his message
home to the great heart of the Public, if
that s where ne wanted it to go. But perhaps
Nat Gould’s public would not heed. Any-
how, Australians who are concerned about
the future of their country and care for
something better than mere time-killing
sensations will find the book well worth
reading.
Centenaries
The centenary number of The Quarterly
Review (per Sydney Book Club) is particu-
larly solid. The history of The Review down
to Lockhart’s 'time is good reading, and
reveals the fact that authors occasionally
wrote for it the reviews of their own books.
Alfred Austin delivers himself once more
upon “ The Essentials of Great Poetry.”
His article amounts to this : “Poetry is the
transfiguration in mulsical verse of the Real
into the Idea’ ” The ascending order of the
kinds of poetry is : (1) Descriptive, (2)
Lyrical, (3) Reflective, (4) Epic and Dramatic.
Great poetry is that which has been written
by Homer, Shakespeare, Dante—and you are
invited to include little Alfred. Three
articles relating to the centenary of Darwin
are printed, but not the one on Darwin.
There is an article in French on the centen-
ary of Tennyson by Emile Faguet, which
praises what we regard as the worst of
Tennyson. Faguet is the author of a
recently-published Literary History of France
(Fisher Unwin), which takes the story down
to the end of the nineteenth century,
and mentions such minor, matters as
the verses of Anatole France and
Armand Silvestre, yet has not one word
to say about the poetry of Baudelaire ! For
English readers, Faguet is not likely to
displace Saintsbury’s work.
VU
This year is a bit crowded with centenary
celebrations. In addition to Poe, Tennyson
and Darwin, the anniversaries of Edward
Fitzgerald, Gogol and Tom Paine are com-
memorated, the latter by a re-issue of Mon-
cure Conway’s Life in the R.P.A. sixpenny
series. 1809 saw the births of Bishop
Selwyn and Edward Henty, who were after-
wards associated with Australasia ; but
Australia is hardly old enough yet to have
many sons worth centenary fuss—though
Wentworth was born on Norfolk Island
considerably over a century ago.
It is also just 100 years ago since the battle
of Corunna was fought, and Sir John Moore
buried. Every schoolboy knows that “not
a drum was heard ” on that occasion, and
is told that the famous elegy was written
by the Rev. Charles Wolfe. R. C. Newick
says that that is - a mistake ; the real
author was Joseph Wolfe, a soldier, and one
of the party that actually dug Moore’s grave
—perhaps a relative of the Rev. Charles’.
Newtek’s book— The Writer of “ The Burial
of Sir John Moore ” Discovered (Thatcher,
Bristol) —setsforththe circumstantial account
of Joseph Moore’s composition of the poem
as related in the Memoirs of Sergeant Haul
Swanston, an undated publication of the
chapbook order assigned by the British
Museum to 1850. The poem was published
in 1809, and Charles Wolfe claimed it in
1816. By many judges he was not con-
sidered capable of such an effort, and as evi-
dence against him there is this authentic
stanza :
“England, what ! ho !” —as thus the spectre spoke
All Lisbon’s turrets to their bases shook—
He spoke, then plunged into the river’s breast,
And Tagus wrapped him in his billowy vest.
However, the case for Joseph is not strong
enough. It is not unlikely that Paul
Swanston, aware of the disputed authorship
of the poem, faked a story of his own, just
as someone produced a French original of
the elegy—a pious hoax by Father Prout, who
had also provided a German original. The
verdict must be “ not proven.”
.
The Green Curve , by Ole Lult-Oie (Black-
wood) is a collection of war stories of un-
common power. The first is a neatly satirical
contrast of the callous War office and the fat
financiers in London with the horrors of a
distant siege. The defending general sees
by the green curve on the food chart that he
must turn out the non-combatants in order
to keep the garrison on the bare-existence
scale till the date when fresh supplies are
expected. But he has a vision (which, by
the Ambrose Bierce trick, is made real) of
the frozen army of useless mouths driven back
to the town by the unscrupulous enemy. He
weakens, and withdraws the order based on
the green curve. Later on, in London, a
sleek financier, who had been betting on the
general’s hardness, reads the news at dinner :
“Unsuccessful Sortie. Governor Mortally
Wounded. Starved Fortress Surrenders.”
‘ ‘ And I have been buying, buying ! ”
He damns the general as a traitor, and drinks
his crSme de menthe. “As it flowed, a film
of the sticky liqueur clung to the curve of the
glass and, catching the light, gleamed mo-
mentarily emerald. ” One of the other stories
is a fine study of the uses of psychology in
warfare.
♦
A correspondent states that 1866, the year
in which Swinburne’s Poems and Ballads
saw the light, was also remarkable for the
fact that, for the first time on record, the
month of February had no full moon—
January had two, and March two, but
February none ; and that such an event is
not likely to occur again for two and a
half millions of years. We do not know
if it is to be inferred that Poems and
Ballads upset the almanac in 1866, or was a
phenomenon unlikely to recur in a similar
period of time.
Poems by Meredith
THE MEETING.
The old coach-road thro’ a common of furze,
With knolls of pines, ran white :
Berries of autumn, with thistles and burrs,
And spider-threads, droop’d in the light.
The light in a thin blue veil peer’d sick,
The sheep grazed close and still;
The smoke of a farm by a yellow rick
Curl’d lazily under a hill.
No fly shook the round of the silver net.
No insect the swift bird chased ;
Only two travellers moved and met
Across that hazy waste.
One was a girl with a babe that throve,
Her ruin and her bliss ;
One was a youth with a lawless love,
Who elaspt it the more for this.
Hie girl for her babe humm’d prayerful speech,
The youth for his love did pray ;
Each cast a wistful look on each,
And either went their way.
(From “ Modern Love ,” etc.)
SONG IN THE SONGLESS.
They have no song, the sedges dry,
A«d 'still they,sing.
It i within my breast they sing,
As I pass by.
Within my breast they touch a string,
They wake a sigh.
There is but sound of sedges dry ;
In me'they sing.
(From “ A Reading of Life.")
LUCIFER IN STARLIGHT.
On a starred night Prince Lucifer uprose.
Tired of his dark dominion swung the fiend
Above the rolling ball in cloud part screened,
Where sinners hugged their spectre of repose.
Poor prey to his hot tit of pride were those.
And now upon his western wing he leaned,
Now his huge bulk o’er Afric’s sands careened,
Now the black planet shadowed Arctic snows.
Soaring through wider zones that pricked his
scars
With memory of the old revolt from Awe,
He reached a middle height, and at the stars,
Which are the brain of Heaven, he looked and
. sank. .
Around the ancient track marched rank on rank
The army of unalterable law.
FROM “THE NUPTIALS OF ATTILA.”
Those rock-faces hung with weed
Reddened: their great days of speed,
Slaughter, triumph, flood and flame,
Like a jealous frenzy wrought,
Scoffed at them and did them shame,
Quaffing idle, conquering naught.
0 for the time when God decreed
Earth the prey of Attila !
God called on thee in his wrath,
Trample it to mire ! Twas done.
Swift as Danube clove our path
Down from East to Western sun.
Huns ! behold your pasture, gaze,
Take, our king said : heel to flank
(Whisper it, the warhorse neighs !)
Forth we drove, and blood we drank
Fre'sh as dawn-dew : earth was ours:
Men were flocks we lashed and spurned :
Fast-as windy flame devours,
Flame.along the wind, we burned.
Arrow, javelin, spear, and swoid !
Here the snows and there the plains ;
On ! our signal ; onward poured
Torrents of the tightened reins,
Foaming over vine and corn
Hot against the city wall.
Whisper it, you sound a horn
To the grey beast in the stall
Yea, he whinnies at a nod.
O for sound of the trumpet-notes !
O for the time when thunder-shod,
He that scarce can munch his oats,
Hung on the peaks, brooded aloof,
Champed the grain of the wrath of God,
Pressed a cloud on the cowering roof,
Snorted out of the blackness fire !
Scarlet broke the sky, and down,
Hammering West with print of his hoof,
He burst out of the bosom of ire
Sharp as eyeljght under thy frown,
Attila, my Attila!
(Poems, 1898.)
ON COMO.
A rainless darkness drew o’er the lake.
As we lay in our boat with oars unshipped.
It seemed neither cloud nor water awake ;
And forth of the low black curtain slipped
Thunderless lightning. Scoff no more
At angels imagined in downward flight
For the daughters of earth, as fabled of yore:
Here was beauty might well invite
Dark heavens to gleam with the fire of a sun
Resurgent; here the exchanged embrace,
Worthy of Heaven and earth made one.
And, witness it, ye of the privileged space,
Said the flash ; and the mountains, as from an
abyss,
For quivering seconds leaped up to attest
That given, received, renewed was the kiss ;
The lips to lips and the breast to breast;
All in a glory of ecstasy, swift
AS an eagle,at prey, and pure as the prayer
Of an infant bidden joined hands uplift
To be guarded through darkness by spirits of air,
Ere setting the sails of sleep till day. ».
Slowly the low cloud swung, and far
It panted along its mirrored way.
Above loose threads one sanctioning star
The wonder of what had heen witnessed sealed.
And with me still, as in crystal glassed,
Are the depths alight, the heavens revealed,
Where on to the Alps the Muteness passed.
(Scribner's Magazine, Dec., 1908.)


Jk
No. 43— Bachelor’s Roll of Haberdashery, con-
taining an assortment of Fins, Needles, Buttons,
Thread, etc., thus forming a useful addition to a
bachelor’s outfit. In American Cloth, 2s. 3d.
No. 37— The Mitrailleuse Needle Case, containing
100 assorted best Needles, 4d. each ; 3s. 9d. dozen.
m
m
No. 33—The Count the Cost Needle Case,
Leatherette covered, containing an assortment of
273 best Gold-eyed Needles, various kinds, and
10 Calyx-eyed Needles, 2s. 6d.
No. 16— Hair Pin Cabinets, 6d.
No. 38— The Ruby Needle Book, Calf covered, lined
Satin, containing Scissors, Penknife, Button Hook,
etc., also a large assortment of Needles, ss. 3d.
AntKony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
For Haberdashery.
New Style of Peggy Bags, in:selected Morocco
Leather. The colors are Black and shades of
Dark Brown. The Frames are strongly made
and Nickel-plated, and the Higher-priced bags
are Silk sewn. Prices, 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., 55.,
6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s.. 11s., 12s. 6d., 15s.
The Bitz Bag is the latest in Dainty Hand
Bags. It is strongly sewn, Leather lined, and
fitted with Centre Pocket. The excellent
finish makes the Ritz a poplar and serviceable
present. We stock the Ritz in the following
Leathers; —
Crocodile, 4s. 3d., 6s. 3d., Bs. Walrus, 14s.
Morocco, 6s. 9d., Bs., 10s. Seal, 11s. 6d.
Roan, 45., ss. Beaver, 125., 15s.
m
uSSnSp in
MMuMm
No. 15— The Cottage Hair Pin Cabinet, Is. Id.
Pahcv Hair Pin Cabinets, 9d., 10d., Is., Is. 2d.,
Is. 4d., Is. 6d., Is. lOd.
CUSTOMERS ORDERING BY POST
are treated in
the same way
as CUSTOMERS BUYING AT THE COUNTER. The
same prices are charged, and selections are made from the
same stocks. Everything sent to the country is carefully
packed by experienced men. Write for Price List of any-
thing you want, posted free on application.
i«ra
miMM
mm
K'Ti
' l/.rfi
No. 40— Leatherette Haberdashery Box,
containing Scissors, Cotton, Sewing Silk,
Needles and Thimbles, etc., 2s. lid.
Haberdashery Boxes, Leatherette covered,
Is., Is. 3d., Is. Bd., 25., 2s. 3d., 2s. lid.,
3s. 6d., ss. 3d.
No. 35— The Severn Needle Book, containing 130
assorted Needles, 7d.
REG 9 N 0249329
REG ? N°849329
No. 36— The Ladies’ Rustproof Needle Book, covered
Cloth, Brass bound, containing 132 Bartleet s nest
assorted Needles, Is.
limn
warn
No. 34— The Universal Needle Case, containing
Scissors, 2 Bodkins, Crochet Hook and useful assort-
ment of Needles, Is. 6d.
No. 32— The London Needle Case, containing 162
Needles of various kinds, 9|d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


RABBIT
AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd, J
s YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
tlieir grain. Full particulars will be furnished on applied gIWerS ° r free StOTa ° e ° f
Sole Agents in W.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade
~ BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
| An Illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
1 describing the various
I methods adopted by
professors botli before
and after Mesmer, and
showing how the mystic
power may be developed.
Post Free 1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by «J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and C a 111 e—C aus e s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, i/..
Letter Writer. 1 /-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
\*F
V 2
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
P 1 a y i n g-
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Co in p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct i o n s ;
any.one can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are (1) The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each •
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to anv address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
CAT “ 201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
Tc:> DEFY COBUPBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver Bowels Shin onH
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has’ been taken in est
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION. Examine the Capsule and see, that it is marked ENOS 4 FRTTTT vatt*
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION. *
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., 'FRnw ISALI” WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
H
WINCHESTER
.22 CALIBER CARTRIDGES
Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges both Black
and Smokeless powder are unequalled for
accuracy and uniformity in shooting. The
Smokeless powder cartridges are loaded with
Winchester Greaseless Bullets which makes
them clean to handle and prevents the powder
from losing its strength. Try them next time.
Ask for Winchester make—the Red W Brand.
SOLD BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
„CRA CKAJACK Junior”
1P" CR A A C K*‘
( JUNIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
®I The Reeds are made
of Be I Metal, and
are Tun-d to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
J tzar- MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . ...If.
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/.
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds . . .*. 6d.
— SOLD EVERYWHERE
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Sole Agents
Melbourne
riTTTTT
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
IDINNEFORDS
IMACNESIA
A
Kidney Troubles,
Flatulence and
Biliousness.
A COMPLETE CURE.
“ In the background of my memory there is a
distinct recollection of many days and weeks of
physical adversity, such as I almost dread to re-
call,” said Mr. Frederick William Martin, of No.
51 Pitt-street, Waterloo, when requested to give
an outline of his infirmities, now happily over-
come, “But,” he went on, “since anything I
tell you may prove a source of comfort”and en-
couragement to other poor mortals, I’ll gladlvdoas
you wish. Yes, I was ailing for a very long time.
A more bilious subject than I used to be you
would hsive to travel a long way to find, and then
I doubt if he could speak of as many disappoint-
ments connected with his illness as I can—how I
gave first one medicine and then another a trial,
meeting failure after failure, till one could scarcely
believe there was anything in an apothecary’s
shop that had not been resorted to, and all to no
purpose, when I would give all the drugs and pills
and things up in digust, only to start again later
on, through the demands of my sufferings, and go
through the same experience again. At last I
consulted a doctor, a vain hope it appeared to me
after what I had taken already, and so it proved
to be, for my health was no better than before.
To get up of a morning and feel that there is no-
thing pleasant to be done or thought of during the
day, may not seem in itself a very serious affair;
but it indicates that a person’s health is not what
it should be, and if allowed to go unchecked
through neglecting to take some good medicine,
the consequences may prove more serious than
you would imagine.”
“You believe, then, that if you had taken a
remedy when you found yourself suffering from
lassitude and inability to eat and sleep properly,
you would have avoided the sickness you en-
countered?”
“Most decidedly I do. I verily believe that if
I had taken a bottle or two of Clements Tonic at
the outset it would have saved me pounds and
pounds, besides the intense misery I endured.
This is what I always tell my friends, to attack
their ailments at once with Clements Tonic, not
to wait till they get a firmer hold of the system,
because the troubles then take longer to eradicate.
My appetite faded, till it had completely vanished,
and I simply forced myself to eat; my nights be
came more restless, and I got up feeling that I
did not care whether I stood on my feet or sanl;
to the bed again. A dimness affected my eyesight,
a bitterness spread on my tongue, which was
always coated white, and from daylight till dark
I was never free from headaches. Small amounts
of food made my stomach most uncomfortable,
and between the shoulders it felt like a sharp-
pointed instrument tapping there every now and
then. And how fearfully dizzy I used to get be-
fore Clements Tonic got to work, besides which
my nerves were as shaky as could be. Anyhow,
I was not much good for work in those days, and
felt as wretched as though I were dead to the
world, which I practically was. Thanks to
Clements Tonic, though, I quickly had some life
and energy infused into me, and felt that I wanted
to live and enjoy the world’s blessings, like any
other person—the reverse of what I had been be-
fore using Clements Tonic, which braced mv
nerves and invigorated the system throughout, hi
a manner that astonished all who had observed
my frail condition a little while previously.”
“Have you had a return of any of your old
troubles, Mr. Martin?”
I can safely say that since Clements Tonic
completed my cure at the time I speak of, no
body could wish for better health than I have en
joyed, which shows that there was no patch work
about that wonderful remedy’s way of doing
things. If I hear a person say a headache is at
work, I recommend Clements' Tonic, because it
cured mine ; should the complaint be about giddi-
ness, flatulence, kidney troubles or drowsiness, or
discomfort after eating, I tell them to use Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of those ills, and the proof
°f the pudding is in the eating thereof.”
“So we can publish what you say?”
“My permission is yours—in any way you like
to conceive.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, FREDERICK WM. MARTIN, of 51 Pitt Street,
Waterloo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contain*
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Toni q, and also contains m3 7 full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
N'oluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oatli.*
Act 1 000.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty
sixth day of March, one thousand nine hundref
and eight, before me,
7]
D. P. WILLIAMS, J.F


%
r
*Css
Allur’d
ftair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff,
and will give you thick, long,
glossy, and beautiful hair.
Accept no substitute. Be
sure you get Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and preserve the rich-
ness and luxuriance of your
hair to an advanced period
of life.
Prepared by Dr. J, C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
, dally to a wo-
s man. If your
hair falls ont, is
too thin, or is los-
ing its color, use
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
money In fuh refunded with ut question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at lesa than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
MODELS £3alC to £9
Coaster Hnbs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our tvecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO„, Dept. 280 Llvorpool-
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
_l_ of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
After pneumonia, when what
is wanted is “ building up,”
experienced nurses flv to
Scott’s
EMULSION
Mrs. F. Smith, Sandringham
Street, Sandringham, Syd-
ney, N. S.W., writes (July
1908): “My little son, Gil-
bert (19 months), contracted
pneumonia and bronchitis,
and became so weak and
emaciated that I thought I
should lose him. However,
I gave him SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, and very soon there
was a marked improvement.
He is now completely re-
stored to health, h<*s gained
wonderfully in weight, and
looks well and rosy. I have
no hesitation in attributing
his rapid recovery to
SCOTT’S Emulsion.” Per-
haps the most important
word in this letter from
a mother’s point of view is—
“SCOTT’S.” “Emulsion”
is a very different thing
from SCOTT’S Emulsion.
The power to cure lies in
the word “SCOTT’S,” for
SCOTT’S has what other
emulsions lack, the
curing power
and if you see
on the package
SCOTT’S “ Ash-
man ” you may
look forward with
confidence to a
cure. Of all chem-
ists and dealers
in medicines.
The mark by which you
pick out your cure !
JIOMMIMCTON6
fcRJaaJIQSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
GOUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING GOUGH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
Huuyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose : — A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CADTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
THIN
WOMEN
are al ways placed
at a disadvantage
by their full-
bosomed and per-
fectly - developed
sister. You, too, can be normally developed.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
adds as much as five pounds a week weight
in ordinary cases, and develops the bosom
and hips by inches to normal. No woman
need remain thin and scrawny. Do as others
do —improve and perfect your charms.
Send 2d. stamp or call for a Free Sample.
Get our Free Book. Hours, 9a.m. tosp.m.
Falliere’s “Flesh-Food” Co.
Dept. 5,
Linden Codrt,
Castlereagh St.
Sydney.
"increases the food n
VALUE ENORMOUSLY"
lancet. «
COCOA
?v
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA ,
J
IbT DIGESTIBLE^
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
ItJ
Lsj
IRE
B
MARK
Underwear
Made in
England
MARK
3QVHI
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear,
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hotweathe?
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale, only :
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ MESINO UNDERWEAR
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
Whether at home, at the office, in the restaurant, or in the
theatre, a cup of Bovril is easily and quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Pagan Days.
Oh ! the days were bright and the days were long.
And glad were the hearts of men,
When the gods could fight and the gods were
strong
The world went merrily then ;
For of gods of right and of gods of wrong
Each Pagan had eight or ten.
When a sailor sailed, he’d a god on deck
And another in his bunk,
And it rarely failed but he went to wreck
When his Sunday god was drunk ;
And he stormed and railed when he broke its neck
And saw that the god was sunk.
When a soldier fought, he’d a god or two
Ahead, and a few behind ;
The gods he’d bought and the gods he grew,
And some he had chanced to find.
And he firmly thought that the more he slew
The more would his gods be kind.
Ere a man went out on a journey great—
Say a dozen miles or so—
He would hang about till the gods or Fate
Were willing that he should go.
If they seemed in doubt, he would travel late,
And he’d also travel slow.
Ere a Pagan wed, or he sold a wife,
To his household gods he’d pray.
If a cow was dead, or he lost a knife,
The selfsame gods he’d flay,
Till they wept and cried that a godly life
Was a good life thrown away.
And the man in trade had a good time too,
Retailing goods of delf
To the fickle maid, and the maiden true,
And the maid upon the shelf—
But I’m much afraid that he used to woo
A lot of the maids himself.
So the Pagan days are the days I love—
The days when the gods were cheap ;
For the Pagan w’ays were as far above
As the sky’s above the deep
To the modern ways and the modern craze,
For the gods have gone to sleep.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.
The Midnight March.
Last night when kindred were asleep a vision came
to me;
I saw the stars and planets sweep across Infinity.
They crowded through the streets of space in
silver sheen arrayed—
And it was grand to turn one's face unto that
star brigade !
They were the shining symbols of my Youth’s
rebellious fire—
And, though the very gods might scoff, they burn
for Men’s Desire !
And it was good to see them swing across the
boundless dome—
For I was crowned a stellar king, and star-
postillioned home 1
Last night the planets emphasised once more my
dreams of old—
And 0 ! Their fire revitalised my passions that
were cold 1
And 0 1 the old goals rose sublime, and smould’r-
ing embers burned,
As from the wilds of Wasted Time my Better
Self returned.
And then I said : “ No man shall rest while there
is work to do.
For he who joins the Idlers’ Quest is selfishly un-
true 1
Untrue to those who look to him for guidance and
for aid ;
Untrue to them who face Life’s grim obsessions
unafraid.”
And O ! I heard the heavens quake; a clanging
peal of bells
Reverberated to awake God’s dreaming sentinels !
'Twas grand to see the planets swing across the
blazing dome;
And I was there a neiv-crowned king—red star-
postillioned home !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Son of Japan.
Stunted of stature is he,
Tawny-or saffron of hue ;
Lithe as a young chimpanzee.
Wily and ’ware of us too ;
Spite of his glancing askew,
Well can he battle and plan—
Ask of his foes is it true ?
This is the Son of Japan !
Full of a bland suavity,
Ever he smileth anew ;
Smileth without any glee,
Just as a tribute to you ;
Ever he comes with his crew,
Ever they peep and they scan,
Peering our nakedness through—
These are the Sons of Japan !
And in this manikin wee.
Sailing from over the blue,
Vision prophetic may see
Promise of troubles that brew,
Evils our children may rue.
Omens that threaten our clan,
Little of joy’s in the view—
This is the Son of Japan 1
Russians who scattered and flew
At the dread fire of his van,
Say—do I give him his due—
Him— who is Son of Japan ?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


&
KDEjS
▲
vru
Ed
BW
**A Well Decorated House
Is Permanently Attractive."
V/underlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that makes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste is catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire makes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms:
243 COLLINS ST.
Combination Couch and Bed-
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
< ■* n <
■ v
gsmt!
m&mm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
teS!
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY. ——
THE FASHIONABLE
from 6/6 to 12/6
per 100.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading: Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
CIGARETTES
Under Vice«Reg'al
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything; like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET To be obtained from,
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
' 3 frkV&' J
.A X
CHEAP epITION
of ON THE HOP!
PMOE 2/6.
Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other. States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
I
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
~
wm
•T
m
A
m a
U
Rjj
r
X;
Li
KV *. r
*3 :
»,fe
*
The RUBEROID
FLAT ROOF
ERfch &C°U-
Sydney & Brisbane.
To have your
roof last use
RU BE R 01 D
ROOFING first.
Especially does
this apply to the
Fortified Built-
up Flat Roof—
the roof that
gives another
floor without
extra cost.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1531.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1909.
Pmcß 6d
THAT CALL.
Prime Minister Deakin says he won’t do anything in the way of imposing a Federal progressive land-tax to break up land monopoly, but he will “call on the States
as they have never before been called on.”
Deakin (at the top of his voice): “Wake up and do some land reform.” Land Monopolist: “Will you do it yourself if I refuse?”
Deakin: “No.” Land Monopolist: “Will anything happen if I refuse?”
Deakin: “No.” Land Monopolist: “Well, you can just go on calling.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macljcod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Jlhk Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Omce of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TEIi.MS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Icr Annum ... . ... £i g q
Half-yearly ... . ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... - ... 0 7 0
fired to Tint Bulletin Ofli.ce Twenty-Six
bniUmns Stirling you can have Tmt Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts , etc., and. all Business Communications
obe addressed to VVilliam Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tmt Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
Out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing io persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters a,re liable to be refused.
JAe contents of this paper are copyright by the nub-
Ushers. The right, to reproduce or trans Late any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers. *
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
{those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential '
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed "if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black anti White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
•Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at 4/5 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin cam be obtained in London,
•after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa .-—'The Central News Aaency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News'Agency
Durban, Natal; and others. *
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C •
Irvine and Forsyth, IM Hastings Street; Norman
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A. Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hono Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x 74in.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1909.
DREADNOUGHTS, AND AUSTRALIAN
INTERESTS, AND OTHER SMALL
MATTERS.
Last week the Deakin-Cook Ministry took the
plunge that was more than half expected, and
offered the British Government a battleship, or
its equivalent in any other form that the British
Government might consider most suitable. The
offer was received in England without much
enthusiasm. The Manchester Guardian struck
the prevailing note of gloom when it remarked
that if Britain took a Dreadnought from Aus-
tralia it would be morally bound, in return, to
defend Australia ; and the paper broadly hinted
that the gift was something in the nature of a
sprat used as bait to catch a mackerel—that
Australia offered £2,000,000 worth of Dreadnought,
with no crew or officers to man it, and no fund
for maintenance ; and thereby established a sort
of general claim on £10,000,000 worth or more of
British protection. Also it plainly said that Aus-
tralia would do much better to provide for its
own defence, and cease to perpetrate embarrassing
outbursts which meant little, and yet almost forced
the Cold Country to make a clamorous and
artificial show of gratitude for small favors. Cer-
tain other papers appear to have taken up a very
similar attitude. That sort of thing is bad
enough, but if, as is quite possible, the Dread-
nought, or whatever else is to go in its
place, doesn’t eventuate after all, the attitude is
likely to be a good deal worse before the business
is ended.
The Deakin-Cook battleship has a long way to
float yet before it becomes anything more than a
paper jest. The general election is not far off,
and if the Labor party returns from the country
with a majority, it will' be fully justified in repudi-
ating the comic war vessel, and bidding the
persons who are responsible for it to shoulder the
financial burden as their own persona] under-
taking. The offer was made without the consent
of Parliament or of the people. The electors were
not consulted either at a general election or by a
referendum. They didn’t return the present
Parliament with any authority to give awav
£2,000,000 of the public money either to the King
of England, or the Emir of Bokhara, or the
Pope, or Sheeket Pasha, or the Salvation Army,
or to any outside person whatsoever. No Dread-
nought question was even hinted at in 1906. The
offer was made in a fashion that was a gross and
studied affront to the people. They declared, as
clearly as they possibly could, that they repudi-
ated the whole thing—they declared that by their
wholesale refusal to subscribe to the Dreadnought
fund. In banks and such-like public places the
subscription lists lay for weeks on the counters,
and grew faded and dusty and dog’s-eared, with-
out a single name being put down for a single
copper. The community could hardly be more
definite than that. Nevertheless it was dailv and
hourly insulted by the Tory press, and by D'read-
nought-mad politicians, with the daily and hourly
assurance that it was calling out unanimously at
the top of its voice for the silly old vessel. And it
was further insulted in the needless haste of
these papers and politicians to commit it to the
business before it had any chance to clear its
character. The people who declared that the
community was crying out with one voice for the
giving away of £2,000,000 of their money dared
not refer the matter to the people, because they
knew that if they did the garish fraud would ex-
plode. So they robbed the people of their self-
governing rights, even as any other party of
trusted employees might gag their employer,
while they took his money for unauthorised pur-
poses, and assured each other that the employer
approved with enthusiasm, and that he would be
shocked and disappointed if they didn’t take the
money.
* * * *
The enormous effrontery of the business calls
for a stern protest. If the Labor party can cap-
ture a majority of the seats at next election it
will then be in a position to repudiate the Dread-
nought offer and the Dreadnought liability, and
refer whatever persons may be concerned to the ex-
Ministers who assumed the responsibility without
the consent of either Parliament or people.
Whether the party should go further than that,
and declare these arrogant individuals perma-
nently disqualified, by hysteria or excessive impu-
dence, to sit in Parliament, is another question.
Both Government and Parliament have neces-
sarily much latitude in the matter of using the
people’s money for the purposes of the country.
They can’t refer to the people about every detail,
and they have to meet sudden emergencies as best
they can. But when it is a case of excited politi-
cians, or politicians in excited search of advertise-
ment, deciding to send a huge amount of the
people’s money out of the country as a sensational
and unsolicited gift, the case is different. It is
especially different when the community has
made it as plain as possible that it doesn’t
approve of the gift, and when there was abundant
opportunity of consulting the people and the
maddened politicians absolutely refused to con-
sult them. Under such circumstances, it is no
excuse to say that Deakin and Cook felt a sudden
soul-glow, and that they were filled with large
emotions that refused to be suppressed or post-
poned. No cashier has a right to have sudden
soul-glows or large, wild, uncontrollable emotions
that are completely out of the track of business,
unless he has them at the cost of his own pocket,
or first.gets authority from the owner of the cash!
If this matter is condoned the next frenzied
Ministry may offer Britain £40,000,000 instead of
£2,000,000, or it may offer money for the propaga-
tion of the R.C. faith instead of offering it for tho
British navy. In fact, if the precedent is once
established that a Prime Minister may dissipate
the revenue, without the sanction of Parliament
or people, in sudden and gorgeous presents to
persons or Governments outside the Common-
wealth, it is impossible to say how far the evil
may go.
It is not at all unlikely that the Labor party
will be in a position, a few months hence, to put
its retrospective foot down hard on the Dread-
nought folly and on those who perpetrated it.
Eight of the Fused Government’s supporters
represent minorities; that is to say, they got in
on split votes. It is intended that there will be
only two parties at next election, and no split
votes, and no minority representatives; and if
that is so there will be a great mortality among
the faithful eight. There are other signs as well.
Owing to the fact that the electorates were re-
arranged between 1903 and 1906, both in N.S.W.
and Victoria—that some old constituencies dis-
appeared, and that some old members decided
not to stand again—it is difficult to fully trace the
course of events ; but where events can be traced
the luck of the Fused party at the last two
elections was bad. Here are some few samples :
Majority Majority(ifanv)
• in 1903. in 1906.
Wilks 9,777 1013
Keid •• -• .. 3,795 1284
Liddell 2,900 226
Fuller Unopposed 4198
S. Smith .. .. 960 Thrown out
Lonsdale .. .. 493 Thrown out
B. Smith .. .. 12,071 9989
Willis.. . .. 2,248 1662
Kelly .. .. .. 8,107 6465
Conroy.. .. .. 3,569 Thrown out
Harper 2,229 1338
When the luck of the Fused people is already
drifting in this fashion, it is hardly the best time
it could have selected to throw mud at the nation
in general by giving away its money wholesale
without its consent, and by denying it anv say in
its own financial affairs.
* * * *
If such -Tory papers as the S. M. Herat/d areas
much inspired as they seem to be, there is in
various other ways, a gloomy time ahead for Aus-
tralia until it gets rid of the Fused Government
It is announced that the Fused Cabinet, when it
comes to arranging the division of the tariff
revenue with the States (if it lives to do so) will
take a much larger and more generous view of the
State Governments’ demands than the FrsHER
Ministry did, and will be liberal in supplying
them with the means to maintain six imported
Governors and 12 Houses of Parliament, and
otherwise to carry on their career of extravagance.
If that is so, it means a very serious diminution of
the anticipated Federal revenue. It is definitely
stated that the Federal progressive land-tax, which
was a big item on the programme of the Fisher
Cabinet, is wholly abandoned by the Fused
crowd. That means another notable slump in the
, ederal revenue, incurred to support the big land-
lords, and to retard settlement, and to keep down
population, and to prevent the multiplication of
taxpayers. It is assumed by those papers which
profess to know the inmost soul of the Fused
Government that, the tariff won’t be increased
It is admitted by most of them that the proposed
expenditure for local defence and old-age pensions
is unavoidable. On top of all these matters the
Dreadnought hysteria means a very large increase
of expenditure; and in view of the increased pros-
pective outgoings and the diminished prospective
income, the Fused papers have nothing to suggest
except that the Commonwealth should borrow—
should become a seventh cadger after loans in a
country where there are already six authorities
rushing down a steep place to the pawnshop. To
quote the eloquent language of the Herald
(9/6/’09)•
If the Post Office is to be put promptly into order, it
can only be done by applying borrowed money to the
extension of sound business, and the sooner this side of
the question is dealt with the better.
Amid all these complications it looks as if the big
things that Australia badly needs —the two trans-
continental railways, the settlement of the
.Northern Territory, the rescue from emptiness
and desolation of the vacant three-fifths of the
Commonwealth, and other affairs of the kind—
stand a poor show until the Fused Government
burns out. It is difficult to suppose that it can
borrow for all these matters, and it is absolutely
certain that if it adheres to its policy of costly
Jingoism abroad and costly affability to State
Premiers at home, it will have very little money of
its own with which to do larg& things for
the good of Australia. Of course, the Fused
Ministry will go out next year ; but it will be
another year wasted. And it is the ill-luck of
Australia that the years are always being wasted.
SOME EUROPEAH POLITICS.
In these present days of Dreadnought frenzy, and
of books like “ The Invasion of 1910,” and of plays
like “An Englishman’s Home,” it is interesting
to look into the hinder localities of history and
consider the beginnings of the present German
power. These beginnings only date back about
45 years. In the early Ws of last century,
Prussia was divided into two pieces,- with the
powerful kingdom of Hanover lying between
them. It hadn’t a port of any value, nor any
visible prospect of getting one. It had no fleet
worth mentioning, and no apparent chance of hav-
ing one. There was no German Empire then,
but Austria, as the principal among a crowd of
independent and loosely-confederated German
b feu os, had an important tail or following of minor
principalities. Denmark was still fairly strong—
in fact it was only two or three years previously
that its fleet had blockaded the German
coasts—and it held the keys of the Baltic
with no uncertain hand. There were so many
difficulties in the way of Prussian ambition
m the early ’6o’s of last century that its condition
looked almost hopeless; and lt'hadn’teven money
to burn on its schemes of aggrandisement, for it
'was still fooling with Freetrade doctrines, and, in
consequence, its industries were almost nil and its
poverty was pathetic. But it had a strong will;
it had Bismarck ; and it had the fatuous worship
and devotion of the late Queen Victoria, which
was almost as good an asset as either of the
other two.
* * * *
Victoria was German—wholly and entirely
German. .Republics can assure themselves of
getting native rulers with purely native sym-
pathies, but monarchies have to take any foreigner
whom the law of inheritance sends their way.
Victoria’s eldest daughter was newly married to
the Crown Prince of Prussia when tilings began
to happen; and Victoria’s first grandson was
heir to the then rather threadbare Prussian throne.
The aggrandisement of Prussia meant the prepar-
ation of a glorious destiny for Victoria’s
daughter and grandchild. The British sove-
reign had all the domestic virtues discoursed
upon in the novels of Mrs. Henry Wood—the
fireside and baby-carrying and baby-washing
virtues. In a political sense her incompetence
appears to have been terrible, and yet her belief
in her capacity for governing seems’-to have been
large enough. The belief was fostered and en-
couraged by newspaper and other parasites (when
Victoria died one amazing scribe commenced his
leading article with the words: “Yesterday
there passed away the greatest personality that
the world has seen since the days of Jesus
Christ”), many of whom used language about: her
which might have been justifiable as regards Crom-
well or Henry of Navarre or William the Silent
or Philip Augustus, but which certainly filled the
bill to overflowing in the case of the German
Queen of England. It was in those days that
Prussia laid the foundations of its greatness. It
wanted more territory, and, above all, it wanted
a good port, and the plunder of Denmark was the
shortest and easiest way to the acquisition of these
properties. True, the integrity of Denmark was
solemnly guaranteed by France, Britain and
Sweden (though Sweden didn’t really count); but
in Britain only the sovereign can declare war, and
Bismarck seems to have known in advance that,
so far as Britain was concerned, there would be
no such declaration, and that Denmark would be
left in the lurch. The domestic or fireside or
baby-rearing virtues of Queen Victoria were
Bismarck s great asset just here. As regards
France, he negotiated and lied and took chances,
and France being afraid to take on the contract
single-handed, and being governed by a
showy fool who could always be beguiled
by the offer of Belgium or Baden or
Timbuctoo, the chances came out right. But
the big Chancellor proceeded cautiously. It
was not plainly and openly a case of Prussia
making war on Denmark to steal for itself the three
duchies of Schleswig, Holstein and Lauenburg ;
on the surface of things, Austria and Prussia
were acting on behalf of that shadowy body, the
German Confederation, and proposed to rescue
these provinces from alleged Danish oppression in
order to make of them a new, independent, self-
governing German State. It was an elaborate
and really brilliant fraud. llow many people
besides Bismarck and his sovereign were aware
that the pretence was all a lie, and Austria a mere
cat’s-paw, will never be known.
* * * *
Queen Victoria’s political interferences, and
her active Prussian sympathies, made the spolia-
tion of Denmark possible. The spoliation of
Denmark made the war between Prussia and
Austria necessary. When Denmark had taken its
ten seconds on the floor, and the referee had
declared it knocked out, Prussia had to break
the news gently to Austria that it had been
fooled into wasting its soldiers and its
treasure on the Danish robbery ; that the three
duchies were not going to form a new
independent German State ; that Prussia wanted
more territories; and that its new ambitions
at sea compelled it to keep possession of the
stolen lands, if only for the sake of their harbors.
In the military scramble that followed, Prussia’s
luck, aided by the first breech-loading rifle that
ever went into battle, was above all expectations.
It chased Austria out of the German Confedera-
tion. It annexed Hesse-Cassel, Nassau, and the
old Anglo-German kingdom of Hanover. It
secured to its own self the Danish duchies of
Schleswig, Holstein and Lauenburg. Instead of
being a comparatively weak kingdom divided into
two widely separated parts, with a powerful
State in between, it became a solid territory with
an enormous increase of area, population and
wealth. It acquired good harbors, which it had
previously lacked. Above all, it acquired such an
enormous preponderance over all the other
creiman States combined that it was soon
afterwards able to force or drive or scare them
into a union which put their military and
financial resources also at the disposal of the
-Prussian monarch. And during the war which
made all these things possible, Victoria’s pro-
Prussian sympathies never wavered. They were
a solid guarantee that Britain at least would not
get in the road of Prussian aggrandisement until it
was too late. So well known were these sym-
pathies that a whisper even went round to the
effect that valuable information about the move-
ments of the Austrian army, which reached the
British sovereign from certain persons attached
to the British embassy at Vienna, were trans-
mitted by her to her Prussian son-in-law,
and helped materially to the great Prussian vic-
tory at Koniggratz—the victory which made all
the later events possible. The French war, four
years later, was only an incident following
naturally on what went before.
• » * •
What would- have happened if Britain had kept
faith with Denmark—if it hadn’t suffered from
too much personal government of a lamentably
incompetent kind, if it hadn’t -had • a German
sovereign,, if that sovereign hadn’t possessed all
these family virtues so much extolled by Mrs.
Henry Wood, and had been less blinded by the
personal fact that she had a German daughter at
Berlin, and that that daughter had a Prussian
baby at the same place—it is hard to say. Pro-
bably there would have been no annexation of the
Danish duchies, no war with Austria over the
plunder (for there would have been no plunder to
fight over), possibly no Prussian annexation of
Hesse-Cassel, Nassau and Hanover (as the result
of that war over the plunder), and no German
Empire (which was the natural result of the power
which Prussia gained out of these annexations).
Probably, too, there would be no great German
navy. Certainly there would be no great German
naval station at Kiel, for Kiel would still be
Danish ; and there would be no Kiel canal. And
many other things that are to-day would probably
not be. It was the usual irony of fate that the
daughter for whose sake Britain’s interests and
Britain’s honor were sacrificed should have led a
miserable existence at Berlin while waiting for
her inheritance, and then should have shared the
throne with a dying husband for a reign of only
three months. And it was also in keeping with
the ordinary cussedness of events that the grand-
son for whom Britain’s interests were set aside
should now be regarded as that country’s most
formidable enemy.
* * * *
There are to-day certain wild and whirling
persons who propose that Britain should end the
present state of scare by declaring war and put-
ting an end to the German navy before it grows
any larger. The scheme looks good enough at
first sight; but it doesn’t bear inspection. On
the first hint of danger in the North Sea
the German fleet can retreat soft-footedly
through the Kiel Canal into the Baltic,
and no enemy can follow by that route, for
the shore fortifications are such that even the
British navy would be a mere heap of scrap iron
before, the row was over—unless it left early. The
only road into the Baltic for any fleet save that of
Germany is the long track round by Denmark.
Then the German squadron can retire into any one
of several fortified harbors, and defy all comers.
Meanwhile, it can be fairly assumed that the
German army would be moving in a hurry.
Its obvious course would be to mop up
the scrap that is left of Denmark —prob-
ably a matter of a few days. That would
give it absolute control of the narrow en-
trances to the Baltic. Once, when guns were
small short-range affairs, ships could now and
then run d;he gauntlet of the fortifications of the
Sound ; and in the times when warships were
small and wooden could occasionally dodge
through the Great Belt or the Little Belt; but
these days are past. The best modern weapons,
with modern men behind them, would make mere
wreckage of the whole British navy in these
straits, which are narrower than Syney
Harbor. The occupation of Denmark, which
would come as a mere matter of course if
Britain and Germany got “ into holts,” would end
British commerce in tbe Baltic, and make every
British ship in that great sea—warship or mer-
chant ship—a dead loss, and it isn’t easy to see
what difference Alfred Deakin’s Dreadnought
would make in such a case. That circumstance
means that Germany, without risking a single
ship, could hit British commerce almost as hard
as Britain could hit the commerce of Germany.
Presumably, also, Germany, which always be-
lieves in going the whole hog when war starts,
would plunge straight at Holland, and estab-
lish itself almost in sight of the British shores,
in a much more favorable position for the inva-
sion of England than it has ever yet occupied.
Being there, it would naturally shut out British
ships from Dutch ports. That would be another
serious blow at British commerce, and yet the
British war fleet could do nothing to prevent it,
nor is the British army large enough to seriously
argue the point. And if the German fleet had
beaten a timely retreat, all these things might be
done without the loss of a German ship, without
the British squadron having a chance to fire a gun
at a German ship, without even a moment’s inter-
ruption of the German shipbuilding programme.
Germany would have lost much commerce, but
Britain would also have lost its trade with Ger-
many, Northern Russia. Sweden, Denmark, and
Holland. And Germany would have a fair
amount of land plunder by way of compensation,
while Britain would have nothing. Certainly
Russia would dislike the idea of Germany
holding the keys of the Baltic, but it could
probably be pacified by the offer of Sweden
and Norway, and all their Atlantic ports;
the Prussian kings have always been cheerfully
ready to give away other people’s property, and
when the British fleet couldn’t get into the Baltic,
Britain would have very little say in the proceed-
ings. Whether Germany’s Austrian ally would
consider the time ripe to make a rush for Con-
stantinople, and secure the key of the Black Sea,
and shut that also upon British commerce, would
doubtless depend upon circumstances. But
amid so many unpleasant possibilities and some
unpleasant certainties it is no wonder that the
British Government turns its blind ear to the
theorists who urge it to start right now, and make
an end of the German menace. To get your blow
in first is a great thing—sometimes. The Con-
federates did it in the U.S. civil war, and they are
dead now. The Boers did it, and they are annexed.
The Russians did it in the Crimean days, and
they went under. The French did it in 1870, and
they were ruined. The Prussians did it when
they invaded France in 1792 ; Napoleon I. did it
when he invaded Russia and marched to Moscow;
the Austrians did it on the Italian border in ’59 ;
and in not one of these instances did the policy
of getting in the first blow pay a dividend of even
Id. in the £.
* * * w
Meanwhile Edward VII., the German who
reigns in London to-day, plays the part of the


personal sovereign even more actively than did
his mother. Whether he plays it any better than
she did only time can show. He wanders around
Europe a good deal, and is supposed to be great
at fixing up ententes and such like. If he is fixing
up the right ententes, all may be well; if he is
fixing up the wrong ones, all may be very
much otherwise. In the Russo-Jap business
Britain seemed to back the wrong horse
just as industriously as it did in the
Schleswig-Holstein scrap 40 years previously. It
set itself then to raise up a new Germany
in the Pacific, and by the grievous damage done
to Russia it so weakened that Power that the old
Germany which Britain so foolishly raised up in
Europe last century is now more supreme on the
Continent than ever. Edward VII. was supposed
to have lately spun one of his cobwebby ententes
with Russia, but as that Power promptly deserted
Britain over the Bosnian shindy, it would seem as
if somebody had already put his foot through the
thing. There are drawbacks about personal
sovereignty—quite a number of drawbacks.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Out on the Lonesome Plains.
The Victorian Railways standing committee has
been wandering over the Western District plains,
collecting evidence in conection with the pro-
posed railway from Willaura (between Hamilton
and Ararat) to Bannockburn (near Geelong). The
committee held meetings at Lake Bolac, Mort-
lake, Lismore, Skipton and other centres, and it
gathered a lot of valuable information. It had
Albert Austin, a big squatter who lives within
this radius, before it; and Albert had these
interesting remarks to make:—
He had an estate of 12,800 acres. He did not cultivate
himself, but let 1800 acres to tenants. His tenants did
not build. The proposed line would go through one of
his paddocks, and would increase the value of 6000 or
8000 acres by about £1 10s. per acre. He would be pre-
pared to load his land up to 10s. per acre.
There is no record of the committee fainting, or
being otherwise overcome by Albert’s generosity
in offering to pay to the State 10s. of the value it
ivas expected to add to his lands, and keep the other
£1 himself. Nor is there any mention of an inten-
tion to “placard ” Albert’s speech, in the French
fashion, as a tremendous argument for a progres-
sive land tax. Instead, Albert was allowed to
depart quietly and to continue being a block to
settlement and an outrage on civilisation. He is,
apparently, patiently waiting for the railway,
which is to make him a present of £BOOO or so at
the cost of the community. The committee then
wandered 30 miles south, to Mortlake, where a
farmer named J. G. Moreton gave some infor-
mation *
Witness : In Lake Bolac and Streatham, and north,
pretty well to the Ballarat railway, it is all excellent
grain land. South of Lake Bolac it is equally good, till
near Mortlake, but 70 per cent, of it must come under
the plough.
The Chairman : You believe at present that the line
would pay from the start ?
Witness : Yes, if the farmers get on the land.
The Chairman : Oh, if!
Witness : If the farmers don’t get on the land, it won’t
pay.
Then the committee thought hard, and ap-
parently remembered the evidence of Albert
Austin. One of the members hinted that a land
tax might do good ; but the witness “ thought that
if the line werebuilt, the land would soon becutup.”
No doubt it would, in many cases ; but in others
the hungry squatter would still hold for a rise.
And, even when he sold, he would be getting
a lot more per acre more for his land than he is
entitled to. If the committee does its work
thoroughly, it will probably end by getting lost
on the plains of the Victorian Western District.
The writer; recently drove 18 miles along a
three-chain road, between two stations, and
saw neither house (except a boundary-rider’s
hut) nor man the whtile way. Then he struck
another road, and was told that it was 26 miles long,
without a house on either side, until the traveller
reached Beaufort, at the end of it. And the
information was so discouraging that the scribe
nearly wept. It is not recorded if the committee
travelled over these two roads; but if it didn’t
its visit to the district was incomplete. A drive
along those two roads, preferably in a dray, to let
the facts sink in, would be h valuable object-lesson
on the Curse'of the Big Estate.
A Witness for Truth.
The Sydney evening sheet which for many years
has maundered in its “ leading ” columns anent
the blessings of Freetrade, and even to this day
denounces as a Victorian conspiracy any effort to
put the tariff on a reasonably Protective basis,
told some cold truths the other day. Probably it
was an accident; evidently gtoping for something
that didn’t cost anything, the scissors grew tired,
and snipped at hazard a column from an English
“exchange.” Now, there was a time when Eng-
lish exchanges were always safe; they never men-
tioned Protection but to scoff at it. Times have,
however, changed ; and the scissors cannot now
afford to nod. On this occasion they gathered in
an article reviewing Ellis Barker’s work on
modern Germany, the chapters added to the third
edition of which, we are told, “ provide a crushing
answer to those who maintain that Germany is
not prospering under Protection.” Foreign-trade
readers of the, News were further informed that
“since the policy of Protection was adopted
German industries have advanced by leaps and
bounds. Her chemical and electrical industries
are foremost in the world, and in the production
of steel she has rapidly overtaken the United
Kingdom.” The figures of steel production are
quoted in tons as follow :
German. British.
1880 .. .. 624,000 1,342,000
1906 .. .. 11,135,000 6,462,000
Then the paper that had cursed Freetrade many
years was led to gibe thus :
Even more remarkable than the Comparative increase
in the wealth of Germany and the United Kingdom are
the facts Mr. Barker sets forth indicating the compara-
tive burden of taxation in the two countries. Quite con-
trary to the vaporinys of Freetrade orators , it will be seen
that Germany is much less heavily taxed than the United
Kingdom.
Figures follow, showing that whereas the
income-tax in Bull’s country ranges from 9d. to
Is. in the £ on all taxable amounts, in Bill’s
country the scale runs up gently from 4fd. in the
£ on £l5O, to 9|d. on £5OOO. Not content with
publishing all these heresies, the News approv-
ingly quotes Bismarck as having declared :
By the fact that foreign countries always show the
greatest concern if another country desires to increase its
duties, it can be seen that such Customs duties are, to a
very large extent, borne by the foreign producers, and
not by the consumer. If the home consumer should
really have to bear the weight of increased duties, such
an increase would leave the foreign producer indifferent.
Under a system of Protective tariffs the Empire will,
therefore, derive part of its income from foreign countries.
One of the headings given to this refreshing
lesson was “A Moral Pointed.” There appears
to be a slight inaccuracy there ; we should be in-
clined to think that the whole circumstance points
considerably more than one moral.
The Gospel of Utter Impotence.
From Sydney Telegraph (11/6/’O9)
The ability of Britain to act up to Sir Edward Grey’s
advice is of vital moment to her dependencies. As long
as she can keep what she has got, and consolidate and
develop it, they are safe. If she is ever unable to keep
what she has got, their fate is sealed.
Surely the sentence italicised above represents
the last word in abject Chowlike self-depreciation.
This newspaper which cheerfully assumes that if
“ever” the protection of a country 12,000 miles
away is removed, the fates of the British depen-
dencies will be “sealed,” gets its living in a
dependency which boasts nearly 5,000,000 of white
inhabitants—-a white population, that is to say,,
amounting to nearly double that of Greece,
almost equal to that of Holland, and within
measurable distance of that of Belgium, andi
located in a country where the space avail-
able for expansion is almost unlimited. As
to wealth—a big consideration in these'
days when national safety and national sol-
vency are interchangeable terms—Australia is,
in the sum of its affluence, one of the dozen richest,
countries in the world. Its revenue in the last
year for which figures are available was close on
£40,000,000 sterling. It is, admittedly, of all the
civilised countries in the world to-day the one in
which it is hardest to find the “very poor” type.
Its climate results in its being freer of epidemic
and endemic complaints than any of the Old
World lands. The surpassingly good physical
condition of its men-folk is indicated by their
fame as athletes. Ten years ago Great Britain, the.
mistress of the seas, the vastest and wealthiest
empire the world lias ever known, went to war
with a country which, for size and wealth and re-
sulting strength, is to Australia as a terrier is to a-
mastiff. The Transvaal isn’t much bigger than
Victoria. When its trouble started its white
population (the only sort that Counted) amounted
to a shade over half the present population of
Sydney. It was, except for the wealth hidden
in its mostly foreign-owned mines, a dog-poor
country. Strange cattle diseases and pests, un-
known elsewhere, afflicted its agriculturists. It.
had practically no manufactures. It even imported
its Bibles. Its revenue was below £5,000,000 ini
its best boom year. But it had one priceless asset-
—to wit, a decent, self-respecting patriotismi
that still wrings admiring tributes from,
those British fighting-men who bumped against it.
These Boer farmers—the men whom thesame jingo,
writers that are now accusing Australians of
being miserable incompetents denounced, a decade,
ago, as “white flag cowards,” “skulkers behind,
rocks,” and “vicious degenerates”—came forth,
soberly in their absurd Methody clothes, and
without any flag-flapping or music-hall dog-
gerelising or other hysteria, proceeded reso-
lutely, and, as a matter of course, to engage, in
defence of their fatherland, the entire might of
Britain. True, they didn’t win. But they did
the next best thing. They held the invader at bay
for many long, and (to the invader) ruinous years.
And they emerged, ultimately, from the fray
beaten technically, but in a position, nevertheless,
to demand their own terms from their con-
querors. The Transvaal stands to-day, as a
direct result of the appallingly formidable
fight it put up, in the position, not of
a Korea (which is the position every country or
state in history has fallen to which has assumed
that it was licked ere ever it started fighting) but
in that of a white nation whose progress towards-
complete independence has encountered a mere
temporary check. Is Australia, with its gigantic
wealth, its considerable white population, its
social and educational ad vantages, and its vaunted
“heritage of British birth,” as much more con-
temptible than the Transvaal as the Telegraph
Represents it to be ? Can’t this country never hope,
unaided, to put up against any hostile arrival a
fight at least approximating to that which a
Dutch colony, with one-sixteenth of its popula-
tion, supplied to the world’s most formid-
, ble invader? If the Telegraph is correct,
it can’t, it doesn’t deserve to exist. Its
proper place is down among the gone under
colored dependencies of the Korean sort. This
paper, however, feels optimistic about Australia’s
capacity to defend itself if its anti-defence poli-
ticians and newspapers will only allow it half a
chance; and it regards the Telegraph as a most
unscrupulous slanderer of the country where it
makes its money.
+
“ Hot Wanted ”: Bull’s Answer to the
Dreadnought Foolishness.
NO DREADNOUGHT.
AUSTRALIA’S OFFER.
IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT’S ATTITUDE.
The Imperial authorities do not wish for a Dreadnought
from Australia. What shape the Dreadnought proposal
is to take is a matter of negotiation. The point is that
Australia is not to give a Dreadnought.— Sydney Tele-
graph, 11/6/’O9.
The British Government being definitely cornered
by the maladroit offer of a Dreadnought from
Australia, has been forced, if the Sydney Tele-
graph is correct, to put civility on one side
and say plainly that it doesn’t want one. It
has been hinting hard to that effect ever since the
absurd movement was hatched in the Age and
Sydney Telegraph offices, so the rebuff that
has smitten the Deakin-Cook Administration
doesn’t come as a surprise to people of ordinary
discernment. If Australia had been in a position
to build and equip and man a Dreadnought here,
and to pay for the same with its own money ; or
if it could even have manned with its own trained
seamen a fully-equipped Dreadnought, paid for
out of borrowed money, the position —which was
created for party purposes by the above-named
j ou rnals —migh t h a ve seem ed a shad e less 1 ud icrous.
But for the “gift,” as projected, there was no
justification in the mind of any sane and at the
same time honest human being. There is an
aspect of the offer that the blundering and tactless
folk who engineered it didn’t seem to see, or else
they were so keen to score from a party stand-
point that they didn’t mean to see it—viz., that
it constitutes a very gross insult to those adminis-
trators who are responsible to the Cold Land for
its national safety. In effect, Australia —the con-
tinent which has itself been so careless, hitherto,
of its. responsibilities as a nation that it is impo-
tent at the present moment to protect itself
against the smallest navy-owning country—steps
blandly forward, and with incredible fatuous-
ness says to the Administration of the
greatest maritime power on earth, “You haven’t
done your duty in the matter of defence.
Owing to your criminal carelessness the two-
Power standard is going to blazes. The Common-
wealth is fired with a unanimous desire to rectify
your blunders by supplying a Dreadnought—or
more if necessary.” Is it to be wondered at that
Britain views that supremely impudent attitude
with an unenthusiastie eye? A certain brand of
well-to-do dilettante Briton likes to talk of his
fellow-countryman’s habit of “taking the im-
portant things of life easily,” of “muddling
through somehow,” of “ winning battles on play-
ing fields ” and so forth. It is his self-satisfied
way of intimating that the Briton does, without
•undue exertion, those things in the achieve-
ment of which others need to expend much
blood and sweat. This pose, which is very
general among “upper-class” Britons, of repre-
senting their fellow-countrymen as eternal
and amiable amateurs appeals to the sporting in-
stincts of the crowd, and hence it is much exploited
on platforms ; but it does not appeal to the men
who are doing things —the administrators, soldiers
and sailors of the Empire. They don’t want to
be taken for amateurs, and they don’t want
amateur assistance. As to what they said about
Australia when the famous offer came to hand, the
following may be guessed at as a bowdlerised
version :
Here is a dashed country which won’t defend itself —
which is a constant worry to us because it will insist on
leaving its defence burden on our doorstep. And instead
of putting up about £6,000,000 a year for its own protec-
tion—which is its fair proportion according to the rate
at which we pay—and doing it as a mere matter of busi-
ness, it makes a devil of a fuss about a proposal to give
us one warship costing about £2,000,000. We are to find
men, officers, coal, provisions, repairs, and all the rest.
These people haven’t even the sense to ask if we have
the men and officers available. The whole thing only re-
presents their fair and reasonable defence bill for four
months. It doesn’t relieve us of one fraction of the worry
of thinking how to protect a place at the farthest end of
the world—a place which won’t help itself. And there is
a shout of “ loyalty ” and an air of patronage about the
whole business that is disgusting. On top of all, it seems
they are sending round the hat for us as if we were a
blind beggar with a barrel organ. There is a foolish
mayor asking coppers for us as if we were a decayed
washerwoman in need of a charitable mangle. This sort
■of thing is too much.
That is probably how the British Government
feels in the matter. It is a pity that the forms and
habits of official correspondence prevented it say-
ing exactly what it felt.
Premier Murray and the Land.
•John Murray, ex-Democrat, announces that the
Victorian Parliament will re-assemble on JuneSO,
■and he has published a list of 19 Bills with which
he proposes to face the House. Some of them,
such as the Northcote Station Bill and the West
Melbourne Institute Bill, are hardly worth includ-
ing ; but otherwise it is a fairly decent catalogue.
Easily first in importance come his Land Act
Amendment Bills. In his Town Hall speech the
night the Fusion was settled Alfred Deakin
said that, as regards providing land for immi-
grants, he intended to “call upon the States, as
they had never yet been called upon,” to get to
work and provide plenty of available soil. Pre-
sumably, Murray, being the Premier whose
ear was closest to the Prime Minister’s
mouth, got the full strength of this
“ call ” ; and it will be interesting to note
■how he responds to it. No particulars as to the
scope of the new Land Bills have yet been pub-
lished, but, whatever their scope may be, they
will only pass if the big landowner is scared out of
■his boots, and that potentate isn’t nearly so.
alarmed as he was. A month or two ago the
Victorian Upper House would probably have
passed some sort of Progressive Land Tax Bill in
great haste. Fisher was then in office, and
Fisher threatened a Federal progressive land-tax
with only £5OOO exemption; and his tax pro-
gressed until the very enormous estate might be
struck for as much as 4d. in the £. It wasn’t
enough by any means, yet it was a considerable
•amount. Obviously there were good reasons why,
with Fisher in office, the Rich Landlords should
make haste to tax themselves. If they heaped on
themselves an impost extending up to 2d. or 3d.
in the £, and with a £lO,OOO exemption, there
would be these notable advantages :
(1) The big landlord would pay very much less than
under Fisher’s proposed tax.
(2) The Government which he controlled (instead of the
Federal authority) would do the valuations, and by
valuing a £lOO,OOO estate at £50,000, it is possible to make
a tax which looks like 4d. in the £ pan out at about Id.
(3) The State Government which the Rich Landlord
controlled would get the money instead of it going to the
Federal Treasury, and if the Affluent Landlord couldn’t
devise ways and means of indirectly getting that money
back again he would be a very degenerate Bloated Land-
lord.
And yet, with all these advantages, the Rich
Landlord of Victoria would be in a position to
point out (1) that he had shown his willingness to
tax himself and to thereby promote settlement;
(2) that the tax shouldn’t be double-banked ; (3)
that the Federal Parliament should wait until the
State tax had been proved insufficient for the pro-
motion of land settlement before it went any
further; (4) that if the Federal authority
levied a heavy progressive land-tax it would
thereby compel the State to abolish its own
tax, and that would amount to the absolute
confiscation of revenue of which the State was
much in need. These reasonings would be so
beautifully plausible, that quite a number of
members who would have otherwise voted for the
Federal tax might be moved to vote againstit, and
on this basis the cause of the Rich Landlord
would have a very fair chance of winning.
But for the moment all that sort of
thing is off. Fisher is out of office.
Deakin isn’t going to impose any Federal
progressive land-tax; he is only going to “call
upon the States as they have never yet been
called upon,” and urge them to do something.
The Rich Landlords, who are blocking Victorian
settlement and driving the able-bodied population
away wholesale, don’t care how much Deakin
calls on that subject; he may call till he bursts a
blood-vessel if he likes. And in the desperate
process of calling he may open his mouth so wide
that the view consists merely of a vast cavern sur-
rounded by the merest fringe of Deakin. These
things won’t disturb any Rich Landlord’s repose.
The one fear which may make the Vic. Upper
House enact some semblance of a progressive land-
tax is the fear of Fisher’s early return to office.
If it is so besotted as to fancy that the Fusion has
come to stay, Murray’s Bill—which isn’t likely to
be much of a Bill after all—will go sloping steeply
down the greased road thatleadeth unto perdition.
♦—
The Reconstruction Movement.
The petition in favor of Unification and Recon-
struction went to the House of Representatives
with over 58,000 signatures—the Melbourne Argus
called the number 15,000—and if money had been
available with which to advertise the movement
more widely, it is probable that six or eight or ten
times as many names would have been available.
N.S.W. State Premier Wade, whose State job is
threatened by the new movement, spoke bitterly
about the matter, saying in his wrath :
The petition stood condemned on the face of it. The
Federal Constitution provided that the Constitutions of
the States should continue, and that the States should,
in a large number of matters, pursue their policies free
from any interference by the Commonwealth. He sus-
pected that the niove was a Labor one. The petition had
been circulated very quietly throughout a certain section
only, and the bulk of the population had no idea it was
going round.
This was a curiously silly attitude for even Wade
to take up, for the petition merely asked that' a
referendum should be taken of the people of Aus-
tralia, who are also the people of the States, to
enable them to say whether they did or did not
want a simpler and cheaper form of State Govern-
ment and certain enlargements of the Federal
authority. And the people of the States have a
perfect right to express their views about their
own State management, and to alter that manage-
ment if they feel so disposed, without asking the
permission of Gregory Wade —who isn’t nearly
so important as he thinks he is. And if, as Wade
alleges, the 58,000 signatures were obtained de-
spite the fact that the bulk of the people never
heard of the movement, it suggests that a very
large percentage of the people must be pretty
tired of Gregory W. A small petition is now to
be got up for presentation to the Senate in order
to bring the matter formally before that august
body, and if Mr. Wade will take a swift cab
round to the premises of Mr. J. B. Steel, of
192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, he will be in time
to sign it.
A letter from Sorrento, on the Victorian shore:—
Political feeling at this seaside resort is interesting.
If the views of Australians generally can be gauged by
those of the residents of Sorrento, the Fusion will come
to an inglorious ending. It is, however, scarcely safe to
generalise from one particular instance. It must be
recognised that Sorrento has had an exceptional experi-
ence. The inhabitants are mostly Liberal Protectionists.
Many of them were induced, on the recommendation of
the Age, to vote for W. H. Irvine at last general elec-
tion, on the ground that when in England he had been
converted by Joe Chamberlain from a Freetrader to a
sound Protectionist. There was so much joy in
the Age office over the Freetrader who had
repented that the claims of .a consistent Protec-
tionist candidate were set aside. Before polling
day the Age was disillusioned, and tried to back out of
the position it had taken up ; but the mischief could not
be undone in the time available. As a matter of fact, the
Age had acquired the opinion, when it was too
late, that W. H. Irvine’s candidature for Flinders
had been engineered by the Freetrade party of
New South Wales. J. Gibb, who represented Flinders,,
bought a property in the Hume electorate. He was
induced by the Reid party to abandon Flinders, in order
to contest the Hume against William Lyne. Gibb had
been elected for Flinders by a minority vote, and his re-
election seemed all but hopeless. He therefore readily
fell in with the proposal that he should oppose Lyne,.
especially as he was assured by the Anti-Sosh party of.'
certain success. All the time that W. H. Irvine.
was canvassing Flinders in the guise of an
“ effective Protectionist ” it had been arranged!
that he was to take the place of Attorney-
General in the Ministry to be formed by G. H. Reid as-
soon as the triumph of Anti-Sosh eventuated. At the
beginning of his electioneering campaign, Irvine made
no secret of the fact that he fully expected G. H. Reid’s-
party to obtain a substantial majority in the new Parlia-
ment, but before many days had passed he found it
necessary to drop all reference to Reid and to play a lone
hand. It will now be seen that the Age has got more
than ordinary reason for its hostility to W. H. Irvine.
What the policy of the paper will be in relation to the
Iceberg, now that the latter is a member of the Fusiont ’
which the Age is pledged to support, is a matter for
interesting speculation.
To return to Sorrento, which possesses a very sore head
over the way the constituency of which it is a part was
taken in by the Age, and done for by the Cold Storage
Person. Ever since the passage of the Tariff, during which
its representative voted Freetrade in a consistent manner
which would have done honor to Brdcb Smith, or else
stayed away from the divisions altogether, Sorrento has
thirsted for the political blood of the man who deceived
the Age and itself. With nothing more to aggravate it.,,
the fact that its political leader, Alfred Deakin, has
consented to include W. H. Irvine in a re-constructed
Liberal party which Sorrento is expected to support, is
sufficient to arouse not only opposition but intense indig-
nation. An additional source of irritation, however, has
happened along. No less a personage than Bruce Smith
himself visited Sorrento. Wrapped in his magnificent
garb of self-appreciation, he.comported himself as he
comports himself elsewhere, and talked as he talks else-
where. Of all his deliverances the following is preserved
in the memory of Sorrento people as a choice sample of
the man. He said he would not buy so much as a button 1
Mark Time.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What makes the universal training deadlock easier of
solution to those who are trying to bring Mr. Dkakin and
Mr. J. Cook together is that the Defence department is
utterly unfit to launch such a scheme at present. It is
disorganised and demoralised. Not for two or three
years could it establish the machinery for such an
ambitious experiment, and consequently there is no valid
ground for rushing it into being at once. During the
mark-time which is inevitable, a Cabinet could
quietly smooth out alb its differences of opinion. This,
at any rate, is the idea of the Fusion promoters.—Mel-
bourne Argus.
OYE People ! Oye People ! Do not hurry—do not
rush !
Lie ye down upon the landscape and resume your
slumbers. Hush!
Keep on sleeping ! Oh, be torpid, ’tis a state of
mind sublime,
If not absolutely prostrate you can mark—mark
time !
O ye People ! O ye People ! Don’t do anything at
all !
All things come to him who waiteth chewing
Straws against a wall;
Let your model be the tortoise that lies dozing in
the slime
No rash haste about the tortoise ! He takes time —
time —time !
O ye People ! Heed the moral of the placid,
stagnant pool
Breeding ever Death and Evil ! Scorn the counsel
of the fool,
Heed no whispers of the coward, but for work and
joy combine,
And a curse be on the waster who can mark—
mark time !
O ye People ! When there’s danger, more’s the
need to up and strive,
More’s the need to up and tackle. Action keeps
the soul alive.
Sloth’s the policy of devils. Hell is just that sort
of clime,
Full of damned souls doing nothing—marking
time—time—time !
O ye People ! Time is flying, and Death follows
at his heel,
And we must for our salvation make some mark—
affix some seal
On the edifice of progress ! Let us hear the busy
chime
Of the trowels building—building. Don’t mark
time—time —time !
Rise, O People ! Rise and arm ye ! Only fools and
traitors wait
Till the army of the foeman batters down the city
gate!
Cast aside Fear’s rusty fetters, for delay is now a
crime,
And ’tis treason to our nation to mark time—
time—time 1
VICTORIA.
MABTIAL


The Electrolytic Refining 1 and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow. 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney:
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
” FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
We are Ajrents for i lie Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Mate rs of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P 0., SyJ.iey.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 (j.ueen St., Brisbane.
' If the Press Conference raging in London
can assist Australia’s defence by directing
Britain’s outflowing population to Austral’s
sunny shores, it will prove its indebtedness to
that inspiration with which D.C.L. Whisky
always assists the counsels of the wise. D.C.L.,
the scholarly brand, is ever ready to act as the
petrol for the Motor Car of Wisdom.*
of Australian manufacture' if he could avoid it. Firstly
he would get an inferior article as compared with the
imported goods. Secondly, he knew he would he robhed
through the operation of the Protective tariff. With
Irvine and Bruce Smith before them as object-lessons of
the type of men of whom the Fusion is composed, prob-
ably four-fifths of the former DBAKiN-ites will v ote against
the Ministry either by going over to Labor or by support-
ing an independent Liberal candidate. We are not Fusing
at all kindly hereabouts.
Stinking Fish at the Press Conference.
Australia is getting some unpleasant advertise-
ment from the crowd of elderly newspaper
proprietors and rather aged Tory pressmen who
represent it at the Press Conference in England.
Here, for instance, is a sample from last Tuesday’s
cablegrams :
WHAT DELEGATES THINK.
London, June 14.
Mr. F. W. Ward (Sydney), interviewed after the naval
review, said : “ We have seen a real British fleet, and the
idea of building up a little ocean-going navy of our own
must shrink to nothing.”
So far as F. W. Ward's contribution to literature
is concerned the heading should be “The In-
capacity of Some Delegates to Think Coherently.”
Because Britain has a great navy of about 500
vessels. Ward at once sees that “the idea of
building a little ocean-going navy of our own must
shrink to nothing.” It takes a third-rate mind to
get ideas like that. A live man would rather say
that the fact of Britain being able to maintain 500
vessels clearly proves that Australia, with more
than one-tenth of the population, can maintain
50, which is a very fair little ocean-going navy.
If Ward really thinks the 50 vessels we can
support are no good, then what earthly use is the
one vessel which he and a lot of other foolish
people want to present to Britain with so much
horrible fuss ? Ward apparently thinks that the
British navy was born full-grown, and that any
kind of navy that isn’t born full-grown is
a thing to be despised. If everybody was
built on his lines the founders of Sydney
and Melbourne would have said weepingly:
“ We have seen London, a real city, and the idea
of building up a little city of our own must shrink
to nothing.” And the founders of the Sydney
Telegraph would have said : “ We have seen the
London Times, a real paper, and the idea of
building up a little paper of our own must dis-
appear completely.” It is only because men
are not all hopeless cowards, preachers of
the gospel of despair and Stinking Fish, dull
slanderers filled with the idea that Australians are
poor mean creatures and fit for nothing, that any-
thing is ever done. If all the community were
built on the lines of Whiskers Ward, the black-
fellow would still be holding high corroboree on
Circular Quay, Sydney. And, as a side issue,
even if Ward has travelled so little that he had
no idea, until last week, what a fleet was like, he
might have taken the trouble to explain that Aus-
tralians are not all built like that. A great many
advocates of an Australian navy have seen real
navies before, and know what they are talking
about.
Apparently, judging by the remarks of Post-
master-General Quick, if the Dreadnought (or
rither the proposed “equivalent”) is accepted it
is to be paid for with loan money after all. The
deed won’t be done directly, but the result will be
the same. It is proposed to pay the £2.000,000
for the blessed gift out of revenue ; and to make
lip for this Quick wants to borrow £2,000,000 for
post-office work. It may look different, but it
won’t be different.
.+
The time vvill come when no party politician will
be allowed by his bosses to take a trip away from
Australia unless lie consents to be muzzled at
Fremantle on the way back. Again and again,
from the days of the late Jack Want onwards,
violent Freetraders and such like have gone to
England and discovered things; and they have
blurted out the truth to the reporters waiting for
them on the first Australian wharf. Then when
the vessel has brought them back to Sydney
or Melbourne, they .have been met by in-
furiated party-bosses, and indignant party-
papers have thrown furious bricks at them
for putting away the whole show. Only last
week ’Siah Symon, of the Senate, came back
from Europe. He couldn’t, of course, be expected
to know that his political crowd had just accepted
a coat of whitewash and was beginning to “star ”
as the great Liberal party ; also he didn’t know
that the first act of the new “ Liberal ” party had
been to wire offering a Dreadnought to England.
So in his ignorance he told the Perth reporters
that the whole Dreadnought business was a
political trick, and a Tory trick at,that: —
I was in England during the progress of the naval
scare. The whole business was worked up for party pur-
poses by the Tory newspapers and Tory Opposition.
It would be interesting to hear the remarks of
Symon’s own political crowd when the man who
gave the show away like that gets within earshot
—interesting to hear what the new “Liberal”
bosses have to say to the man who accuses them
of being tools of the Tory wire-pullers, and of
having made use of a Tory trick to throw out their
opponents. Yet Symon’s opinion on this matter
c m be taken as worth a good deal more than, say,
Joe Cook’s or Willy Kelly s. For naval defence
is a hobby of his ; in fact, he went to England
mainly to have a look at his own youngsters, who
are serving there as naval cadets.
♦
The Bent Land Commission, now sitting in
Melbourne, may be calculated to end in mist, but
some of the passing smoke clouds of evidence are,
at least, supplying the public with picturesque
art studies. F’rinst nice, there was the meeting
between burly Bent and his old acquaintance,
Reggie Bright (of Gibbs, Bright and Co.), re the
Maribyrnong estate. Bent met Reggie in July
1904, at which time he was full of land-dealing
schemes, and asked him, “ Will you sell Maribvr-
nong?” The jaunty old white-haired, bachelor
jumped at the idea; and two days later he
wrote to Bent offering to let him have the Mari-
byrnong property of 1411 acres for £4O an acre—
or £56,440 in all. Three months later the accoin
modatirig Reggie interviewed Premier Bent at
his office, and left him under the impression that
he had offered £50,000 for the 1411 acres, which
offer was promptly accepted in writing. Great
then was the disappointment of Reggie on
learning that the Closer Settlement Board
was unwilling to pay even £50,000 for the pro-
perty. Six months later he offered it to the Board
for £37,500 cash, and again the Board said the
price was too high. Subsequently another agent
for the owners (the Trust and Agency Co.) pro-
posed to let the land go at the alarming sacrifice
of £35,000. A further letter reduced the price to
£32,000 (say £22 10s. per acre), and on the corner
of this communication was written “Approved,
T. Bent.” This was in 1906, two years subse-
quent to Mr. Bright’s disappointment re the
£50.000 offer. Then the Closer Settlement Board
decided that the land for the most part was not
suitable for closer settlement. It decided to take
over the western portion of it at £9 15s. per
acre. “The remaining portion of the estate
was to be sold by auction. Nothing, how-
ever, has been done with the land,” says
the Secretary of the Board in his evidence.
Presumably it was the best portion of the land
that the Board gave £9 15s. an acre for after Bent
had enthusiastically bought the whole blessed lot
at over £22 10s. per acre—and apparently Bent
would have bought it at nearly double that price
if the Board hadn’t got in the road. After turn-
ing this narrative over and over, and looking at
the figures frontways, sideways and endways,
The Bulletin can find no words to properly
express its admiration for Tdmmas Bent as a man
of business. When he meant to do a thing he did
it sooner or later, and apparently he meant to buy
Maribyrnong from his old acquaintance, Reggie
Bright, or perish in the attempt.
A Stinking Fish narrative of a literal sort was
lately told in Melbourne. On .Tune 4 the
Federal trawler Endeavor reached Melbourne
with several tons of fish in its cool chambers. Of
these some 60 boxes were given to the hospitals on
Saturday morning, and were subsequently con-
sumed with gratitude and no bad results. Fifty
boxes had been sent to the State Government
cool stores on the Friday to be kept for dis-
tribution later on ; but on Saturday morning these
50 boxes were alleged to be in such an over-ripe
condition that they were fit only for im-
mediate burial. The Endeavor’s people were
asked to send someone to see them con-
demned, but as that vessel had gone down
the bay again, no one was able to go.
Assistant Customs-Comptroller Lockyeii, how-
ever, having heard of the matter, sent to the
stores for a parcel from the 50 boxes, which parcel
he presented to Customs Minister Best, with his
compliments. And Best consumed the fish, or
some of it, without any internal qualms, and
without noticing any loud odor. Also, one box
was ordered to be set aside and kept cool till Boss
Fisherman DanneVlG could overhaul it himself.
This box was duly investigated on the following
Wednesday, and found to be in first-class condi-
tion. Consequently, there is a large suspicion that
somebody has been up to something. The only
persons likely to benefit by the disparagement of
the Commonwealth’s efforts to supply the citizens
with an abundant supply of cheap fish are the
existing fishermen and the dealers in the fishy
commodity. But as the fishermen don't cast their
nets in the Melbourne. Cool Stores and the agents
do, the obvious inference is that somehow things
were arranged like this in the interests of
those conscienceless frauds, the private fish agents.
Which is an additional reason why the City
Council —or, failing it, the Government—should
immediately appoint officials to auction all fish,
and abolish the whole tribe of fish agents, dealers
and what-nots.
+
“ P.F.” writes :
The suppression of the proposal to introduce the
Danysz rabbit virus has set the acclimatisation fiend to
work on a new idea. It seems that the blastiferous ferret
has already arrived .pretty considerably ; at all events,
the S. M. Hisu.AU>, in a recent article, telling the fiend
exactly how to go about propagating bis animal, re-
marked casually that “ some high prices are being paid in
Sydney for them at the present time.” But the baby-
murdering ferret isn’t sufficient curse, it appears. The
Davenport branch of the S.A. Agricultural Bureau
had a meeting, or something, the other day, and
one Messenger uprose and enthusiastically pro-
posed .the introduction of two additional curses—
the weasel and the stoat. Messenger didn’t try
to conceal the fact that there might be some objection to
the coining of his horrid animals, and he got to work
right away to demolish the anticipated objection. Said
he: “ The question may be ask ed—How shall we protect
our poultry? If we found it difficult to protect them
against the stoat and the weasel, I should say get rid of
the poultry.” Now, for one thing, it isn’t at all certain
that the ferret and weasel and stoat—whatever they may
do in their European habitats—would have much to say
against the Australian rabbit. Change of environment
frequently means change of habits where animals are con-
cerned. and it wouldn’t be very surprising to find, later
on, that the rabbit, ferret, weasel and stoat had estab-
lished a very placid entente cordiale among themselves.
But unless the new environment did change the ways of
the ferret, etc., Australia would he in for a very wakeful
time. These bpasts are blood-suckers, and experience
suggests very loudly that they are particularly partial to
the blood of baby. So with the advent of the ferret, etc.,
the lone bush-wife would have another horror added to the
Indian hawker curse and the snake and the crow—the
perpetual, haunting dread that if she left her infant
alone for a moment it might be butchered by one of the
acclimatisation person’s latest importations. The rabbit
would probably keep well ahead of the stoat and ferret
and weasel, for these three animals don’t care for the dry
regions where bunny knocks out a very fair living. And,
anyhow, even if they could overtake him, why should
they go out into desolate places to pursue the swift
rabbit while the slow baby and hen can be found amid far
pleasanter surroundings? This acclimatisation follv, if
it isn’t checked, will make Australia an eggless land in
which every bush baby will be covered by wire netting at
night and tied to the faithful dog by day.
One of the men lately convicted over the
Broken Hill mining flare-up has been allowed to
report that he has been given an “excellent pair
of boots, only they are a couple of sizes too big.”
That is a better fate than fell to the lot of Dick
Sleath. When the burly Richard was confined in
Denfliquin gaol for his Broken Hill rumpus, the
authorities gave him a pair of bluchers previously
worn by a Chinaman. Their only explanation
•was that they were short of boots just then.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sweet Kitty Bellairs.”
Theatre Royal “The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “The Fatal Wedding.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The King of Cadonia.”
Theatre Royal “ The Hypocrites.”
King’s “The Bank of England.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum The Scarlet Troubadours
Town Hall, (and Subs.) Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia ... West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
To-night and Friday the dreary spectacle
may be witnessed at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, of a
great panto, in its death throes. On Saturday
Nellie Stewart is due to appear at the big J.C. W.
play-house in “ Sweet Kitty Bellairs ” ; and about
the same time the “ Jack and Jill” co. treks for
Maoriland, via Brisbane, Toowoomba, and New-
castle.
** * *
“ D.” writes :
I went last Saturday to the “Jack and Jill ” matinbe, at
Her Majesty’s. I had not realised before the difference
between a Saturday pantomime rnatinbe and an evening
show. The house was a surging mass of children. In
fact, its only occupants were wild children and their
keepers or tamers. Before the curtain rose, and during
the interval, there was none of the dignified calm that
marks the entertainment affected by adults. An uproar
like unto the melody of 700,000,000 demented locusts in
the height of the summer season ragtd unceasingly. It
was caused by the children exchanging ideas among
themselves. The first upward movement of the
curtain cut the disturbance* off at the meter
with astonishing suddenness. It had not ascended
an inch before the dead utter hush which,
one assumes, will precede the Last Trump was on the
house. Thereafter everything was strange and unusual.
The jokes which, half a dozen hours later, were going to
cause appreciative merriment were receivi d with scorn.
The waggish request made to the Baron that he should
“ kiss the brick ” did not get a hand. The quips of Widow
Cobble regarding her deceased husband were received in
the respectful, sympathetic silence that well-dispositioned
children accord to a great Grief. And so the discon-
certed widow cut her reminiscences very short indeed.
But it was a great afternoon for the Giants, and it was the
Demon’s afternoon out. Narrowly watching the Demon,
I saw that he was revelling in his part. He was
freed for the nonce from the haunting feeling, which had
palpably obsessed him on other, occasions, that he was
boring his hearers with his preposterous shoutings and
stampings. And with good cause, for as the looking-
glasses on his eyelids flashed eerily in the limelight
hundreds of small, bowed heads paid shuddering tiibute
to the ghastly effectiveness of his art. The humor that
appealed to this audience was the robust sort. When
tiie Baron crashed or. to the back of bis skull out of the
lawyer’s rocking chair ; when the widow smote the
lawyer with her umbrella; whenever, generally speaking,
anyone was falling off anything or into anything or get-
ting kicked or bitten or assaulted by anybody, the children
were convulsed. How the healthy child loves to witness
assault and battery ! An hour at the Gaiety Hall on a
Tuesday night would render it hysterical with amuse-
ment. And, finally, this audience didn’t dash madly for
the exits at the end of the performance. In fact it
lingered, reluctant to go, so that it had in many cases to
be forcibly dragged or pushed into the street, without.
In truth there are points of much unusualness about a
panto, matinbe in the child-filled city of Sydney.
* * -IS- *
Bland Holt is still motoring hard at
Syduey Royal; and when not so engaged, he is
either being rescued from flooded mines, or in-
sulted by villains, or having his hand wrung by
upright folks. And always bursts of cheering
from the front of the house greet and encourage
his efforts. He and his colleagues propose to go
on leading the eventful life, at their present ad-
dress, for an indefinite time to come.
#* & *
At Sydney Criterion “The Fatal Wed-
ding” rages with deafening vigor. Howls of pain
and grief, the banging of hollow tin instruments,
angry curses, and other sounds inseparable from
celebrations of this class ring out nightly in the
MAGGIE MOORE (the cheerful servant) and
HARRY ROBERTS (the hapless hero) in
“ The Fatal Wedding ,” Sydney Criterion.
still evening air of Pitt-street, between the hours
of 8 and 10.30 p.m., and cause the adjacent and
slumbering cop. to dream uneasily of Arma-
geddon. The disturbance is a money-spinner,
and its diminution is not yet.
** * m
’Cellist Gladstone Bell has made a half
promise to Sydney melomaniacs that, if sufficient
inducement offers during the coming six months,
he will take root in theircity, instead of returning
to his niche in the village on the Thames. Mr.
Bell is an ex-member of the Queen’s Hall orches-
tra, London, and well known in tile English pro-
vinces. As there is a loud demand just now m
Sydney for another accomplished ’cellist, most
likely the stranger’s half promise will be mace
whole and fulfilled. Of late, Mr. Bryce Garter
has had all the work thrust upon him. Last week
the visitor gave an invitation recital at the
Y.M.C. A., and his skilled playing on the eldest
brother of the family of stringed instruments
(when you start to make a ’cello the first sentence
in the recipe is “take one tree”) was applauded
by a considerable musical audience. Messrs..
Godfrey Smith and Cyril Monk, Misses Amy
Murphy and Esther Kahn helped to make the
recital the choicest musical offering of this winter.
Miss Florence Menkmeyer’s concert
occurs at Sydney Y.M.C. A. Hall on Tuesday
evening (June 22). The soprano-pianiste will sing
Irom the Max Vogrich opera, “ Der Buddha.”
** * *
Cinquevalli dropped out of the Svdney
Tivoli programme about the middle of the* week,
leaving the balance of a fairly strong company to
carry the burthen of the entertainment. For
several weeks past, the present mimes have been
pursuing the even soprano of their way ; conse-
quently, the public has now' a nodding acquaint-
ence with them and their turns. Cissie Curlette,
soubrette ; Dale and O Malley, comedians ; and the
girl musician partners, Florence and Lillian, are
the most acceptable of the co. After them, the
people who help most are Graham and Dent; Jay
Ryan, singer!; Miss Desiree, illusionist, and Guest
and Newlyn, whose serious business is dancing.
DR. “LISTEN” CHAPMAN (drama-
tic lead) and ALEXANDER THE
GREAT (comedian) now touring Australia with
their celebrated mission show.
By the dropping-out of Harry Rickards,
from Adelaide Tivoli, that city seems likely to
miss Cinquevalli and the alleged Chinese juggler ;
also the new Empire Theatre is left with a mono-
poly of the variety business. It is, at popular
prices, making a harvest out of the situation ;
Godfrey’s monkeys and cockatoos have just come
in to supplement Walker and Sturm’s juggling
feats. At the Royal, Nellie Stewart is ending
her season with “ Sweet Nell.” Claude King and
Frederick Moyes do not wipe out the memory of
Beatty and Gran, but they give very sound and
original renderings. This was about the first
Yankee drama of European history that Aus-
tralia saw, and one notices—unfairly, perhaps,
but inevitably—the thin places more than one did
of old, because there have been so many imitations
of the article meanwhile, and the whole fabric of
disguise and blank warrant has become thread-
bare. Spencer’s pictures are at the Tivoli, West’s
at the Town Hall, and the two rinks compete
fiercely by day and night.
** * #
“The King of Cadonia,” introduced to
this country at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) last
Saturday, reminds one of a certain black-and-
white minstrel named Chirgwin, who had a great
vogue at Rickards’ some years ago. Chirgwin it
was who used to say to the audience, “I'm going
to sing you a little song. I don’t know whether
you’ll like it—but you’ve got to 'are it.” The new
“romantic, musical play ” which the J„C. W. com-
pany is dealing with is an unavoidable entertain-
ment. Melbourne has got to have it. "A full-sized
show of the comic opera persuasion, expensively
mounted, and loaded with choristers in gaudy
dresses, is a thing that people in Melbourne .go
to see without consideration for the verdict,
favorable or otherwise, of those who have
sampled it already. They go reg adless of
consequences, In this case, moderate expecta-
tions are not deeply disappointed. "The King
of Cadonia,” on a first hearing, is less bright and
catchy than some other musical pieces of its order,
but like Mercutio’s wound, it is enough. Seekers
after frivolous amusement don’t get all they
wanted, but they are not sent empty away.
The plot professes to have a serious strain
of interest suggestive of the “ Prisoner of Zenda.”
Cadonia is an unaccountable kingdom where
reigning monarchs are dethroned and executed at
the rate of one a year, or oftener. The local
insurrectionists, led by brother P. Bathurst,
whose appearance carries revolution and tumult
on the face of it, are always clamoring for a king
who will command their admiration as well as their
taxation. One of that sort, a tall baritone in clothes
of many colors, cut “saucy ” like the togs of a Lon-
don coster on the Sabbath day—a brown, breezy
sovereign who looks capable of barracking for the
weaker team at a football match—is really reign-
ing in Cadonia, but his subjects don’t know what
he is like. The commander-in-chief of the local
forces (a first cousin to the BismarCkian Colonel
Sapt in “Zenda” aforesaid) has been keeping his
royal Nibs locked up for safety. His Nibs grows
restive and escapes, and mixes incognito with the
revolutionaries, who welcome him as the kind of
young man they ought to have for a king. More-
over, he makes love incognito to the local Prin-
cess, having previously disguised himself by get-
ting a shave, arid in the end he returns to his
monarchy, which is now broad-based upon the
people’s will. Meanwhile, Bert Gilbert, heir-
apparent to the throne, has been appointed
regent. His unwillingness to go in for any
king business is very cheerfully expressed. The
romantic musical play is at its best whenever
Gilbert fills the centre of the stage with his royal
pantomimic presence. There is a time, in the
second act, when he grows rather tedious, owing
to the fact that his assistant funny man (Victor
Prince, as Corporal Bran) is not funny atall ; but,
with this exception, Gilbert’s connection with
Cadonian politics is a triumph of humorous
absurdity.
* * • *
The music, by Sydney Jones, promises to
improve on acquaintance. Its most tuneful
points were not properly sharpened on Saturday
night, anyhow. Nothing stuck in one’s, ear
except the singing of Miss Dorothy Court, the
new “prima donna,” whose warble had too
much sharpness entirely. It wanted nothing
save tenderness and melodiousness. The lady-
spoke her sentimental lines feelingly, and
was tall and self-possessed as a princess should
be; but her exceeding slimness and widespread
hair accentuated her resemblance to a fashion
plate. She looked rather like an illustration from


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jordan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones,
It is perfectly safe.*
the Court Journal, having facial resemblances
to Carrie Moore. The other newly-imported
lady, Miss Lottie Sargent, fills the soubrette part
in a neat, unobtrusive manner, and shines to
advantage in comparison with her laboriously
grotesque partner, Victor Prince. One of her
ditties is a distinct success ; also she divides with
Bert Gilbert the credit for La Danse Des
Apaches, a Paris presentment of a larrikin waltz-
ing savagely with his donah, which was more
forcibly shown on the West Pictures screen
in the drama of “The Red Hand” a while
ago. Frank Greene, a new-comer, is a smart
tuneful addition to the co. Arthur Appleby
upholds the martial dignity of the commander-in-
chief, and Herbert Clayton wears the strange
garments of the hero, King Alexis. On his first
appearance, Clayton is unpromising. His sham
beard and moustache are lustreless. He might
be a monarch from some travelling waxworks. But
in his shaven state he is a spry young man, and
he sings well. For the rest, there are Miss Ivy
Scott and Miss Susie Vaughan in minor charac-
ters, and a lot of chorus and costumes and color
effects. The grouping of the stage picture, in
which the Princess draws a sketch from memory
of her lover whilst that alleged Adonis hovers
around, is only one among sundry artistic features
of an uneven show. A garden scene with a
refreshing landscape background, and a gaudy
palace interior with a staring staircase in the
centre, are W. R. Coleman’s contributions to the
collection.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the demand for “ The
Hypocrites” is not overtaxing the resources of the
auditorium. For one thing, this is a cold time
of year, and although “The Hypocrites” is
spoken of as a “ warm ” play, it is not calculated
to lure the average citizen from his own fireside on
a winter night. Its moral lesson, or what is pre-
sumed to be meant to serve as such, fills the
cynic with sad misgivings. Under the circum-
stances, perhaps, poor young Leonard Wilmore
can’t very well escape the penalty of his
little indiscretion. Rev. Harcourt Beatty
works matters up to such a pitch of un-
pleasantness for all parties that Leonard has to
be either a horribly mean worldling or a decent
ordinary young man, so he chooses the latter alter-
native and decides to marry Rachel Neve. But,
whilst commending him for his human behavior
in a distressing situation—all the distress whereof
is due to Rev. Beatty’s bigoted belief in his own
righteousness—every reflecting observer must
tremble for Leonard’s domestic future. Rachel is
too depressing for words. The other girl who
loves Leonard—the heiress who wants to give him
everything bar one little corner in the garden of
her soul —might have proved a trying angel to live
w th, but Rachel is a sure calamity. She seems in-
capable of saying “ No ” to anybody unless some-
body has told her to say “No,” and then she
says it in a low-spirited staccato, wdiich amounts
to “Yes.” Dreary submissiveness is her prevail-
ing characteristic. She has to be like that in
order to fit the play. How the parson’s protege
will shape in the calm domestic company of a
penitent husband and a converted mother-in-law
is a question that author H. A. Jones doesn’t dis-
cuss. Nobody raises it for consideration. So
possibly “The Hypocrites” is not intended to
have a more beautiful moral than the common or
lurid melodrama which usually deepens the shame
of the trusting girl who was betrayed, by sending
her betrayer to the gallows in the last act.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s, Sherlock Holmes is
nightly tracking an absentee corpse to an un-
orthodox tomb, and, despite his wan and deci-
mated countenance, is as popular as any of his
predecessors. True, he doesn’t evince that aplomb
and almost monastic calm which are proper to the
real, superhuman D. ; but he has the sternness and
authority of a very notable policeman. However,
the King’s is making preparations to change the
venue of virtue and vice from “The Bank of
Eugland ” and thereabouts to Australia’s own
Northern Territory. That is to say, “ Australia,
or the White Mari’s Land,” by Randolph Bedford,
is to make a bid for fame in a week or two.
* * sic- *-
Something is going to happen at Mel-
bourne Bijou on the 16th of next month. A
number of indefinite advts. justify the suspicion
that “ Ireland’s sweetest singer,” byname Allan
Doone, will appear in “ Sweet County Kerry.”
This country has heard a good deal about Bonnie
Doon, but has always understood that he is a
Seawteh gentleman who manages a number of
banks, and brays at intervals. He can’t be a
brother of the forthcoming Irish singer, who spells
I)is name with an e.
4$ 4£ 4£
“The Scarlet Troubadours” continue to
change their programme every Saturday at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall. Meanwhile they are
widening their constituency. People who don’t
think of going to the little hall in Oollins-street
in an ordinary way have been induced to try a
dose of Troubadours, and have said such nice kind
things about the mixture that their friends are
taking the hint.
** * *
“La Tosca,” now being pictured at Mel-
bourne Olympia, is an excellent thing. The two
principal characters, Scarpia and Floria Tosca,
are finely acted. On the lighter side, West’s
Pictures show a rather superior piece of folly, in
which a wildly-forgetful person endeavors to keep
a couple of engagements to dine. Scenes in the
native quarters of Bombay, and pictures of Ham-
burg and Rome furnish further variety.
$6
At Melbourne Town Hall, J. and N. Tait
are publishing sundry palpable fabrications for
the pleasure of the democracy. The revival of
“Sherlock Holmes” as a fashionable entertain-
ment has led the brethren to produce an abridged
specimen of the great sleuth. Further detective
exploits are provided by a shaggy bow-wow,
which hunts out a wealthy, apoplectic old gentle-
man, who has been abducted for ransom. The
somewhat popular pastime of love is treated in
“A Matter of Honor” and “A Father Cannot Be
Deceived.” A mild sermon is preached in “Man’s
Greatest Enemy—Alcohol,” which proves, once
more, that man brings home a foe in his tail
pocket to prig away his brains.
-X- -X- *
If a thunderbolt were to descend upon
Melbourne Opera House stage any of these nights
it would probably hit R. H. Douglas. Tom Woott-
well, the Scottish Meisters, Cull Pitt, Tisdale,
the Two Picks, or the First Part. It w 7 ould pro-
bably spare the Sisters Sprightly on account of
their sex. All the afore-named people are appear-
ing as usual in turns old or new. Also Malvina
Moore and Will James and the chorus are sing-
ing “ Raise all your voices high to Australia’s
sons, and cry ‘Southern Cross, my native star,
we’re proud of you !’ ” Which is stated to be Joe
Slater’s greatest creation, in Genuine Hits. On
second thoughts, The Bulletin has arrived at
the conclusion that a well-directed thunderbolt
would be pretty certain to smite Australia’s new
patriotic song in the middle of its chorus.
At Ballarat, the other day, Governor Sir
Tom Gibson-Carmiehael opened a speech by say-
ing that he was afraid his remarks would be too
brief to satisfy the audience. He then reproached
Australians for expecting their Governors to talk
too much. The fact is, Sir T. G.-G. couldn’t say
too little if he tried. Few Governors can. Pos-
sibly it is their consciousness of the impossibility
of their saying too little that leads them to say
too much. Still, Sir Tom might attempt the
impossible now and again. In the case of a man
with a reluctant delivery like that of Vic.’s present
State Viceroy, most things are better left unsaid.
Horse hair is thicker that water. The
three Judges who sat to hear R. D. Meagher’s
application for re-admission as Gentleman One
were unanimous in demanding, as a first condition,
that he should make some more apology for the
things he had said about the late Justice Win-
deyer in re the famous and long-ago Dean case,
and they were very anxious to make sure that the
late barrister Salomons had been duly apologised
to over the same matter. But there was no men-
tion of an apology to Mrs. Dean—who wasn’t in
the profession of the law—though any injury that
was done was calculated to strike her much harder
than it did the two legal gentlemen.
The Chosen race in Melbourne lost one
of its most learned representatives when Morris
Myers passed out at Fitzroy t’other day,
aged 74 years. The deceased was an earnest
student of Hebrew literature, and was one of
the best Hebrew grammarians in the Common-
wealth. For many years he ground youthful
Abrahams and Aarons on the rugged moods and
tenses of the national tongue in the Melbourne
Hebrew School, and he only retired from the job
at the approach of considerable age. He was an
interesting Jew of the better sort, taking him
altogether, and has left a legacy of intellect in his
son Isidore, who is already noted for his explora-
tions into the mysteries of the Talmud.
The Victorian Commission which is in-
quiring into Bent’s land deals has been poking its
stick into the Maribyrnong purchase; and the
evidence suggests that before the graduated land-
tax comes along some reliable system of valuation
will have to be thought out—either the Maoriland
self-valuation plan or some other. A local farmer
first valued the Maribyrnong block of 1400 acres
at £21,751; then a land agent had a look at it
and priced it at £25,857; another reckoned it
worth £14,922; and one “city man” considered
£55 per acre —£77,605 —a fair thing. In the end
Bent bought the land for £32,000, after which he
sold 137 of the best-situated acres to the Common-
wealth for a cordite factory for £4OOO, and left the
Cabbage Garden stuck with the balance.
The Victorian fisherman’s lot is a cold one
at sea and a frozen one in the fish market. Also,
the quickest way to make money out of fish in
Victoria is to avoid catching them. Everybody
who stays on dry land and sells fish makes money;
the hardworking fellow who drags the food out of
the deep, who takes all the risks and does all the
work, mostly gets into debt with the seaside
tradespeople. The most striking instance of how
to lose money by fishing is given in a recent letter
from a Queenscliff correspondent to Melbourne
Age. A lone toiler of the deep worked for 10
Friday hours and accumulated seven baskets of
sea food, each of which contained 20 animals—
-140 big fish sea-denizens in all. The consignment
was railed up to Melbourne, where the lot fetched
seven shillings ! But that amount of wealth didn’t
reach the fisherman’s tattered pocket. Freight
absorbed 2s. lid., market dues Is. Bd., packing
fee was 10|d., whilst good old commission took
9d. —which left for the tired man by the sea.
Now, if a member of the general public went to a
reputable fishmonger and demanded 140 large fish
for 75., he would be instantly felled with the
largest barracouta on the premises and given in
charge. And he would deserve to be so treated.
On the other fin, the wholesaler who inflicts that
absurd sum on an honest man for such an immense
quantity of good fish deserves to be struck down
with a shark. No wrnnder the apostles gave up
the fishing business.
This month sees the last of the service of
Alan G. Pendleton as Railway Commissioner of
S. Australia. The old gentleman is 72, and hasn’t
been too brisk in the office for years past. Once,
not so long ago, when the Broken Hill mines
were flourishing tremendously 7, three or four of the
managers interviewed Pendleton, whose biggest
customers they were, and wanted some changes
made. They argued and argued in a conversa-
tional way, but Pendleton couldn’t, or wouldn’t,
grasp the point. Then one of the biggest of them
tapped the table impatiently and blurted out:
“ But, you stupid old man, don’t you see”
He didn’t get any further. Nobody in that crowd
quite realised till then what an angry old man
that particularly courteous, “stupid old man”
could be.
BRASS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The offering is received as an act of worship.— Wilbur
Chapman , leading man of the religious-vaudeville com-
bination, now performing in Sydney and suburbs.
And they made gods of brass and Worshipped them.—
Old Testament.
According to the Holy Book,
The Israelites of old
Of brass a goodly portion took
And poured it in a mould.
They raised new-fangled, brazen gods,
And strange contraptions, which
Made GOD send boils and emerods,
Likewise the deadly 7 itch !
But lo ! in hustling Yankeeland
The Hebrews they surpass ;
They fashion there with cunning hand
Their prophets, too, of brass !
They perorate and jump and spring,
And count it worship true
Of him who brings his offering—
But not his I O U!
It little matters what men think—
Their thoughts are vain, alas !
So long as Chapman hears the clink
Of lots of minted brass !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“10-2-4”: For some reason unknown, the Australian
playwright invariably inserts one or more Britons of
title into his works. And he always takes liberties with
the names and styles, of these folks that would drive
Debrett or Whitaker stark fanti with surprise. “The
Great Rescue,” the new Sydney Royal production,
affords yet another example of this tendency. In the
cast is “Lord Stafford, Earl of Bedford; British peer,
who strikes good luck and better friends out here.” - This
is as impossible an appellation as the French journalist’s
gibed ao “Sir Lor’ Mayor Smith.” An earl is debarred
by the rules of the' heraldic game from wearing
a second title in front of the main one. If he is
guilty of this Idche he stands to be fined, rebuked, and
recommended for an asylum by both the Grand Master of
the Arches Pursuivant, and his friend and ally tiie Gold
Brick in Waiting. Take again “Lord Wilfred Winston;
young, of noble birth, and yet a man of honest simple
worth.” lie is represented to be the son of the Earl
above mentioned. But no son of any earl ever in any
age had the right to wear the word “Lord” in front of
his Christian name. That is a privilege enjoyed
by the male progeny of dukes and marquises alone.
The moral of this is that local playwrights, if
they feel they must drag titled folk into their
dramas, should stick to the nobility they know. Local
knights may be, after all, as convincing desperadoes as
British earls ; and there are whole bucketsful of romance
(both “heavy’’and “ juvenile ”) waiting to be distilled
from masterly-handled backblocks J’s.P.
“Pen-Pusher”: The recent production of “Lucia” at
Sydney Town Hall, recalls what a gold mine to composers
and librettists the novels of Walter Scott have been.
In 1891 Arthur Sullivan selected “ Ivanhoe ” as his theme,
and the work was produced at the now defunct Royal
English Opera House in London, where it ran for over 100
nights. “Ivanhoe” was the subject of a very successful
opera by a German composer, yclept Marsehner, and an
English Version was produced in London about 75 years
ago. Marsehner dealt chiefly with the scenes between
the Templar and Rebecca, but Sullivan introduced all the
principal incidents of the novel, Walter Scott speaks of
an opera which was played in Paris on the subject of
“ Ivanhoe,” and makes merry 7, in one of his letters, as to
the way in which the novel had been maltreated. About
the same time was produced at the Paris Grand an
opera founded on “Quentin Durward,” which met with
considerable success. The famous Boieldieu made the
story of the White Lady of Avenel, from Sir Walter’s
novel, “The Monastery,” the subject of the celebrated
“La Dame Blanche.” Rossini wrote a melodious opera
on “ The Lady of the Lake.” The composer of “ Carmen ”
wrote one on “ The Fair Maid of Perth,” but the singular
feature in Bizet’s earlier work is that there is not the
slightest attempt at local color. The scene might be
Italy 7 for anything Scottish you find in the score.
Tie same may be said of Donizetti’s “Lucia
di Lammermoor,” the music of which is purely
Italian from start to finish. There is not an echo
of Scotland in it anywhere. Berlioz treated “ Waver-
ley” in similar fashion, and Henry Bishop, in employing
“Rob Roy” and “Guy Mannering,” as ballad operas,
introduced melodies essentially English. “Amy Rob-
sart,” an operatic version in three acts of “ Kenilworth,”
was produced at Covent Garden in September, 1893. The
music was by 7 Isadore De Lara, and the libretto by 7 the
indefatigable Augustus Harris. There are also several
Italian versions of “ Kenilworth,’’and Balfe (the composer
of “The Bohemian Girl”) wrote an opera on “The
Talisman,” which was a favorite lyric work with Drury 7
Lane audiences under the Mapleson regime.
One actor man who attended Will Dyson’s exhibition
of caricatures, gazed upon a drawing of himself in gloomy
disgust for ten minutes or more. Then he turned, and
strode from the studio, as per stage directions, “exit
R.U.E., glowering dreadfully.” He returned in the
course of the afternoon, drew from his pocket a beauti-
fully touched-up, prinked, and polished photograph of
himself in his most picturesque r6le, pinned it up along-
side the caricature, and once more departed R.U.E., but
this time with jaunty defiance. He had not wasted a
glance on any other picture in the show.
“Snell” : If ever one of my superlatively fine comedies
is produced, I shall want to give Fred Camhourne the big
part. Oambourne is an Australian comedian who gets a
chance once in a blue moon, and then makes various im-
ported stars hide their diminished heads. I had seen him
play dozens of trifling parts decently, and thought of him
only as a man for trifling parts. Then lie was given a
little scope in one of Hugh Ward’s comedies, and
delighted everybody with the funniest Scotch Waiter to
whom I’ve yet been introduced. Just now F.G. is Elijah
Coombe, of “ The Silver King,” and a very quaint and de-
lightful Coombe, lacking some of the unction of other good
Coombes, but exceedingly funny in a crisp, quaint way,
with a new make-up, and a new outlook on the comic
possibilities of Jones’s most entertaining rapscallion.
“Jean Sibi ” : Never yet have I seen a wraith employed
with such effect as, in Anderson’s four-act commotion,
“The Bank of England.” Dunbar slaughters a beer-
drinking engraver and ex-convict, and bundles all the
evidence of the obituary into a box. Thereafter he is
pursued by the thought of his crime, and becomes a prey
to the horrors. For the best part of a long scene he
hiutters, staggers, stares, and claws his raven hair in
bursts of incipient dementia. It is during one of the
heartiest of his attacks that Sherlock Holmes takes
ad vantage of his delusion. Dunbar is alone with his dead
in the deserted bank. The hour is midnight or there-
abouts, and amid the black fearsome shadows of the
property walls the relentless crime-finder and corpse-
dredger is seen gliding about with a one-and-fourpenny
electric lamp. Soon he entrenches himself behind the
residence of the cadaver, and, as a brilliant afterthought,
understudies the dead. He utters a cold, cruel moan.
Dunbar glares and does the frightful gymnastics of an
epileptic. He reels to his office table, and at the bidding
of the hollow voice from the sepulchre, composes a con-
fession of his guilt. “ I killed Godfrey Dane,” moans the
voice. “ I killed Godfrey Dane,” repeats the quavering
felon, and slowly he writes it down. “ Sign it!” comes
from the same ghostly address. He signs it and plung< s
out of his office with a yell. The ’tec sprints for the con-
fession, and rescues it in a deluge of green limelight and
uproarious applause. This is one of the greatest novelties
in crime-stalking that I have seen, and I cordially re-
commend Melbourne ’tec. Macmannnmmnnnmy to con-
sider the idea, and see if he can’t work up an arrest on
the same methods.
The Williamson dramatic co. that departed from Mel-
bourne last week will drop out of the running shortly.
Kolker and Miss Ola Humphrey are to leave for America
before the tour ends, and in that case A. E. Greenaway
will perhaps take Kolker’s place in “An Englishman’s
Home.” But he and others of the present combination
are to join a new J.O.W. company, organised for the pro-
duction of “The Flag Lieutenant” in Sydney, next
month.
“Silas”: London press opinion, that “The Hypo-
crites ” is “the most powerful play Jones has written,” is
given in Clarke, Meynell and Gunn’s advts. This says
little forpress judgment in Oockneyville. As an effort of
dramatic art and as a literary production, “The Hypo-
crites” is not in the same class with “ The Liars.” Neither
is it within hail of Jones’s little-known “ Michael and his
Lost Angel,” or that bright comedy, “The Crusaders,”
so far unacted in Australia. I much prefer, too, “The
Case of Rebellious Susan,” as a clever comedy, dealing
with a piquant domestic circumstance; and for power I
would not give “The Hypocrites” a chance beside “The
Middleman.” In fact, the new play, though interesting,
shows in many directions a mark d decadence in Jones.
It is inferior to his best in craftsmanship, in the bright-
ness of the matter, and in courage. That weak ending,
with the uncharacteristic and inexcusable collapse of Mrs.
Wilmore, the remorseless schemer, under the influence of
a little parsonical prosing, is unworthy of the author of
“ The Triumph of the Philistines,” and a paltry conces-
sion to the managerial craving for happy endings. What’s
happened to Jones?
The Daylight Saving Bill in England finds keen opposi-
tion among theatre-managers. They have put a strong
case to the House of Commons committee, arguing that
from April to September opening hours would be in
broad daylight, when, they say, the public would not
come in. So, they add recklessly, either performances
will begin at 9.30 and end after midnight, or theatres
must close for six months in every year.
“ N.” : There has just been successfully brought out in
Paris a little drama on the subject of Beethoven. “ What-
ever can be made of that?” asks the playwright. Well,
only a formless, episodal thing, like the “ Englishman’s
Home” or “Diana of Dobson’s.” Such indicate the
change coming—the break up of the rule of the Mbs
Gushingtons. In Berlin they have had a drama on Pitt.
Lord Auckland was reluctantly compelled to refuse Pitt
the hand of his daughter, Lady Eleanor Eden, because he
was not caste enough 1 just think of the bright pieces to
be staged out of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert ; Dis-
raeli’s financial rescue by his marriage with Mrs. Wynd-
ham Lewis ; the queer and cheeky fancy of Charles Kean
for Baroness Burdett Coutts; the fortunes of Miss
Mellon, the poor actress who beedme the wife of
millionaire Coutts; Walter Scott’s passion for the
lady who married Forbes, of Pitsligq; the forgeries
of Roupell ; the rivalry of Batman and Fawkner;
explorer Burke’s passion for Julia Mathews ; and heaps of
other bits of real life which will surge up in every mind.
Dramatists have sniffed round such matters, and regret-
fully concluded that there is not in them sufficient stuff
for a play. And there is not enough perhaps for the con-
ventional play. Yet such are the ragged episodes which
will be flung on the boards just as scoops out of real life.
“Avonia”: Four performers familiar in Australia have
appeared this year in the Shakspearian Festival at Strat-
ford-on-Avon. These are Warburton, Keightley, Mbs
Noble, and Genevieve Ward, who is about the same age
as Ada of that ilk, and equally active. Oscar Asche was
formerly in the Benson company, Which furnislud the
Stratford performances. The company grew out of one
founded by Walter Bentley. Benson joined as a walking
gentleman. Warburton will be remembered here sup-
porting Knight in “The Darling of the Gods,” “Mon-
sieur Beaucaire,” and “The Eternal City.” Keightley
also gets parts close up to the lead. Stratford-on-Avon
naturally recalls Avonia Jones—presumably named after
that river. She was the daughter of an eccentric who
called himself Count Johannes, and used to make absurd
exhibitions on the New York stage, especially as Hamlet.
Avonia’s mother, Melinda Jones, was a fair actress.
Melinda and Avonia came to Australia about 1859.
George Fawcett burlesqued Avonia as Ammonia Bones,
but she was a grand young actress. Brooke married her.
They did not shine together on the stage. Brooke’s most
excellent parts required a gentle actress. Avonia was
best in heroic characters.
THE FUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So that visitors to the Zoological Gardens at Moore
Park may have some idea of the peculiarities of the
animals, birds, fishes, or other living “ inmates ” which
may happen to command their attention, the manage-
ment has placed a small printed notice, suitably framed,
in front of each cage, pond, or enclosure, giving a few
popular notes on the creatures’ habits and characteristics.
This will greatly assist visitors, and tend to create a
special interest in the collection. — Daily paper.
Have you seen the Fuse ?
Abuse
Never annoys it. The poor thing cannot lose
Its temper, for it hasn’t got one. Its views
Are misty and tangled. It mopes and it chews,
In the terribly dirty 7 political ooze,
The cud of reflection ;
Its utter dejection
Is past all our physic or reason. Affection
Upon it is wasted,
The thing’s never tasted
The votes in the ballot-box ; labelled and pasted,
It does nothing but fret,
For it cannot forget
That it sits all alone in its dark Cabinet.
Not yet seen the Fuse !
That's news !
Well, I know for a fact that the thing daren’t snooze.
(A more alive beast its existence pooh-poohs !)
It begs the assistance of Gentiles and Jews —
In fact, it’s a very precarious Fuse ;
It sits without motion,
For it has a notion
its feed-box is filled with a poison or potion
Which will go to its head,
Or else kill it stone dead ;
So it stares as it sits on its comfortless bed,
And arranges its views.
(Which all tends to amuse
The people who linger, and peer, and enthuse.)
There’s only one Fuse !
The Zoos
And the people who run them are getting the blues,
When they read the descriptions in Herald or News
Of Sunday-school parties and picnics and crews,
Which have hurried to gaze on the newly-laid Fuse
That sits in dejection.
(Of all the collection
It’s most treasured, for people of every section
That shoulder and gaze
Through the long 7 , staring days
Are absorbed in its abjectly humorous ways ;
And its fusions and views
Draw some awe-stricken “00-00/’s”
From the mob that encircles the Very First Fuse.
N. S. W.
KODAK.
A WORD OF REBUKE TO EDWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wellington (M.L.), Saturday.—For assaulting a re-
porter on the Lyttelton Times staff, who, he believed,
had written a severe criticism on his turn with the Chung
Ling SooCo., Ted Kalman was fined £lO and costs.—
Cablegram.
“Ten pounds and costs!” Over four hundred
drinks !!
Nay ! ’Twas not worth the money, Ted.
The price were far too much to pay, methiriks,
For losing, baresark-like, one’s head.
Batter a writer for his hostile screed
So that red gold is torn from you !
There is no earthly sense in such a deed,
According to my point of view.
Why kick a critic for his words of blame
When there lies ready to your hand
A deadlier means of spilling bitter shame
Upon him in his native land?
Rather than smite or jump on such a man,
I, in your place, would merely sing
At him ; so you would place him ’neath a ban
And to bis soul blind anguish biing.
i
What cruelty, for instance, to engage
To “ make up ” in his likeness, and
Bellow a Dreadnought ditty on the stage,
Assisted by a full brass band !
How better score the gibing caitiff off
Than by arranging to appear
Dressed like him, and attract the public scoff,
Also its loud, insistent jeer,
By yelling of “ the Motherland,” and all
The ships we’ll give her —and the cash
We hope she’ll let us owe her when the call
Arrives for money for our splash ?
Other examples might be cited. These
Alone, howe’er, should bring the rude
Inkslinger, dazed and broken, to his knees.
Revenge by stoush strikes me as crude.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


dL
Our 25/- Overcoat.
The,illustration shows the fashionable cut of the
coat. The materials used are closely woven
Tweeds, including some very smart stripe effects.
The coat is lined and has gauntlet cuffs.
Price - - 25-
If possible, we should like you to call and see
the quality of this coat. If this is inconvenient,
we will send it carriage paid throughout the
Commonwealth on the understanding that should
it not prove entirely satisfactory it may be
leturned, and purchase money will be refunded.
DAVID JONES Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
m
0
5
4-
PRICE
(Post Free)
10/6
EXTRA QUALITY, 20/-
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PT Noted for Splendid Value in Watches !
We here depict one of our special JO/6 Watches, which
we assure you is really good, and may be thoroughly
relied upon. It is fully jewelled, keyless, and its handsome
case of gun-metal covers all the most modern improve-
ments in the watchmakers’ art. It is light and handy in
the pocket. We’ll post this excellent watch to any address
for the small sum of JO/6. The reason we can sell so
cheaply is that we buy in very large parcels, and direct
from manufacturers. At 20/- we also have a special lever,
similar to above.
Write for FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
We pay postage upon all orders.
Watches, Jewellery, and Optical Goods Repaired.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE RETORT COURTEOUS .
SMALL GIRL: “ I'n not allowed to play with you.
My mother says your mother’s no lady.”
LARGER DITTO: ‘"Hum! I suppose your lady
mother's on the drink again.”
The latest outbreak of “ Revivalism,” with
its scorching doctrines of ’Ell, reminds one of
what the Autocrat of the Breakfast Table had to
say about insanity
We frequently see persons in insane hospitals, sent
there in consequence of what are called religious mental
disturbances. I confess that I think better of them than
of many who hold the same notions and keep their wits
and appear to enjoy life very well outside of the asylums.
Any decent person ought to go mad if he really holds
such or such opinions. It is verv much to his discredit
in every point of view if he does not.
Let us ever look with suspicion on the Eternal
Hell doctrinaire whose business methods 'are
strictly sane.
“Pride goeth before a fall” : also, in
some cases, it cometh after marriage with an
Asiatic. Last Saturday there appeared in
the S. M. Herald further details, appar-
ently supplied by some gratified relative, of
the marriage of a white Australian girl—
Miss Elsie Caroline Thompson, of Sydney,
known on the stage as “Elsie Forreste”—
with a colored person at Lucknow (India).
The Lucknow paper said the thing was ex-
traordinary—and so it was. The lady
swore off Christianity to qualify herself for
marriage with the Asiatic, and turned Hindu.
(The rooster which ought to have crowed
thrice at this stage of the proceedings seems
to have been chased off the premises;
anyhow, there is no news of the bird’s
melody.) She left off her European name
and was married as “Sita Devi.” Also
she wore native clothes and entered the
blessed state of matrimony according to
Hindu rites. Apparently the white popu-
lation held rigidly aloof from this public
downfall of a woman of the dominant
race ; at least all the guests mentioned
are such people as “Raja Naushad
Ali Khan, Pundit Iqbal Narain,
Masaidan, barrister-at-law, Babu
Sheo Dayal, pleader, Babu Ra-
jendra Narain, pleader, and Mr.
Bose, president of the local Arya
Samajists.” And then, presum-
ably, the bride settled down to
consider her future. She will have
to associate with niggers, yet she
will never be of them or understand
their ways and their modes of
thought. As a woman she will bo
some distance, but no very great dis-
tance, above any other chattel. As
the wife of a fairly prominent nigger
she may (unless her husband takes
the usual course, and rigidly shuts
her up, and makes her lead the im-
prisoned life of the average Hindu
wife)—-she may see a certain amount
of white society at a distance, but in
a general way she will have just as
much standing among the people of
her own color as if she were a criminal
or a blight. She has done the unpar-
donable thing, for she has lowered
the white race, and reduced the
white status* and mixed the white
blood. She will be the mother
of half-castes, and the bitterest recollection
of the half-caste is that he might have
.been white if his mother had not given
away her body and soul to a black man.
Even the joy of being married in picturesque
Indian costume, with bare arms and spangles,
and having Babu Rajendra Narain and Mr. Bose
at the wedding don’t make the sacrifice worth
while. There have been white women before who
married Hindus and tried to lead the Hindu life.
They were mostly half-mad in later life, with that
look that is seen in the eyes of a person who has
spent many years in gaol. Pbssibly there are
exceptions to this experience, but if so they are
very seldom heard of.
In the case of Ross, executed in Brisbane
last week, the Queensland Executive admits that
it had the prisoner’s confession before it when
considering whether the rope and the gallows
should take their course or not. It is not likely
the prisoner guessed that such a use would be
made of the document when he signed it. The con-
fession was kept dark so as to do the press out of
a sensational item. Years ago in London and other
large hanging centres such things weren’t kept
dark. A prisoner’s confession was then regarded as
hissolici tor’s perquisite. Gentlemen One regularly
took up murder cases without fee on the under-
standing that the murderer, if convicted, would
sign a confession, which the solicitor could sell to
the newspapers. The document was worth £lO
or even £2O, and it was expected to contain hor-
rible details. Of course, if the prisoner was
acquitted he was expected to pay in cash, but even
if he didn’t pay he was an asset of a kind. For if
the lawyer didn’t save an occasional client from the
gallows he couldn’t hope to get business, and if he
didn’t get business he couldn’t get bloodstained
confessions to sell to the papers at £lO or £2O
each.
S. M. Herald recently dropped right into
poetry about a bit of Southern Monaro—the
N.S.W. district that, according to the same vari-
able paper, is too barren and dreary and un-
inhabitable and God-forsaken generally to be of
any use for Federal Capital purposes :
It is impossible to over-estimate the value of this
Alpine corner. If we omit Tasmania, it is the only
place in Australia where the Australian can get ah
absolute change of climatic conditions—an absolute
change of environment. If not to-dav, then certainly
to-morrow, this part of Australia must become a magnet
to all the tourists of the Commonwealth who can afford
to journey there. . . It does not take much
imagination to picture Kosciusko in the years to come
as the scene, not of a single Government hotel, but of an
infinite number of health-resorts, gardens and public
parks, holiday bungalows and fishing-boxes. For where
indeed, can you get such fishing as in the waters of the
Alpine streams? We may rejoice that the great Kosci-
usko district has been found and laid open to all to come
and seek recreation and recuperation in its rare atmo-
sphere.
And again
One is sure that Sydney folks up here on a day’s jaunt
must have been a little mistaken in their judgment of the
people hereabouts. Men cannot ride down these rido-es
as the Monarans undoubtedly do, as the Man from Snowy
River did, if the climate doesn’t make for strength both
of body and of spirits.
THE BUSINESS WOMAN.
“ Isn’t it a duck of a hat? And it never cost
you a penny."
"Where on earth did you get the money?”
“ Sold your last waiter's overcoat and your two
white suits."
Adelaide city mayoralty has suddenly de-
veloped an interesting situation. Several of the
younger and wealthier councillors are understood
to have an eye on the job and the dignity.
Simpson, who nearly contested' the office two
years ago with Frank Johnson, its present holder,
has drawn back, and has taken the lead in requi-
sitioning John Baker, son of the Federal Senate’s
ex-President. All the Council except two joined
in urging Baker to succeed Johnson next Decem-
ber. Then from the clouds drops Lewis Cohen,
who has for a year been living away
in Melbourne. He announces that, being
back and having plenty of leisure, he
will put up a sporting fight with Baker.
Cohen made a good mayor before; but he
held the office for five years in all, and there is
a general feeling that he might give the younger
A TRIAL GIVEN.
A motorist, charged with recklessly driving 30 miles an
hour in a Melbourne city street, said he had a prospective
buyer and was giving a trial.
INTENDING PUROHASER (in foreground): “ she'll
do!”
men a chance now. But some people have the
habit of being mayor. Cohen, as already men-
tioned, held the position in Adelaide for five
years. So did E. T. Smith. So did Charles
Tucker, who struck a disaster in recent times. In
Sydney John Harris wore the dignity for five
years ; and John George Davies in Hobart wore
it for six years ; and ,in Melbourne the numerous-
ness of John Thomas Smith as Mayor was so great
that words couldn’t fully express it.
The fact that consumption killed Tom
Price, perhaps the most personally-popular Pre-
mier S. Australia ever had. has stirred that State
to an unusual interest in the preventable disease.
TJnley, the chief town in Price’s old Assembly
district, considered the matter in its city council
the other night, and passed numerous resolu-
tions :
(1) That notification of the complaint by the medical
attendant shall be accompanied by a certificate setting
forth whether the patient is in an infectious or non-
infectious condition. If non-infectious, the patient is to
be kept under strict observation ; if infectious, to be
isolated either privately or publicly.
(2) That power be given to compulsorily isolate any
person suffering from the disease who may be living or
working under conditions which are a source of danger
to other persons.
(3) That a State sanatorium should be established.
(4) That a fund should be established to support the
needy families of persons isolated.
Alderman Dollman, who steered the resolutions
through, based many of his contentions on Dr.
Elkington’s article in the May Lone Hand.
Most of the resolutions are, of course, merely the
Council’s vigorous expressions of opinion, and it
has no power at present to enforce them ; but the
subject is being followed up strongly in the Ade-
laide press, and a conference of municipal bodies
will before long be called to deal with the whole
big, ghastly matter.
A flickergraph fiend, with a machine
capable of taking pictures by electric light, could
have got a gorgeous set on the highway between
South Yarra and Richmond (Melbourne) on the
last public holiday. Soon after midnight a motor-
car, carrying C. Gavan Duffy, son of Frank,
K.C., and C. Dudgeon, of Dud-
geon and Arnall, proceeded
along Church-street, Richmond,
over the Yarra bridge, and
down a slight incline to where
a drain, that once was Gaff-
ney’s Creek, crosses the road.
Prahran Council is in the act
of renewing the bridge oyer
this drain, and on the Mon-
day night there was a gap
30ft. wide and 15ft. deep
where the bridge used to be.
Two hundred feet away a bar-
ricade, lit by hanging lan-
terns, warned travellers of
danger. The motor came along
at what is said to have been a
“moderate” pace, snapped the
red gum posts of the barricade
like carrots, slipped with beau-
tiful precision between a don-
key engine and a portable Crane,
and took a flying leap for the
opposite bank. It was a splen-
did effort, but either the motor
wasn’t built for “lepping,” or the speed was a trifle
too low, for the car struck the opposite bank 3ft.
below the edge, and fell back into the drain—
with its two occupants underneath. When the
awe-struck watchman had inspected the wreck,
he sent for police and ambulance, and bespoke
two slabs at the morgue. But the slabs weren’t
heeded, for the two steeplechasers had escaped with
a broken leg apiece and about an acre of bruises.
The car sustained contusions, but its engines
were undamaged. It was a marvellous escape,
and it suggests strange possibilities. For instance,
if a car, going at a moderate pace, drops only 3ft.
in a 30ft. leap, how would it do for the V.R.C. to
run a motor-steeple down the Footscray hill and
over the 'Saltwater River at full tilt? Even a
Melbourne Cup wouldn’t draw quite the crowd
that that would.
HO! FOR THE WINTER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The conditions were wild and rough along the sea-
board yesterday. A south-east gale was raging, the
storm being attended by heavy rain, squalls and high
seas. All along the South Coast the full force of the
storm has been experienced, and at Kiama the pilot had
hoisted “stand off” signals, warning vessels not to
approach the port. Shipping going south had a hard
tussle with the elements.— Daily paper.
Ho !to the grandfather gale—to his whiskers magnificent,
flowing !
And Ho ! to the ship (well-insured) that doesn’t know
where it is going ;
Ho ! to the one-sided fight in the midst of mad billows
gigantic ;
Ho ! to the hidden result and the waltz of black widows,
all frantic. ' '
Ho ! to the shriek of the wind in the tarry old harp of the
rigging :
Ho! to the jolly commercials that sit all day smoking
and swigging ;
Bah ! to the tip-hunting wretch and his palm bare and
empty, demanding
A (Ho!. . . Beg y’ pardon !) half-crown, whilst passengers
turn in all standing.
Ho! for the swish of the rain dashing down from the
hoses of Heaven ;
Ho ! to the useless beef tea that awaits us below at
eleven ;
Ho 1 to the farmer from Vic. going north to find land and
to till it;
And Ho ! to the limping last line and the brave shout of
Ho ! that will fill it.
(When you’ve got a long line to Ho ! you’ve got to keep
Ho !-ing and Ho !-ing ;
When Ho !’s are off, a loud 800 ! —or a Bah ! —will help you
to keep going ;
The man who hoes beans in a row with strange agricul-
tural curses
Would probably (Ho !) scorn the Hoi’s that are strewn
about in these verses.)
But. . . Ho ! for the grandfather gale ! His whiskers
tumultuous and ragged
Are waving like mad off the coast, which (Ho !) is most
terribly jagged;
The ships wallow deep in the trough and shudder and
swerve on the surges ;
The poet snorts Ho 1 and behold 1 the dark windy poem
emerges !
N.S.W.
THE MAN WITH THE HO!
HARD LINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. T. Fink complained of the small amount of space
devoted bv London papers to Australian matters. The
gift of a Dreadnought by the Deakin-Cook Government,
a matter of immense importance, was dismissed in four
lines. —Press Conference cable.
Hang sackcloth on the plate of brass ;
In grim habiliments of woe
Deck out the Stock Exchange, and pass
The Union Club with footfall slow ;
Is Freetrade strangled all in vain,
While still the Dry Dog faithful whines,
When we from Fusipn but obtain
Four lines?
We shrieked, we listened, we endured,
The ceaseless'chin that Johnston wags ;
With buns and lollies kids we lured
To look at Smithurst swopping flags ;
We hollered loud of shell and shot,
- Of Germany with base designs,
And after all our noise we got
Four lines. ,
Now all the cash we didn’t raise
At Allen Taylor’s glad desire,
And each inspiring loyal phrase
Is one with Nineveh and Tyre.
What use was Kelly talking fight
(The point at which he mostly shines),
When traitors at the cable write
Four lines?
Four lines ! Between the thrilling par.
About the probates and the wills,
And intimations that catarrh
Is curable by Bogson’s Pills.
The Dead Sea fruit reveals its dust,
Experience at last defines
The price of crookedness as just
Four lines.
N. S. W.
C. N.


Perpetual Motion.
When George Stephenson was asked,
*’ Do you believe in perpetual motion ? ”
he replied, Yes, if you lift yourself by
the waist-band of the trousers, and carry
yourself three times round the room.”
Just so, and a woman would just as
soon believe that she has not to pay dearly
for common soaps, in ' the low qualitv
of soap, in ruined hands and clothes.
She would be kept in perpetual motion
trying to do with common soap what she
could so easily do with Sunlight Soap.
Mint to many lends it aid.
One may mention, if you please,
Mint’s a place where money’s made.
Mint is made to flavor peas ;
But of all the mints that are,
From Dundee to Tararua,
One there is that’s best by far,
Which is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
UNDERWEAR COMFORT
That is the distinct feature of our Light Blue
Underwear for Winter. Comfort —and warmth
—at a strictly, moderate price. You’ll be
thoroughly satisfied with these undergarments,
for they are well-fashioned on correct human-
figure lines, woven closely, giving a genial
warmth without undue weight—in fact, filling
a long-felt want for dependable underwear
suitable for Winter at a popular price.
PRICE. : Either Undershirt
or Pants,
Posted 6d. extra.
6/6.
PEAPES n CO., LTD.,
"MEN’S OUTFITTERS/'
509-511 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m*.
§lll hi
Si*
“S.T.S.”: Why are authors so lazy?
Why, when they allude casually to things they
don’t understand —and must know they don’t
understand—will they not take the very slight
trouble involved in asking a question of someone
who knows? Here is Constance Smedlev’s new
novel. “The June Princess,” with a London
chauffeur mentioning (quite gratuitously) that
“he was Australian; had been a squatter with
his uncle, the first Labor member.” In just the
same careless spirit did Ouida print that a chess-
player “castled his opponent’s queen,” and that
odds were laid on several horses in a Derby field.
■*■***
Even if they did have to knuckle down,
more or less, to some of the owners, the Broken
Hill miners have made up their minds to get
something substantial out of their fine organisa-
tion. They haven’t turned their principles into
practice so far as to try running a mine on their
own account, but the combined unions are push-
ing their way into all sorts of other businesses. A
co-operative grocery store and a bootshop are
running already ; there is a newspaper and a job-
printery where the societies do their own work ;
there is a club, which is practically a union-owned
pub, with, a stopper put on the bottle when a mem-
ber wants to go too far ; a wood and coal dep6t has
been started ; and a butchery has been running
for some time. Now one of the men who were
“ up ” with Tom Mann, and who happens to be a
master-baker in a fairly big way of business, has
sold his turn-out to the unions at a valuation, and
will go on wages as manager for a spell. And
they are still reaching out. They haven’t yet
established an undertakery. But; the chief under-
takery business is owned by a leading member of
the unions—the one who debated the other night
with Mann, affirming that the chain-clanker
shouldn’t have advised the men to go back—and
numerous hints have been thrown bis way that
it’s time he came to terms. Anyway, the com-
bined unions say they are going straight ahead, no
matter who happens to be in the business at pre-
sent, and intend making their members absolutely
independent of anything but union-owned shops
for all the necessaries of life.
•* te *
Time, evidently, that the artists formed a
union and applied for a Board and fixed a mini-
mum wage. Witness the following ad. in Sydney
Telegraph :
A RTIST goes out by day, 7s. 6d. ; two landscapes
guaranteed. Wabercolor, , .
Skilled labor would scoff at this payment, and
unskilled labor demands more. The washerlady
charges nearly as much. Yet there is no loafing
about the advertiser. The generous
capitalist who employs him gets two
l andscapes at least for his three half-
crowns—twelve masterpieces in one
week for 455., material and artist’s
food (supposing he does feed)
thrown in. The artist doesn’t
mention that he gives coupons;
but possibly at a pinch he would
throw a frame into the bargain.
A MATTER OF MUTUAL ADVANTAGE.
MAB : " The wretch is marrying someone else ,
after all, and you stand it! ”
MAY: "Oh, it's all right , old girl. He's only
marrying money.”
The latest N.S.W. importation that has
gone wrong is a contraption known as the
M‘Myler hoist, which Railway Commissioner
Johnson bought in America for about £60,000, or
something. The colliery-owners have been getting
letters from their inter-State customers, who say
they ordered coal, and what they have got is some
powdery sort of stuff that you can only carry away
in a bucket. The hoist lifts the coal trucks into
the circumambient atmosphere and lets the con-
tents go hurtling through space into the ships,
with the result complained of. Johnson .re-
marks that in the U.S. the trucks hold
50 tons, and he forgot that Newcastle trucks
only hold eight tons. Apparently the result
is that the coal is lifted higher, aiid dashed more
furiously through the atmosphere, and thus
knocked into smaller dust than would be the case
if bigger trucks were used. Johnson wants the
coal people to get a complete outfit of new trucks,
and the disgusted coal people say it would be
cheaper to get a new Johnson.
In your issue of June 3 one
“Boswell” justly denounces the finger-print
craze. No man should ever be convicted solely on
the finger-print yarn. It is too hopelessly one-
sided. You have the accused behind the spikes,
and the large John Dunn in the box. The J.
Dunn may be as large as can be expected for the
poor wage he gets,, and he may be long in the
stride and windy on the run when pursuing the
flying malefactor, but he isn’t a scientist. If you
advertised for a brilliant scientist, 6ft. high, of
great muscle and chest measurement, willing to
go out in all weathers, and to fight with burglars,
and to be mauled by the push, and to wear an
absurd headgear, all for about £2 a week, you
would get no replies. This John Dunn person
swears that the finger print found on the
window-sill exactly corresponds with that of
the prisoner. The Bench has a vague idea
that it has read somewhere that this kind
of identification is infallible because no two
finger prints in all the world are quite alike. Such
a statement is plain bosh ; as the finger prints of
the whole human race haven’t been taken and
classified, no one can say that there may not be
100 exactly alike. Another policeman probably
corroborates. The Court, which isn’t an expert at
this game, and which is often too old to be of much
account, possibly peers at the evidence through
its spectacles and assumes that it is all right. The
cheap solicitor for the defence understands that
the. finger-print test is infallible because he has
read all in the Snips paper, and has also
heard many John Dunns say so in the witness-
box ; he realises that his case is hopeless, but he
puts up a perfunctory defence out of the depths
of his knowledge of the Dog Act. Then con-
viction follows. It is all wretchedly one-sided
and unsatisfactory. The other day, at Southern
Cross (W.A.), one Joyce was identified by finger-
print evidence as being the same person as Nolan,
who was a N.S.W. criminal of long standing, and
Joyce got three months. It was considered
another triumph of the system. Yet it is just as
possible that the case merely proved Joyce and
Nolan to have exactly similar finger-prints, and
that it really went to show that the finger-print
identification business is an over-rated sham.
There are supposed to be fourteen hundred
million people on this earth, and the theory that
Nature has contrived to make fourteen hundred
million complete and recognisable variations in
the small space of a finger-tip seems too thin.
Why, in any case, should Nature go to all that
trouble? What does it get out of it? On the
surface of things, it doesn’t get even the price of
a green cotton umbrella.
Melbourne is getting used to its Saturday
half-holiday for shops, and the outcry against it
is sinking to a very faint whisper.
The chief sufferers are a few shop-
keepers in Chapel-street, Prah-
ran, and it is to be hoped they
will presently transfer their
losses to their landlords.
P’ran has in reality been
living for a long while on
trade that rightly belonged
to other suburbs. The
abolition of the Saturday
afternoon and evening
shopping has been a blow
to the housewife who
used to take the day off
and ransack half the
shops in the street as
a sort of week-end out-
ing. Now she confines
her business to her re-
quirements, and instead
of trapezing over to
P’ran, or out to Col-
lingwood, she deals
with the local trades-
men, gets her business
done in half the time,
and has more leisure
to improve her looks,
or her mind, or her
husband’s appetite, if
she feels that way. So
P’ran has suffered
slightly, but not half so
much as some of it alleges.
A few shopkeepers wailed
pitifully at a recent abortive
meeting, called to protest against
■ the holiday ; but most of them said
they weren’t worrying—trade was
being localised and more evenly distri-
buted, that was all. And when a number of
grocers said they found business steadily improv-
ing and less credit being asked for, the promoters
of the meeting gave up the “great united pro-
test ” as a bad, hopeless job.
The long-postponed prosecution of Daley
by Nicholas Willis—it was postponed owing to
the mysterious and yet unexplained sandbagging
of Willis—was a curious business. The interest
of it didn’t lie in the prompt acquittal of Daley,
whom the jury found not guilty of any
attempt to blackmail Willis, but in the way
the case bolted out of the hands of Judge
Rogers and left him apparently helpless.
The cross-examination of Willis was mainly a
howl and shriek and blizzard of savage recrimina-
tion between Willis and lawyer Levien, and by
the time it was finished there was hardly any-
thing they hadn’t charged each other with except
gout in the stomach. And they might have
charged each other with that if they had thought
of it.
* * * *
An ungentle person named Bill Robinson,
living at North Melbourne, has just learned to his
sorrow that an Australian man’s house is not his
castle. Bill amused himself one night by knock-
ing his housekeeper about. He biffed her and
kicked her and pulled a lot of hair out of her
head. Also he tore her clothes off her and burnt
them. When a policeman was called to the rescue
of the damaged female Bill was scornful. “Go
to blanky!” said he. “ This is my house, and I
can do what I like here, and if I did knock her '
about a bit—well, she ain’t my wife.”' Appar-
ently, Bill felt pretty sure of his right .to inflict
severe punishment on any woman in his own
house provided she wasn’t his wife. The North
Melbourne Bench corrected his mistake with a
sentence of six months’ imprisonment; and now
Bill reckons that the sanctity of his home has
been shamefully violated. From time to time he
is heard inquiring of the four walls of his prison
cell, “ What price the liberty of the subject?”
THE LETTER OF
THE LAW.
ENRAGED DRIVER : “ Get
orf the road—damyer!”
INEBRIATE: “Can’t, d'r boy, can’t.
Muslin’t get off while tram's in moshun.”
The latest local innovation is the ferro-
concrete telegraph pole, an experimental 1000 of
which the Federal authorities have just ordered.
The poles are made of ordinary concrete, rein-
forced with steel wire, and may be brought up to
any strength by additional reinforcement. Their
principal advantages are that they are not affected
by rain, dry-rot, or white ants ; they require no
painting ; they are never cut up by swagmen for
firewood, and they can be manufactured practi-
cally on the spot where they’re to be set up.
Truly, this becometh a second (artificial) Stone
Age. Even the 80-ton ferroconcrete coal barge is
an accomplished fact in the Italian navy.
Australia has a lot of laws for the adequate
gaoling of the able-bodied loafer who cadges from
citizens in the street; but, so far, more or less
prosperous aldermen and such-like have been
allowed to proclaim their lack of pride to the
world at large, and make Australians generally
appear as a race of snivelling mendicants, with-
out being sent up for seven days. A year or two
ago, the town of Mildura (Vic.), the centre
of the most prosperous fruit-growing district
south of the line, and perhaps the richest com-
munity in all Australia, crawled to million-
aire Carnegie, and implored that good, kind
gentleman to build it a library with some
of the money he had sweated out of his
Pittsburg workmen. Carnegie had no sooner
sent along his tainted cheque, than the residents
of Wolgan (N.S.W.) went on their stomachs to
Newnes, the Tit-Bits man, and changed the name
of their town to Newnes in acknowledgment of
his kindness in putting up a building for them.
Following this, a Parramatta church joined the
eel-like procession that is always squirming before
Carnegie, and squirmed so picturesquely that
Croesus sent along another cheo ue. The last straw
comes from the Prospect and Sherwood Council,
which decided, by a majority of one, to
stand in line (if such a word as “stand”
can be used in this connection) and im-
plore Carnegie to build it a town hall.
Beside such places as Mildura and Newnes and
Parramatta and Prospect and Sherwood, the ruling
bodies of Newtown (which presents the spectacle
of a furious draper dealing out stoush in the middle
of the municipal deliberations) and .Waverley
(where the police have to be summoned to minimise
the language of sundry aldermen) seem such manly
and upstanding communities as to make the
country quite proud of them. The Waverley
ratepayer feels like the owner of a terrier addicted
to worrying cats, while the Sherwood and Prospect
one must feel like the owner of- a vermin-ridden
house.
Extract from Sydney paper advertise-
ment : •
SUNDAY SERVICES, 11 a.in., 7.15 p.m.
Subject: “GOD, THE PRESERVER OF MAN.”
(Subject and Sermon copyrighted by Mary Baker Eddy.')
We’ll all have to be looking out for a new religious
system now that Mrs. Eddy has copyrighted God.
THE UPLIFTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Anarchists in Australia.—“ You in Australia know little
about Russia,” said a distinguished authority on Russia,
at present in Australia. “ The dynamite bombs used re-
cently in Australia were made by a man who had more
than one assassination on his head. He made the bombs
for the extreme Socialists. Perhaps some day he may
make some for his own use.” Inspector Gleeson, who has
charge of the Criminal Investigation Branch, declared
yesterday that he had not known of the presence of any
dangerous anarchists in Australia.— Argus (l/6/’O9).
Come, now, a rhyme of a bombous breed and a continent
plunged in danger;
Of a very remarkable fact indeed, disclosed by a total
stranger ;
Of a beautiful future of gore and groans ;
Of a tyrant race that is doomed to bleed
In a mincemeat-death on the paving-stones !
Bombs ? Yes, bombs, and a Rooshian crowd to pass ’em
around with pleasure ;
And a Terror or two to pip the proud as a simple, reform-
ing measure.
Why, yes, a rhyme of a boinbster gay, and a truly
amazing story
Of a brotherhood thirsting to harry and slay, and to
hustle the Great to glory—
To tangle our knights in a blood-stained knot,
To scatter the rich in a horrible way,
And mangle the man of the lofty lot,
Uplifting the world with bombs well-placed (for thus is
the world uplifted)!
They’re out on their anarehing job, and soon the best of
us may be shifted.
Oh, this is a rhyme of an arrow by night, and of beautiful
bombs to be busted ;
Of a terrible doom for old Fat-in-a-fright, if the organ of
Fat can be trusted !
Will the Fatted in future be easy at all ?
Will directors of “ dailies ” be bombed on sight,
And Guv’nors go pop as the rose-leaves fall ? . . .
Well, this is a rhyme of the News we Need, of a horrible,
high-flown danger—
Of a limb in a thousand, elastic indeed, well-pulled by a
garrulous stranger 1
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Repre3snted
nv
Arthur Lepiastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a liockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
! -Trr . Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron & Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
machinery. Addresses : ■ '
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT;
and Pall Mall, BENDIGO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand (Maoriland)
Paid Interest
towards on
Loss of Money Divi-
Assets Ad- dend
Reali- vanced 5
Pro- Written sation by per Re-
Mar., fits. Off. Board. State. cent, serves.
, £ £ £ £ £ £
1899.. 191,420 43,920 50,000 97,500 23,474
1900.. 242,520 95,020 50,000 97,500 23,474
1901.. 300,242 160,665 50,000 89,577 23,474
1902.. 289,502 37,001 151,135 80,000 21,366 23,474
1903.. 290,591 15,001 174,410 80,000 21,180 23,474
1904.. 293,316 12,500 179,022 80,000 21,281 23,987
1905.. 320,909 15,001 206,312 51,978 47,618 23,987
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£19,910) 43,897
1906.. 330,330 16,001 224,329 40,000 50,000 43,897
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£37,397) 81,294
7i p.c. pref.
10p.c. ord.
1907.. 343,851 16,000 40,000 87,500 281,675
1908.. 369,923 20,000 40,000 87,500 504,098
8f p.c. pref.
12j p.c. ord.
1909.. 365,151 15,000 40,000 106,250 710,999
The figures showing profits are still a blaze of glory ; but
they can only be regarded as more or less tentative.
Maoriland property values have been lifted high on a flood
of loan money ; and as loans are difficult beasts to snare
just at present, the flood lias receded, and values have
gone hack with it. Therefore it yet remains to be seen
whether this hank has not been landed with a quantity
of bad debts. Banks don’t send round a collector when
ttie interest falls due to wait on the mat till the money is
paid; they merely add the interest on to the debt
showing in their books, and reckon it as so
much revenue, and on that basis the profit is shown.
By and bye it may turn out that tiie security
wasn't enough to cover even the original debt, let alone
the interest ; hence for that term really 7 no interest at
all was earned, and what was shown as profit, based on
that interest, wasn’t really profit at all. Of course there
is no certainty that anything of tiie sort will happen in
this case ; if there was a certainty 7 the management would
no doubt make provision, even at the cost of showing
greatly reduced profits. Probably, also, it has consider-
able internal reserves, included, no doubt, among “Bills
in circulation, etc.” —a convenient item, into which all
sorts of trust and reserve accounts are usually lumped.
But, given all that in, there are the possibilities men-
tioned above.
Fifteen years ago, after another boom—one with
much less foundation, no doubt —the bank was in such
serious trouble that it practically bailed up the Govern-
ment ; and even after it had written off four-fifths of the
suarenolders’ capital, it only pulled through with the
help of £2,000,000 of Government money. At the same
time, so as not to cloud the progress of tiie bank so far as
current business was concerned, the worst of the old
assets were turned over to a Realisation Board. In 1904
£500,000 of the debt to the State was repaid ; a further
£500,000 was converted into 5 per cent. pref. shares,
limited to 10 per cent. ; the other £1,000,000 is repre-
sented by 7 4 per cent, guaranteed stock maturing in
1914. The arrangement with the Government is
tnat, after the pref. shares have had 5 per cent.,
the ordinaries are entitled to 5 per cent. : after
t.iac the prefs. must get 1 per cent, for every 7 2 per cent,
extra drawn by ordinaries, though, as mentioned above,
the prefs.—all held by tiie State—are never entitled to
more than 10 per cent. For tiie past year, as the ordi-
naries got per cent., prefs. were entitled to 8} per cent.
When ordinaries draw 15 percent, prefs. must get lOper
cent. ; but tiie latter stop at that. To pay 15 and 10 per
cent, respectively would call for £125,000 ; and under
usual circumstances the declared prolits would fully
justify 7 that nice little distribution. But this bank has to
aeep its eye on the £1,000,0U0 of debt which the State
will call for in 1914. With that in mind reserves are
being strengthened rapidly, and these reserves are being
kept largely in cash and Maoriland Government stock. On
March 3L the bank had no less than 54 per cent, of its de-
posits, notes, and other ordinary debt represented by
liquid assets. It could pay off the debt to Government
and still show 47 per cent.—a very strong position indeed.
The past year’s movements have been rather
less emphatic than might have been expected
Mar., ’OS. Mar., ’O9.
Notes in circula-
tion .. .. £912,627 £930,852 Ino. £18,225
Bills in circulation,
etc 1,838,676 1,491,420 Dec. 347,256
Deposits .. .. 12,771,413 12,547,232 Dec. 224,181
Liquid assets .. 7,399,884 8,013,802 Inc. 613,918
Old Assets Board
assets .. .. 471,235 403,710 Dec. 67,525
Advances .. .. 9,871,341 8,972,637 Dec. 898,704
Premises, etc. .. 321,853 346,605 Inc. 24,752
Though deposits have shrunk a little, advances have
apparently been called in so energetically that the liquid
assets are £613,918 more than they 7 were 12 months ago.
Tiie heavy reduction of advances apparently means tiiat
the bank believes that securities had lately been over-
valued, and weren’t good enough for the advances.
Doubtless to call for a reduction was the right thing to
do ; but it might have" been better had tiie bank kept a
firmer hand on the advances in the first place.
The course of B.N.Z. shares has’Jbeen remark-
able. The following shows their value at the end of each
recent year:—
1901 .. ..£2 9 6 1905 .. ..£7lO
1902 .. ..350 1906 .. .. 900
1903 .. ..4 0 0 1907 .. .. 915 0
1904 .. ..500 1908 .. .. 810 0
In 1900 they 7 were practically unsaleable ; at present they
are quoted at £9 buyer. These shares are only £3 6s. Bd.
paid ; at £9 they return about £4 13s. per cent., so long
as the dividend is 12J per cent. But for a bank of this
size the capital is small; with advances of £8,972,637, the
capital (pref. and ordinary) is only £1,000,000, or £l to
about £9. In the Bank of N. S. Wales, with advances of
£20,918,149, the capital is £2,500,000, or £1 to about £B.
It is therefore probable then-when (or it may 7 be before)
the Government’s £1,000,000 is repaid, shareholders will be
invited to p ly up all or part of the uncalled £3 os. Bd. per
share ; and if they can get 12J per cent, on that money
too, it is not likely that they will have to be invited twice.
The WELLINGTON AND MANAWATU RAILWAY Co.
(Maoriland)
Railway Land Dividends and Total Re-
Feb., Profits. Profits. Bonus. serves.
1899.. £6,258 £1,849 5 per cent. =£8,500 £62,731
1900.. 8,094 8,099 5 ~ ~ 8,500 70,424
1901.. 8,773 7,866 0 „ „ 10,200 76,863
19.12.. 7,.969 3,624 6 ~ ~ 10,200 78,256
.1903.. 10i361 35,221 16 ~ „ 27,200 96,638
1-904.. 11,066 6,940 7 „ „ 11,900 102,7-14
1905.. 10,389 6,201 7 „ ~11,900 107,434
1906.. 11,265 10,629 7 „ ~ 11,900 117.428
1.107.. 11,447 10,477 7 „ ~ 11,900 127,452
J 908.. 11,495 13,600 7 ~ „ 11,900 140,647
Net Profit on Sale to the State, £138,039 278,686
1909.. 57,964 8,774 5 per cent. = 8,500 336,924
And that is practically the end of it. Twenty-seven years
ago, when the co. took advantage of the Railway Con-
struction and Land Act, it got a large concession of terri-
tory in return for building a railway. The State,
however, always reserved the goodwill to itself; in other
words, if the State exercised its right to buy the line,
etc., at a valuation, the actual works were all it had to
pay for. At various times purchase has been suggested,
sometimes indeed by the London shareholders, who were
evidently rather worried by the long wait for dividends
(the first div. only came in 1891, though the co. was
formed in 1882.) There were, however, differences of
opinion as to the just value. The Government suggested
that the hook-value should be taken ; the co. puoh-
poohed this, and said that, looking well ahead, large
sums had been written off out of revenue. Finally the
co. got rid of nearly all its land ; and when it had done
that, it pushed forward the sale of the railway. On
February 29, 1908, “ Railway and railway stock” stood in
the books at £828,377 ; and there was also on the other
side an item, “ Maintenance of line, insurance, and con-
tingencies, £45,000.” Instead, however, of £783,377 net,
or even the full £828,377, the Government paid £915,000.
The co. owed £680,000 on debentures. The first instal-
ment of the purchase money allowed this debt to he paid
off early in the year. But the co. kept possession of the
line till the end of the year; and thus, though it was
paying the Government 4 per cent, on the instalment, it
was relieved of all but £B5OO of the usual debenture in-
terest bill (£34,000). Further, there w'as no need to write
off anything for depreciation; so between these two
things the great jump in the railway profits for the year
is explained.
The last accounts which the co. will issue do not
clearly show the transactions with the Government; but
the table printed above gives the general result. The co.,
it will be seen, makes a net profit of £138,039 on the trans-
action. That, however, may need explaining. It does
not mean that the co. got £138,039 more than it paid or
spent; it means that the co. netted £138,039 more than
its own accounts said the line and equipment were worth
after deducting the reserve which it had provided against
depreciation :
Railway, book-value (29/2/’08) .. .. £828,377
Less depreciation reserve .. .. 45,000
Net book value £783,377
Price paid by Government .. .. 915,000
Balance not represented by visible
assets £131,623
The co. made a further £6416 of profit somehow or some-
where ; hut it cannot be traced. The position, therefore,
is that, after paying all its creditors, the co. w ill have its
capital (£170,000) and £336,924 besides; total £506,924.
The liquidation will cost £2OOO ; balance available,
£504,924, equal to £2 19s. 4d. per share. Of this £504,924’
£10,260 is in land, and £26,284 in balances due bv land
purchasers; the rest is all cash, and at once available.
The liquidators will pay £2 15s. at once; and anything
from 4s. 3d. to ss. may follow.
There have been nice pickings in this stock for
soniebody. In 1900 the shares were worth 255. ; and
things gradually improved till they stood at£l 18s. at the
beginning of 1907. Twelve months ago, when it was
announced that the deal was to come off, a calculation
was made here, based on the co.’s figures, and it was
shown that £2 12s. would be realised, “ taking no
account of the current year’s profits.” As a matter
of fact, exclusive of the year’s profits, £2 12s. 9d. was
realised ; so it was a pretty close estimate", all
things considered. Looking at the matter from another
point it will be found that, although the co. was so slow
in getting into the dividend list, those who took up shares
in the beginning and hung on to them all through will
now get all their money back and an average of about 13
per cent., per annum into the bargain. The other way of
putting it is that, had the Government owned the line
from the beginning, those who use it and those who have
bought land in the neighborhood would have saved over
£15,300 a year—9 per cent., that is, on the co.’s capital of
£170,000. In fact, they would have saved more ; for the
co. borrowed £680,000 on 5 per cent, debentures, and the
Government could have got the money at 4 per cent. •
and the wasted 1 per cent, means another £6BOO a year. ’
The National Bank of Tasmania (Launceston,
Tas.)’
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re. Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Nov., 1902.. £4479 5 p.c.= £3991 £4BB £30,136
May, 1903.. 4908 5 ~ ~ 3991 - 917 31 053
Nov., 1903.. 4699 5 ~ „ 3991 —70 S
May, 1904.. 5247 6 ~ „ 4789 —45 S
Nov., 1904.. 5438 6 ~ ~ 4789 649 32|568
May, 1905.. 5291 6 ~ ~ 4789 502 33,870
Nov., 1905.. 5752 6 ~ ~ 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906.. 5696 6 ~ ~ 4759 £lOOO 34 240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6 ~ ~ 4759 1460 35’ 700
May, 1907.. 9077 7 ~ „ 5587 3490 39’190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7 ~ ~ 5587 1000 1983 41,’173
May, 1908.. 8793 7 ~ ~ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7 ~ „ 5587 2877 46’256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 „ „ 5587 2701 48’,957
■ Six months ago the published accounts of this bank
called for hostile criticism. It had then only 19 per cent,
of its liabilities in liquid form. During the past half-year
an improvement has taken place, and 26 per cent, of the
public’s money is in coin, bullion and cash balances. Even
now the proportion is too low, as can be seen by bringing
these items together :
Notes and free deposits .. £320,375
Com, bullion and cr. balances 158,608
Money payable on demand not
represented by liquid assets £161,767
No doubt, so long as the bank can safely lend out the
current account money, etc., it is good business; but
there is a point at which it becomes dangerous. Just
what that point is depends upon a hundred things which
the outsider can’t know for certain. The writer was
once in a far-western (N.S.W.) township where a local
firm’s “ shin-plasters” (orders) were taken in preference
to Bank of N. S. Wales notes. When a firm or a bank
can inspire that much confidence it probably needn’t
worry much about its notes in circulation. Also, there
are cases in w'hich clients are so married to
a bank that current account money is just about as
“fixed” as ordinary fixed deposits. But one cannot
rely on these extraordinary conditions; assuming
that normal conditions rule, this bank is in the
habit of trading on too narrow a margin. It does not
at all follow that a bank makes more money by doing
this. On the contrary, the concern which ordinarily
maintains a strong cash position has three advantages :
(1) when money is scarce, and a big price is paid'for
accommodation, it doesn’t have to refuse unusually pro-
fitable business ; (2) it commands more fixed deposits, as
a rule ; (3) borrowers prefer it because when money
becomes scarce they are not so liable to be harassed. In
this case, in spite of the use of so large a proportion of
the free money, the earnings are not very large. Calcu-
lated on capital and reserves combined they show up
lately as follows :
Nov., 1905 ..£6 4 1 p.c. Nov., 1907 ..£8 19 3 p.c
May, 1906 .. 6 2 3 „ May, 1908 .. 9 2 0 „
Nov., 1906 .. 6 14 2 ~ Nov., 1908 .. 8 13 3 ~
May, 1907 .. 9 13 5 ~ May, 1909 .. 8 7 2 ”
The trouble is that the bank does not command any large
amount of fixed deposits. The shareholders’ money in
the business totals £200,997; while the public’s money
(notes, deposits, etc.) is £594,727. Thus instead of having
£6 or £7 of the public’s money for every £1 of its own, as
many banks have, the National of Tasmania has under
£3. Therefore, though the bank does keep so little cash
in the safe, in the last resort the depositors’ security is un-
usually good.
The figures further compare with those of 12
months ago
May, 1908. May, 1909.
Notes in circulation.. £62,039 £56,998 Dec. £5,041
Bills, etc 24,163 21,337 Dec. 2,826
Deposits at interest.. 244,883 253,015 Inc. 8,132
Deposits, free.. ..303,297 263,377 Dec. 39,920
Liquid assets . . .. 138,870 159,124 Inc. 20,254
Advances .. .. 669,363 614,7 U Dec. 54,652
Premises, etc 28,155 27,476 Dec. 679
As mentioned above, the most important movements have
been for the better, though they will probably mean
diminished earnings for a while.
* • * *
The Mutual Life of New York shows, like the
rest, the effects of the American legislation that followed
on the great insurance clean-up. In 1904 the total
income was supposed to have got up to the maximum of
£18,521,964, made up in this way :
New premiums .. .. .. £2,266,576
Renewal premiums .. .. 9,909,540
Interest, etc. 3,667,700
Securities written up .. .. 2,6(8,148
Total £18,521,964
There is a valuation of assets every year, and the
increase or decrease is shown in the annual
accounts as so much profit or loss. While things
boomed, this made the figures look magnificent;
afterwards just about as much had to come off as had
gone on. It was this shrinkage wliich caused a great deal
of the alarm. Of course, it didn’t amount to anything
really serious. In the boom years a quantity of froth h‘d
been heaped on to the assets ; afterwards it was blown off,
and the assets remained mostly as good as ever. The new
law, however, insisted upon the offices moderating their
ambitions, being satisfied that that was the only way a
reasonable expense rale could be secured and maintained.
Consequently the amount of new business has suffered.
Comparing what was done last year with the figures for
1903—the biggest new-business year of the insurance
boom days—we get these results :
1903. 1908.
New business premiums .. £2,362,285 £2,022,218
Renewal premiums .. .. 9,255,789 9,777,926
Interest earnings (net) .. 3,416,346 4,981,468
This excludes in both cases income derived from sale of
annuities. There has thus been shrinkage in new busi-
ness, hut the old or renewal business is still greater than
it was in 1903. If, however, we compare 1905 with the
past year, we shall find that the renewal business has also
shrunk. On old policies £10,585,283 was received in that
year, as against £9,777,926 received last year. The claims,
surrenders and lapses have thus outdistanced the new
business. The surrenders have been very heavy :
1903 £813,770
1908 3,034,569
For every £lOO that went out to satisfy death losses and
claims last year £56 went to pay out surrenderors. The
American system of borrowing heavily on policies is no
doubt partly responsible for this. The American office
encourages large policies ; and in time of stress loans are
made freely against these securities. Even now nearly
one-twelfth of the co.’s funds are “invested ”in this way.
The American claim is that “loans.on policies” are the
very safest form of investment. No doubt they are.
Theoretically, and if it lays to its book, an office cannot
lose. But from the national point of view it may be
doubted very much whether it is a good system. The
man who gets into the habit of pawning his insurance
policies can hardly regard himself as insured at all.
The Mutual of New York’s figures, as filed with
the London Board of Trade, claim for last year a profit
and loss gain of no less than £4,659,292 —presumably gain
on revaluations and on sale of securities. Apart from
that largely-book profit, the income exceeded all out-
goings by £4,551,405. The total funds stand at
£109,415,843. The total amount certified to be neces-
sary to meet policy liabilities is £88,939,983; there
is therefore a surplus of £20,475,860 to provide
for deferred bonuses or dividends, and to meet
depreciation and contingencies. Of this “surplus”
£2,277,676 lias been appropriated for bonuses to be paid
this current year. The total premium income in 1908
(apart from sums paid for annuities) was £11,800,144.
Tiie bonus, therefore, amounts on the average to 19'3 per
cent, of last year’s premiums. The results are better than
they were when the American offiues were booming so
tremendously. In the first place, the interest earnings
are better. ’ For years they stood at about £4 Bs. per
cent, of mean funds ; last year they stood at an excellent
£4 15s. 3d. per cent. Expenses have also been cut
down. In 1903 they amounted to £2O 14s. sd. per
cent, of total income—a preposterous rate for so
big a business. For the past year they have
been reduced to £l4 Is. Bd. per cent. Compared
with the figures shown by the best Australian offices—the
A.M.P.’s expense rate last year was £8 19s. 6d. percent.—
tliev are still rather high ; but the fall from the 1903 level
means a saving of about £790,000 on ihe past year’s busi-
ness. Add the gain from the increase in the rate of
interest—which may or may not be permanent—and the
present policyholders are £1,100,000 a year better off than
they would have been had the standard of 1903 and there-
abouts been maintained. Certainly more new business
was then being got; but it is doubtful whether that is
much of a set-off, because the difference between what
was got then and what is being got now represents busi-
ness that cost the most to get and was probably not
worth having.
♦ * * ■*
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co. (Ade-
laide) ;
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1900 .. £2195 Nil £1420 £775 £775
1901 . 2214 Nil 802 1412 2187
1902 .. 5049 Nil 2542 2507 4694
1903 .. 6665 8f p. c. = £5762 1134 4463
1904 .. 6041 7i ~ „ 4939 750 352 4815
1905 .. 5609 7% ~ „ 4939 750 4735
1906 .. 5890 7| ~ „ 4939 750, 201 4936
1907 .. 4883 6± ~ ~ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss.
190 S .. 632 Nil 4321
Profit.
1909 .. 6426 7£ p.c. = 4939 2000 —. 3SOB
This co. was formed in 1898, when it looked fairly certain
that Federation would shortly arrive and bring with it
inter-State Freetrade and Protection against the foreigner.
But, though Federation did arrive, it didn’t bring with it
as much Protection as this and other infant industries
needed, and it was 1903 before the co. paid a dividend.
And even after it started it has only managed to pay an
average of 4 per cent, by making inroads on its reserves.
One of its troubles is that salt is good ballast; and,
helped b.v that, the foreign salt manufacturer is able to
shoot his goods into Australia at very low prices—
lower prices, in fact, than he is willing to accept much
nearer home. On the whole, however, this co. had a
pretty fair year ; yet to pay 7\ per cent, and write £2OOO
off assets, it had to draw £513 from the reserves. The
principal item in the balance-sheer is “ Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant, goodwill, live and rolling stock, £59,946.”
Nothing has been written off goodwill for years ;
and so long as there is this intangible item in
the accounts, the reserves must be more or less
fictitious. From the very nature of most of the
other assets the depreciation is heavy. It is
possible that the supplies will never be exhausted. But
there is no certainty of that; opinions are divided on
the point. The directors write £lOOO off freeholds this
year ; and it seems a very wise and necessary thing to do,
and to continue to do. The other chief asset is stock,
£25,860; and that may be either over-valued or under-
valued. If it is over-valued, then the profits are over-
estimated ; or for the opposite reason they may be under-
estimated. It is a case in which a great deal has to be
taken on trust. The liabilities on May 14, including over-
draft, were £15,503 ; on the other side cash and book
debts totalled £4402.
Coraki Co-operative Butter Co., Coraki
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus Writ-
Dividends to Sup- ten Re-
Profits. per Annum, pliers. Off. serves
Jan., 1905.. £349 5 p.c. = £52 £246 £233
July, 1905 .. 417 5,, ~ 54 £260 119 217
Jam, 1906 .. 218 Nil 89 346
July, 1906 .. 53 Nil 195 204
Jan., 1907 .. 991 sp.c.= 82 257 856
July, 1907.. 865 5„ „ 83 224 254 1160
Jam, 1908 .. 334 5,, ~ 83 362 247 802
July, 1908.. 615 5,, „ 83 240 1094
Jam, 1909 ..112 5,, ~ 87 311 SOS
Poor profits don’t necessarily mean unsatisfactory busi-
ness in a co-operative concern ; they may simply mean
that suppliers have throughout been paid almost the full
value for their consignments at the time of delivery. The
only true tests are as to the prices received, and the cost
of management; and they can onlv be applied satisfac-
torily on the spot. For the half-year to Jim., 1907, the
wages item represented £2 15s. 7d.’ percent, of the butter
sales ;in the past half-year, £3 os. sd. per cent. There is
an increase there ; but the wage cost is still extremely
small. As far as can be traced the management costs
have not increased at all, and they, too, are very modest.
The co. owed £4872 on various accounts ; and book debts,
stock, and cash in hand totalled only £3047. It could
very' well do with a little more capital.
The Northern Steamship Co. (Auckland,
M.L.): —
Added
Net to He- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900 .. 7 per cent. = £3589 £37,825
1901 .. £7,380 7 ~ „ 4967 £2413 40,238
Taken
from
Reserves.
1902 .. 4,397 7 „ ~ 4875 478 39,760
Loss.
1903 .. 1,808 7 „ ~ 4875 6683 33,077
Profit. Added.
1904.. 14,062 7 „ ~ 6905 7157 40,234
1905 .. 7,127 7 ~ ~ 6905 222 40,456
Taken
from
1906.. 5,724 7 „ „ 6905 39075
Added.
1907.. 15,628 7 „ „ S6Bl 6947 46,222
Taken
from
Reserves.
1908.. 5,561 7 „ „ 8681 3120 43,102
1909.. 3,810 7 „ ~ 9515 5705 37,397
The profit and loss account alleges a net profit of £9289
“after making provision for insurance, depreciation, and
boiler accounts.” But the insurance funds have been
drawn upon to the extent of £2728, and £2751 has been
sucked up out of the boiler-renewal fund ; so the net
result is the £3BlO of profit shown above. The co. has
suffered numerous changes. Twelve months ago there
were 104,289 shares paid to 75., and 120,711 fully paid to
14s. 6d. ; this made 225,000 issued out of 300,000 author-
ised. During the year another 23,580 were issued fully
paid to 14s. 6d. in part payment for the Settlers’Steam-
ship Co.’s vessels, etc. ; and of 25,000 more offered to
existing shareholders 24,152 were applied for. The con-’
sequent changes are shown hereunder:—
1902. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. .. £69,642 £124,017 £124,017 £160,243
Reserves .. .. 42,598 50,562 47,442 42,412
Liabilities .. .. 36,118 50,006 53,945 59,753
Ship property ..131,268 198,226 194,726 226,534
Premises, etc. .. 5,279 6,606 10,172 5,193
Stores, book debts,
etc 11,811 20,571 20,506 30,682
As the div. is paid every 7 half-year, six months’ payment
has to be cut off the reserves shown in this last com-
parison to make them square with the figures in the first
table. It looks as though too large a dividend has been
paid for several years past. In 1902 the ship-property at
risk was £131,268. It is now £226,534. Yet, the reserves
are actually less than they were seven years ago.
This means that the co. has paid away more than
it has earned, and has put by 1 nothing to meet
loss and boiler-replacement risks though those risks must
have greatly increased. Of course, it, may have used
undisclosed profits to write down vessels and other assets
very severely, thus creating- a hidden reserve ; but there
is nothing whatever to suggest that this has been done.
Shipping cos. often do that sort of thing when their pro-
fits are so bloated that they are afraid to show them to
their customers ; but this co. isn’t troubled with cor-
pulency. Thk, Bulletin doesn’t know what the new
outburst of activity may lead to ; but the past few years’
accounts certainly don’t leave a favorable impression
behind them.
* « « *
President McPherson, of the Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce, has had some words with the
manager of the Easte n Extension Cable Co. in Australia.
Remembering that the laying of the Pacific cable was
undertaken on the suggestion of the commercial men of
Australia, also remembering that the States of Austral-
asia hold the biggest interest in the line, the president
said lie was astonished to find that for 1907-8 the Eastern
Co.’s revenue was £532,006, while the Pacific Board’s
amounted to only £109,000. To this the Eastern Co.’s
manager replied that the revenue from the Australasian
traffic for that year was only £204,694 ; and lie added :
“The revenue derived from the co.’s China and local
traffic in the Far East enables it to pay a dividend to its
shareholders, whereas the revenue from the Australasian
section shows little, if any, profit.” These figures aie
worth thinking over. According to them the Eastern
eo.’s Australasian business amounts to £204,694 ; and the
China and other business amounts to £327,306. For
several .years past, including 1907-8, the co. has paid a
div. of 7 per cent. Apart from 4 per cent, debenture stock
the co.’s capital is £3,000,000; so 7 per cent, absorbs
£210,000. The manager therefore apparently submits that
the co. makes all or nearly all this dividend, plus English
income tax, out of a revenue of £327,306. Itmaybeso ; but
ifitisso this paper feels sorry for the people in China and
elsewhere who are wholly dependent on the Eastern Co.
Also that fact suggests a horrible suspicion of what
Australasia might have had to pay if the Eastern Co. had
been permitted to continue its monopoly of the business
in these parts; and that suggests the further thought
that, even on the manager’s figures, Australasia gives a
very poor recognition to the undertaking which has saved
it from that monopoly.
■***■*
Melbourne brewery chemist De Bavay is having
more luck with his process for extracting zinc from
Broken, Hill tailings than Potter, the other Melbourne
brewery chemist, had. The Baillieus, who at first had a
finger in the Zinc Corporation pie, transferred their favor
to the De Bavay scheme ; and through their influence
arrangements were made with the B. H. North, at whose
mine a bigger plant is now going up. There are 125,000
tons already on the North dumps, and the co. also has
the right to 10 years’ output. Besides that the co. has
its hand on about 370,000 tons of the rich Block 10 tail-
ings ; and now it has made a deal with the South r,o
handle anything up to 1,000,000 tons during the next 10
years. The deal with the South is made on a profit-
sharing basis. As long as spelter is £l9 a ton or over, the
South gets 3s. 6(1. per ton of tailings straight out; below
£l9, it gets 3s. per ton ; if the metal fails below £lB the
De Bavay Co. may knock off work, but if work is stopped
for more than six months the South has the right to make
a deal with another co. The South Co. gets this 3s. 6d.
(or 35., as the case may he) certain. Of the profits the
De Bavay Co. gets the first 3s. 6d. (or 35.) Anything over
that is to be cut up equally between the two. The agree-
ment is for 10 years; but the South Co. may terminate
it in seven years. The tailings are to be worth 18 per
cent, zinc ; but this may be modified by mutual arrange-
ment.
The deal will add some nice lumps to the
South’s profits. One thing, however, must be remembered
by those who go into figures over the business. Last
month the co. handled 24,752 tons ore and got out 3663
tons concentrates. Now, it mustn’t be assumed that the
balance, 21,089 tons, is’tailings. Most of it certainly is
tailings of a sort, but not of the right sort. This co.
divides its “waste” into three products—zinc tailings,
worth from 18 to 19 per cent, zinc ; quartz tailings, very
poor in silver and lead, and worth only about 10 per cent,
for zinc ; and slimes, rich in lead (14 per cent.), but worlh
only about 11 per cent, for zinc. It takes about four tons
of ore to produce a ton of zinc tailings; hence last
month’s output would have yielded about 6000 tons —
probablv a shade less. The output may, however, be in-
creased'; the mill did not work to its full capacity. The
quartz tailings, of which about two tons are produced
for every ton of the other, are dumped underground and
used along with quarried rock to fill up the worked-out
stopes.
What profit can the South expect above and
beyond the 3s. 6d. per ton ? The Zinc Corporation’s


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
(Specially constituted
to ad as
Trustees, Executors
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Economical and
Efficient Management.
Absolute Security.
2, 4, 6 Spring Street
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE
Manager.
HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD., s °™
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating' mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of rolier, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. VV. and J,
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 ba.g covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor” Packing for
.high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bells
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s A-bestos-Packi d Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
«■»*•»
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade arid Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemiCtals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspond! nee Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* ■* » *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4jft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* ”
* » * *
James Hardie and Co. carry large and useful
stocks of Dick’s well-known belting; “ Fibro-Cement ”
Asbestos slates, sheets and silos ; “ Weston ” centrifugals ;
Fullis’ laundry machinery, gas engines, shafting, pulleys,
caustic soda, soda ash, sodium —lowest prices, West
Circular Quay, Sydney/* * *
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9/'OB,
referring to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited writes One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne Office is still growing,and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
* * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TITCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co.,
Ltd corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as beinjj' the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming- rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd.. Haymarket, Sydney.
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for. which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan 1 eiguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* ■» * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont,de PieteGo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett.^Manager.
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Coliason &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
■*»-**
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberbbrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific, apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh • hand sample grinders to 120 niesli ; Ainsworth s
assay ’balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1 1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
Having recently re-arranged their Electrical
Department, Gibbon, Battle and Go., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Svdnev and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are able to
place on the market the highest type of electrical
machinery by Mather and Platt, M nchester, at prices
which compare favorably with those of other makers.
Mather and Platt have so great a reputation—their
dvnamos, motors, and other machines being so widely
known for their strength, efficiency and high-class con-
struction—that there has always been a steady demand
for their manufactures in Australia, and usersof electrical
power who think of installing new machines should ask
Gibson, Battle to send them catalogues, which contain
much interesting information.*
DIERCK.S & CO. PROPTY. Ltd-
-493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating & Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importer of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Elootrioal Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4.
figures may supply a line. Handling 20,000 tons a month,
that co. values its product at £21,000; and the working
costs absorb £9500, leaving £11,500 to pay for the tailings
and to cover depreciation, etc., and provide profits.
(Figures are approximate.) This means a gross profit of
about 11s per ton, less cost of tailings. If the De Bavay
Co. can do as well, there will be about 7s. 6d. per ton of
tailings from which to provide for depreciation (presum-
ably that will be allowed in with costs) and to cut up
equally between the two cos.
The De is in 90,000 shares of £1
each, additions having been made from time to time ; 6s.
per share on 54,175 shares was recently called up. This
money is being used to pay for the new plant at the
North. Now a new co. is being formed with a capital of
£500,000 in £1 shares, of which 270,000 fully paid go to
pres nt holders ; 130,000 have been underwritten by the
Baillieus, who propose to unload them in London mostly,
and in return for that the firm has a two years’ option
over the other 100,000 at par. The co. pays the firm 5 per
cent, underwriting commission ; and as to the 100,000, it
may call on the underwriters to take up 10,000 every
three months. The money is to go into a plant, presum-
ably on the south end of the line, with a 6000-ton-per-
week maximum capacity.
* * * *
Now that the Broken Hill market is active
again, once more comes forth the unabashed wild-cat,
chwing at the same old “shows.” This time the resur-
rectionists point to the fact that the B. H. Prop, is
sniffing at the old Round Hill mine. If the Round Hill is
worth while, they say, surely these others are, too ! The
B. 11. Prop.’s idea is to riddle the earth in that
locality with diamond drills. The first bundle of
neighboring dry bones to be rattled is the ancient
Rupee. This claim, having a kink in its spine
at the 200 ft. level, collapsed two years ago under
the load of its new name, the Broken Hill Lead and
Zinc, etc., etc. Karl.v-day prospectors found a fair
lot of rich ore in pockets near the surface, and later on
South mine manager Wainwright gave the thing a lift
with a report of high assay values. So the co. with the long
name was formed in Melbourne, and it was going to glut the
zinc market. For a start, the lode was worked down from
the 100 ft. to the 200 ft. level, and then it was di-oovered
simultaneously that there was no more lode and no more
money. The latter consideration blew out the co., and a
week or two ago the lease was cancelled for non-payment
of rent. So a Barrier syndicate has come along and taken
the stray cat to its bosom : and if metal prices rise, and
shares boom, and Simple Simon arrives and wants the
cat's tail to pi y with—well, the syndicate won’t mind a
few scratches from the cat to start with.
* ■» * *
Do shareholders in the Broken Hill Junction
North ever wonder when the expenses in connection with
the mill are to end? If they do, they certainly don’t say
much aloud. A new rhodonite section is the latest thing
introduced, with a tube mill that has taken weeks to get
into smooth running order. Latterly the mine work has
not shown any profit, and probably the blame will be put
ou to the tube mill troubles. These are now believed
to be at an end, so better results may be looked for,
especially as an improved grade of ore is being broken in
the north end of No. 11 level. The lack of a second shaft
will, however, always prove a drawback and a menace to
this co.
* * * *
The unemployed miners at Broken Hill got
some cold comfort from General-Manager Delprat, of the
15. H. Prop., a few days ago. A couple of union officials
waited on him to ask if the co. intended to soon start
work again underground. “No,” was the only answer
they could get. The smelters are being run on the big
stocks of purchased ore and concentrates.
* * * *
British Broken Hill, which as usual has been
dawdling along while the lead market has been slack,
hasn’t any intention of doing anything else until prices
are better. Evidently taking its cue front the other Bull-
managed Broken Hill mine, the Sulphide Corporation, it
proposes to reorganise its mill, and add a zinc plant to
the present works. The Sulphide Corporation makes one
job of it: first it gets out as much of the silver and lead
as it can in the lead mill, and then passes the rest of
tiie stuff—slimes and all—on to the zinc mill ; and
what is left after that it reckons only good enough to
dump underground for stope-filling. The British, being
in a comfortable way financially, proposes to spend
£3f),hoo ; and it will hurry on with the work so that the
lead mill may not be interrupted in case the lead market
should shortly spring up and set the! wheels going again.
* » » *
Mfc. Boppy, in the Cobar district, theone great
gold mine in” N. S. Wales, made a working profit of
£69,476 last year, or almost exactly £1 per ton of ore
mined. The stone was worth about £2 Is. sd. per ton
in recoverable value; so costs ran to £1 Is. sd. per ton.
This is also about the average for the eight years during
which Chairman Hoffnung and his lucky London crowd
have been turning out gold. They have had £319,757 of
dividends from £733,811 worth of gold, and there is a
good balance in hand. Last year the co. paid 9s. 6d. per
£L share in divs., and it paid the same in 1907. Alto-
gether shareholders have had 273 per cent, in divs. ; and
there is more stone developed now than there probably
ever was before in the mine’s history.
* * * *
Australian Stock Exchanges have been feeling
better lately, not because the listed mines are on the
whole showing better returns, but because London has
been buying. When London starts to buy it does so for
the same reason that Wun Lung buys a cartload of
oranges—to sell the things at a profit. London is
cleverer than the Chinaman, though. It is able to sell at
least some of its scrip hack to the Australian producer at
an enhanced price. Even in their gambling there are
some stupid Australians who think a stock improves by
English handling.
About this time last year London and American
jobbers made big efforts to put up the price of copper.
Even in certain well-informed quarters success was hoped
for. In six months, by consistent purchases and con-
sistent stocking of the copper, the price was carried from
£57 to £63, and meanwhile the bulls had a good time on
. the Exchanges. If talking would have done it, copper
would have gone to £BO. But as soon as the speculative
buying of the metal ceas <l, back came the price to £57.
The whole business was a market rig which could
not bear its own weight for even six months.
Now that South African stocks are booming in
London, another attempt is to tie made at boost-
ing the shares of industrial metal" concerns. Copper
is being “talked” up to £BO per ton by the bulls;
lead has had its destiny arranged by a European conven-
tion, and zinc is a certainty for high prices ; while un-
well, they never can produce enough tin for this world.
Whereupon the public is expected to come in and buy
shares in whole-ale quantities. Australia will, however,
be sorry if it accepts the invitation and buys (and holds)
some of the copper and lead shares at present being
“bulled” by London. All th.se copper and lead and
zinc conventions mean, not that the producer is
going to have another gorgeous time of high prices,
but that the producing 1 mines will have to produce
to an average price. In other words, these conventions
are an effort to stop the violent fluctuations in metals
prices which assist nobody but the schemer, and seriously
hamper industry. Their object certainly is not to create
a metal boom ; on the contrary, it is to prevent booms as
well as slumps.
The most noticeable London purchase of
Australian stock during the present, little flutter is that, of
Great Fitzroy shares, by Lionel Robinson, Clark and Co.
Immediately it became known that this block of shares
had been purchased at £1 (the net price was 18s.), shares
moved along in the market to 255. Lionel Robinson,
Clark and Co. can pay what they like for the
shares, but what they are really worth is another
matter. Great Fiizroy’s “ unofficial ” estimate of ore re-
serves is 700,000 tons. That, may lie right, hut, though
issued officially, it is “ unofficial,” which may mean any-
thing. Toe value of this ore is believed to be from 455. to
50s. per ton. Without sampling, this cannot lie dis-
proved any more than a statement that it is worth 90s.
per ton could be. Assume, however, that the value is
475. Od. per ton ; then over the whole 700,000 tons th it
Fitzroy will have to treat, the total costs will not
likelv' be less than 435. 3d. per ton, leaving a
profit of £143,750. There is a huge gulf between
that and the present market price of roughly £500,000.
The costs mentioned above may look high ; hut,
though Great Fitzroy looks capable of becoming a big
proposition, thebulk'of it up to date is very low-grade
stuff and exceptionaliy silicious at that. The concen-
trating plant may turn some of the very poor stuff to
profitable account, but it. will also lose a good percentage
of what is at. present regarded as values.
* * * *
That the O.K. Co. (Q.) has to reconstruct won’t
surprise any Bulletin reader; the co.’s rocky financial
position and the need to raise the wind have been obvious,
in spite of the fact that, while negotiating with the
Aaron Hirsch people over the recent law suit, the manage-
ment put the best possible face on things. With Costs
t hat action will run the co. into at least. £2 V'oo ; and the
co. hasn’t that much available. Also.it has very little ore in
reserve—little if any more than six months’ supply. The
scheme, therefore, is to wind up the present co., form
another, in 450,000 shares, and issue share for share to
the present holders. This will absorb 337,450 shares ; the
rest are to lie held in reserve. The new shares will be
issued to shareholders on payment of Is. 6d. ; and another
sixpence may he called. In all, this will provide r 33,745,
less expense’s of reconstruction. The number of shares is
absurd fora mine in the position of the O.K.—a mine
that, having paid just upon £lOO,O >0 in dividends, has
now to look for ore. The chances of finding other
hunches are, no doubt, fairly good; but those that
have been worked have been irregular, and any further
bodies will, no doubt, be irregular too, costing much to
find, and probably still more to reach.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, ended its
half-year to May 18 with a profit of £19,687, out of which
three sixpenny dividends (£18,750) were paid. The
“ sixpenny” every other month seems a settled thing for
some time to coine, hut it. is cutting things very fine.
Last month’s return was 4680 tons for £10,152, and the
profit was £2750. During the six months 29,380 tons
gave an average of £2 7s. —practically the same as the
previous half- year’s figure. They cyanided 15,000 tons
tailings for £7230, and four large steel vats to treat more
tailings will be in use next month. That will help to
keep the div. going. The mine report is encourag-
ing, and the western workings show an improvement.
Stone lias been raised from various levels, extending ver-
tically from 2000 ft. to 27.50 ft. Ore reserves are estimated
at 70,000 tons. The deepest level (No. 18) has been driven
159 ft. east and 147 ft. west; the latter for 40ft. carried
18in. of stone worth only 305., but on the whole No. 18
has developed a payable reef, some of it 3ft. wide and
worth 50s. According to wasteful Charters Towers’ way
of reckoning things, Brilliant Extended is low grade, and
profits are not expected to exceed a few shillings per ton.
Costs are the lowest on Charters Towers; and yet even
here they are 325. 4£d. per ton.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold. Charters Towers, came
through the half-year with a profit of £4315, which, with
the amount in hand, makes a credit balance of £6248.
Development has been expensive, and the output of stone
has been comparatively trifling. The weak feature of the
report is the admission that the equipment, particularly
the air compressor, is unequal to the work ; wherefore
development has been hampered. The co. has still to
depend on Mills’ United to supply air for the drills, and
to haul stone. Chairman Millican told shareholders
that the shoot of mineral stone has a strong north-
easterly pitch. Tliis theory is upheld by the improve-
ment iit No. 8 at 323 ft. from the boundary, and in the rise
above the level ; but it is rather a blue look-out if No. 9,
which will soon he started from Mills’ United boundary,
is to have a longer run of poor stone than No. 8 had.
President Hamilton talked about the achieve-
ments of the YVestralian gold industry in his annual
address before the Australasian Institute of Mining
Engineers at Kalgoorlie. “Since the discovery of gold in
Westralia,” he said, “ £89,324,012 had been produced up
to the end of 1908, of which the Kalgoorlie and Boulder
mines contributed £42,468,125. The total dividends
amount to £18,963.895, of which the Kalgoorlie mines
have paid £14,931,414. During the past year the Kal-
goorlie mines have paid in dividends £1,209,356 ; in wages,
£1,200,000; for merchandise, £1,000,000; and £60,465 to
the State Treasury in direct taxation.” Yet, with a
record like that, the State is steadily drifting deeper and
deeper into debt.
■» + * ■*
Dividends amounting to £016,002 have been
paid hv the gold companies in Westralia since the begin-
ning of 1909. The total since the start of the industry is
£19,579,897.
* * * *
The Westralian gold output for May dropped
4547 fine oz. below the return for the same month last
year. The yield for the five expired months of this year
is 31,740 z. less than the aggregate for the corresponding
term of 1908.
* * * *
When the dividend of 9d. per share is paid on
June 25, Gre at Boulder (W. A.) will have distributed
£3.038.040 among its shareholders. Its next-door neigh-
bors, the Horseshoe and Ivanhoe, show up with
£2,850,000 and £2,248,750 respectively.
* * * *
The Ivanhoe, Like View, and Oroya Brown
Hill are the three Kalgoorlie cos. which clubbed together
and commissioned Dr. Maclaren to make a geological
survey of the field. The cos. have asked the Government
for a grant, but so far nothing has been dropped into the
hat.
It * * *
Lake View South (W.A.) reports a new dis-
covery east and south of the old workings. About 30ft.
of sinking has produced ore assaying up to 25dwt., and
already the local papers are whooping about the “poten-
tialities of tlie find.” As iii the case of tlie Chaffers, a
tribute party is responsible for the discovery, which may
turn out all right. Speculators, however, are warned
that out of 400,000 4s. shares 287,827 are held in reserve,
and that the Board has power to pan them out at par.
Boulder Main Beef (W.A.) is being stabbed
with the drill at 2270 ft., but so far only a few small veins
of little value have been cut. A good deal of boring in
the direction of the Great Boulder boundary has still to
be done at. this depth ; but, as previously remarked, it is
unlikely that anything worth having will be found pitch-
ing out of the latter property above 3000 ft., and even the
chance of a good strike below that point is problematical.
In his speech at the Ivanhoe meeting. Chair-
man F. A. Govett foreshadowed a reduction in the annual
profit to £240,000, apart from the co.’s interest on invest-
ments (about £11,000). This latter amount more than
offsets the shrinkage in the surplus from gold won, so the
co. can still afford to pay 245. per share per year in divi-
dends if it wants to.
■* » * *
Peak Hill Goldfield Co. (W. A.) made a loss of
£9159 for the year ended June, 1908, and increased the
debit at profit and loss to £27,705. On the balance-sheet
the financial position is set out as follows : —Assets :
Expenses of action (which the co. has hopes of getting
from G. Darlitigton Simpson), £3590; stores, £6225;
sundry debtors, £65 ; cash, £919. Liabilities: Six per
cent, mortgage debenture stock, £45,797; interest accrued
thereon and unpaid, £2725; sundry creditors, £5090;
unclaimed dividends, £l6O. Despite this staggering
indebtedness, the co. has since managed to get rid of
£lO,OBl worth of 10 per cent, prior lien bonds, repayable
at par on or before June 30, 1910; but where the money
is to come from to redeem these bonds is a mystery. A
small monthly profit has lately been earned from ore
treatment; but the prospect of the co. ever being able to
pay 20s. in the £, or anyway near that sum, isn’t brilliant.
Hannans Star management (W.A.) has just
unburdened itself to t ie London Hoard on the subject of
ore-treatment plants; but so far no announcement has
been made to shareholders on the subject. Meanwhile
work is adding to the store of payable ore in the Star and
Deep Levels, in which the co. holds a coni rolling interest,
and by the time a move is made to erect a mill there
should be a year or two’s supply on hand. Steady divi-
dends, however, needn’t be counted on, because of the
excessively large share issue of the two cos.
* * * *
It is reported in the West that the Marvel Loch
has disposed of all its unissued and forfeited shares for
£776, and that the proceeds are to be used to purchase an
air compressor and rock-drilling plant. If this is all the
co. has to splash up on the purchase of this kind of plant
it had best call up some more capital, as nothing much
can be had for £776. The recently installed mill ought
to be.a lesson to the Board in this respect.; but somehow
all the Melbourne-run cos. owning Westralian properties
repeatedly sacrifice efficiency for cheapness.
* * » *
Shareholders in the Redemption (W. A.) are a
trustful lot. No certified balance-sheet was presented at
the half-yearly meeting, but the chairman got the state-
ment of accounts, of which he had the only copy, passed
subject to audit. Meanwhile the auditor is wailing for
vouchers and other necessary scraps of information ; but
as no time limit seems to have been fixed by the meeting
for letting him have what he wants, there is no telling
how long it will he before he gets a chance of doing his
work. The articles of association are a remarkable set,
and show what an easy-going crowd these shareholders
must be.
« * »
Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.) is almost as dead as
Wood’s Point, to which it is attached. Once the A 1
stood out as a dividend-payer to cheer the soul of the
Bull crowd who financed it. But it was a mere flash in
the pan. Then New Dempsey’s, fluttering the green flag
of Ould Ireland, ran its race to the jubilation of as hot a
lot of “ speakers ” as ever tackled an honest lot of in-
vestors. Now the Rose of Denmark shows her paces,
with a nice bit of cash in her purse, and a deter-
mination to melt the lot in deep sinking. It must
not be supposed, though, that New Dempsey
is dead and ripe for hurial. Just enough gold is being
won, with an occasional call, to keep men plugging on
along the reef from the creek shaft in order to get under
the old workings which onci gave splendid gold. A
strike at depth there would set mining jigging along the
once-famous valley, and would also open up a big Stock
Exchange gamble’. This is because (1) dealers don’t be-
lieve that gold lives down at Gaffney’s, and (2) because
Tom Gaffney and Jack Eg m believe that it does. They
put up the stuff to make the mine, and the mine in ordi-
nary gratitude ought to help make them.
Maori .Queen is a pioneer in the Bright (Vic.)
dredging business, of which Tewksbury is the shining
light? Wh it with bad management and had blood the
Queen never did her youthful charms justice. Then,
however, big MeWhae and a police-sergeant fell victims to
her charms, and shook things up, though they weren’t
strong enough to knock out the old crowd of admirers.
These latter have since built her a new plant, paid for out
of the wealth won from the Ovens Valley. Not content
with this, another dredge is talked about, and more
trouble is threatening over that. There wasn’t too much
reason for the first fight, and there will be less for a
second. No. 1 plant is almost fit for firewood ; and, as
shareholders have only limited lives, they want the gold
out as quickly as they can get it. No. 2 plant is now paid
for, and is d oing splendidly, and, supplemented by the
yields from No. 3 plant, the co. should give big divs.
In the matter of dividends Garden Gully is the
Great Memory of the past at Bendigo ; so if a bit of gold
be seen anywhere in the quartz, shares soar away up.
Down at 2250 ft. north a nice formation is available, but
work done at this level in the old days failed to yield fat
profits. Driven back by the general poverty of the other
makes of stone, work has been resumed in the level, with
moderate results till a slide came in ; and above it the
stone carries what, for want of a more definite phrase,
may be described as payable gold. But the enrichment,
from present appearances, does not seem to be sufficient
to justify much share-soaring. Nor is there enough
quartz in sight in the level to carry a big body of divi-
dends. Bearing these two facts in mind, and remember-
ing the optimism of Bendigo over the Garden Gully, the
outside public will be able to gauge the worth of loca.
puffs.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) has started another 10-head
of stamps, making a total of 85 ; so the output of concen-
trates should increase. Stamp duty is high, for the dirt
is easily treated. Most of it comes from big faces of allu-
vial wash and decomposed porphyry ; it can be broken and
filled into trucks for Is. a ton. Electric power, derived
from the Waratah river, and numerous automatic labor-
savinw appliances, make it possible to pay all working ex-
pense's at 4s. 3d. per ton of dirt. While the tin market
holds wood, a concern with only 12,000 shares and an out-
put of 85 tons of black tin concentrates per month can
show good results: for, though ss. per share per month
looks a lot, it really amounts to only £3OOO. The co. does
this on a production valued at £7200, plus profit on cus-
toms ore smelted by the co. Considering the unstable
tin market, the poverty of the dirt, and the uncertainty
about underground developments, there are sizeable risks
about Mt. Bischoff shares at £3B.
* * * *
From a man who has inspected the far-away
property: "Re the remarks concerning Tongkah (B.
3/6/’O9). Pointing out that, there are risks as well as
probable great profits, Tilß Bulletin submitted four
things for consideration : (1) the quantity is not proved ;
(2) lleavy royalties to the Siamese Government; (3) the
undertaking to dredge a dock and channel ; (4) danger
from having to deal with possibly corrupt Government
officials. To the first there is no answer. As to the others :
(2) The co. has, up to date, averaged £BO per ton for its
tin ore on the mine. If you look up the price that the
Tasmanian cos. (particularly the dredging cos.) receive
for their ore on tile mine, l think you will find that it is
nearer £75 than £BO. The purity of the Tongkah ore is
thus a set-off against the royalty. By the way, in the
FM S under British jurisdiction, the royalty is 5 per
cent, higher than it is in Siam. (3) In return for ex-
cavating a dock and channel, the Government allows the
co. free dmports. Thedutyon everything imported is3per
cent., and it is a toss-up which would cost the co. more—
to excavate a dock and channel, which can be very
cheaply done with a small suction plant, or to pay 3 per
cent, on everything imported. (4) The concession papers
are right, and if the co. does what it has agreed to do,
the Siamese Government will not interfere in anyway.”
Supposing, however, the co. had to import £150,000
worth of plant, etc., the 3 per cent, duty would only
amount to £4500 ; and it will be a marvellously cheap
dock and channel that can be scooped out for that
money, considering the stipulated size of it. On the last
point' the correspondent, of course, merely expresses an
opinion on a subject concerning’ which nothing definite
can be said one way or the other.
* * * *
Word comes out from N’York that a man who
calls himself U. G. Robinson, but whose real name is
alleged to be Hyman Rabinowitz, has been arrested
there on warrant charging him with the larceny of
800 dollars bv falsely pretending that he would supply
Marconi wireless shares for the money. Possibly this is
the same 11. G. Robinson whom a whole lot of Australians
would like to hear from over the same class of stock.
Rabinowitz takes the matter calmly, it is said. He is, he
remarks, “ merely like any other broker who fails to make
good.’ When Robinson was last heard from by those Austra-
lians whom he induced to part hard cash, he confessed that
his alleged principals, Munroe and Munroe, had smashed;
but he took up a magnificent poke;, and said it would all
be put right in time. Apparently lie told the California
people the same yarn ; but it looks, from the issue of a
warrant, asifsonteof them reckoned that Robinson would
be all the better for being hurried a bit.


m
m
CORTICELLI SILK 1
WEARS LONGEST and HOLDS STRONGEST
CORTICELLI SILK MILLS, Established 1838
Australasian Office 91a YORK STREET, Sydney <
EDUCATION BY POST.
—xne rropriefors
Hoare’s Business College wish ~the" Tuk
Bulletin- to take note chat tlieir old-established insti*
tutjon is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of* education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical^ V„
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and ArcWtectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
developments" in the'"branches taught!" and Te 0 both
and improved prospects. Every ambitions
”cr s \:r'po“'Sr ■ end *» '«»■» fc..s
«o°. n ;: «rS, , i y s 0 ,;" Hoar,,s
What woods have the suburbs
Of Sydney ? Who’ll tell ?
There’s Chatswood and Eastwood,
•find Burwood as well,
And several others ;
Some older, some newer,
And each wood is taking
Woods’ Peppermint Cure,*
The humor of the bush is a weird thing,
i t* le small town of Cassilis (N.S.W.) was once
a butchers shop. In the middle Was a partition,
evidently an afterthought. On the one side was a
sign read mg : ‘‘Blank, M.D.—Surgery,” and on
the other, Blank, Butcher.” Thus do the
various branches of the meat trade gravitate
together m their loneliness.
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones'!
It is perfectly safe.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation,
Special Attention to
the Cuisine, . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences,
Tel, 321.
F, 0, Robinson, Proprieror
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
FAT STOCK.
TOMMY CORNSTALK : “ That’s ma talcin’ pa to the
Show.”
NEW-CHUM : “O, indeed! But tell me—haw—is
it the habit haw—of Austwalians to exhibit
their welatives?”
“ Prospector ” : So “ Gip ” (B. 27/5/’O9) is
in trouble, and can c clean the wild honey that
somebody has been burgling. Well, this is my
recipe. First, get some other fellow to capture
and bring home the spoil. Then put the mess
honey comb, defunct bees, bark and all, leaves as
wed, if there are any—into the usual kerosene tin.
(Everything in t.:e bush goes into a kerosene tin
sooner or later.) About three parts full is enough
for one go. Place it over a slow fire and simmer
gently for about 20 minutes, watching it to pre-
vent it boiling over. Then take it off and allow it
to cool, when a coating of wax will be found on
top contain,ng all rubbish. Remove same, and
bnp will have good, clean, clear honey—no
mess, no trouble and no swear.
“D.M.W.” on a natural-history point
The mason fly is a feature of interest in the landscape
of my hut, and equal as a specimen to anything yet placed
in the Abo. museum. Here is her life history: She pulls
down half f,he mud of my chimney, and with it erects a
row of little cottages along the tops of the wall-plates.
Inisi is bad of her; but experience teaches me that
neither the smoke of Sheol nor the fumes of black plug
Txru CCO keep her from having her wicked way.
When she has the walls of a house finished, and only the
roof remains to be put on, she washes her hands and sets
out to hunt for young spiders. When she gets one she
hauls him along by the scruff of the neck and hoists him
over the eaves into her best parlor. There she asks him
to wait, and promises that- he will not be left long without
company. She is as good as her word, and when half a
dozen of her victims have been collected, she calmly sits
down on the eaves of her house and lays an egg. The young
spiders are as pleased with the round plaything as a hos-
pital Board with a Chinaman’s subscription, and have no
end of fun rolling it about. When they are tired of the game
they find that their hostess has put on the roof, and has
forgotten to leave any door or window by which they
can get out. The young spiders then sit down and
swear, and the heat of their language hatches the egg.
In due time a grub comes forth and proceeds to eat up
the spiders. Strengthened by his diet he sprouts wings,
v , na^-v bursts open the clay roof and comes forth a
full-blown mason fly. The mason fly is the only person in
the extensive fly family who turns the tables properly on
the spider. In appearance the animal is thin, hard,’ and
leggy, looking like a knight in armor, only there is so
much armor that there isn’t room for much knight.
* * * *
“ Cross-Nibs ” writes optimistically re
Boy Scouts :
During; Easter week the Spirit of the Bush called to me
in a six elephant-power scream, and I became obedient.
With a couple of comrades I picked up the sausage-
shaped impedimenta that is usually associated with the
nosebag-, hung: it ag-ainst my vertebras, and passed to the
gum-tree environment. Brethren of the arcades and
pavement, allow me to telephone that it was g-ood.
’Twas to National Park we repaired. And it was here
that the Boy Scouts were receiving- their baptism of fire.
They took to it as kindly as a balloon takes to the clouds."
When you observe youngsters, ranging in age from 11 to
14, bearing- the brunt of the wild like veterans, and blithe
as the lately-arrived kitten, ir. pushes up a sanguine sig-n
for the mud-headed libeller of matters Australian to screw
his bleary vision upon. The toil and incidental inconveni-
ence which the}' drive to leg-with such aplomb is not deco-
rated with the ordinary holiday label, as some of their
detractors would find it tandemed to a reconnoitring
party for a sun-stretch. On tracks that I have
trod in the rear region of this State I have
mixed it with imported circumstances and items of Aus-
tralian manufacture at long-distance boot-drivinv
and diagnosed symptoms of frigid fefet and temporary
heart trouble existing amongst some of the road rovers.
And they start complaint-coughing after butting into
less arduous business than these soldierett.es are experi-
encing at the Park. There is a hostile element thatgums
her and himself upon the scout from break o’ dav till
sunset. It is the vindictive little sandfly. Myriads of
them assemble upon the juveniles ; and each registers its
individual stab. The resultant itch that follows the bite
is a physical distress that would be a trifle too fierce to
place, in stock in the punishment pavilion on the slopes of
Sheol. Interrogated one lad with eyelids heavily hung
lumpy ears and garters of cutaneous irritation about his
knees, caused by the insect signatures he had received
He flashed me the game grin that is cultivated
our piece of the planet, and remarked stoically-
It s all in th’ game, Mister. The motto f’r masculine
meat iz crack ardy ’ all t.h’ time. If y’r don’t y’r c’n
expect some rubbish t’ fall on y’r.” This is a sample of
the stuff of which the boys are built. At present they
are in their apprenticeship, but in a few years they will
be a force that would give a good account of themselves
if occasion arose for them to go forth upon the track of
the trespasser and hand him some torment. Just here I
elevate my old brown hat, and with a stain of bush breeze
still in my breath unfasten three wild whoops for the
youngsters. May they make good when the Australian
home needs protection.
* * * *
“ Coda ” : Everyone who has been in the
East Murchison (W.A.) has heard of the little lot
known as “the Darlot bullockies.” They would
bet on anything. Once, when in Perth on a holi-
day, they had agreed to meet at the Cathe-
dral corner, and go to the races together
(I forget the name of the cathedral. I never
was any good at remembering cathedrals!)
J he last one to arrive brought the news
that a former resident of Darlot had just
died m the hospital, stony broke, and he
wanted to know what they were going to
do about it. “Do !” said .Tones. “Why
of course, we’ll have 10 bob in, arid
the winner buries him. We can't all
niiSs the races.” So they went into
the cathedral or the pub (I forget
winch), and borrowed the dice, and
the winner cheerfully stopped behind
and arranged about the funeral
“ D.J.Gr.” : Maoriland’s freak fish,
“ Pek> ™ s Jack,” was protected in 1904 bv a special
Act of Parliament, and the protection "ceases in
September this year. Heaven only knows why'
the thing was limited like that; apparently it was
reckoned that you can’t safely go bail for a fish
for more than five years. So far, nothing has
been heard of continuing the protection and if
something is not done before the time expires
Maori land will-wake up some morning to find
itself no longer famous, except for the remarkable
strenuousness of its debt.
* * * *
Periodically, the nerves of some lonely
country centie are set on edge by strange yells
issuing from a deserted shaft at midnight. Some-
times it is the sound of shrieks—but shrieks of a
different variety from those uttered by the choir
maiden when gallantly pursued by the curate at
the Sunday-school picnic. On such occasions the
local correspondent of the morning paper grabs at
the chance to write 15 lines for the country unin-
telhgence column. And then the tram-riding metro-
polis, with its mouth full of breakfast toast grins
at the superstitious horror of the simple-hearted
W /Vf w The followin * is a fair sample
of the vvayback sensation that lives for half a day
in the morning journal, and endures for ever in
the legendary lore of the haunted locality
A scare has been caused during the week at Maitland
Bar, a mining village situated four miles north-west of
Hargraves owing to a strange noise heard at night time
It is reported that about 11.30 nightly a noise is heard
resembling sometimes a woman screaming; at others a
child crying piteously. The cries remain a mystery up
to the present time, as all attempts at solvin- if have
proved futile. Diggers living in lonely places'have' left
their homes, removing higher up the river, believing that
there is safety in numbers. ueneving that
Perhaps it is the voice of Capital trying to get out
of the country. °
SETTLING DOWN TO GRAFT.
IRON BARK WILLIAM (at country dance): Ere, Jim , just keep a eye on these things, will yer?
I've took a fancy ter this girl, an I’m goin' ter darnce a hit."
D.M. W. : A few weeks ago I was
nearly writing in a boastful strain about a pump-
kin of mine that had already reached great
dimensions. The thing was then a source of
pride to me. It weighed about a hundredweight,
more or less, and was good to win a prize at the
horticultural show. (In our town we show for
honor. Thus, a first prize is half-a-crown.
Deduct 6d. entrance fee, 3s. for express hire, and
10s. spent in shouting for those who congratulate
you debit balance 11s.) Weeks passed, and the
blamed thing continued to grow. It usurped the
whole pumpkin bed, it over-reached six rows of
cabbages, and finally its western end crossed
Parker’s fence, and smashed down his chrysan-
themums. Parker put the dog on it, but it
smashed down the kennel in the night, and the
canine died of suffocation, or was eaten up by the
monster. The thing is still growing, in spite of
an early frost. Parker tried to shoot it, but the
bullet glanced off and killed his prize Orpington
rooster. Now, I want some authority to tell me
my duty under the circumstances. I have broken
three axes in an attempt to cut the stem, and my
crosscut saw is as thin as wire through attempt-
ing to saw it through. The thing is still growing,
and any night it may smash in the back door and
murder me in my bed.
*• * *
“ Grip ” : There are many night sounds in
the bush that tell a story to the sleepless lis-
tener—the sharp yap of a fox at the
creek; the painful, child-like cry of
a captured hare ; the smothered
squeaking of feathered things borne
swiftly bushwards; the rush of
the dogs as the fox passes; the
agpnised yaps, of Reynard who
has swallowed a poisoned bait;
the screams of the disturbed
plovers as they sweep over the
humpy. But the most thrilling
sound of all is a galloping
horsein the dead of night. A
mile off you hear it thunder-
ing along the 'road, and you
know it’s a case for the doctor
every time. Some poor crea-
ture is close to death, or his
friends think so. “Yulgilbar
horse,” you muse ; “no other
could travel like that.” But
it isn’t always a stable-fed.
cared-for “Yulgilbar horse!”
Often it is'some poor beast, that
has done its day’s work, being flogged along
m the , ice-cold night by a scantily-clad bush-
man,, who would ride 20 miles to aid his worst
enemy in case of real necessity. Out farther
west they tell of a man who had a “sure
thing’ trained and saved up for the races,
.cut medicine was wanted desperately quick and
without even a sigh, the owner handed over this
horse for a 25-mile gallop. The bushman’s great
big willingness to help in time of trouble is a soul-
stirring thing.
r*r * * *
“Te Whai ” : How is this for a bush
dodge? A short time back went up the bush to
see a mate, and found on the door of his hut in big
black letters, “ Gone to town, back Tuesday ”
inspected more closely, and found that ink being
scarce he had painted the message with a stick
dipped in the molasses pot. The flies had come
after the molasses and remained there, making
the letters perfectly black and legible ten yards
off. ihat is Art.
“Kaylee” : Rabbiting round Wellington
and other places on theS. Aus. side of the Murray,
it is common to kill off more cats than bunnies—a
relic of S. A. Government’s futile effort of years
ago to oust the pest with the aid of the feline.
Puss hadn’t been let loose long before he came to
a most amicable agreement with bunny, and forth-
with took up his abode with him. Remember the
time the Government advertised for first-rate
mousers, and most folk had their “old Tom”
stolen? Memorable time that 1
■* * *
“Jimmie Pan ” : Dinny and Patsy O’Spud,
of Immigrant Crilc, were regarded as confirmed
old bachelors until, to everyone’s surprise, Patsy
married a barmaid, sold his farm, and “ tuk ” the
Canecutter s Curse Hotel. Pinny made himself
free of the house, borrowed everything he wanted,
and stuck up drinks and cigars like a swell civil
servant. One day, being summoned to serve on a
jury, he hastened to the pub and demanded from
the servants “a whoite shurrt.” He was referred
to the missus, who said, “The white shirts are
all at the laundry. Besides, you ought to buy
your own shirts, and not sponge on your brother.”
Pinny was speechless for a space, and then he
burst out—“P’ye mane t’ tell me, yer husband’s
lawful brother, that ye haven’t erra whoite
shlimit f’r me t’ go t’ coort in ? Why, what the
aid we marry you for ? ”
ILL-NATURED.
MAGISTRATE: “Do you know the nature of an
oath, madume? ”
WITNESS: “I ought ter, y' Honor, seeing as how
I married a drunkard .”
THE CULGOA’S CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(N \ S - W ‘> Police Court recently
Peter *lood was charged with maliciously wounding-
Jimmy Jimmy at Oulg-oa River, near the' Holrmvood
Hotel, with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Both
SomthWafea nd T h COUSed “I® abori^inal natives of New
South Wales. The accused was committed for trial to
the Bourke Quarter Sessions.— Daily Organ.
Why don’t we let them battle as the darkies used to do
In the rapture-laden ages long ago ?
Why don’t we let them wallow, if they’ve got a liking to,
In the heart-blood of their honored friend, the foe?
Why don’t we let them revel with the nulla and the
Why have we sneaked their boomerang away ?
Why have we dulled their ardor with the ’baccy and the
Why have we made them what they are to-day ?
There is happiness in hatred, there is glory in the strife ;
There is envy, there is malice, there is wrong ;
There is death—and desolation—but it is the lust of
Life—
With the laurels to the cunning and the strong !
There are depths no man can fathom, there are gains no
god can give,
There are quests that never yet have known an end—
And the strength to die undaunted is in truth the
strength to live—
And the savage is the basis where they blend !
We have come between their hatreds with the paltry pipe
cf peace '
(Lo ! they chuckle at those quarrels of our own);
We have poured the Burning Water down their throats
to give surcease
To their liberty—the freedom which has flown !
0 ! the vastness of the desert and the grandeur of the
hills
(Oh ! the fetterdom our people have devised) —
But we shriek in exultation and our very being thrills
When Peter Flood and 00. are ’ ‘ civilised ” 1
They are hemmed by creed and custom ; and the Wild’s
unwritten law
Has been honored (and dishonored) in the breach ;
But by the ancient lessons of the Flipper, Wing and Paw
They have learned the things no school can ever teach!
We have pointed out the pathway to the realms of Para-
dise
(Lucky darkies ! —or they never would have known !)
Yet ungrateful Pete and Jimmy— to our very pained sur-
prise—
Are returning to a heaven of their own 1
I ( or methinks the blue hills call them, and the river’s
lapping song
Echoes sweetly in their hearing night and day :
Come back to me, oh Peter. . . . Jimmy, Jimmy, vou
were wrong-
When you let the Pale Men beckon you away.
Here s my croon for you to answer, here’s mv call as old
as Noah,
Here s a lullaby to lure you back to me !
Oh ! return to me, your mother, the disconsolate Culgoa!
Ere I shed my tears of anguish in the sea.”
N.S.W.
GI LR ONEY.


ADVICE TO RHEUMATICS.
Noted Physician Tells How to Prevent and Cure
Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Troubles.
If you would avoid rheumatism, kidney and bladder
troubles, be moderate in the consumption of heavy, rich
foods, substitute as far as possible soups, broths, fresh
milk, and drink water—lots of water. Take plenty of time
to eat, and don’t eat after you have had enough, even if
it does taste good. If your work is confining, take a
moderate amount of exercise each day in the open air.
Of course, neither diet, rest, water, nor exercise will
cure these afflictions. We advise them as preventives
only. For the benefit of readers of this article who are
now afflicted with rheumatism, kidney, bladder or
urinary troubles, and desire to be cured quickly, we give
below, complete in every detail, the complete prescrip-
tion which has made a great authority on the subject so
successful in the treatment of these diseases. It is the
most certain cure which has been used. It is pleasant to
take, it is not expensive, it can be supplied by any
chemist, and we belt ve it to be the greatest prescription
for rheumatism, kidney and bladder troubles ever
written. It is also a valuable tonic and blood purifier.
If you are a sufferer, take this prescription to any
chemist and have it prepared ; or you can obtain the in-
gredients separately, and mix them all at home.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce ; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce ;
Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
The dose for adults is one teaspoonful taken after
meals, and one at bedtime. Children should be given
one-fourth to one-half teaspoonful, after meals only.
After you are cured, follow the advice given as to diet,
Water and exercise, and you will not need the serv ices of
a physician again for these ailments.
Note. —Other papers are privileged to copy the above.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAV.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. Is. lid.* [1
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.H.B. : Drawings quite hopeless, and the gags not
much better... H.R. : Both drawings too wooden...
D. Tucker : Pictures have some promise. Gags are very
hopeless. Get some humorist to collaborate with you if
you mean business.... Alex. J. : Picture fair; subject
hopeless... F. J.: Picture of Bill fleeing from female with
an axe, to. hand. Artistically, it is devoid of merit, and
there is nothing in the appended jest.
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
41- in the £ Discount
We are taking off all Table Requisites.
The slump in Metals has enabled us to make special
arrangements with the greatest and best manu-
facturers of England to sell their Electro-Silver
products at 20 per cent, discount off their English
Wholesale Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions on all
our Electro-Silver Stock.
BUY WHILE SILVER IS LOW.
Best Electroplate, 37/6; less 20%, 30/*
In all sizes and designs.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
The time-dishonored fiction that a lot of
the waste land in Victoria is “ no good ” has been
violently shattered by recent revelations from
South Gippsland. The plains of South Gippsland
are not only devoid of big timber ; they are even
grassless. The soil is mostly peaty or sandy, and
its natural products are just scrub and rushes, and
any other vegetation that no self-respecting
animal would try to eat. Nevertheless an enter-
prising agriculturist, one James Miller, of Pound
Creek, has been getting some rather good crops
from South Gippsland plains. The land he holds
had been in the .family for 30 years before a disc
plough was pulled over it by five horses. And
now, within five years of the commencement of his
farming, Mr. Miiler has got several stretches of
the “no good ” country under profitable cultiva-
tion. He hasn’t yet thrown seed away on the
most forbidding patches, but he finds enough
encouragement to justify further harrowingi
And this is being done with the most
uncompromisingly “no good” land in Victoria.
In many parts of the State the same hopeless label
has been attached to small tracts and big stretches
of unworked and untaxed soil, which looks rich in
comparison with the country where James Miller
is growing grain and turning it into gold. A
townsman, gazing at the empty foolishness of
things 10 miles out of Melbourne, asks why
nothing is being done, and a wiseacre tells him
the land is “no good.” Somebody once stuck a
spade into the middle of a big paddock and struck
a stone, since when the oldest inhabitants of the
district have said “No good” in reply to all
inquirers. Sometimes a cow wanders around the
dreary enclosure and shakes her head. Where-
upon the local authorities are still more confirmed
in the belief they have inherited from their
fathers.
«* * * *
On a new mining field it’s a cold day when
a man who has “struck it” runs out of excuses
for filling ’em up for all hands. In the early days
of the Murchison (W.A.) oneof those who wentout
beyond Nannine was brother of a manager on one
of Darlot’s stations. He was a young fellow who,
coming from Maryborough (Vic.), had a good
knowledge of mining. Passing through Mel-
bourne he heard Maggie Moore sing “Daisy
Bell,” and when he got up to Peak Hill he
christened a small lease after that catchy melody.
The lease was small, but remarkably rich. After
a couple of years’ hard graft the owner started on
a trip home. He survived the whisky and other
perils of the road as far as Cue. There he
deposited over IOOOoz. of gold (about three
months’ work), and drew a cheque for his exes,
down. Next morning the police sergeant invited
a newly sworn-in J.P. to sit on the Bench. The
J.P., who was Jimmy Thomson, formerly of Mel-
bourne Evening Standard, hunted up a collar
and coat, and went across to the court, then
held in a ragged tent, and tried to look
the part of the stern Judge. The furniture
consisted of a deal table, a chair or two, and three
policemen. The sergeant called out the first
case; and Jimmy was considerably embarrassed.
Accused was a man with whom he had had a glass
of champagne the night before. “It is only a case
of a man being locked up for his own protection,
your Worship. ” remarked the sergeant, and Jimmy
recorded his first case as dismissed. The owner
of Daisy Bell, who had dropped in to witness the
proceedings, was so delighted with the leniency
displayed that he promptly invited the Bench and
all present to “ come out and wet it.” The owner
of Daisy Bell, by the way, didn’t last long. He
sold out for a few hundreds, and a while later
found that the buyer had passed the show on for
thousands. The disappointment was too much
for him, and he ended things with a revolver.
THE JUICE THERE WILL.
MISSIONARY (enthusiastically): “Now, my speciality is work among the young. Do you think
there is a good opening here?"
THE CHIEF (doubtfully): “ Well, we don't, as a rule, believe in giving meat to the kids, but say
an hour's extra stew—there'll be the gravy, you know—there'll be the gravy."
“ Will J.” : Glenorchy (Vic.) is one of
the have-been towns of Australia. On one his-
torical occasion there were 500 paralytic navvies
connecting the half-dozen pubs in one unbroken
chain. The chain lay on its stomach, and not one
link could get up. Some of the beery bond
sprawled considerately on the footpath, but the
most of it would extend across to the Shamrock
and block all traffic. That was years ago. To-
day, Glenorchy (erroneously called the Glen) is a
cemetery, and the Shamrock is the grave-digger’s
tool-house.
* * ■* •
“ Bonedust ” : The writers who discourse
on Australian rivers that are afflicted with the
disappearance craze evidently don’t know that
the same peculiarity threatens to attach to the
Commonwealth’s most important stream —the
Murray, The latter has ever been known as
LOAD OF CEDAR AT CASINO (N.S.W.).-It talcs 22 bullocks to haul six logs.
rather a drink of shallows than a real river,
but of late years it has developed its habit
of being a Big Trickle something tremendous.
Right along, from Ned’s Corner (Vic.) to
Morgan (S.A.), a stretch that I know off
by heart, the river bottom has altered con-
siderably in the last decade. Even as late as five
summers ago, I remember a long stretch of water
down my way that would have floated a sma.ll
Dreadnought. But, alas, nowadays G. H. Reid
couldn’t float in that same stretch, without
seriously damaging his middle on the various
sandbanks that have sprung into sudden
existence. And it's the Same right along.
The tree slaughterer will have to answ’er for
a lot when he meets the spirit of , the
old Murray up above. I believe there’s a
law, extinct or otherwise, that prohibits the axe
fiend from cutting within a chain from the river
bank. But every Sunday morning when I row
my boat and my best girl along the grand old
ditch I see a new specimen of the fiend’s handi-
work lying submerged, and stretching for half a
chain out into the waterway. And there’s another
aspect to this tree-killing business. In flood time,
navigators are able to find the course of the rivet-
proper by the trees that line each bank, and when
these said trees are ruthlessly demolished, God
help the poor river mariner ! He will be a dead
marine.
“D.G.”: Saw an exfcra-special-looking
specimen of the man from the country pedalling
the usual flash-looking, medium-price jigger
loaded down with swag, billycan, gun and tommy-
axe round about Redfern and other adjacent
parts where the pelican builds its nest in the
main street. I mentally remarked his expression
of helpless dazedness. Next day saw him again.
Day later he came into my shop to get his bike
repaired. Then I learned that he had come to
Sydney to visit a cousin—knew cousin’s name,
but had no idea of his address. Meant to poke
round and look him up. I thought this species
had departed with the Camphelltown ghost and
the Murruinbidgee hunyip. I told him to leave
off scaring the pelican off its eggs opposite the
railway station, and look up a directory, which
idea surprised him so much that he almost fell up
dead and left his corpse on the ceiling.
“Ed.”: Re. “Amiens” on grasshoppers.
At Lilydale (Vic.) the farmers planted nar-
row borders of blue larkspur round their
crops. Grasshoppers readily eat larkspur, which
is instant death to them. The first arrivals
ate and died. The next battalions ate their dead
bodies, and were likewise poisoned. Succeeding
contingents followed suit, eating the bodies of the
earlier arrivals. The ramparts of grasshoppers
menaced the health of the district. Neighbors
from all round carted away the dead bodies. No
other manures were required in that district for
two seasons. The date of this remarkable event
is uncertain.
WILD OATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Experienced farmers are glad to see wild oats, because
they look upon it as feed, not as an enemy.— Scrap of
agricultural evidence taken by Wheat Commission.
“ Them oats is wild,” the farmer said.
“ Them oats is wild ! ”
His keen, grey eye with gladness shone
As the fair scene he gazed upon
And recollected pleasures gone ;
Thus he beguiled
The dreaming hour ’twixt day and night
When in the west the last red light
Of Day was fading from the sight.
“ Them oats is wild ! ” ,
“ Them oats is wild ! ” the farmer said.
“ Them oats is wild ! ”
In fancy free his gaze did roam
Across the years to his old home :
The plough was sliding thro’ the loam—
His dad—d—n wild—
Unto the jerking handles clung
And lashed him soundly with his tongue
Because of those he went among—
For they were wild, V
“ Old Dad was wild,” the farmer said ;
“He was d—n wild !
And so was I 1 The oats I sowed
Was wild ones, too 1 But, I’ll be blowed,
If I’d been up-to-date and knoived, N
I would ’a’ smiled 1
Instead of lettin’ him run mad
I would ’a’ said : “ Now, look here, Dad,
Th’ best, cotv food that’s to be had
Is oats that’s wild ! ’
N.S.W.
FOE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insicfiiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on .11SS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.L. : History of the philanthropic tramp who
slept and ate his meals “ in a large piano case under the
house,” has been buried... F.A.M. : Glad Dad fell in
over his poisonous dairy ; but otherwise the narrative
leaves us unmoved..'. .Martial: Limping poem in praise
of girls’ legs declined with emotion.. ..A.K. : Thanks for
being “under the impression that The Bulletin has
many more readers with poetic taste than there are in
the prosajc dull little town of .” That’s so B. Sim-
mons : They don’t meet with our approval—far from
it.. .E.G.B. : Commonplace story of a silly girl who
commits suicide because she has been jilted, and un-
exciting lie about a fat, booky who was once a printer
and then a jockey M.B.C. : Vegetable poem dished
A. : No room for poems of the “ Bull for the Shore ”
order of architecture. “ The Ambulance ” breaks down
badly before it gets home. Considering the third....
W.M.M. : “ Grey parchments born of master minds” are
something of a curiosity ; so are your verses about them,
for the matter of that.. E.S. B. : Patriotic but unmetrical..
Stripanatit: Just consider such an awful sentence as this :
“ Also when facing the stern reality of a veteran faller,
limping wearily towards his 6 x 8 with one shoulder down
and ribs welded together, his clothes wet through with
sweat by having to slay this said vegetable and bisect it
under the supervision of the bush boss whom this combi-
nation of boodlers places there to speed up the poor, un-
fortunate faller who generally arrives wearing kippered
herring tins in place of boots.” The Wasp : Portions of
“The Gambler’s Oath” suggest Wilbur, the Hot Gos-
peller, at his best:
Play on till daybreak,
Ye reckless men.
Never more will I enter
A gambling den,
Which as brought me to the
Verge of ruination and shame.
Adieu to the card table !
I’ve played my last game !
Laugh on, foolish comrades ;
You may yet perceive
’Tis an evil which, like
A crafty spider, doth weave.
’Tis a curse like a pestilence ;
It brings misery and shame.
As God is my witness,
I’ve played my last game.
Theta: Pretty 'little lilt of love, but it doesn’t really
get any where.... Marc Antony: The story of the girl
with the “misfortchune” is interesting, but too steep
B. : Address Box 827, Wellington, M.L Hypo-
didasculus : Beal grievances to you, doubtless, but trivi-
alities to the general public... .Brushook: A quaint lie,
but it is a shade too laborious .. Stretton : “Baby” has
been sent to the office Farm, where, in accordance with
custom, he will be duly strangled D.A.H.: Not in-
teresting outside the family circle A.N.: Yes, they
read as if you w'rote your stories “ right off the reel, in a
manner of speaking.” They’re no use to us. Thanks for
suggestion, which"has been fonvarded to the proper
quarter L.J.F.: Joke poor, drawing broke....
Martial: On second thoughts, we give a corner to your
Deakin-Cook fusion yarn :
Buck in blokes and smash the rotters !
Don’t stand wonderin’ how- or why !
Give ’em a one with the point of yer trotters,
An’ an ugly left upon the eye.
Buck in blokes ! We want their places.
We don’t give a blanky how they’re got;
Our policy now is blanks and spaces,
Don’t worry jus’ yet with when or what.
Buck in blokes ! When we’re in power
A good enough policy soon we’ll spout.
(Which ain’t the question of the hour—
It’s rather to knock them blanker? out.)
Buck in blokes, an’ buck in willin’!
There ain’t no help an’ no Johns about ;
Pot ’em an’ giv’ ’em a blanky fillin’ 1
And after that we can divvy out.
B.S.T. : Possibly it is, as you suggest, your “poor
interpretation of the dialect and gestures” that makes
your “ratherfunny story ” read otherwise. But, anyway.
Cockney humor is wearying Moocher : Too slender—
D. : What is night’s “grave promise of surcease”?
Other piece may perhaps do .. .H.M. W. : Your “ noblest
effort”—exciting narrative about mice-—too high-toned
for this paper .. A.W. : We’re off lullabies just now.
Thanks for information. No spare copies available
M. Bawn: Melancholy mixture of words B.R.T. :
Little baby verses put to bed... J.W.N. : Don’t see how
publication of your letter would help society to step
“unto an higher moral planein a legal sense.” Athos :
Popular quotations, interspersed with fragments of
sketch of elusive Flossie, do not commend themselves
E. B. : This paper’s soul is weary of the humor which
consisteth in using the expressions—the “thou” and
the “thy” and the “eth”—of men of old time. ..
Sissa: “Autumn” is altogether too slender H.W.:
“ Reward ” is a very small thing with a faint prettiness
but no strength...’.Ploughboy: “ Voices of To-morrow ”
is good sentiment, but bathos and bad grammar are
against it F. B.: We carefully note that you don’t
declare “In Puris Naturalibus” to be original... Hera:
Every man on the staff has refused to read your stuff on
the grouud that the handwriting is awful beyond de-
scription. Can’t you write something that doesn’t look
like a drunken cockroach having delirium tremens in a
fryingpan ...Ploughboy: The Bulletin blushed to its
cover when it read your story Corvus: Broken-down
English captain, and the girl he left behind him, and the
nobility of his soul, and the tear-bedewed diary found
under the pillow' of his lonely deathbed—we’ve read of
them all before, and don’t want to read of any of them
acrain P. King: Details of boarding-house life not of
absorbing interest G.D.L. :Do we think you should
try toimprove your standard of verse? No ; we think you
should try to lose it, and get another.. ..Millicent: Don’t
know whether you “ contain possibilities as a poet ” or not;
but if you can collect the cheque you mention for the
lines you send, you’ve got great possibilities in the time-
payment furniture trade.... Wager: Sorry, but can tell
no" more than has been published. The biography is
authorised by the lady herself M.J.O’B. : Cayenne
pepper is also good for some poets —H. J. Mack:
Our interest in the musical gospellers doesn’t.
run to a seven-page article E. O’R.: One of
the common or Garden of Eden class of jokes.


•t
...
Treat •
J* E^cc^ic^
T+ is to
A^S r raJi2s. develop
, Separate special-
k iy>d le^is^^on
rl will to Hj<?
Creation op
hew s-t>,t~e3
i k «*2CT
f fy I i agents
(At'-s^s)
* TBis conjures a{> a. dreadful picture, . ~
■future, every ofljer *n&n in IBe Street" w/If "be \ governor'.
Barkers
Ijayc Wen
-fi*e& j[2 d>*
Vic
y/»ll Ji*nc 3o*T
f*\U.YYKj ' if y<>U dovj’f-
loolC ow'f” —■—*
Ml Wor K (
/jw^
ftje'w'
Lifrk
Bir
While is 5° rnuc\i
/ -faJK &out M&ve\-nyrtp
/ Ifje
' by rfe tfiorouMrid
Or u&r not be ove*looKcd .
( Atr^s)
Bill— Mjy "j^i'vPfbwth c4«
; Side if ds.ll !’* /
JHi(»s :—" ni«c>> asLf .
taXe oft for
week I '
interviewer:
Well bfaoitfr-it)C Hfcjf-holidajf.
Terrible-— mentioh it". Ihj <At'op}^'in g
\ WceK !
"The m India*. Known -ttfe
"Protictor of 'ttfc. \>oor 1+ Would tc SS*d
if ill 'fiVned Conc«syo«S da|>riVed_.tiit*i
or 's)'% Tiotiorilble & valued "iTitle
Jolih Ball -An Irn
sjVf /
Protector of- "ttje Pokc.\
or blood &-
r^'n-fij!"
nne' /
Ili s little (a^wmne^^/
will be found then «• ~~
fh&rnsc.lees c&n-sic i>e©|,le. be bev^ O’llo'H)
\o (TeTs
The
BERfiy,
BY HOBSON’S WATERS.


THE PROFIT IN WATERED MILK.
It was stated in a pal ice court recently that the addition o' 4 per cent. of
water to all their milk would mean the people of the metropolitan area
paving £25.000 per annum for nothing. Daily Paper.
INTERNAL ECONOMY OF AN UP-TO-DATE DAIRY COW.
OVERHEARD AT MOUNT KOSCIUSKO.
New Ciovernor : “It is grand, impressive; but I confess to
some disappointment at not having seen snow.”
Provincial Statesman: “Ah! my Lord, you should have
been here before Federation. We had snow then the
year round ! ”
Temperance Advocate : ** I repeat it; the total drink bill for this .State in
lvuB reached the stupenjus sum of ”
A Voice (a rather husky one) : Wot about the water bill for wot w e
get with our milk ? **
Archdeacon Wright,
of Manchester, who
__ was recently offered
I the Anglican Arch-,
bishopric of Sydney,
has cabled : “ 1 bum»
bly accept, and ask :
your prayers.”
Cable Clerk (who served the Arch-
deacon): “Any answer expected?’
Archdeacon : ”Do you mean to the
cablegram or to the - er—prayers t
“No steps have been taken
yet to develop the Govern-
ment's defence policy,’,’ says
Mr. Cook.
The only “ step ” taken so far by
Mr. Cook is the “goose-step,” which
he practises daily in the back office of
the so-called Defence Department.
Enthusiastic Dreadnought meetings
are still occasionally a*',
held in the Backblocks, r** j
Small Boy : “I should like
to offer you a Dread-
nought, if it ain’t too
late I ”
John Bull: ” What! You are at it, too.
Eh I That is, I mean, thanks awfully;
I’ll see about it.”
'»!' Cohen advised, amid cheers, that Lord Roberts be
sent forth as a missionary of Empire,
Lord Roberts (having arrived in Australia;: *• Well, here
am, and if you will get your units together 1 will
proceed with my mission.” *
Minister for Defence <Jo Cook type): *• Ha hum ! Yes,
m> Lord, but I think we had better wait until thev
finish the game.”
COWS, BATTLESHIPS, &c.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
THERE'S very little “elbow
grease ” required when you
polish your boots with
CHERRY BLOSSOM, which brings
up a beautiful shine in a wonder-
fully short time. Try one of the
3d. or 6d. tins and see how good
it is and how far it goes. Most
dealers sell Black and Tan
CHERRY BLOSSOM. Write us
if you cannot get supplied.
GREAT OAKS FROM LITTLE ACORNS GROW.
That dread disease, consumption, has its commence-
ment in a cold on the chest. Don’t leave it until it is too
late. You can oroinutl v cure vour<
r
Weak
Lungs.
The unique healing properties of our
special petroleum, combined with the
tonic effects of the hypophosphites,
make Angier’s Emulsion superior
to all other remedies
for coughs and lung
affections. No other
Emulsion has the
same soothing, cough-
allaying, lung - healing
power nor the same
tonic effect upon appe-
tite and digestion. It
is the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send 4d. postage.
Of all chemists, 1/3,2/9 &4/6.
to—
ANGIER’S
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
The flngier Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St., Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One of the portraits hung in the Royal
Academy, London, fust month was labelled
“Judge Sheridan, of Adelaide, New South
Wales.’’ Adelaide never possessed a Judge
Sheridan; and if N. S. Wales ever had one his
memory is buried so deep that this paper can’t
dig it out.
HON. A. A. BILLSON, Victorian Minister for
Railways and Education.
A. B. Moncrieff, who, on July 1, is to
become sole Railway Commissioner of S. A., is,
like Pendleton, his predecessor, an Irishman.
His first railway billet in Adelaide was as an
engineering draftsman in 1875. and in 1888 he
succeeded H. C. Mais as Engineer-in-Chief.
Moncrieff is—according to whether you are on his
side or against him —the most determined or the
most obstinate man in the Crow-eating State. He
was 64 years old on May 22, so he has only six
years to go in his new office.
An ancient man, Henry Chiddy, passed
out last week. He was aged 94, and had lived 77
years at Picton (N.S.W.). The cause of death
was presumably suffocation through being shut in
by big estates. That is what all Picton is dying
of. It had 1176 people in 1891. In 1901 it was
down to 1053 people. Now that the rents have
been raised, and the drought still sticks to the
place, and Mr. Chiddy is dead, and everybody is
gone who can get away, it is impossible to "say
what Picton may not be down to.
The Oldest Inhabitant writes :
Apropos the Bathurst Sentinel (B. 3/6/’O9). The founder
and one-time proprietor and editor of the Sentinel still
lives in his native town of Windsor, on the Hawkesbur.v,
where, I anr told, he motor-launches on sunny days. Dan
Mayne must now be close up to the eighties. ’He was
one of triplets. Two died and Dan annexed the brains of
. ™ree. He has recently been writing his reminiscences
in a Windsor paper, and has a wonderful memory. Once
long back, he opposed F. B. Suttor for Bathurst, and ran
the blue-blooded squatter very close.
George McNair, who passed out on Satur-
day, aged 42, as an inmate of one of the Sydney
Hospitals for the Insane, was a central figure in
connection witli what are known as the Lands Sca-
ndals. He had been for 20 years or so a confidential
clerk or secretary with W. N. Willis, and put in
many montns on bail while the Law was struggling
to bring back the remarkable Willis from South
Africa in order that the whole crowd of suspects
might be comfortably tried and acquitted together.
The N.S. W. Lands troubles have now caused the
death of three much-talked-of persons—Close,
Crick and McNair.
The present Victorian Minister of Agri-
culture ought to have a breast full of sympathy
for the “two inch masons” who knap stone's
along the roads for the miserable pay given now-
adays. The Hon. Graham was once a knapper
himself, and present writer remembers seeing him
performing on a heap at Miner’s Rest, near Bal-
larat, 30-odd years ago.
About a good Australian :
Melbourne State school children are just now being en
com aged to form a taste in pictures. Bv arrangement
with the Education Department, 12 different detach-
ments of kiddies from the local schools are to visit the
Public Art Gallery in turns, and spend a morning’ there
under the paternal guidance of artist McOubbin, who will
talk to them about paintings in general and the Aus-
trian works in particular, and give them an idea as to
where to look for Art with a large A. This idea of in-
structing State-school children in the rudiments of
pictorial knowledge should have occurred to a thousand
“public-spirited Australians” ere this, but seemingly
Charles Atkins was the first person to be struck by it.
Atkins is a restless citizen of intensely practical character,
who puts himself in a way of being struck by such ideas.
Recently he engineered the formation of municipal art
galleries in the suburbs of Melbourne ; and, having
thought of that, he immediately thought of getting
McOubbin to act as lecturer ’to the school kidiT.
This week Charles Atkins is off to his native
Britain for a holiday, and because be is an ardent Pro-
tectionist as well as a practical Empirist, he intends that
when he gets to London and other smoky towns, he will
do a little lecturing “on his own,” if he can tempt
audiences with the inducement of free admission. His
idea is to enlarge upon the attractions of Australia, and
the necessity for its new Protection policy from the point
of view of an Australianised Englishman, who is sorry for
the poor old Freetrade land of his birth. It was Atkins
who worried a lot of Melbourne shopkeepers into the
arrangement of an annual display of “ made in Australia ”
goods, in order to show what Protection had done for the
country. If he has time to stir up some of the London
shopkeepers to any sort of demonstration in favor of
Protection, he will probably do it. Whilst windy
Imperialists are vaporing about politics and principles in
a large unpractical way, here is a man who actuallv does
things in a small way, and gets very little credit for his
trouble.
Frank Hann, whose path in life lies mostly
through the sand and spmifex of Westralia, is
just now on a visit to the Eastern States. He is
acquainted with the wild part of the Common-
wealth that lies beyond the end of the railway and
the telegraph, and beyond the last mining camp ;
consequently he is an interesting man to meet.
Hann has come in for a good deal of hard criticism
lately in connection with the attempt made
on his life by four wild blacks who had tracked
his party for two days. It is hard for the
chronic city dweller to realise what it means
to be confronted by four naked men of
the Stone Age whose evident intention it
is to slay you at the first opportunitv and extract
your kidney fat. It is likewise difficult for the
city dweller to imagine the feelings of a man who,
after having fed the Stone Age people, has to
duck to avoid their spears and start bombarding
Lis former guests. Harm’s object in calling on
The Bulletin was to allege that he has always
treated the blacks kindly—until they grew
dangerous. Then, as every bushman knows, it is
a case of the survival of the quickest. It was
recently stated that Hann receives a salary of
£250 a year from the Westralian Government.
He denies the statement. The only thing he has
got lately has been strong language from people
who, he thinks, ought to know better.
“Harrison O.” moves a vote of confi-
dence :
Mr. Chairman and blokes: It is not my present inten-
tion to greatly encroach upon your time. (Hear, hear.)
I have not very much to say ; and what little there is of
it concerns a man whom we all know. (Cheers.) A man
who, in spite of his name, possesses breadth as well as
length. (Faint smiles.) I will ask you, gentlemen, to
bear with me for just a very few moments.
Gentlemen : The man hit hardest by the recent
confidence-t rick perpetrated by Di akin and Cook is the
subject of these few remarks—Bill Lvne. He is the man
who stands out above all others as most deserving of the
sympathy and respect of good Australians. For a long
time, as you know, Bill plugged away gamely, fighting
the good fight upon behalf of Australia, and bearing with
praiseworthy stoicism the hard knocks and sharp thrusts
of his (and his country’s) enemies. It was Bill who put
his tusks down and worried the tariff through. It mav
not be much of a tariff, gentlemen, but had it not been for
William it would have been a good deal worse than
it is. (Hear, hear.) It was Bill who planked down his
large, elephantine feet, and said he would be damned if
he would (or words to that effect), when the Foreign-
traders shrieked for reductions, and Deakin was inclined
to grant them. It was William’s considerable hulk
which was always interposed between his leader and the
Foreign Importing crowd. It was good old 8.1 l who
shoved his specs, back on his forehead, and chewed his
beard, and said “blankv” in reply to the Cooks and
Reids and Iv llys and Smiths, and, in 'spite of them all and
all their knavish tricks, dragged the maimed and bleed-
ing tariff to a place of comparative safety upon the
statute book of this country. (Applause" and gamp-
hammering.) Deakin was perhaps the Wit and Beauty,
but old Bill was the Shoving Power of the late Deakin’
Ministry. To-day he stands alone, deserted by the man
he served so loyally and trusted so implicitly—a target
for the cheap scorn of his disgraceful enemies.
Mr. Chairman and blokes ; I feel honored in moving
the m ition : That three (3) cheers he given for William
Lyne —the Best Australian of Them All. (Carried unani-
mously.)
The oldest identity of Watson’s Bay (Syd-
ney) passed over last week in the person of
Captain Joseph Creer, aged 86 years. He joined
the pilot service in 1875, and retired in 1890.
Prior to that he was connected with coastal ship-
ping. He was a Manxman, and started seafaring
at the age of 13.
AGREEMENTS TO BURN.
About Molineux :
When the South Australian cocky wanders into a
. fanning- district, the cormorant landlord
with places to let on “shares” rushes him with both
hands. One of the quiet men who did a lot- to earn this
reputation for the South Australian wheat-raiser died a
few days back—Albert Molineux. In these days, pretty
well every daily paper has a “ Soil ” column ; but none of
them had when Molineux was a farmer close-up 60 years
ago. After a time he reckoned that the business ought
to be mixed more with printers’ ink, so he quitted the
plough and got a job in a printing- office for a start ; and
from into type what other men wrote he
got to writing himself. He barracked hard for
Agricultural Bureaux—places where farmers might ex*
plain to one another how they produced their last gag-antic
crop, or how they cured Poley of the measles—and later
on he was persuaded (with difficulty) to take a job as a
sort of connecting link between all the bureaux. It cost
little, but it has made mighty fine farmers of hundreds of
South Australians.
Very few people leave half as much money
as was anticipated. The whilom Australian
bookmaker, Joe Thompson, was commonly called
a millionaire—and now his will has been proved
by his widow, Rose Barnett Thompson, at £23,450.
He left £5OO each to his son John and Joseph Davis
Marks, £lOO for a memento to his brother Barney,
£lOO to Attorney Sam Grillott, of Melbourne,
£lOO to Henry Hart, and £lOO a year to his son
John during his widow’s lifetime. The rest goes
to his widow, and after her death to his children,
Leah, Mattie, Minnie, Rose Waterloo, and John.
It doesn’t look so very much when it is divided
among all these people, including the numerous
John, who seems to turn up in all manner of
places. Possibly, however, Joe’s Melbourne
property isn’t included in the total.
Some ghosts were perambulating Hunter-
street, Sydney, recently, according to the S. M.
Herald, Henry I’arkes being of the
crowd. Standing in front of a shop now
occupied by, a chemist, he informed his
brother ghosts—John Tawell, Roger
Therry, “Baker” Hamilton, Horace
Flower, and others—that he worked in
that house,thought and dreamed things
there, and carried them out in Macquarie-
street.” The Parkes ghost’s memory
must be failing, for the old man’s ivory
and toy shop was the centre one of the
three old houses still standing, and the
chemist’s place is a different show alto-
gether.
Died recently in London, E. E.
Rogers, first wire-puller and general-
manager of the Perth (VV.A.) Electric
Tramway Co. Rogers obtained for this
concern the softest snap since the Mel-
bourne Tramway Co. started. For a
peppercorn deposit he secured a com-
plete monopoly of all streets in Perth.
There are no penny sections, all fares
being 3d., although tickets are issued
at 2s. 6d. per dozen, and a transfer to an-
other section is granted on payment of
a penny extra. Children are charged
adult rates unless a dozen tickets at Is. 6d.
are purchased ; so a casual mother and
child not provided with tickets have to pay 6d.
between them, no matter if they only travel a few
hundred yards. Rogers tried to get a similar
concession at Fremantle, but that municipality
had the good luck to escape.
A violent Tory person, signing himself
“Percy de Jersey Grut,” has been writing to
Melbourne Argus in denunciation of the Ballarat
“rebels” of over 50 years ago. There is some-
thing about a name like Percy de Jersey or
Adolphus Fitzclarence which drives people into
doing things like that. Years and years ago. a
knot of freshly-arrived young men strove to inflict
a Primrose League on Sydney, and the name of
the most desperate character in the movement
was Something de Blanky Tankerville-Bennett, or
words to that effect. The League died yoking and
unlamented. There was no hope for a show which
was urged on its wild career by Something de
Blanky Tankerville-Bennett.
There was nearly a tragedy the other day
among the ancient and accepted Hod-carriers of
Sydney. For years past the Governors have
been appointed Grand Masters of the Hod-
carriers when they felt like accepting the
extra honor; and recent Viking Rawson was
among those who felt like it. Now, though the
Hod- carriers are supposed to belong to one
brotherhood, they really light like Dill Moran
and Cardinal Macky; and it happened that
in Queensland Governor Chelmsford joined
forces with the crowd that isn’t top-dog in
N. S. Wales. Consequently, when Chelmsford
was on the point of corning to Sydney, one
lot announced that if it was proposed to make
him Grand Master, there would be opposition.
To show that they meant business, they nomi-
nated the wordy Nesbitt, Town Clerk of Sydney.
Then it was suddenly realised that the Governor
couldn’t possibly be nominated —it would never do
for the sovereign and the subject to go to a vote
H. M. Hamilton, the occasional judge, in place of
together. So the other party nominated barrister
the Governor, and won with him ; and now, as a
result of that decisive win, the understanding is
that Chelmsford will be allowed the usual walk-
over next time.
THE FIRST DREADNOUGHT.
And it came to pass that certain strangers , Sextus
Jingo , Cohen and Co., travelling from a province
far over the sea, presented Casar with a little boat,
world. And Casar, perceiving that henceforth he
world. And Csar, perceiving that henceforth he
need Dreadnought from all his foes, was so
mightily pleased that he conferred great titles upon
them. And there was rejoicing in Rome avid
Bithynia and other parts.
THE LATE LAMENTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As Premier of South Australia, Mr. Price has almost
unlimited opportunity of working mischief. His chief
desire appears to be to prove his capacity equal to his
opportunity.—Argus opinion while he lived.
The death of Mr. Thomas Price, Premier of South Aus-
tralia, has evoked unusually warm expressions of regret
and esteem from persons of every shade of political
opinion. ... The community soon learned to trust him,
and he must be allowed to have justified this confidence.
—Argus opinion after liis death.
There’s a happy season coming when the wildest Labor
man
May escape the curse of Wealth, and dodge the daily
paper ban.
They will change abusive fictions
For most unctuous benedictions
When he’s run his mortal span.
Here below he is a devil, and a thing of hate arid dread,
When defunct he is an angel. Let him hasten to be
dead !
Thomas Price was long a sinner of the Socialistic brand ;
By him Capital was hounded from our sunny southern
land ;
Upper Houses he detested,
And the Interest that’s “ invested ”
Hated him and all his band.
For the masses Thomas stoutly smote the Massive on the
head,
’Tis no wonder that the Massive very much prefer him
dead !
Every privilege they fought for he opposed with might
and main ;
Each reform he sought they strove against, with cries of
rage and pain.
With their trust the people blessed him,
He deserved it, too, God rest him !
Now he’s numbered with the slain.
So we mark what of the people’s man by dailies great
is said,
When respectfully they use him we may know that he is
dead !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
A PHRASE AND A FEW TRUTHS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Arthur Cooke, president of the association, in in-
troducing- Lord Chelmsford, gave a short history of the
association.
Mr. Cooke was presented with a key, etc.
He. congratulated Mr. Joseph Cook upon his assumption
of office in the new Government. As regaided the State
Government, they gave Mr. Wade credit, etc., etc. .. . They
could rely upon him and his team. He felt sure that Mr.
Wade had the country behind him.
Mr. Wade, in acknowledging the toast, said that his
Government had, etc., etc.
Mr. Joseph Cook (Minister for Defence), who also re-
plied, expressed his, etc., etc.
Lord Chelmsford and the State Premier, who left at
this stage of the proceedings, were given hearty cheers.—
D.T.’s Report of Commercial Travellers' Opening.
As Mr. Wade remarked on Saturday, the States notv
feel assured that their fair claims will receive, etc., etc, —
S. M. Herald leader on same.
Some phrases stick in quite a funny way,
Especially the things that papers say ;
Here’s the ’Erald coined a phrase
That will last at least nine days—
“ As Mister Wade remarked on Saturday."
’Twas at the opening of the Bagmen’s Club—
A sort of glorified, half-private pub,
Where you may drink a butt
When the common pubs are shut—
A thing Mr. Wade knew, but didn’t remark upon on
Saturday !
The topics touched upon were highly various,
And the speeches made were happy and hilarious.
One allusion (to Wade’s “team ”)
Made the very menials scream.
A thing Mr. Wade possibly realised, but didn't care to
refer to on Saturday I
The Bagmen and their friends turned out in force,
A Cooke was there ; Joe Cook was there, of course !
And they scratched each other’s backs—
Sweet as honey—soft as wax.
A fact Mr. Wade might have- noted With suspicion (being
a laivyer), but didn't descant upon on Saturday l
The Bagmen praised St, Gregory for his virtue
(‘Tis vast! but, still, not vast enough to hurt you),
They said—perhaps to blind him—
That “ the country was behind him,"
But they omitted to add—“ With an axe!”—a thing Mr,
Wade knows, but didn’t like to hint at on Satui~day !
Then the Bagmen pulled the leg of Joseph Cook,
On whom they seem particularly “shook";
For with them a party shines
If he carries lots of “ lines ”
A policy Mr. Wade (in all probability) may have observed
and decided to adopt himself on Saturday !
In due course a “ report ” of it appeared ;
The report said Chelmsford, Cook and Wade were
“ cheered.”
The Daily Telegraph printed it,
And the Moaning Herald hinted it—
And when the ’Erald hints a tiling it must have hap-
pened— as Mr. Wade can observe any Saturday !
Oh, 'tis grand to be a Premier and religious 1
And it’s better to be Jokook—it’s prodigious !
But it isn’t quite so cheering
When you feel the time is nearing
When an indignant and disgusted people will boot, you
into Oblivion on a Saturday—or any other day !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


VKTPEGAL
SMOK.ING MIXTURE.
I AUSTRALIA V. I
El is/ C* L* >*S NJ C* I
l J
A
j(V
U
< >
</
' v i‘
1
r//
4/
I
f?
y
wm.7
mmhll
'immm
U>
p
Mi
(Jf
H
ml m
imi'i! !ji IWiiii
I Milli 'MI
i
I
•H
1
z' a .
Chappies “Haw, deah boy, could you—haw-tell me what
won the Test?”
Smith: “Oh, yes, VICE-REGAL,’ easy.”
“ VICE-REGAL ” SMOKING MIXTURE—a special blend of
the finest selected Tobaccos, and of undoubted superiority.
3old in 2oz. tins—medium and full strengths.
“ VICE-REGAL ” will stand any TEvST.


Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining' Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
You may talk of .vour herds and your flocks,
You may talk of your Government stocks.
Laxo-Tonic’s my wealth,
For it brings me good health ;
Tenpence halfpenny will buy vou a box.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10£di and Is. 6d.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful ’ Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory. Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Librerla Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
OBESITY.
An excessively fat man is probably a sick man.
His appearance may make him seem as strong as
the man of nerve and sinew, but he can’t do the
work nor stand the strain. Obesity is an un-
natural accumulation of tissue, often caused by a
faulty assimilation of food. Instead of making
muscle, the nourishment is converted into fat.
FRANZ JOSEF Natural Aperient Water helps
digest food. It keeps the bowels healthy, the
liver active and heart action perfect. Your excess
of adipose will soon disappear, and your form will
assume the grace that Nature meant it should
have. Laugh and grow fat, is good advice for a
thin man ; drink FRANZ JOSEF Water and
grow thin, is better advice for the fat man.*
Rheumatism.
Have you ever heard of
a person with Rheumat-
ism curing himself with
a liniment, or something
to rub on. Candidly
have you ? Think of all
the people you know
who have ever had Rheu-
mr'ism. Of course you
haven't. By cure we
don't mean mere relief.
The friction and heat of
rubbing sometimes eases
the pain, but rubbing can't
drive out the Rheumatic
poison.
This does'nt mean that
Rheumatism can't be cur-
ed. Hundreds have been
cured, but they took
something to drive out the
acid that causes the com-
plaint. That's why there
have been so many cures
of Rheumatism by Dr.
Williams' Pink Pills re-
ported in the newspapers.
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills
make new blood and tone
the whole system, en-
abling it to cast out the
Rheumatic impurities
through the regular chan-
nels. That's the way
to cure Rheumatism.
When this is done the
rheumatism is permanent-
ly cured and as long as
the blood is kept pure and
rich the patient will be
free from attacks of
Rheumatism.
Shopmen only try to sell imitations
and substitutes to people they think
easy to gull. If you are asked to
take something else it is no com-
pliment to you. The price is 2/9
per box, 6 boxes 15/3 of dealers, or
from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
Dr. Williams’
PINK PILLS
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
a
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags.
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &C,
Write for Lilt.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter SI.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
NOT A QUESTION OF SOCIALISM.
SHE: “Fader! Do you think the State till ever
take over the pawnshops? ”
HE: “No! But the pawnshops may take over
the State.”
Apparently the appointment of Honorary
Minister Foxton to lepresent the Deakin-Cook
Government in London was a matter of necessity.
Deakin feels it would be unsafe to go away and
leave Cook to run the show, and Cook feels the
same way about Deakin. The Fused people don’t
trust each other any too well, and no Minister with
a job worth keeping wants to let that job out of his
sight. Foxton, however, has no job except in
name, and it will be pleasanter for him to go to
London than to hang round in Melbourne as a
person of no importance, and be told to get out of
the way while his colleagues are Hying round
looking busy and important with their portfolios
under the arms.
One day lately, a Melbourne reporter got
Joseph Cook into a corner, and asked him if “he
could indicate in any way the new Defence
policy*” “ No,” said joe. “We have practically
done nothing yet. It is a subject that cannot be
hUffied over.” Quite so. It is all very good to
rtiake red-hot haste over the unauthorised offer of
a Dreadnought to Britain, but the mere protec-
tion of Australia Can wait. It is a subject over
which' Cook cart’t be hurried*
The lanfe Powerful, swinging at Its moor-*
irigs in Farm Cove, Sydney, is a' tine example of
the great, rirfval rfesoiiffceS w 6 don’t
possess. It is u'nderstob'd that a new
shaft is being sent from England to
replace the one lately fra6tured, and,
unless war breaks out fn the mean-
time and thq conveying ship is in-
tercepted, the hit 6! steel will
arrive in Australia in time to
allow the hired flagship t!o race off
to Colombo in September for the
purpose of being re-corn mis-
sioned. Meanwhile, the engines
are to he compounded, and the
grey giant is to steam cautiously
to Brisbane and Fiji, doing its
best to sidestep anything in the
way of rough weather. The
Powerful’s helplessness is plainly
a matter for derision and for the
dead , cat of utter scorn. It is
doubtful if the supply of dead
cats would bo equal to the demand if the public
had time to take a really fervent interest in this
and one or two similar matters.
Two more Victorian councils lately threat-
ened to instruct their health officers to condemn
their State school buildings, and close them up.
Quarry Hill (Bendigo) is in such a disgraceful
state of disrepair that the city solicitor has, in
fact, been told to go ahead, while even the sleepy
Geelong magnates were so annoyed, on Hem pi re
Day, at the rain coming through the roof at Ger-
manton school, and at the rats scampering across
the floor, that they promised to “do something.”
“Sorrento” writes :
When Bill Lyne said that he would run VV. H. Irvine
out of Parliament, he had something much more tangible
on which to base his prophecy than the fact that
Irvines majority at the last election was less
than 400. Several hundreds of miners at Outtrim deliber-
ately refrained from voting. They said i. was all the
same to the Labor party whoever got in, and they would
not spend their time in going to the poll. If they had
known that their votes would have turned the scale, they
would probably have acted otherwise. It may safely be
anticipated that every possible labor vote in Korumburra
and Outtrim will be polled at the next election, and then
the Iceberg will melt.
The recent opening of Sydney Commercial
Travellers’ new diggings gave 8. At. Hkuald a
theme (7/6/ 0!))
The sentiments of mutual congratulation from the
Minister for Defence and State Premier were welcome as
presaging an era of more harmonious and cordial relation-
ship between Commonwealth and States. The initial
blunder of the Fisher Government was to immediately
commit itself to a policy which must inevitably be con-
strued into a declaration of war upon the States, and to
accentuate the essential hostility of that policy by the
adoption of a Ministerial attitude alwavs more or less
domineering, and in some instances even insulting.
And thut s all the thanks Fisher gets for his
foolish kowtowing to the Sydney Tory clique in
the matter of the Federal capital location.
As soon as John Quick got settled as
Postmaster-General he took a look over the
lelephone Exchange— and was amazed.
“ It was a revelation to me,” he said.
I had no idea the works were of
such complexity or magnitude.”
Next he proposed to visit the
mail and other branches; and,
before Parliament meets, he wants
to have a look at Sydney, Bris-
bane and Adelaide. It is all
right for Quick to make himself
an fait with the details of his
department; but lie has been a
public Victorian for much of his
life, he has been a Federal member
for eight years, and yet he admits
that lie knew practically nothing
about this department. Bo he has
to start from the beginning ; and by the
time he has fully grasped his business he
will probably be fired out, and then will
come along another Minister who will
have to learn it all over again. Now if
Ministers were elected, there would be no
need for all this chopping and changing;
the man who had learned the innards of
the Post Office would be made Post-
master-General, and the public wouldn’t
be inconvenienced by having a department
bossed by a man who admittedly knows
nothing about it.
To get down to details, this was the exact
wording of the British Government’s cablegram
re the Deakin-Cook Ministry’s wholly unauthor-
ised offer of a Dreadnought:—
Confidential. Please convey to your Ministers the
warm and very cordial thanks of his Majesty’s Govern-
ment. for the offer contemplated in your telegram of June
4. They welcome the opportunity of consultation afforded
by the forthcoming conference on the defence of the
Empire.
It is about the vaguest and most polite statement
ever put into print, yet some of the dailies had
the gall to head it, “The Offer Accepted.”
Private subdivision of large estates, re-
garded as an aid to closer settlement, is a great
jest. The other day North Cuerindi estate, near
Manilla (N.S.W.), was cut into farms and put on
the market. But as Geddes bought two farms
and Byrnes three and Park eight—well, when
these areas were added to the land that Geddes
and Byrnes and Park owned before, it is quite
likely that there was less close settlement after
the subdivision than previously.
There is nothing wrong with this country
when Protection gives it a show. Noyes Bros., of
Melbourne, in competition against J. G. Brill and
Co., the big Philadelphia (U.S.A.) people, have
scooped the order for the building of tramcars for
the Adelaide Tramway Trust. The work is to be
dpoe at Pengellev’s Edwardstown (S.A.) factory.
This is another instance of tariff iniquity which
Cook should lay in haste before the Hash Cabinet.
APROPOS OF DREADNOUGHTS.
ENGLISH ARTISAN (out of work): “ Mother !
Mother! Are you mistress of the seas for
THIS?”
F.C. : I have been much worried of
late over a piece of suppression of news that the
great dailies appear to have conspired to perpe-
trate. Among the "river gaugings” regularly
published 1 see, besides the Murray, Darling, etc.,
the names of such trifling streams as the Narran,
Culgoa and Edwards. Yet there is no mention
whatever of those noble rivers the Cotter and the
Molonglo, which are to thunder past the Yass-
berra Federal capital. I really wish Gregory
Wade would look into it. I feel sure the sup-
pression of any mention of these rivers is due to
Federal interference.
Turkey has apparently exchanged the
espionage and tyranny of Abdul for a mili-
tary despotism. Nobody ever hears of the
new Sultan, whose name not one in a thousand
can tell. Writer remembers it is something like
Mohammed or Dammit or .1 umho, and that is all.
When the Greeks talked of annexing Crete the
otherday. the Sultan said nothing. It was Shevket
Pasha, the boss of the army, who threatened to
march2oo,ooo men on Athens. And while Shevket
can talk in that tone of voice little is likely to be
heard of the new Padishah. By the way, it is
about time that the world heard that the old
Padishah had developed symptoms of senile
decay, or a bad cold on the lungs, heart failure, or
something like that. Captivity is usually disas-
trous to Sultans. Nearly every one of them that
has been jugged has died" with considerable sud-
denness.
The Elective Ministry idea pushes itself
along. The Anti-Sosh crowd in Tasmania has
got very tired of Jacky Evans lately, so it met,
the other day, and had an election to decide who
should be Premier in his place ; and ex-Premier
Neil Lewis was chosen. So Jacky is expected to
resign, whereupon Lewis will be sent for.
Whether he will hold a formal election to find out
who his colleagues shall be, or whether he will
just wander round and take an informal ballot,
hasn’t transpired. The Commonwealth Labor
party went half-way when it had to form a Minis-
try six months ago : it elected four, and let Fisher
choose the balance.
The final report of the surveyors who have
been laying out the track for the transcontinental
line to Kalgoorlie and Perth is to the effect (1) that
the land along the route is good ; (2) that there
are no engineering difficulties ; (3) that there is a
fair supply of water ; (4) that the line can be built
for about £4.500,000. A country which can afford
to throw Dreadnoughts about after the Deakin-
Cook fashion could find that money inside two
years without borrowing a cent. In fact, if it
started its two transcontinental lines simulta-
neously, and spread the construction over (say)
five years, it could pay for both the lines without
borrowing—-always provided it didn’t throw
Dreadnoughts about and do similar follies.
A letter from Maoriland :
Maoriland is getting in a hopeless tangle over the
question of def nee. both Imperial and local. Premier
Ward has been allowed to give Dreadnoughts away at
random, yet he says he can’t go to the D-f. nee Confer-
ence in London without the authority of Parliament. He
is suddenly seized with the prime importance of consult-
ing Parliament, and has such profound respect for what
is Constitutional that he gays he won’t go, and cannot
think of going, unless Parliament says he must. (Of
course, he means to go all right.) So he has called
members to meet for the business of the session on
June 10. Hut even in this matter he seems to have
suffered a relapse into the old go-as-you-please style, for
he has also asked them to join him in a sort of informal,
and therefore illegal Parliament, beginning on June
when the Defence Conference affair will be practically
decided. Most people seem to think Joe and no other
should represent this unhappy “ Dominion ” at the big
korero, but his party is in a grievous funk and is scared
at the prospect of business proceeding without the
boss. It is ther fore intended to put off the session proper
till Joseph comes back. Opposition-leader Massey dot sn’t
think it necessary for Ward to go to the good old
Motherland, and wants to know what is the matter with
the High Commissioner, or the Chief Justice (now in
England), or the Inspector-General of the “ forces” (now
en route for London), or all of them, representing Maori-
land in this business. (By the way, McNab, late Defence
Minister, says the “forces” number about 5089 men.)
Massey, however, good old Imperialist that he is, has got
nothing to say against a suggestion that he and Ward
should be sent to the confabulation in Bullopolis. So far
only two persons whose ideas have been published have
had anything sensible to say. T. E. Taylor, M. P., observes
that if Ward goes to England Parliament should take care
to tie his hands first, lest, in the exuberance of his own
verbosity and his host’s champagne, he may give away a
whole jolly fleet; and an Oppositionist in the Wairarapa
district, who was asked if he reckoned Joe should go,
replied : “ I don’t care a damn whether he goes to Britain
or to Hades.” Strange to say, the Empire Day celebra-
tions in Maoriland this year were the tamest on record.
Is the Dreadnought aftermath setting in already?
There are heaps of people who are willing
to leave pretty well everything to Providence-
bar money. They shout from a thousand plat,
forms that they are willing to trust in Providence
regardless of the fact that Providence is always
showing that it hates to be trusted too far or too
much. The latest man to assert that he is per-
fectly willing to trust in Providence is D. Mac-
kinnon. M.L.A., of Victoria. Speaking at the
anniversary smoke night of the Korong Vale
A N. A., Mackinnon is reported to have said
He was not in favor of spemiiiur much money in cnn
neetion with local defence, lie would rather see n
money spent in developmental work. lie was mute,,
pared to trust that Providence would allow us to
out our destiny peacefully.
And yet. if Mackinnon knows his history he
must he aware that Providence is no friend to the
shiftless man or nation. History is littered with
tne bones of men that reasoned like Mackinnon
ihus N.S.W. Labor-Opposition Loader
McGowen, while gratuitously proposing “Health
and prosperity to the N.S.W. Premier,” at the
opening of Mount Kosciusko Hospice, the other
day :—>
Whatever our differences, while we have men like Mr
Wade and Mr. Joseph Oarrulhers at the head of affairs in
Australia, we need have no fear whutever for the develoo
ment of Australia in the future.
Well, if that is so, what on earth is McGowen in
1 arliament for ! And why does he oppose these
men who are so super-excellent that while they
are on deck there is no fear for the country's
future? To vote against splendid oreutures of
that sort is a disgrace.
AN EMPIRE DAY OF THE FUTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop White, of Carpentaria, who has 20 years’ per-
sonal experienceof the North, has on more than one occa-
sion expressed anything but a hopeful view of the feasi-
bility of using white labor to any considerable extent
there. This is what makes the problem of defence so
difficult. .. . What concerns the Prime Minister is the
salubrity of the coastal districts where, to effectually
resist an invader, settlement will have to be effected.—
Melbourne A nous.
When the last (Vbite man is worked to death, and the
North is Mack all through,
Or Blatkaud Tan, or simply Tan, or Yellow and Piebald
too;
tVnen Sun Kee JangorGondoh Singh is the person behind
the gun,
And Black or Saffron fries his fry in the frightful
Northern sun ;
When the governor (Tan) and his lady (Brown) are horsed
by a Coal-Black groom,
What flag will they raise on Empire Day when the British
wars resume,
When the White Man’s field-guns boom,
And the hands begin to play,
And the squadron goes on its English way through a fog
of Australian gloom?
When the North is niggered from sea to sea—when the
last Bill White’s gone down
To join his kindred in the South where the waiting field-
guns frown ;
When the flutt’ring Union Jack comes down, and Aus-
tralia’s flag also,
When the heathen starts to raise Old Cain, and the poor
hired warships go,
Then White will he White to the blackamoor, and the
writer who wrote his gusli
In the “poor White" prints will drop his pen and away
for safety rush.
Most terribly will he rush
(Eor he or his blood must run !)
And the scuffling sound of his frantic feet will enliven
the tragic hush.
When the wasted ranks of the Northern Whites have
closed clean off the land,
When the friend of cheap Tan labor sees Tan labor close
at hand ;
When cheap Tan labor conies and stares at its advocate
soul to soul,
Will he rise and drive the horror back to its far northern
hole?
Will he help to silence the Mongol guns when the shells
scream overhead ?
• When the trench is filled with dead
Arid the thrusting bayonets clash,
Then that Bishop may work his salvation out by serving
out good, hard lead.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


A Booß Worth Having'
For City or Country Readers
WE show the Elegant Cover of our Hand-
some Winter Overcoat and Vest Book.
It is undoubtedly the most striking example
of Australian Printing Skill ever issued.
Numerous Recent-Style, Dressy Over-
coats and Fancy Winter Vests are faith-
fully portrayed in their Fashionable
Brown and Green Colorings.
Even if you do not wish to buy, just send
us your name and get a FREE Copy. It is
of special interest for Country Dwellers to
compare with values and prices elsewhere.
Two other Artistic Catalogues — u Men's
Wear " and ** Winter Underwear n gladly
sent POST FREE to your address. Send
to-day ; " They will Save you Money."
Address Dept. A.
WINTER WEAR
m
m
FJ PALMER s SON
CORNER 6 PARK STREETS AND
726&72Q George Street Sydney®
One Quality
Example from Our
Overcoat Book.
Illustration shows the
Paddock Overcoat,
made of Heavy-Weight All-
Wool Tweeds —a Cold
Weather and Rain Coat
combined—in 40 Distinctive
Patterns; with snug-fitting
collar, patch or welted poc-
kets, long loose hack, broad
rounded lapels, gauntlet or
strapped cuffs. Colorings
are Browns, Greens, and
Greys. A Dressy, Well-
fashioned garment for Town
or Country,
Price—
37/6
- EDUCATION -
BY POST.
Our successful cind up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence CM*
Can Train You —B^o^.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. "VV hy not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to vour home, and cause no inconvenience. Ihe instruction is thoiough and
individual, 1 and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking 1 a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MIN A TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS .
The success of our students at all PUERTO EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS l is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 Collins Street, Melbourne ; Union Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney; 172 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
BrooKman’s Chambers, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Best..
White
Collars
Made b y the
Foremost House
in the World.
MR 19S1
MR 1982
MR 1933
MTit 1984
Eton, If in., 2fin. and 3ini deep.
:
▼
MR 1985—2 in„ 2£in.,
deep
MR 198C —2in., 2|in.
deep
MR 1987—Celluloid
All Sizes, 14 to 19, in Stock,
MR 1988 Celluloid
MK 1980 —2in., 2sn.,
2hin., 2gin. deep.
ME, 1090—“ The
Coach man ”
MR 1991
All Sizes, 14 to 19, in Stock.
MR 1992 —1 Jin., 2in.,
2|m., 24111., 2fii>. deep.
MR 1993 2|in.
deep.
MR 1994—lfin.' deep.
AH Sizes, 14 to 19, in Stock.
MR 1995— 2 in. and
2|in. deep.
DO NOT CUT OUT THE ILLUSTRATION
BUT ORDER BY THE NUMBER.
lillill
llllf
MRl99G—Clerical, If in. arid
2£in. deep, 1/3 ; 14/6 dozen
Hand=made Button Holes, in sizes from
14in. to l9in., Is. each, 11s. 6d. per doz.;
Boys’ Eton Collars, lOd. each, 9s. 6d.
per doz.; Celluloid Collars, Is. each,
lls. 6d. per doz.
Buckley 8 Nunn,
Ltd.,
300-310 BOURKE STREET,
... MELBOURNE.


Est. 1818.
£
CO
-3
JL
eo
r
co
r*
co
09
5*
b
9
o
OPO.
The Praise of its Pleased
Customers has made the
Success of
“Silvasheen” Satin
Tens of Thousands of Women- have
proved its Greater Reliability and
Value by Actual Use. They Buy
it again and again, year after year,
and they tell their Friends.
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
fWWUBS**. P
■PJ
ROfiVR
It’s a pleasure to handle a
first-class article like Robur
tea, even though the profit is
so ridiculously small —you see
there’s hardly ever a complaint
as to quality, quantity or price—
and when there is, well 1 know
there’s no real foundation for it.
Of course it worries a man
to hear complaints about goods
he’s sold and I’d rather anytime
take less profit and know that my
customers are satisfied than run
the risk of losing a single one
of ’em and as 1 find my
customers like the flavour of
“ROBUR” and say that it
makes more cups to the pound
than any other tea —1 take good
care to always have it in stock,
and T never refuse anybody
who asks for it.
There’s a race on just now
between the sales of the No. 2
and No. 1 Grade and it seems
to me as many buy the one
grade as the other —1 like the
No. 1. Will you take a pound
to try it?
The Grocer.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 15, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
The dog has a good time in London where mere
humans starve and freeze publicly in thousands
daily and nightly. Thus the Daily Mail of that
city a month ago :
The last word in modern elegance and luxury is a
beauty parlor for dogs recently established in High-
street, Kensington. It is described in the announcements
as a health and toilet saloon for dogs and cats. “ A
competent nurse always in attendance ” is one of the
advantages mentioned in the prospectus.
The canine Salon de Beautd is appointed in a style
befitting the class of dog whose patronage is sought. An
artistically furnished reception room is first entered. It
is bright and cheerful of appearance. There is nothing
to differentiate it in the eyes of a dog of the most delicate
nerves from a drawing-room in which he might be paying
an accustomed social call. The walls are covered with
art paper, since, if they were colored in distemper, his
health might be affected by suggestion. There are soft
cushions on the chairs. The trained nurse in nurse’s
uniform has a soft voice and a sympathetic smile.
A door from the reception room leads to the salon,
where the first impressions a dog gets are of abundant
light and air and perfect hygienic conditions. In the
centre is an American barber table for dogs. In an
alcove is a marble bath with hot and cold water and
several kinds of sprays and douches. Antiseptics and
perfumed lotions make the bath and shampoo a pleasant
preliminary experience.
After the bath the patient is first carefully wiped with
soft, warmed towels, and then led to the barber table to
be electrically dried. An American apparatus accom-
plishes this. An electrically-driven fan in combination
with a gas burner sends out from the wide nozzle of a
flexible hose a stream of warm dry air, which not only
speedily completes the drying process, but gives a de-
lightfully soothing sensation.
When the dog’s coat is quite dry it is combed and
brushed, and, if necessary, curled. On a shelf above the
table’ are rows of bottles containing hair tonics, lotions,
beauty creams and perfumes.
Tt is calculated that a modern British woman of
fashion spends anything from £3OO to £4OO per
annum on her favorite lap-hound. Which causes
the social negligible to aver sourly and dingoisti-
cally that, despite all music-hall songs to the con-
trary, it were better to be a pup than a Boy of the
Bull-dog Breed these evil times. Also it accounts
for the fact that in all big households the maids
deputed to attend to the dogs refuse to demean
themselves by sitting down to meals with those
whose ignoble job it is to look after the children.
Whereby much worry and annoyance are occa-
sioned.
Chelmsford, our newest State ruler, stated last
week, whilst presiding at the Melanesian mission
meeting, that he took an especial interest in the
conversion of our brown Pacific cousin, because,
15 years ago in England, he had seen a young
clergyman make over 50 runs in each innings for
Kent against a bygone Australian Eleven. That
cleric had since become Bishop Wilson, of Melan-
esia, and, because of his effective smiting at the
wickets, the mighty now watch attentively his
bowling in the spiritual test match. Strange is
the fielding of Providence ! Of course, cricket is
a sacred game in itself ; but when it can be com-
bined, as in this case, with the Established
Church, it looks as if the Perfect Religion were
about to be evolved. His Ex. remarked in the
course of his address that the Mission was run on
business lines ; and certainly the figures seem to
bear out the assertion, for the revenue has grown
and the expenditure dwindled, whilst the bank
balance is fatter than it was at the beginning of
tke year. As a representative of the service that
rebukes the heathen when he deserves it, Cap-
tain Rolleston spoke of the advantages wrought
by the Church with the 4.7 guns of the navy to
back up its hymn book.
Hon. Michael Scott, of Melbourne, and some-
time of one or more ancestral homes in England,
won the amateur golf championship of N.S.W.
last Saturday. He seems to be a dogged young
man, and to have taken few chances. “ As a
matter of fact ” (said one of the Sydney dailies on
the morning after the final contest), “ he has been
for months past spending the bulk of the daylight
hours upon the Sandringham links in solid and
consistent practice for the open championship
meeting.” The Hon. Michael owns a wife
and an almost brand-new baby, both of them
local products.
Apropos golf, I learn that one of the
best golfers, if not the best, in this State
is a butler. Gallagher is his name; and, as
the same would indicate, his native land is that
from which the shamrocks come. In his working
hours he buttles for the household at Federal
Government House, and out of buttling hours he
battles o’er stymie, tee and bunker with his Ex.
and the more skilful club wielders of the staff.
There appears to me to be something curiously
bizarre in the idea of a butler who is also a golf
champion. Your chronic golfer I conceive as
a gay, blithe, debonair character, a wearer
of loud socks or stockings; eccentrically
shaped and welted shoes ; and a cap of Harris
or other tweed wherein no less than 14 colors
scream for mastery. Now all the butlers I have
encountered to date have been men of funereal
solemnity. They seemed to me to be filled with
a more serious purpose in lire than that of cease-
lessly biffing small defenceless masses of gutta-
percha from spot to spot. Their clothes were
sombre of hue and conventional of cut. I have
never seen a butler whom I could picture in
pyjamas, much less in a golfing suit. It is under-
stood that his Ex., who is nothing if not demo-
cratic, desires that Gallagher shall be elected to
the Kensington Golf Club. There is an absurd and
humorless prejudice against this among certain
members—mainly due, one opines, to a craven
fear that Gallagher may outshine them at the
grand, royal and ancient diversion of sphere-
smiting. This unworthy factor should not weigh
with the more reasonable members of the club.
The tone of the Kensington G. C. —like that of
many another institution of the sort —is likely to
be raised considerably by the introduction of a few
good butlers from time to time.
I doubt, by the way, if any other Australian
Government. House, State or Federal, has held
such a collection of enthusiastic all-wool “sports”
as the edifice in Macquarie-street does at the pre-
sent time. Among them they supply adepts at
nearly every same, pastime, amusement, or what
not that the Empire knows. All the men folk are
card-players, some of them extremely good ones.
They all bestride the foaming steed in expert
fashion, from the head and front of the concern
down to his small boy-scout. Captain Hore-
Ruthven is, I hear, as skilful a steeplechase rider
as any local professional; and the Chamberlain
has streaked in quest of the elusive and odorous
fox or aniseed over most of the fences in the
vicinity of most of our State capitals. Captain
Rome is one of the Cold Land’s best polo-players.
Captain Gilliat—the newlv-arrived —is almost as
practised a golfer as the butler aforemen-
tioned. The entire crowd plays cricket more
or less adroitly. Also tennis. Likewise
croquet. The children skate earnestly and well.
The only field sport that none of the party has yet
essayed is bowls; and it is anticipated that ere
long one or other of the members will lay in a 100-
gallon cask of whisky and start training for that
strenuous pastime.
The Cooper who recklessly cabled £5OOO to the
Allen Taylor Dreadnought Fund after the
Deakin-Cook Government had offered the Em-
pire a Dreadnought and received a guarded reply
to the effect that the Empire would think about
it, is a descendant of “old George Hill.” He is
heir to the baronetcy at present held by his
brother, the latter having no male offspring. The
Cooper money comes from rents, mostly in the
neighborhood of Rose Bay. The Cooper family is
connected with the indigenous Wentworths, inas-
much as Mr. Fitz, of the latter ilk, is married to a
daughter of “old George.” There is nothing else
in particular that the Cooper family is dis-
tinguished for ; in fact, it may fairly be described
as one of the most undistinguished families, for its
money, on record.
The Rupert Clarke baronette, with her sister,
Miss Cumming, left Sydney on Sunday night for
Melbourne. Her frocking and hatting were the
acme of fashionable dowdiness. It is The Thing
to be dowdy—but it must be the dowdiness that
is achieved with much thought, taste and money.
On one of the race days the baronette’s hat was
crammed low on her head, her long blue coat
hung straight with nary a curve in the seams, and,
as hers is a very slight figure, the style of coating
gave the idea that she had no more contours than
a paling. A long, thin face the lady possesses,
hard as to expression, with a wide, thin mouth
and a good complexion, and she doesn’t appear a
minute over 30. She’s incredibly young-looking to
be the mother of a married daughter. .
Since the Glaciarium gave Sydney society cold
feet, women who skate have become mighty par-
ticular about the hang of their skirts. So the
best-tailored skirts are now to be seen on the ice.
But the “hash ” style of dressing is still the habit
of the greatest number. And the way so many
skateresses cling to bags or little swags of some
kind is remarkably suggestive of the squaw habit
of pack-carrying. Three notably graceful ice-
maidens on the glide this year are Miss Williams,
a recent debutante ; Miss Dorothy Gordon, another
fledgling; and Miss Pockley, of the medical
family of that name.
These young things are natural skaters seem-
ingly. They skate even as the miniature fowl
cackles, all unschooled. Their older sisters are
forced to hire instructors to teach them “outer”
and “inner edges”; also how not to fall
and break their little necks. A gorgeous
and autocratic person is the average Glaci-
arium instructor these days. He mostly lets
it be understood, in dark, mysterious fashion,
that, socially speaking, he is not what he seems,
but a person of ancient lineage who has taken
to the instructing job partly out of aristocratic
freakishness, partly because the riotous conduct
of a score of forebears has brought the family pro-
perty into the unfortunate financial position of a
State Government that can’t float a loan. And
so his pupil, mindful of his past grandeur,
feels almost ashamed to proffer him the paltry
wage that he asks for his services, and when she
does she accomplishes the task blushinglv,and then
asks him to tea as a salve to his wounded feelings.
The instructor who plays the game deftly is safe
to be booked by intending learners twenty deep
daily; and he is likely to have enough free tea
forced on him in any given week to float a ship.
The lately-deceased Mrs. George Parker Don-
nelly, of Napier, better known as “Princess
Arini,” was Maoriland’s most gorgeous example
of the Noble Savage. The lady was a full-blooded
Maori, and early in life married Mr. G. P. Donnelly,
who thereupon took charge of the tribal lands and
worked them with a degree of thoroughness quite
unknown to the Maori elsewhere. The lady was
easily Maoriland’s most dashing horsewoman, a
leader of society, a considerable prop to such
charities as existed in the wealthy Hawke’s Bay
Erovince, and an enthusiastic barracker at foot-
all and rowing matches. But it was in a politi-
cal sensp that she was most remarkable. She
achieved what no other woman ever did in Maoria
—made the tribe recognise her as her father’s suc-
cessor. In Maori politics ladies count as nothing,
and the alleged “Maori princesses” are crea-
tions of the imagination. Arini Donnelly
was the only one of her sex who de-
served the title; and she should have been
called queen, for she bossed her tribe in a most
autocratic fashion. There was never an aris-
tocracy among the Maoris ; men became chiefs by
virtue of their physical prowess or force of charac-
ter. Even long-established chiefs were occasion-
ally deposed. Of course, the mana of the chief to
a certain extent clothed his sons, who started in
the race for chieftainship with a slight handicap;
but daughters were simply of no account unless
the largesse of the old man made them so. When
Arini’s father died the times were stormy. The
whole of the tribal lands were claimed by a rival
faction, and the case was before the Native Land
Court. The head of the rival faction was known
as Broughton, and the struggle in the courts was
carried into the field, and resulted in murder.
The clan of which Arini’s father was head claimed
by right of conquest; the others asserted so many
reasons to the contrary that it took the Court years
and years to go through them. Broughton’s party
went broke, and it raised the wind to carry on the
litigation by issuing debentures, to be redeemed
when Broughton came into what he called his
own. More than one land agent made a small
fortune out of that lawsuit. Donnelly got his
opportunity through the financial pressure that
the case entailed. The Maoris had to raise money
somehow, and Donnelly raised it from the soil
instead of the pawnshop, and kept his little crowd
of niggers grafting hard. By the time the row
was over Broughton was even more broke than he
had been before, and as he lost the case the people
who bought his debentures were raving. Don-
nelly by this time had the tribal estate
well cultivated and clear of debt. His rnana
was great. He had become a white feudal
lord with a crowd of brown dependents. He
and his dashing wife ruled in great style, and
held a court at which some of the best horseflesh
and people of Maori land were to seen—the horse-
flesh always, the Best People occasionally. Some
few years back the “Princess” went to London,
and was lionised in English society as no Maori
had ever been lionised before. She will be missed in
Hawkes Bay, for she was a picturesque figure,
kept herself right in the middle of the public eye,
and took more prizes for jumping horses over tall
hurdles than any other woman in the country. In
one way, she was unique. She was about the only
educated Maori woman who did not lapse into
slovenly dressing and a more or less barbarous
state of life. Right through the piece she was one
of Maoriland’s most brilliant frockers.
An event that might be described by that
humorous phrase, “nearly unique,” occurred at
Hill End in the hinterland of Bathurst. Triplet
girls, daughters of a landowner named Ross, were
married on the one day to, respectively, Messrs.
Brown, Carroll and James. What a difference it
must make in a home to have three girls leave it
on the same day at one fell swoop—of bride-
grooms? And used the eldest of the trips, to pre-
sume on her seniority of (possibly) an hour to
bully her junior sisters of the trefoil? Also does
the youngest sometimes flout the eldest, saying
“old thing” to her who has the disadvantage of
(possibly) an extra hour of life. And when, as
babes, they raised their voices in concert —three
voices crying in the wilderness of Hill End for
nourishment or merely for'practice, were they
spanked, or did the parents console themselves
with the reflection that it is more uncommon to
have triplets than to be a duke?
Miss Alice Henry sends me this :
A number of Australians abroad are vigorously waving
their country’s flag in the Woman’s Suffrage cause in
John Bull’s florid face. Two ex-Premiers of South Aus-
tralia, H. B. J. Strangwavs and John Oockburn, preside
at meetings, make speeches, and give garden parties in
the women’s vote interest. Hartley Williams, Victorian
ex-Supreme Court Judge, pours out all his legal learning
and his best English in print in the same cause,
solemnly assuring the scared Briton that the voting
Australienne is still respectable and wholly uninjured
in her morals, in spite of having weathered the
effects of many elections. Mrs. Martel, of Syd-
ney, is another Australian platform colleague, and
Melian Stawell, who, 15 years ago, carried off a Cambridge
gold medal at Newnham, wields a pen for her British
sisters. Mrs. George Coates, artist and artist’s wife, is
another Australian Londoner well to the fore ; while
Muriel Matters, the Adelaide elocutionist, was the daring
maid who, after having served an uncheerful month in
Holloway Gaol for the crime of having chained herself to
the House of Commons grille, was next espied aloft in a
balloon, scattering down leaflets over an irritated body of
antiquated legislators. And this not to speak of Melba,
who proclaims herself as a suffragist on both sides of the
Atlantic.
Mr. and Mrs. Tommy Burns, it may be men-
tioned amongst other fashionable intelligence,
have returned to Sydney from Brisbane, and are
on the lookout for a furnished house. “Intend to
settle here,” says Mrs. Tommy.
Amongst the departers by the Mooltan were
Mr. T. E. Donne, of Maoriland, his wife, and his
youngest son. Mr. Donne has been Someone and
Many Things for years in Ward’s Own Country ;
and now he goes to All a niche as secretary to
Agent-General Hall-Jones in London.
Miss Florence Taylor, who left Sydney to put
in a period of hard labor at the piano under
Leschetizky, has merged a possibly brilliant
career in matrimony. She has married an English
medical man, who, so a friend in Berlin tells me,
is himself one of the best' amateur pianists in
London. Friends who expected her to return in
glory with a great name profess anger at this
sudden plucking of the orange blossoms. But the
Sydney good-looker knew her own business best.
Perhaps if she had kept on the ivory trail she
would have got “ piano back,” which is a fearful
disfigurement.
The Bathurst papers contrast Melba’s reception
at the School of Arts on Friday with that accorded
her. 23 years ago in the same building. On her
first night she found £7 in the house. On the
second, 12 persons turned up, and Mrs. Armstrong
indignantly returned the dozen their money. On
Friday last every corner of the big hall was
packed, and the singer was received with a blizzard
of enthusiasm. The voice was younger and
fresher and brighter on that dim, remote evening
when an infuriated songstress handed back the
money, but Bathurst probably doesn’t know much
about singing, except what it reads in the papers.
And 23 years ago it hadn’t read in the papers that
it was its duty to pawn the family plate rather
than miss hearing the warble of Nellie Armstrong.
Margaret Anglin has been investing the money
she made in Australia wisely and well—so writes
her manager, Mr. Louis Nethersole. She has
been in Paris for nearly two months and has
leased a flat in the Champs Elysees, and will live
there whenever she goes to Europe. She has also
acquired a cottage on the Prohibition coast of
Maine, and there she will play the summer girl.
She starts work in New York in September in
the new theatre that is being built for her, and
which is to be called “ The Anglin.” The opening
play will be “ The Awakening of Helena Ritchie,”
to be followed by a new French drama that Miss
Anglin bought in the Frog capital. Manager
Louis N. goes on to say that “ Americans are im-
mensely interested in Australia and Australians.”
That’s stroking our national fur the right way,
and is a kindly caressing of our tail ! He had the
pleasure of tearing a bit of food with Mr. Charles
Hammond, a Tasmanian, one evening. Ham-
mond is leading man with Ethel Barrymore. He is
making a capital-lettered name for himself, and
drawing something large from the box office.
A foreign paper, of a quite recent date, has been
spreading itself on “the teacup girl” and the
cult of serving afternoon tea. To be the ideal
teacup girl you must have beautiful hands, with
the moons on the nails shining clear and silvery.
Much finger exercise must be practised privately
in front of a mirror before you venture to appear in
public as a tea priestess. The little finger of the
hand that pours the tea must not touch the handle
of the pot. It must quiver apart from its mates.
The left hand must hover over the cup all the
time, the fingers extended, cui ling, or curving in
groups of two. The thumb and the middle-finger
must often be brought together, whilst the wrist
and the other pickers and stealers keep up con-
stant posing in a conspiracy to enchant the on-
lookers. If you wear a big, rather over-blown
rose over your heart you may drop a petal
on the surface of the tea. If there are
men about, this little trick is supposed to
make them peculiarly abject. Then the tea-
table must be much lower than the tea-cup girl.
Her waist line must appear above the table, and
if it isn’t a slender waist with wide, sloping
shoulders above it, don’t be a tea-cup girl ; be
something that demands fewer qualifications and
less study.
A Sydney girl, writing from Paris under date of
May 3, mentions amongst other thrilling items :
“ Hats are absolutely huge, and seem to aim at
hiding hair and face. Every frock and coat and
skirt is braided—some smothered in braid, some
only slightly braided. If they are not braided
more or less you are an outsider. Everyone is so
perfectly shod. That fact kicked me at every
turn. In Australia the majority of women are
rottenly shod, no matter how otherwise well they
may be turned out.”
Yours affectionately.
AKENEHI.


is
A
/
£
U
/7
y
ih
j
Vi
til
■J v
i
cob^
&
£2
H&ff
II
S(
ti
11
VS
a
■>/
\n
&
A'-
m
s
r
/■
»wVv H Tn<*
'SSSB
. ./*
.
r*- .V.ii»CMiWr ,(
■# < i-
MK
s-- r ~
C-O-B-R-A ?she Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo 1
Of Akim Foo,
With his Cobras
Driving thro’,
Wrings admiring
Shrieks from all :
“ Here he comes
From Old Bengal 1”
Chunder Loo !
For Black and Tan
Very polished
Sort of Man 1
All the other
Sorts he loses !
Cobra is THE
Stuff for Shoeses 1


y"*
1
f \\
«•
mm
ALL MAIDS
Know the Worth I
Dunlop
Rubber Heels
FOR QUIETNESS, |
COST DURABILITY Go |
EASE,
one cannof do belter |
•imN SPECIFY I
DUnLOP BRAND
i OBTAINABLE ALL BOOT STQBESj
I Dunlop Rubber C 9
0. STATE. S AND * NEW ZEALAND
w y|
& x vS
RELIABI
/
DlinLOP
MOTOR TYRES
GIVE THE GREATEST
SATISFACTION.
I DUNLOP RUBBER CPkvi STATES *S7.
MWt ROOIh
Have you voted for the
KANDY KOOLA Com -
petition Girls yet ?
Watch the Voting
Returns.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 14, 1909.
Mt Dear Yarrik,—
St. Vincent’s has had its ball. St. Vincent’s, by
the way, had sort of lost count, for it missed last
vear’s sphere, and had a race meeting instead.
When a globe has been annual from time beyond
counting, the butterfly section gets quite put out
by a miscount. Habit means so much. Though
this ball was not the hummer of other years, yet it
made something of a buzz. The frisk reached
high-water level at the Madden ring. One
Governor lady is in'* Sydney ; the other is lying
low even thus early in the season. The Maddens
braced up the show in full flock, and though the
people were cheated of “ Gor’ Save” and the glory
of gentlemen-helps’ lapels, yet fancy fashionable
sets gave a “tone” to the affair, and military
uniforms gladdened the atmosphere. The scarlet
and- gold fripperies that serve no useful purpose
in time of war are very killing on the dancing
field. Two Madden colleens gave backbone to a
vivid green set that looked as if it was imported
straight from the Emerald Isle, and though their
dresses had been aired before on the ice of the
Glassy Harem they sufficed. The men of an Early
Victorian set got themselves into slender fawn
cubes, with a rather top-heavy arrangement of
elaborate weskit and stock. The beautiful Esme
Miller was beau of that group. His little butterfly
moustaches almost flew away in sheer excitement,
and his self-conscious blush was as a peach in the
promenade. The Irishmen were practically Early
Victorian also, but their garments were black,
and all their color went to their feet in a socky
way. Guy Madden—who meant to be an Irish-
man —insisted on looking like Mr. Samuel Pick-
wick. Vallange, the Lean, made an exception—
his Early breeks and other gear seemed glued
to him, and his voluminous necktie was a poem.
Mrs. Vallange—Sylvia of the Maddens—is catch-
ing her husband’s leanness, it has taken some
time to have an appreciable effect on that roly-
poly young matron, but at the ball, in her white
iiinon gown, her figure looked positively slight.
Mamma Madden looked tired and pale in black
and white gear. Auntie Miss Madden buskined
her broadness in black with curious oases in white
circular patches. One Whiting girl sported
mignonette to much advantage, and another, Miss
Claire, was in sweet lavender and corkscrew curls.
Jack McComas, in stock and bleak gear, looked
like Beaconsfield the Jew. Men in general had
the great joy of being dressed-up. In the two
Early sets the men were the sartorial feature, and
in the military set the ties gloried in their gor-
geousity of scarlet, whilst the girls were reduced to
white. * A particularly effective character was the
Swedish Consul —that pale, fair, beautiful youth
who dwells in a chalet hung on the high rocks
of Neutral Bay. He and Miss Leslie, of
the Madden throng, found that their “step”
was much in harmony for the informal
part of the evening following the sets.
By the way, the Hungarian who was in such
evidence (the one from Buda Pesth that double
city set on two sides of an old river) in Glaci-
arium gossip last skating season, seems to
have melted to a mere ghostly shadow. Though
the men took up so much glory in dressing, there
was one girl who managed to shriek out on
top. She wore red gloves. She also wore other
things, and they were all red—but the crimson
gloves gave the shrillest note. They looked like a
battlefield where 30,000 dead remained behind
after the discussion. A Butterfly set made itself
a nuisance by tangling its wings in everybody’s
chiffons. The wings had sprouted from well-
grown shoulders, and they raked down a good
many things in a large, muscular way. The Hose
set blinded quite five people with the horrific
spokes of rose-covered parasols. The girls danced
with their electric-lighted brollies up, and the
roses merely hid the horrid poky skeletons
thereof. There was an overcrowded set of debu-
tantes who made one cogitate. Debutantes nowa-
days seem to have taken too long in blossoming
they grow tired and wilted-looking before the
show.
Dr. Hermann Lawrence’s dame engineered a.
crowd of dewy violets,.and the usual Powder and
Patch and Dresden China sets got down to
serious work. Dancers who were not “setting
swarmed the balconies and sat there, and put in a
lovely time tearing the floor crowd to shreds.
The sets finaled their lancers by a slow, self-
conscious promenade two and two, just as the
animals went into the Ark. Gaudy Mayoress
Burston (who is not a bit gaudy apart from her
title) was in a chameleon dress that showed green
in the shade and blue in the sun of electric light.
She probably meant to be a mermaid set all
on her own. Her mayor, of course, wore his
metal chains of slavery, with etceteras of fur robes
and silken calves. Councillor Brennan, of the
silver hair, brought his lady, gowned in grey.
Mrs. Hammond Clegg, with a ghost of a sapphire
dress hanging over a white silk, brought her two
chicks in quite-calm frockings of blue. 1 rankie
Rea, a girl who has walked out of a Mrs. Hum-
phrey Ward novel, with all the attributes of a
swan, accented her part of the picture with a crdpe
dress dusted with mustard —dark French mustard.
Danseuse Vera Evans wore a royal purple toga
over her white frock, and put a band of daring
blue on her copper locks. Miss Brewery
gomery looked as if she would squeak “P;ipa
and “Mamma” if vou pulled a string in her little,
doll-like body. She had a doll’s scarlet lips and
cheeks, and her face was of the wax persuasion.
Mrs. Fred Payne sported a black cluny that got
there. Miss Buckley had a snappy black sur-
rounding. Eva Robertson spread her wealth in
gold tissue and ninon.
One set—not a bit official—deserved a place
before the last. It was a set made up of pa and
ma and auntie and uncle and sundries. The men
wore a cross between a dinner coat and the real
thing, and the women-folk had “the yoke taken
out.” I remember a girl who expounded on her
ability to do with few clothes at a fashionable
resort. She said she only took one dress, and
“ took out the yoke for dinner.” It reminded me
of the gourmands who are said to “let out a vest
button ” after the eighth course.
At the Dental Ball—that wholly gorgeous frisk
at Fran—the Maddens, who adorned the upper
deck of the show, were lured away for a time by
Mr Charles Atkins to another part of‘the com-
modious Town Hall to see the new municipal
<>allery of loan paintings. They were enthusiastic
about the suburban Art Gallery idea, and Missus
Madden offered to lend one or two pictures on her
own The Maddens are keen on Art. The Chief
Moustache, who is a great admirer of Australian
landscape pictures, has half a mile of the works
of dead Curtis—that artist from whom Mr.
Spook-hunter Stanford bought scores of paint-
ings. Stanford has a very big collection of paint-
ings—he even lets his gallery have a ‘ day at
home.” On one Sunday morning in every
month the selected public is allowed an ele-
vating look—with a glance sideways at the
aviary, and give spiritual messages to Stanford.
Stanford sent a great bunch of his pictorial collec-
tion to the Stanford University, in California
(U.S.A.), which was built and endowed by
Governor Leland Stanford in memory of his only
son.
The pleasant Pleasance lady is energetically
engineering an entertainment to haul in charitable
ducats. The Homoeopathic Hospital people want a
surgical cot for children. They wish to get funds
enough to endow one and name it the ‘‘lsabel
Bruce ” bed, after the late president, Mrs. George
\V. Bruce, who worked hard for the institution.
Mrs. Top-mayoress-Burston, Mrs. Halley, and
Charlotte Hemming are helping.
The returning Archbishop made considerable
stir in Melbourne. Motor loads of priests went
to meet him, and blocked the traffic ; and bishops
in their shovel hats poured in torrents round
every corner. The fiery cross blazed at night
from St. Pat’s. On the dark tower it is as a sign
written on the sky. A big and imposing ceremony
surrounded John Gavan Duffy. .John Gavan has
already had some kingly bauble thrown
on him, and now he is made a papal
Knight of Saint Gregory. The bishops of
Sandhurst and Sale, in all the magnificence of
their millinery, upheld the Archbishop, who made
a theatrical sweep with the magna capa—the
great scarlet robe. Over the red clo’ were white
lawn and lace. Small acolytes reverently carried
the corners of the imposing scarlet train. I hat
was the heart of the procession. There were
lights that only shone dimly because of the extra
special sun. Duffy, who was to lie knighted, had
Dr. Kenny and Dr. M. N. O’Sullivan as sponsors.
They vouched for his identity, and guaranteed
him to be the right man. lie was further verified
by the strawberry markon his back. The sponsors
were wreathed in chains of great honor and
decked with medals. Dr. Kenny carried the
sword—and in kingly way the Archbishop said
Arise, Sir Knight,” or words to that effect, after
he had touched the kneeling patient on the
shoulder. Three other men were honored—but in
a minor degree. One was Benjamin Hoare, that
veteran of King David Syme’s staff ; and another
was Printer Verga, who had been discovered sur-
reptiously giving away tensof thousandsof money
without telling his left hand. A third honor was
mentioned, but the name of the person who is to be
struck .by it was not made public. On Sunday
something like 10,000 people crowded into St.
Pat’s for mass, and the whole city is full of
religious proceedings.
“The King of Oadonia” got a packed house.
Many of the Important Ones—established and
fixed first-nighters—bucked at the extra half
dollar charged for first-night seats, and hoped by
staying away to teach “ those manager people ” a
lesson. The manager people evidently felt they
could grin and bear it. The house was filled with
frill, frock and gush, and had an excellent top
dressing of gods. Various ex-gaud-mayoral
parties made the circle solid. The Weedon dame
wrapped her charms in blue and silver, and hubby
wore his specs. The Pleasance lady hostessed a
party, and the Daveys were obvious to the naked
eye. The lady blotched some cerise into the color
scheme. New Knight Best brought his pretty
lady in soft white. Mrs. Railway Tait wore
glad togs of putty color, and brought her silver-
haired husband and the blossomed budlet.
Bibron of the Dance brought his young wife-
handsome in a gold and green rig. Mrs. Burrell
had pretty Ailsa Wilkinson with her. The
Raleighs and the Cleggs and the Fenners
bolstered up their usual chairs. Mrs. Grand-
Hotel-Burgess was in imposing black with her
growing-up chick in blue bows. The crow-like
rows of first-night johnnydom packed the stalls
with a languid bored air. “ There’s absoluootly
nothing else to DO, don’t you know,” their pose
declared; “hang the extra expense.” Medico
“Springy” had a very pretty green-clad girl in his
big party. Motors took up all the space in Lx-
hibition-street, and tried to knock mere trammers
down in the supper rush.
Bert Gilbert gives the King a pantomimic flavor
—the poor King who “surrounds himself with his
army” (about 20 strong), and_ offers them free
pardons by the gross to carry in their waistcoat
pockets if they’ll only shoot anything that comes
near him. In the supposedly “nevv” company
many familiar faces turned up. Susie Vaughan,
who has perhaps been rolling on a tub or a barrel
to reach her present slenderness, was one. Ivy
Scott, leading the ladies in waiting, is developing
into the pattern that is turned out like so many
gross of biscuits by the Fogland stage. The new
leading lady—the Princess of the fairy tale —Miss
Dorothy Court, looks as if she had stepped
right out of a fashion journal and found
the locomotion necessary to the human species
rather beyond her. When, unhappily, it became
necessary for her to sit —well, the lady fell against
the chair or couch and slowly crumpled into a
bent posture. The new little soubrette is
a spark on the picture. She dresses in
snappy colors, the tint of a rock-melon’s inside
workings; and she has snap in her little
ways. There are gorgeous scenes of over-dressed
ladies whose mission in life is evidently to draw
some half-mile of train behind them. The
majority of the she-spectators care for little else.
They want to see dresses, dresses, dresses —new
designs and new colors. Their souls rush up on a
dream of chiffons, and in the small corners of
their minds is a question of the wherewithal.
Will Bill or Alphonso stand another cheque, or
will “Madame” let her bill run silently another
month? Soubrette Lottie Sargeant sings of a
lady who had crowds of relations to get
her clothes from. No one Bill or Alphonso
for her, but “ an uncle on her mother’s side ” and
“grown-up cousin Jack,” and a “nevvvon her
sister’s side,” they all looked after her feathers.
But the spectators, of course, all belonged to the
crowd for whom husband or father pays—with or
without strong language.
A wave of morality has broken over this city,
and our police, whose inability to track the day-
light assassin to his lair or hash-tower, is estab-
lished and a truism, are seeking desperately
to show their quality by raiding cafes.
Last Saturday night they concentrated by
the Vienna, and things moved considerably.
As a result, Guy Madden, Gordon Ghirnside and
Stewart Murray toed the mark at the court on
the following Monday on a charge of being in a
drinkery “after hours.” One way and another
. there were enough accusations levelled over
this business to get various people, in the
aggregate, about 300 years incarceration with
hard labor. The trio above-named weren’t
accused of anything more serious than not
having bolted' from the restaurant in time.
But others were charged with most of the multi-
tudinous offences of the wine-bibber. One atten-
tive officer averred that —
between midnight on Saturday. 15th May, and 1 a.m. on
the Sunday, he saw 97 persons leave the premises of the
Vienna, and counted 15 cabs, three motors, and a private
vehicle drawn up on both sides of Coll ins-street in the
vicinity of the caf6. A man “so drunk that he could not
walk ” was assisted out of the caf6 by a waiter and a
friend, and placed in a cab, while soniebody_on_the_other
he’s had a smell of the cork.” The proprietor, when
spoken to, admitted that “there was one gent, a little
bit * shick. n i
Finally, the proprietor of the cafe was _corrallea
and charged with something, fhe entire batch
of aecused was enthusiastically acquitted, and the
police trailed dejectedly away. It seems, these
days, that the Melbourne police b« d lt
detect even a drunk if the night is dark and theie
is a high wind blowing.
The nurses of one big hospital have de-
clared war on the matron. They have threat-
ened to go on strike. Like a lot of angry
bees they have buzzed in secret caucuses, cap to
cap, and apron to apron. After much travail
they have drafted a notice of tlreir intentions.
The charge is that the matron is a cast-iron
female without a kindly bulge in her—that her
interpretation of the rules vs according to the
strict letter of the law, and that they would rather
have an unjust ruler who is human than an mtai-
lible person who is an honorable brass image.
Doctors and nurses are always pairing off.
Stuart Ferguson, a young Coll ins-street medico
who is making a name as a children’s specialist is
to be married next week to Nurse Lovell—a pretty
girl with a pretty name— who does the Niglitm-
gale act at the Children’s Hospital.
Mrs. Oscar Asche (Lily Bray ton), who is coming
here to make the community sit up, is said to he
bringing marvellous frocks with her.
dresses for wearing in “The Taming of the
Shrew” brought in a meek little oill for tout*.
Oscar is spending money like water on the show.
Five hundred tons of scenery and “appoint-
ments’’ only amount to a corner package among
his traps and chattels.
Lieutenant Cameron, a one-time darling of the
Melbourne girls, has been distinguishing himself
by leaping into Indian waters—risking the horrors
of crocodiles, juggernauts, Buddhas and other
tropical fish—in order to save a benevolent
old gentleman’s life. Cameron and Brins-
mead (he of the pianos), both R.N. men,
were on a passenger boat that wandered up the
Hoogly or Irrawaddy or Brahmapootra, or some
such streak of moisture. There was a rising of
the coolies aboard, a quick mutiny, and a fight.
The benevolent old gentleman tried to arbitrate
and establish a Wages Board. Anyhow, he lost
his balance (not his bank'balance), his white
weskit, and his spectacles. His son tried to save
him from the infuriated proletariat which wanted
id. a week more pay, and the two were almost
drowned when Cameron went to the rescue. The
last word of hearing was that a local Governor was
patting Cameron on his wet, muddy head, and
offering him a life-saving medal. Cameron was a
Cerebus man—an inseparable pal of the late little
Commander Colqulioun. Together they hunted
the coy Toorakian maiden in fashionable cafe
lairs, or saved her life by taking her to afternoon
tea. They were ever gallant boys.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide: —
More races at flower-strewn Victoria Park; and a
cheerful sun did its best to entice out all the best we have
in winter goods. Her Ex. was there on Cup Day in a
blue raiment with a truly traily blue feather in her
millinerv, and two cream-clad, twin Exoellencettes gave
their new friends a chance to distinguish them by wear-
ing different-colored hats. Other noticeables were Mrs.
Arthur R.vmill, in a pale blue frock, and some plumes worn
in a hat that made you look twice ; Mrs. Albion Tolley, in
a direetoire cream triumph, much bebraided and but-
toned ; Mrs. Jim Anderson, in blue ; and Mrs. Evan Ivyffin
Thomas, in pale blue, brown furs and white millinery.
For the Mondav, Victoria Park had had its grass specially
washed and brushed. His Ex. attended ; likewise Mrs.
Olenv Hill and Mrs. Herbert Rymill, in blue coat and
skirt ; and some of the Stirling girls ; and Mrs. FredScarfe,
in brown ; and Mrs. E. W. Morris, in a direetoire frock and
rosy hat; and 259 other bright circumstances that I have
forgotten.
The Cheltenham Park Club, which raced on Saturday,
is growing up, and offers a very well-dressed course and
some beautiful vegetation by way of frills. Moreover it
has most up-to-date totalisat-r arrangemen’s, though so
far it hasn’t been a bit, boastful of its possessions.
In this city, where - unclaimed blessings are many and
“proposals” few, everybody who has the space for it is
expected to encoura e the dilatory young men by at least
one dance during the winter. The John Morphetts had
one at their place at Morphettville the other night, in a
rose-bowered, candle-lit drawing-room. And the George
Milnes, who dwell on Brougham Place, will have given
anoth r before you read this, unless the Torrens over-
flows its banks or some other dreadful thing happens.
When the private host fails the committee comes to the
rescue. The girly fixtures are already standing on one
another’s toes.
The Unley folk, who are interested in the Home for
Incurables, have marked off the 15th ; and a very well-
dressed committee is working up a Seaman’s Mission ball
for the 6th. , , .
The Australian Natives of St. Peters corroboreed at
their local Town Hall the other evening, and shook
with Mr. and Mrs. Cruiekshank, he being either
their fairv-godfather or president—l don’t know which.
The Cruickshanks had people to play and sing to them,
and a supper, and dancing till 1 a.m. The hostess was
in a frock of pink brocade outlined in silver thread.
Next evening the District Trained Nurses' Association
had the benefit of the same decorations. The Holdens,
from Norwood, brought five electric carloads of pleasant
folk, and there were more front St. Peters’, and Mrs.
Cruiekshank once ttiore helped in the hostessing.
Tne Peter Woods have also done their duty towards
the Adelaide girl, mainly in a floored marquee on their
lawn. The garden wore Chinese lanterns, and the
drawing-room wore autumn leaves and chrysanthe-
and the supper table wore scarlet and
white. There was a Moon also ; but, it w'ore no-
thing but its old knowing wink. Mrs. Wood was
black-frocked, and a charming heliotrope daughter and
a nice little pink daughter helped to make things joyful.
When we do get a chance, we waste no time over here.
A damsel went on board the Protector (which same is
our navv), and met a lieutenant. Next day she met lum
ao-ain, and within three weeks there was a wedding, and
Mr. and Mrs. were sailing off upon the honey-trip to
England. Adelaide slow'! Hot quite! We can’t afford
to he. . , ,
The new Queen Adelaide Club for the sex has acquired
patent rights to Julv 1. On that day her Ex. is to walk
in and make a few well-chosen statements, expressing the
hope that the club will be all that its promoters hope, and
111 The Serena Trust, which has Clara Kleinschmidt in
hand, has received word that the celebrities who have
been engaged t 6 give her a pnsh up the musical Parnassus
are Blower (who polished the Clara Butt voice), Ur. Read,
F. A. Sewell and Stephen Kemp. With that force behind
her, an eveYi less promising pupil than Clara Should du
some rapid climbing.
The Welsh Choir has been here again. Last time, our
Premier toolc it by the glad Welsh hand. This time it
only came in time to sing over his grave.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


WHICH IS YOUR HORSE?
E y ery man who owns a Horse should know how to keep it in good
condition and how to treat it when aiiing. You do not require a Vet.
if you have GLEASON’S HANDBOOK OF THE HORSE. |
It describes the symptoms of all the diseases and gives the proper
treatment. Prompt attention saves valuable horses. A HANDY
CHART mounted on canvas and varnished, to hang in the stable,
showing what to do in an emergency, is given with the Book. Price
1 Os. 6d. posted anywhere. Money back if dissatisfied. Only from
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
I
Amusements.
LJ ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* 1 Lessee .and Manager : .1. 0. WII.IJAM.SON
SATURDAY NRXT, JUNE 19
RETURN OF NELLIE STEWART
in David Belasco’s Costume Comedy Drama
SWEPT KITTY BELLAIRS
Supported bv her own Company, including MISS
ROSSLYN VAYNE and MISS MARJORIE CHARD,
MR. LANGHORNE BURTON, MR. FREDERICK
MOYES and MR. CLAUDE KING
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
CANNOT BE DESCRIBED. MUST BE SEEN.
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
IN
THE GREAT RESCUE.
A Play the old folks love and the vounsr folks enjoy
Australian Life and Character Admirably Portrayed.
Box Plans at Elvy’s.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. No Extra Charges.
HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
CRITERION THEATR E, SY DNE Y.
Rupert Olarke, Clyde Meynell & John Gunn Season
Evenings at 8. Wednesdays at 2
THE POPULAR FAVORITES,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
' IN
THE RATAL WEDDING.
See the TIN CAN BAND.
Hear Maggie Moore sing “ The Babies on our Block ”
Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* DIRECTION OF T. .J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & fid. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
QLACIARIUIW, SYDNEY.
REAL ICE-SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.m., 3 to 5 p.m,
and 8 to 10.30 p.ni.
ADMISSION, 25. ; CHILDREN, Morning tind Afternoon
only. Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDA Y .MORNING-—Clyildreti, Admission 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railwa.v Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbar Poolr, Manager.
"TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—M-R, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
G. W. HUNTER and MDLLE. DESIREE.
GUEST and NEVVLYN, Quaint Comedians and Dancers.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN, Artistic Musical Experts.
DALE and O’MALLEY, Cross Talk Comedians.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE. Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
MR. JAY RYAN, Baritone.
GRAHAM AND DENT, Popular Comedians.
AND ALL OUR GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
, P E R A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BOYIS and DARLEY, Musical Sketch Artists.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS.
Mr. CULL PITT, a Droll Deceptionist, assisted by
Millie ADELE, in a Pot-pourri of Tricks, Talk, etc.
THE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Comedienne Dancers.
R. h. Douglass, Monologue Entertainer.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. -PRICES—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THE MOST IMPORTANT DRAMATIC EVENT
OE THE YEAR.
MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
IN
THE HYPOCRITES,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Prices 55., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager: J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
The Romantic Musical Play',
THE KING OE CADONIA,
BY A NEW COMPANY OF EXCEPTIONAL
EXCELLENCE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Great Adelphi Drama,
THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
AT H E N/E U M HALL, MELBOURNE
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
Mr Edwar IA^INKES SATURDAYS at 2.30.
Braxscombk’s Scarlet Troubadours
Those inimitable performances of Song*, .Jest, Dance
and Jollity are nightly received with enormous
enthusiasm by overflowing* audiences.
Complete Change of Programme Every Frida
Reserved, 3-l ; Balcony, 2s. 6d. ; Admission, 2s. and 1
Plan and Day Sales Glen’s and Ronalds’Central.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT.
T H o E p BULLETIN t POST CARDS.-New'
piI«MT •• JI. Backet of Twelve, 6rl;
J en ’ sd ‘ p osted free to any address.
Specia l rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney. ’
Amusements.
| C E SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM,
EVERY
AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE lf T AhL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Prosrranune Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Mditarv Band.
POPULAR BRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing: Friends.
STMPSON. —Will whoever advertised during
Boer War for THOMAS SIMPSON, who
left South Australia 40 years ago with wife, son,
and four daughters, please communicate with
MRS. SIMPSON,
c/o Miss L. Prior, Springfontein,
' 0.R.C., South Africa.
MILES HENRY WESTON can hear of
his sister by writing to her.
c/o COX & CO.,
1G Charing Cross, London.
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWE.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. Posted.
(A wl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
[ Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
. repairs to Bags, Belts, Srap*, etc., it
is the “ Aw)-you-w..nt.” Thread from die
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Need es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight— 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post tree. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postil note to
STAR NJV£ ,T Y v;0 . 229 C >1 ins Str et. M-lhourne.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
3
&
MMZSS Value £175 0
8-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30,1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £lOO ;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Morkiiousb, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding- stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickers may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOIJGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this Avonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
Ili
«
'ks& %
V
I
/ <
M
&
$: MM
mx >
m;.i
m ■«
'. >:••;•: «•:• ••.'>•:.. :•
w*
< •
Do you remember, as
a boy, how delighted
you were with your iirst
STEVENS ? Truly an
event at that time.
Give YOUR BOY a
STEVENS now. Will
add to his happiness and
education.
Make a Man of Your Boy!
Send for 100-Page Catalogue.
Ask Your Dealer.
Insist on STEVENS.
J. Stevens Arms& Tool Co.
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
dpaasaßi
of the shearing sheds are unanimous on the point that they make the
highest tallies when using “Wolseley” Shears.
Given the “Wolseley” they know they can keep up their averages,
provided the engine power used is reliable and continuous.
The most dependable driving power on the market to-day is
'M \V\ F Y\ without doubt the “1.H.C.” Gasolene Engine.
r ore than 100,000 users have found that it not
yonly starts inside 30 seconds, but invariably runs
"y and smoothly all day and every
day if required, without the slightest attention
other than an oiling once in about 4 hours.
Rock Bottom Prices are now on offer for
Complete Shearing Outfits—an “1.H.C.” Engine
and “Wolseley” Shears.
ys a 2-H.P. “1.H.C.” Engine and 3 stands ot
rinder and all necessary extras.
on the Exceptionally Easy Terms of One
[2 and 24 months.
Proportionately Low Prices
and Easy Terms for larger
outfits.
rther particulars and sped -
ionsLof «_fM
in our
posrw^amphlet.
Senator r&uxow.
£92
Wol >eley
1 100
Third each
-0
hears,
ocu res lithe'
'ash on Delh
International
Company of Americe
( Incorporated)
> 200 Roma Street,
Brisbane.
■0;
■«4
37 Broadway, Sydney'\J
\272)


MMEMNG
aimwffinr
AWffIDED
If GRAND PRIX
ATT THE
FRANCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION:
iMp
r
3
/
%
’’t!*'"" 'VW- "•'■r^gp,:.
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
397 GEORGE STREET.
Dee Are He Hay Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
jpigmgH Given away in sums of £i each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
e#£* V to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909.. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the /50 will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
DAWSON 8 CO
(AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Any of these Good Watches will be sent Free and Safe by Registered Post on receipt of Cash with Order.
The “Princess” Watch, ISct. Gold
Hunting Cases, £5 10s. Open Face
style, £4 10s.
The Waltham Lever Watch, 10et.,
£5 ; 14cr., £6 ; 18ct., £7.
Special Values these.
The “Nonpareil” Out Hunter, ISct.
Gold Cases and Gold Dial, £8 10s.
The “ "Nonpareil,” Gold Dial and
18et. Gold Case, £6 10s.
Full Hunters, £7 10s.
Special Adjusted 18ct. Waltham
Lever, £2l.
The 14ct. Gold-filled Klein Lever,
worth half-a-dozen cheap Gold
Watches, £5.
The Waltham Lever, lOct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £8 10s. ; Hot. Uold, £l.O los.
The Waltham Cat Hunting I.ever,
18ct. Gold, Cases, £l3 10s.
I
The Waltham Hunting: Lever, 18ct.
Gold Cases, £l4 10s.
“Nicole Nielsen ” English Lever, 18ct.
Gold Gases, Engraved or Plain, £35.


Kodak Photography
Is Very Simple.
That is probably the great reason for its wonderful popularity. And with all its simplicity the Kodak
is 1 emarkably accurate in its results. It takes first rank among high-grade cameras, and produces
work of the very finest character.
Think how easy it is to carry a Kodak wherever you go ! Your journeys will be doubly enjoy-
ade if the handy little Kodak hangs from your shoulder or rests in the pocket. Just when you get a
glorious glimpse of sea and sky • just when a quaint old scene or figure comes in view ; just when you
v ant it most the Kodak is ready. It’s the camera for all times and all places—the camera, that
never disappoints.
With a Kodak you can load in daylight, and, by using the Kodak Film Tank, the developing
can be done in the daylight too. The whole system is simplicity itself, and you’ll find the art of
p otography grow more fascinating day by day if you use the Kodak. But, remember, it must be an
Kastman if it isn tan Eastman, it isn t a Kodak. If you call at one of our stores full particulars
wile readily supplied, or you can write for a catalogue and glean all details from that. It lists
the various Kodak supplies, all of which are sold at English list prices.
f £»?.*•*
m
No. 0 Folding Pocket Kodak
This magnificent little camera takes pictures
2|in. x l§in. and loads in daylight for 6 or
12 exposures. When closed it is only l|in.
thick, and can be opened or closed bv one
instantaneous movement. The lens is of good
covering power with a focal length of 3in.
The shutter is everset and actuated by
separate levers for time and instantaneous
exposures. A set of three stops is provided,
a brilliant finder, and the total weight is
only 12 ounces.
Price £1 6s.
Postage 9d.; Inter-State, is. 2d.
No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak
This camera weighs only 41 ounces, and embraces all the practical
features of cameras several times its bulk, yet still retains the
Kodak simplicity, making it satisfactory for novice or expert.
It takes beautiful pictures, measuring 3|in. x s|in. —the
popular postcard size—and is fitted with a rapid rectilinear lens,
the F.P.K. automatic shutter, two tripod sockets, a brilliant
reversible fincler with hood, and an automatic focussing lock.
Altogether it is a camera anyone would be proud of —a
camera that would give splendid service on any class of work.
Price £4 I Os.
Postage Is. 2d.; interstate, 2s. 2d.
No. 1 Folding Pocket Kodak
This compact camera takes pictures measuring
2|in. x 3£in., and has a capacity of 12
exposures without re-loading. It possesses a
Meniscus achromatic lens, the pocket auto-
matic shutter, and a brilliant reversible
finder. The complete camera weighs just
16 ounces, and can be easily carried in an
overcoat pocket.
Price £2 2S.
Postage Is. ; Inter-State Is. Bd.
If you haven’t thought about getting a Kodak, think now! It offers scope for a
most interesting study—one that develops the artistic instinct and gives
pleasure and profit all the while. Write for a beautifully illustrated catalogue.
BaKer & Rouse Propty. Ltd.,
Sole Agents for
Australian Kodak Ltd.
375 & 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
RESTORE YOUR EIVER TO
HEAETHY ACTION.
ORGANIC CLEANSER.
THE LADDER
OF DISEASE
REMOVED
BY KUTNOW
HEADACHE
LANGUOR
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
LIVER-
TORPOR
KIDNEY-
DISEASE
Do you sometimes suffer from
Headache and occasionally feel
depressed ? Perhaps you sleep
badly, or on rising in the
morning still feel unrefreshed,
languid, and tired. Your
appetite may not be so good
as usual, and you may feel
the symptoms of Indigestion.
If so, you require a dose of
Kutnow’s Powder. This world-
renowned remedy removes
Biliousness and Headache,
makes you at once bright,
cheerful and energetic. It goes
down to the root of the trouble
and eradicates from the system
all the poisonous products which
accumulate therein. Kutnow’s
Powder is the perfect remedy
for permanently removing Con-
stipation and its attendant
evils. It cleanses the kidneys,
eliminates uric acid, and is a
preventive of Bright’s Disease.
Kutnow’s Powder not only
restores the liver, but all the
great organs of the body to
healthy activity.
<\F~
l KUTNOW’S~I
H
Improved ErrcnvcsccNT CarISGAD
POWDER.
a]
Hirsciiensprung or Deer Leap
L?
London
If f 41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.f t
i registered trade mark. •!. I
*
A Well-known Actor writes
“The Hut, Weymouth, May 23, 1908.
“ Sirs, —I have but recently returned from a tour
in the States, and feel that I must write and teil
you how your Kutnow’s Powder has been of service
to me. In the life of an actor, one is accustomed to
different food and strange climatical conditions.
All this tends to affect the liver, and it is a usual
■occurrence to rise in the morning with a headache,
feeling more weary than the night before. A dose
of Kutnow’s relieved me of this trouble like light-
ning. There are so many spurious medicines on the
market that I think it is only fair that a thoroughly
genuine article should be given the notice it deserves.
“HUGH LESLIE DOBREE.”
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all
conscientious Chemists throughout the World. See
that the fac-simile signature “ S. KutnOW & Co.,
1d.,” and the registered trade mark, ** HirSChetl-
sprung 01* Deer Leap/’ are on the carton and
bottle. You then
Get Genuine Kutnow's Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Famngdon Road, London, E.C.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and'for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair,
Sizes 3s. 6d:.'75., tos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
Cordon.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cute any case of
itching, blind, bleedinsr or protruding piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
Mothers need have no hesitancy in givin
Chamberlain’s Gough Remedy to the little one:
It is perfectly safe.*
' CIQ
HEADACHE.
The First Symptom of Every Form of
Disease.
Sick and nervous headaches are but the symp-
toms of other ailments to which they are merely
sympathetic, such as indigestion, biliousness, con-
stipation or some other irregularity of the system.
Many women habitually suffer from headaches,
which make life a daily purgatory. Indeed, this
complaint may be regarded as peculiarly an
affection of the feminine sex, an ailment common
to all women from girlhood to old age.
“After years of suffering with sick headaches,
writes Mrs. .Tosephson, 14 Parsons Street, liozelle,
w
Sydney, “I was in-
duced bv a friend to
try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Boot Pills, and although
I was dubious of their
doing me any good, I
made up my mind to
give them a trial, and
, before I had finished
the first bottle I felt
considerably relieved.
I kept on taking the
pills occasionally until
I had taken three
bottles in all, and I
found I had quite over-
come my ailments;
they have made quite a
Mr?. Josephson.
(Prom a photo.)
new woman of me. It is over twelve months
since I took the pills, and as I have had no return
of the trouble I can honestly recommend them to
anyone suffering as I was. You can use this in
any way you like.’’
To overcome headaches it is absolutely necessary
to get at the cause. Drugs which act on the heart
and reduce the pulsations only have a temporary
effect. If you suffer from indigestion, biliousness,
constipation, disorder of the liver and kidneys, or
from any weakness peculiar to your sex, there is
no better remedy than Dr. Morse s Indian Root
Pills.*
- Any *>
m
URLEY|DEAL™
ENDS ALL TROUBLES OF SHAVING
Q3onQ° :
THE
iSLIDII
UPSTROKE
From Point to Heel
Or Heel to Point-
Po.wible
Only
Witk the
GET A CURLEY SAFcFY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
self! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post tree.
Denyer Bros., 281 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ESCN’S SELECT
LE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
! to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australia* Ageftts-RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COCLCABDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sydney Union Rugby was exciting on Saturday,
for it, was the da.v of the meeting of the hitherto unbeaten
South Sydney with last year’s premier club, Newtown.
South’s gaudy banner of green and red floated over the
waves of people who flowed into the hill enclosure with
undulating motion, and the unbeaten team filed on to
tbe field in all the glory of its gorgeous apparel. Tall
and clean-limbed, alert, clad in green and red, desirable
young men all of them, they took the female eye im-
mensely. Then the Newtowners lumbered on, looking
about as graceful as a team of elephants or hippopotami
great hulking forwards with atlantean shoulders, devoid
of grace dr beauty, monuments of uncultured strength.
Newtown, winning the toss, played with the howling
gale behind it. It was said that South would show its
opponents tactics ; South’s back machine was marvel-
lously perfect ; science would down brute strength every
time ; and so forth and so on. Then the rout began.
It bas been stated by the papers that it was not pretty
football. It wasn’t. It was too direct, too business-like,
to be beautiful. The Newtown captain sent his waves of
faded blue crashing on to the gorgeous champions in red
and green, and the blue flood rolled over them, smashed
up their pack, smothered their machine, and started, full
blast, for the goal line. All that overmatched men could
do, South Sydney’s graceful players did. Their combina-
tion was perfect; but it was attacked by that which was
just as perfect, and faster and heavier to boot. On the
slippery, heavy ground the weight told, and by the end
of the first spell South Sydney was utterly exhausted ; so
much so that when it had the wind behind it a decent
rally was impossible. South was flattened out by 13
points to three.
The unreliable larrikins from Sydney University
were in a hilarious mood on Saturday, and with the
advantage of speed overran the swift crowd from Balmain
by 32 to eight. From which it can be gathered how
exceedingly speedy these speedy young men from the
University were on this particular occasion. It was a
runaway match that calls for no particular remark,
except that Balmain had never a hope. Had all ihe Bul-
maniacs been as hefty and slippery as some of the three-
quarters, the blue and gold banner of the collegians had
been badly scragged. But they were not, and University
had a pleasant afternoon out. That weird crowd of medi-
ocrities th it calls itself Sydney posed as heroes for once,
and danced on St. George to the tune of 20 to 14. How
in thunder it did the deed Heaven only knows. It was a
rollicking and charmingly casual game, and the fact that
St.. George scored 14 shows that the play was anything but
one sided. “ Fast is East and West is West,” but on Satur-
day they did meet, and, after much struggling, the score
was eight all. Glebe had the bye ; andawav down at Manly
by the sea the Villagers walloped North Sydney by three
to nil in an uninteresting game. Manly seems to have
gone somewhat stale.
The result of the smash-up of South Sydney
was to bring it alongside Glebe with 12 points in the
competition, and Newtown, the premier club that had
such hard luck at the beginning, is now in the second
place with 11 points. Western Suburbs, of all clubs, is
third with 10 points, while the University is only eight.
Things are topsy-turvy, somewhat, and the openness of
the riot makes for renewed interest therein.
« * * *
Probably owing to the South Sydney versus
Newtown riot on Saturday, interest in the All Blacks
slumped considerably. The meeting of the premier club
and the unbeaten team of the season naturally over-
shadowed the meeting of an already twice-defeated
bogus All Black team with an alleged All-Australian
team. As a matter of fact, it was a N.S. W. team with
one Queenslander in it. And, contrary to general ex-
pectations, the Maorilanders won with comparative ease
by 19 points to 11. The home team lacked speed, com-
bination and general vigor even more than the invaders
did, with the result that the Australians were defeated in
a game that was a miserable exhibition compared to the
■others of the tour. The attendance, •or-rather the lack of •
it, probably had a depressing effect on both teams.
' m ’ * * *
The Sydney Soccer struggle for tbe Ruwson
Cup found Pyrmont still on top of the slippery pinnacle
of the competition with lb points, owing lo its luck in
scoring three goals to Giebe’s two. Sydney, which drew
with Newtown in an uninteresting two-all scrap at Moore
Park, is second with 13. The displaced Rozelle is only
third with 12 points, which is near enough if the ones
above strike anything solid. Rozelle maintained its
position by walloping Ultimo —one goal to nothing.
Ultimo and Powerful have 10 each, Powerful having
received a forfeit from Garden Island, which is now hope-
lessly out of the hunt.
« * « *
The infernal defeat inflicted on the combined
N.S.VV. country football team by the metropolis, when
the Sydney crowd ran over the men from Outback by 46
to 11, indicates that Rugger is a declining pastime in the
bushlands. There was a time when the country player
held his own against the city man, and occasionally
downed him. But it is not to-day. Truly the quality of
■Sydney play has risen considerably in the last few years,
but that does not account for the failure "f the country
team to make a decent showing. Perhaps the men out-
side are coming to the conclusion that the soil is too hard
for the Rugger game. The increase of. British Associa-
tion, and the decline of Rugby, both point to that
conclusion.
* * * *
The selection of the N.S.W. teams for tbe inter-
state matches with Queensland, which take place on
Sydney Cricket Ground on July 3 and 10, is causing a
simmer of feeling in Rugby Union circles. Said that some
of the prominent players are determined to bludgeon
their way into the matches, and have arranged that the
selection committee shall have definite information from
a reliable quarter that unless these gentry are
chosen there will be a number of secessions to
the League. Just as well if these gentlemen ascer-
tained before doing anything rash if the League will
take them in. The League lias some laws of its own, and
is not likely to enjoy the prospect of being a cave of
refuge for rebels. Players who try to bounce the Union
Selection Committee will just as likely try to tyrannise
over the League government. If this bas been done, the
Selection Committee can hardly do anything else but
leave the boasters out, even though the heavens should
fall in consequence. Still, the committee is urged not to
be too scared. The odds are that the heavens.won’t fall.
They have never fallen yet.
Melbourne revelled in two doses of football last
week, but the games played on bis Royal Nibs’ birthday
are ancient history .now. Only one is worth recalling.
That, however —between South and Essendon—was a
battle equal to the memorable enooumer between Carl-
ton and South, on the same date three years ago. Through
fast, fair and strenuous play the two teams strove, with
South slightly in advance to half time. After that the
’Dons struggled feverishly, and at three-quarter time had
a 12-pdmt lead. Then the red-and-whit.es bogged in for
all they were worth, and forced a goal and four behinds,
while the “ same old ” laboriously scratched up another
three points. The crowd, 20,000 strong, stood on
tiptoe and glued its eyes on the ball as South,
flinging defence to the winds, sent a final charge
down the field and carried the needed goal by
main strength. The ball bolted through the posts even
as the bell rang, and won the hardest game of the season
by 63 points to 62. ft was well- north the gate
£340. Saturday saw the same South taking on an easier
contract—’Varsity, to wit —and playing with its oppo-
nents after a fashion best indicated by the final figures
—South 81 points, Uni. 18. This writer begins to
nurse a grievance against the Students ; after
passing them the glad hand for their defeat of
Carlton ami Essendon he considers their later lament-
able performances calculated to drive capital out of
the country. ’Wood travelled to Geelong, and notched
68 points to 40 without unduly distressing itself.
It returned in the tranquil and seemly manner befitting a
team to which victory is becoming a habit. Melbourne,
which usually flatters its supporters at this stage of a
season and then drops them in the mud by fading away
1 iter on, collided with ’Rov, and spent its youth and
strength in a valiant attempt to smash the Maroons ; the
scores were level at three-quarter time, but. in the last
quarter the latter frivolled away their chances and gave
Melbourne an undeserved win by 55 points to 42. St.
Ivilda, reft of its victory over Geelong for playing
a disqualified man, and with only one win to its
name, performed in trifling ami casual fashion against
Carlton, and scored 40 points to 60. The game of
the day, as far as the greasy ground would allow
of scientific play,* transpired at East Melbourne, where
the “same Id Essendon,” smarting under its Monday’s
defeat by South, promised to put Richmond through in
style. It was a willing episode, only kept within hounds
by a strict umpire, hut the ’Dons had as much chance of
putting Richmond through as, say, John Silly Drown has
of being Prime Minister. The yellow-and-blacks had the
game in their own hands all through the piece, their
marking and combination being vastly superior, though
their kicking could he improved ; and won comfortably by
63 points to 65. Nevertheless, this writer reckons Rich-
mond is handicapping its chances of the premiership by
its pos-ession of overmuch: beef; a team needs a few
heavyweights, hut it doesn’t want to be all “prime fats,”
or “good killers.”
Of the Association disturbances,, the concussion
of Brighton and Brunswick attracted most attention, the
possession by both teams of several ex-Leaguers and a
certain amount of system promising a close battle. But,
alas! ’Wick had apparently decided to play a humorous
game, and at the interval its tally of five points to 35
drove most of its barraekers to drink. Apparently
the committee reasoned with the team then, for,
on resuming, it played* with the 'machine-like pre-
cision that brought it into the final last year,
and piled, up 30 points while-Bent’s men totted up nine.
Unfortunately the bell rang before ’Wick could make the
other ten-points it needed, so- Brighton scored its sixth
scalp with 44 to 35. Essendon capsized North by 20-to
18 ; ’Town upended Northcote by 83 to 42 ; P ran jumped
on Preston by 84 to 41 ; and ’Serav blew out the light of
Port by 79 to 33. Donhlless it is necessary for the
stronger teams t,o thump the weaker ones, each in its
proper turn ; hut it would save a lot of shoe-leather and
much wear and tear of the soil, also considerable “ blime,”
if the wallopings were taken for granted. The continued
capsizing of ’Oute, f’rinstans, serves no useful purpose
that this writer has ever been able to see.
* ■* * *
Truly these ’bailers are a hefty lot, and live the
strenuous life. Burns, of Richmond, has sustained an
injury of some sort in every match lie lias played this
year. On Monday of last week he acquired a cut over the
eye that called for three stitches and some plaster ; yet
he was battling away lustily on the following Saturday.
Same day, Casey, of South, drove his countenance
against a mate’s person with such vigor that a medico
had to be called in, and six stitches were run through
Casey’s physiognomy. This dohe, he rushed into the
fray again, and labored as though his team’s then score
of 45 to 15 was liable to be capsized if he weren’t there.
As this paper has remarked before, if this country would
attend to its defence as earnestly as it does to its sport.,
there would he no need to ponder over the machinations
of Germany or Japan. Also, considering all things,
which would you rather have —Joe Cook or this Casfey l —
Defence Minister ?
# * * *
They know how to squeeze the last ounce of
excitement out of football in England. The 20 League
clubs (Soccer) play each other twice all round during the
eight months that the season lasts ; and at the finish the
bottom two on the list go dqwn into the Second League
for next, season, the top t wo from the Second League-
coining up in their places. The fight for promotion in the
season just ended had an astonishing conclusion. Three
clubs, from London, Birmingham and Lancashire, were
running neck and neck at the top of the second,
and each had one game left to play. Derby,
having arranged its programme a little late, had
three matches left for the last five days of the
season, and bv an incredible chance they were with
those three rivals ; yet Derby, holding a merely respect-
able position on the list, had no interest worth mentioning
in the result. It. just did its casual best, and the promo-
tion was not settled till five o’clock on April 30, the last
possible day. Then the points were level, and fractional
goal-averages had to settle the matter, and the Birming-
ham club was left behind, cursing, by reason of a defeat
it had got once away before Christmas, on a date that
seemed quite forgotten. Even the goal-averages were so
close at the end that it was reckoned, before the last
match, that a drawn game, one goal each, might mean
promotion; while a drawn game, two goals each, might
mean failure ! 1
* * * «
The football Ibarracker lias always had a bad
time in Maoriland ; but it became positively gloomy
lately when a team arrived with the name of Tekotane-
tonga; audit will touch bedrock when through closer
settlement Maraekakahaowaiwera and Waikaremoana,
and Ruapekapckapuketakauere come on tlte scene. But
he will probably get there all the same by howling the
color instead of the name of the club.
* * * *
The track, of the Australian XT. for the week
has not left a wake of glory through Bull's wet land.
Hampshire and Somerset were smashed up ; but these
are victories of tile sort that do not cans feathers to
grow in the national hat. So far—till the end of last
week, that is—the XL had played 11 matches, winning
four, losing three and drawing four.
* * * *
Just now Laver is the big dog of the team,
taking wickets in a style that appears to be his own.
Against Hampshire he gathered in six wickets for 53 and
seven for 27 ; and against Somerset he averaged three for
40 and four for 38. Altogether lie took 20 wickets for 158
runs during the week, and in the course of the trip has
captured 37 for 352 runs—a performance which requires
no gilding.
* * *■ #
A. J, Hopkins, now on tour with the Aus-
tralian XL, has been offered the job of stipendiary coach
and instructor to the Canterbury Cricket. Club. This is
Canterbury of Maoriland, where the Shepherd Rings
were wont to reign, and not the place where Tommy
A’Beckett had his brain-box stove in, far in the daysarear.
‘Humphreys, of England, previously held the job ; but he
sighed for the minister climate of his home land, and
“ chucked ” it. Still it is pleasant to see that an Australian
can get a job when the superior Englishman does
chuck it.
When Arnst beat Webb for the sculling cham-
pionship he covered the distance in 19min. 51sec. lte-
cemiv with a view to seeing what he could really do,
Arnst went over the full course at top speed, and covered
it in a fraction under ISinin. This is tall travelling.
When Arnst won in 19min. slsec., Webb was over a
dozen lengths behind, so it is obvious that the
iron worker will hav e to make a vastly better showing
than he did on that occasion, if he intends to beat Arnst.
Although Webb lias done various sprints, he has not flung
his cards on the table in this remarkable manner, and the
cognoscenti are wondering if there isn’t something im-
moral, blasphemous, or equal to spitting on the pavement
about Artist’s action. The pressmen who have been in-
dulging in heroics are quite hurt about it.
JACK JOHNSON VERSUS JIM AND
MRS. JEFFRIES.
Re the proposed Jeffries-Johnson mix-up. Mrs.
Jeff has so- much to sap in the matter that one
might- easily imagine the lady herself intended to
take an active share in the battle.
A rather unusual feature of the impending race
between Pearce and MitehelUs the fact that bot h men h»\ e
dropped training for tire time being. Pearce required a
rest after the long preparation to meet Tlioroughgood,
and Mitchell did likewise after the drawn-out struggle
preparing Tiiorougligood. The'race takesplaceon July 17.
**' * ’ *
Seven launches started on Saturday last in the
N. Motor Boats’ annual race for the Standard Reli-
ability Cup. The course led from Oremorne, in Sydney
Harbor, to the “ Basin ” inside Barrenjoey at Broken Bay.
This, of course, meant that the bulk of the course was
outside, and made the contest practically an ocean race.
Had it occurred on Sunday the launches would have struck
some fun with a gale that attained a speed of SO odd
'miles an hour. As it was, the water was far from being a
duck pond, and the roll of the curlers was too much for
the little Frau Frou, which had to haul off and,retire or
be swamped. Like a .wise man, the skipper retired. ,The
.Invincible, was a great'sight as it plunged through' the
wild rollers and sprang from crest to crest in a frenzied
effort to overtake the fleet, all of which had re-
ceived considerable handicaps. Charles Relph, not yet
quite recovered from the effects of his recent bout with
pneumonia and six other tilings that struck him simul-
taneously, was his own engineer, while the tiller was
entrusted to the experienced hand of Captain Bennett, a
mariner who lias lived on sea-spray since he left his feed-
ing bottle. But the all-Australian craft had no hope.
The handicap was too great, and the race went to Mr.
King’s little Betty, the limit boat.
* * * *
Yankee swimmer C. M. Daniels lias upset a
world’s record by getting over 220yds. at Piusburg
(U.S.A.) in 2min. 25 2-osec. The previous best over
220yds. was put up by the late B. B. Kieran, at Brisbane,
when he streaked through in 3sec. more than Daniels
took over the job.
* * • *
Hon. M. Scott, of Victoria, won a run away
victory on Saturday at the Ruse Bay links in the final of
the amateur golf championship of N.S. VV. His opponent,
O. L. Mackenzie, never got into the neighborhood of the
Scott golfing class. When lie was last over here Scott’s
putting was comparatively weak. He lias rectified that,
and on Saturday did marvels on the green. Also he, with
depressing regularity, outdrove the man from Hunter’s
Hill both in tiie morning and the afternoon rounds ; and
his iron work was surpassingly good. At the eighth hole
the Anglo-Melbournian was 11 up and 10 to play, by which
huge margin he snared the asset he was after. Saturday
was in every sense Scott’s day out j and on the form then
shown it is-doubtful if the veriest topnotcher of Scotia
itself would have had a look in with him.
* * * *
Billiards Ltd. (Sydney) lias got out an attractive
programme for the winter nights in the shape of a Series
of perpetual tournaments for buna fide amateurs, in
which prizes will he distributed fortnightly. The biggist
break-over 50 at billiards, or over 50 off the red ball, will
score an order worth £2 2s. In each case it is possible
for 51 to win the prize. At snooker a break of 30, or the
biggest over 30, will annex a two guinea order; while
eight or over at pyramids will do likewise. In addition
to these there are three special prizes of orders worth
£4 4s.‘, £2 2s. and £1 Is. for the largest breaks made
during the month. These competitions started on the
morning of Monday, the 7th inst., and rage through
morning, afternoon and evening sessions.'
* * * *
The new council of the Maoriland Amateur
Athletic Association is determined to raise a dust some-
how, and has hit the wide,British Empire where it lives
with a demand for separate representation in future
Olympic Games. Hitherto the Unstable Isles have been
bracketed with Australia under the name of Australasia.
This demand for secession sounds particularly horrible at
a time when Maoriland is generally understood to be feel-
ing so strongly on unity that it is foaming at the mouth
to be allowed to spend £4,000,000 to keep it up.
* * * *
A team of haseballers, “ the Reach Alls,” which
has just finished a successful tour of Hawaii, Japan,
China and the Philippines, is now contemplating a tour
of Australia, and is anxious to hear from the Australian
governing body. Tile secretary writes tiiat the team
would include the best players of the States, and would
play either exhibition games or international matches.
If the Australian governing body is interested, it can
make all arrangements by writing to J. Lawrence Woods,
c/o Dreamland Pavilion, Seattle, Washington Territory,
U.S.'A.
» » » *
An event of considerable interest in pedestrian-
ism was the Second Teams and Novice Race held a t Oak-
leigh (Vie.) last Saturday. This was a five-mile canter,
chiefly to test the ability of new men ; and 244
bare-legged beings, constituting 12 separate teams,
faced an enthusiastic starter. Pinkerton, of the
Malvern Harriers, dug himself out of this army,
and won comfortably by 25yds. ; a club-mate,
Marshall, being second; and Sproule, a promising
ped. from the University crowd, third. University, how-
ever, won the team's race from Malvern, as its aggregate
of places at, the finish was three points less. Malvern was
heavily handicapped by tiie fact that one of its men ran
63rd. The Novice race, apparently decided on sealed
handicaps, fell to Masters, of Essendon ; with Connors, of
the Guild Harriers, Geelong, second ; and Scott, of Essen-
don, third.
When the Wilbur Wright aeroplane gets going
in Australia—it is due this month—the Taits will proba-
bly he prepared to back it against anybody’s best carrier
pigeon in a flying match. The sprinting capacity of a
bird on the wing lias been greatly over-r aid. According
to Wilbur Wright, who is a respectable authority on the
subject, a crow flies not faster I ban 20 miles an hour, nor
can a wild duck do better than 40 miles an hour, unless
there's a very wild wind to boost it along. The ero-
plane, in a general way, can give a bird a long start and
an e -sy beating in a 10-mile spin. Many times Wright
has seen birds travelling ahead of his flier, but he invari-
ably out-distanced them after they had been forced to
swerve out to let the machine pass. Birds thus far don’t
know what to make of aeroplanes. When familiarity has
bred Contempt for the n w-fangled vehicle, the sparrows,
which are naturally irreverent, will alight upon its wings
whilst it is flying, and use it as an omnibus as long as it
goes their way.
“ Snell ” ; Sports-promoter McTntosh is said to
be bringing lightweight Britt ami ginger Bob Fitz-
simmons to Australia. Both are beaten men and
experienced showmen. Fitz retains nmchgof his
cleverness, but there is now n thing terrifying in
the Maori lander’s once formidable punch, ami he
has the old man’s trick of breaking up suddenly.
Lang ought to beat him, if Bill can overcome his
tremendous veneration for big names. This venera-
tion makes Bill very dubious in the ring on first
meeting a fistic nabob. It spoilt his chance against
T. Burns. It has been characteristic of him all
through his ring career. Britt is not a formid-
able opponent for three or four of Austra-
lia’s lightweights, and if Hock Keys would
train for six months in a Prohibition district
he would probably whip America’s ex-
champion on points. Jacky M’Gowan, our
present champion in the class, although still
r good, is not to b- counted on. He has
attained the age of descent.
It doesn’t say much for this season’s hurdle
racers that 33 out. of 64 entrants for the V.R.C. Grand
National are weighted at less than 10st., whereas
Destinist, the top weight, is asked to humpt 12st. lib.
Only a dozen others are rated above list. One that looks
well treated for both the Hurdle and Steeple is The
Winnower, a six-year-old son of The Harvester. He is
among the 10st.. odd detachment in both handicaps. But
The Winnower thus far has never done quite as well as he
was expected to do.
* * - * »
Old Nick and St. Peter were among the starters
at Williamstown (Victoria) last Saturday, but neither of
them got placed. Apart from the f ct that two or three
horses appeared to he running into “form ” for Grand
National engagements, nothing to speak of happened at
Williainstown except a dead heat between Kanowna and
Seddon in the mile race. Seddon for some time has been
expected to do something worthy of his fine appearance.
He was backed at Flemington on Prince of Wales’ Birth-
hap, hut ran badly as usual This time the four-year-old
was collared on the post by Kariowna, who was receiving
only 1211). from him. If the truth about Seddon was re-
vealed in that dead heat, he is not much of a racer
after all.
* * * *
Tahmmv Burns is back in Sydney, having com-
pleted a tour of Queensland and looked in at the tin
mines named after himself. As usual, he had a few
announcements to make on arrival, and it seems that
unless he can get another biff at Johnson, or a chance
with Ketchell for the championship, he will not re-enter
the ring. He denied that he intended going on the land,
as Squires;is trying to do. He evidently reckons that the
scrap to get there would be harder than fighting six
Johnsons. He is, at time of writing, at Darling! Point, the
house he had leased at Rand wick being destroyed by fire
the day after he arrived in Sydney..


THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 1\ hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEBEACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Carrie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
:-nrm 111 MiMMiMin -- -
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
STOLEN KISSES !
—are sweet —stolen apples, too—but stolen cycles mean
“six months’ hard” as a rule—better BUY ONE.
The B. and B . Mode/ 3 at £ll
is superior right through ; the right mount for YOUR
money. Built with the best of parts, the finest tyres,
and guaranteed for a year.
W/M
New Catalogue Free.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building'
'House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
\
CAPILLARINE NEVER FAILS l
Supposing’ you HAVE tried ;dl sorts of so-called moustache growers
without success—try one more.
Capillarine
—the only genuine moustache grower
on the market. It has never failed
for 25 years t,o produce a fine, full-grown moustache on ANY lip in
a very short time.
Sent Post Free Anywhere for 10/6.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
5
t*
XA-Vfl-I.A’ Skin Salve
THE SURE CURE FOR SKIN INJURIES.
sL»i?KCtn;i:»(n:
I
ss
r
-?s;
\
w.
''//iT o '"'
r.nn
%
m
mm.
’■ r\
. v: »v
*SA-VC-LA S in a few words is best described
as “the Greatest Skin Healer of the Century.”
All medical experts declare the great skin salve, SA-VO-LA to be the most
reliable of skin doctors, and invaluable to all persons in every grade of life
wherever accidents may happen. It is a disinfectant, antidote to blood poison,
and a skin-healer combined. It prevents blood poison arising from sores,
wounds, cuts, abrasions, etc., by reducing heat and inflammation and leaving
the injured parts soft, sweet, and cool. Workers in factories, warehouses,
or on farms, cattle-sheds, sheep-stations, mining camps or shearing sheds,
should have SA-VO-LA always handy, because it heals magically.
SA-VO-LA IS THE POCKET SKIN DOCTOR FOR ALL SKIN ILLS.
SA-VO-LA is a sure cure for cuts, sores (chronic or acute), barcoo, rash, itch, burns, scalds, festers,
chilblains, sun-burns, pimples, eczema, skin-cracks, whitlow, scalp sores in children, ulcers, piles,
muscular rheumatism, lumbago, boils, nerve pains, chapped h inds, etc.
For Piles it is a most remarkable cure, and, when applied to the part, should he slightly heated.to
reduce the balm to a liquid, then saturate a piece of cotton wool, or some other soft material, and
apply. Stubborn cases have been cured in this way.
SA-VO-LA may be obtained of all chemists and grocers, price 1/6 the pot, or 3/6 large size,
containing four times the quantity. If not supplied locally, send direct for a pot, post free on
receipt of price.
V//
The ‘Ray’ Chemical Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney, n.s w
GOULDS
Fig. 1009
THE PROBLEM
of furnishing sufficient water supply
under suitable pressure for Boiler Feed-
ing, Hydraulic -Elevators,. Riveting
machines, Cranes, and other requirements
in the modern factory has been met by
the adoption of Goulds Efficient Triplex
Power Pumps, on account of their ex-
tremely low cost to operate and the small
amount of attention required. They are
giving the best of satisfaction wherever
installed. Let us send you our booklet.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
A REMARKABLY INGENBQUS BANK.
Can be set to open automatically when any amount has been put in.
Indicates the amount always Deposited,
Very solidly made of Stamped Metal
ENORMOUS SALE IN ENGLAND.
Sold at 2/6 to advertise the “Daily Mail.”
Having been instructed by the pro-
prietors of the London "Daily it air” to
distri butea limited number of their won
derlul having’s Bank, which have
had sued an enormous sale in hngb.nd,
upwards of a million having been soidw e
are offering them for the duration 01
this advertisement for the low price
of half-a-crown each, postage paid
These Banks are a remarkable example,
of skill and ingenuity. By an ingenious
contrivance the Bank can be anangtu
so as to open only when a cer-
tain amount has been deposited
whether in sixpences or shillings.
Supposing you wish the Box 10 open
when 10s, 15s, IBs Od, £l, 22s 3d,- or
any other amount has been saved,
all you have to do is to turn the
indicator around to that amount
;.nd close tbe lid, audit will then be
impossible to open it until that sum has been deposited. It is a very interesting
Bank becameas each coin is dropped in.theindicatoraitersautomaticallyandshowsthe amount
you bave in the Bank and the amount required still to I e put in to make up the total previously
decided upon. When the last coin has been inserted, and not till then, the Bank automatically
unlocks itself.
You should not fail to become the possessor of one of these marvellous Banks. They are
very solidly and substantially made of stamped meiai, and will not get out oi tauer- "The
Baily Mail” is stamped on the lid of each, and if they were not being sold as an advertisement ihe
price would be fully doub e. To secure one. therefoie. you shoulu write without delay, enclosing
Postal Kote or Money Older for 2s. tid. made pay able to us, ana theßank will be duiy forwaraeu
Ail applications will be d< alt with in strict rotation. Alter tl e lull number has bt en distributed
here will he no more available at any price. W rite at once to- the sole distiibuting agents,
R. J. SMITH & (2©., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE, YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the sßin generally —you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Fine Crystal Glass
Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated
Frame.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/,
17/6.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR,
Silver-plated Mount
and Spoon,
Crystal Glass
POST 5/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 8/6,
10/6.
,
xm
mi)
A. SAUNDERS.
ROSE BOWL,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Crystal Glass Bowl, size 4in,
7/6
Larger, sin 10/6, 6m 15/.
Other Styles, 15/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE FRAME,
Fine-cut Crystal Glass, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver Frame
POST 25/- FREE.
Other Styles, 7/6, .10/6, 12/6. 15/.
SPIRIT FLASK,
Morocco Leather Covered,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Screw Top,
15/6
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
NUT CRACKERS, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Fluted Handle,
POST 4/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
m*
FRUIT SALAD DISH AND SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Gold Tinted Crystal Glass,
POST 30/ FREE.
Other Styles, 25/, 35/.
Gifts that the Bride Appreciates.
The trend of Gift-giving to-day is decidedly towards the more practical—towards pre-
sents that combine utility and beauty at a reasonable outlay. Nowhere do these qualities
so forcibly present themselves as in the designs here illustrated —-the kind that every n e
would like to buy for herself.
Mail Buying
Advantages.
You can shop in the privacy of your own
home without the expense of a trip to Sydney.
We give you the best goods at city prices,
and deliver them to your own door carriage
free.
-feV. SAUNDERS.
“GONDOLIER” PRESERVE DISH,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Frame,
Milled Glass Dish.
POST 12/<8 FREE.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS/
SUGAR and CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Frame,
Richly Ornamented China
Bowl and . T ug-.
POST 17/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/. .
A SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A I Quality, fine cut crystal glass,
' ' POST 30/- free.
Other Styles, 35/, 40/, 45/, aO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION FRUIT and FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure, Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Richly Ornamented
Staff Base, Fine Out Crystal Glass, Height 21in.
POST £5/12/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 45/, 50/, 60/. 70/ to £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOME PRESENTATION TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE
Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, Comprising Tea, CoUco Snwri and Cream, H.ehl. hngraved, O.lt
,?'£ sars- «■ * *»•
m
i HI
A SAUNDERS.
HEART SALT CELLARS,
Pure Silver Mounts and Spoons,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass Bowls, in Silk-lined Case,
POST 18/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/0, 20/.
A. ' fNDERS.
MEAT CARYERS, 3-piece, Buck Horn Handles, comprising Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel,
Finest Sheffield Steel Hand-forged Blades, in Velvet-lined Case, 30/- By three standard Sheffield
makers—Wingfield, Rowbottom, and Co.; Joseph Rodgers and Sons; and Harrison Bros, and Hovv-
sdn. Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/, to 65/.
Our Handsome Catalogue
Is Yours for the Asking.
It is filled from cover to cover with all the
latest designs in Watches Clocks Jewellery
Silver-plate, Leather and Optical Goods and
will be sent post free to any address. Write
for a copy to-day.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH,
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Hisrhly Burnished, Detachable Hanule.
POST 05/- FREE
Other styles, 30/, 35/, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH,
Pure Silver-plated Frame,
Hand-painted China Dish,
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
fclSr
nrasmun™
tijuiiiiiiiiiyna
A SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver Frame,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass Bottles,
POST 30/- FREE..
Other Styles, 45/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL,
Polished English Oak,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
China Lining.
POST 15/- FREE.
Other Styles, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Gilt Lined, 4in
high.
POST 4/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6,
8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Pure Silver-plated, Richly
Engraved, Fern Design,
Richly Finished.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other Styles, 16/6, 21/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARRELL,
Polished English Oak, Pure , Silver-
plated Mounts, China Lining, ;
POST 25/- FREE. j |
Other Styles, 10/6, i-2/6, 15/, 20/.
A SAUNDERS.
SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated, Gilt-lined,
Weighted Base, Height 6in,
POST 4/6 EREE.
61in, 5/6; Tin, 6/6; 7^in, 7/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Consulting Optician.
m
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A.I. Quality, nicely engraved..
POSl' 2Hi FREE.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, .3/6, 4/6, 5y6.
W'-M
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver :
Richly Embossed. Highly burned Carved Feet.
POST 45/- FREE
Other styles, '3O/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Sydney, opp. New Railway Station.


11l
r
“HiiKl
i
□
□
BACKACHE!
A STARTLING INCIDENT.
Miraculous Escape and
of a Railway Guard.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
“Trelawney,” Erskineville, Sydney,
May 6, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —
Anxious to do good to my fellow-men, I must readily testify to
the virtue and efficacy of your wonderful Phospherine. Durin
1907, when performing my duties in the Penrith Station Yard,
was knocked down by a mail train, and received frightful injuries
to my back. I was covered with bruises and fearfully shaken.
My nervous system seemed shattered.
For eight weeks I could not work, nor barely move about, and
was relieved from duty, but when back to duty my sufferings were
, most acute and distressing. The great trouble was I could not sleep
or enjoy any food. 1 lie pains in my back and kidneys were terrible to endure. Water was scalding and of a brick-red
color, and caused fearful pains. This went on for over twelve months.
I must state that before the accident my kidneys and bladder were very much diseased. For a year after the accident
life was a prolonged misery. Whenever becoming wet or cold, I could not possibly work for days, my backache beino-
unendurable. I tried doctors and drugs without avail.
DISCOVERY.—I discovered Fisher’s Phospherine was good
for sick kidneys, inflamed bladder, and backache in the following
curious manner. Last March, 1909, when suffering from influenza 5 ,
a friend recommended me to try Fisher’s Phospherine, which I did,’
with the very best results. It cured me. I also noticed that my
kidneys and backache were much improved, and continued the
treatment until I had taken four bottles of Fisher’s Phospherine;
and to-day I stand sound and healthy, without any pains or incon-
venience whatever —backache entirely gone, and everything work-
ing in perfect order. I sleep soundly, and my appetite is splendid.
I have also gained one stone in weight.
I would like to also add that my sister was cured of influenza
by Fisher’s Phospherine in one week. I can have nothing but
unstinted praise for your great medicine, and you can use my name
and testimonial freely for the good of my fellow-men who may
suffer from kidney complaint and backache.
I absolutely refuse any monetary consideration, my joy is so
great making my case known to the public.
I—lo 9
i
Ik
awL
wl
Wwm
0
G. /?. BEWLEY, To-Day.
Gratefully yours, etc.,
Subscribed and declared on oath, at Sydney, this
11th day of May, 1909, before me,
RICHARD BELL, J.P.
Five to ten drops of “ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE ” in water after meals is the
greatest aid to digestion known. The aftereffects of overeating and
excess=drinking are removed by this Famous Tonic.
llflF In the morning, half an hour before breakfast, take in water ten drops of
“FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE” to remove a sour taste from the mouth,
and make the breath sweet and pleasant. An excellent strengthener,
clearing away bacteria and other injurious substances from the teeth
and gums.
IJgF* IF YOU PAY £5 A BOTTLE YOU CANNOT GET A BETTER TONIC FOR
INDIGESTION THAN FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
Ladies suffer very much from Backache, Sleeplessness and Nervousness, but
find FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE an Invaluable remedy and Tonic. It
should have a place in every lady’s room.
Speediest Cure for Backache, Kidney and Bladder Ailments, Huscular
Rheumatism, Neuralgia and Indigestion, and the After=
Effects of Influenza.
FISHER’S Phospherine
This Famous Tonic is sold outside of New South Wales under the name of “ FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC ”
THEREFORE ALWAYS ASK FOR “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC,” All Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
All Chemists, Is. per Bottle. Four Times the quantity, 2s. 6d. ALWAYS ASK FOR FISHER’S.
post free from FISHER & COMPANY, DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, opp. General Post Office, SYDNEY.


Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
It is an unfortunate rule of life that the majority
of thinsrs that are best for us taste badly ; and usually
the attempt to combine what is good for us with what is
pleasant ends by spoiling the lot. The result is a revulsion
of feeling, and even kiddies prefer to take the castor oil
first and the orange juice afterwards. But there are a few
exceptions to the rule, and the aim of the chemist of the
future is to increase the number of those exceptions by
several hundred percent. The pioneer achievement in
this matter is known to the world as Cerebos Salt, in
which everyday, ordinary chloride of sodium, otherwise
common salt, is mixed with phosphates of calcium and
magnesia. The result is that not only is the flavor of the
salt - vastly improved and refined, but it becomes more
beneficial to the system by replacing the valuable phos-
phates that have'been abstracted from the flour by
modern milling processes. Cerebos Salt possesses
a delicate piquancy which makes it unrivalled as
an appetising' medium. The' fact that it does not
tarnish silver makes it acceptable as a table dressing,
and the fact that it does not absorb damp nearly so
readily as ordinary salt is also a factor in its favor. As a
rentedv for a cold in the bead it is unrivalled. The
method of application is to dissolve a teaspoorifnl in half
:t tumbler of hot water, and apply to the nostrils as a
l .tion by means of a syringe. Although it is slightly mor-
expensive to buy than ordinary salt, the fact that it goes
further and is not wasted by damp weather makes it
cheaper in the long run.*
“To the Woods,” sing the bard.
“ To the Woods let me flee,
For this cold seems as hard
And as tough as can be.
To the Woods’ I’ll away,
For the coll doth allure,
And will purchase this day
Their Great Peppermint Cure.”
Mothers need' no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.* ,
IF you want Hosiery that will wear
well, get RIBBED Hosiery; and
if you want Hosiery that will be smart
this winter, get TAN Hosiery.
The combination of tan and ribbed
can be had at Finney’s at these
prices :
Perfect Seamless, 1/1 Ribbed, Is. lid.
and 2s. 3d. pair.
Full Fashioned, 1/1 Ribbed. 2s. 6d.
and 2s. lid. pair.
Perfect Seamless, Spliced Feet, 2/1
Ribbed, Is. lid. pair.
Full Fashioned. Spliced Ankles and
Feet, 2s. 1 Id. pair.
Perfect Seamless. Spliced Feet, 4/1
Ribbed, 2s. 3d. pair.
New Broad Fancy Ribbed, 2s. 6d. pair.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
The Phiclston Government is putting up
oije record, anyway—-it has authorised five hang-
ings in seven- months. . Queensland is fairly strong
mu hangings in a general way. In the seven
years. 1901-7, there were 85 official suspensions in
the Commonwealth, hnd 13 of them were in
Queensland. That is to say, Queensland stands
for about one-eighth of the population and for
more than one-third of the hangings.
Died at Brisbane, very suddenly, Arthur
Ross, convicted forger, black sheep, and self-
confessed murderer. Ross said his age was 20,
but that was evidently a lie ; and his name wasn’t
Ross either. The youngster, whom strenuous
efforts were made to save, worried less about the
death sentence than a thousand others did ; he
didn’t show a tremor from the moment of his
arrest until he lost his footing for the last time.
In one walk Ross would have gained honors and
a Y.C. ; buthe took the wrong track, and gained
only a pine coffin and a handful of quicklime.
“ M.” writes from Brisbane :
Now that the opening of Parliament is fixed for the
29th, the efforts of the shaky office-climrers grow very
earnest.; Their usual method is to rusli off to the
electorate of any member who shows leanings away from
the Coalition, and hold meetings therein in the hope that,
under the stress of the moment, the waverer will commit
himself to some statement of loyalty. So far, however,
the harassed ones have mostly confined themselves to
non-committal remarks about the weather, or have said
something affable, but, irrelevant, concerning a dog.
The contest for Moreton, upon the success of which
the fate of the Government is said to depend, has now
resolved itself into a lively three-corner contest. Forsyth,
despite the glorious fact that he is Robert Philp’s brother-
in-law, is not being received with open arms ; and Joiner,
a local man, who comes out as a farmers’ candidate,
should shake him up considerably. But while the shak-
ing-up process is under way, what is to stop Labor-man
Kenny from winning th'egam'e? Kennyissaid to be bowling’
well, and on a rough political wicket, with the rain of
adversity spoiling the pitch, his delivery is almost un-
playable. In fact, Kenny, regarded as a dark horse,
might kick a goal at almost any moment;
The resignation of John Reid, of bacon fame, from the
ranks of the People’s Progressive League is another blow.
Reid comes out in anger at the Forsyth bungle, and
others come with him.
IN SOUTH-WESTERN QUEENSLAND-
WHERE SOME PEOPLE WANT TO TAKE
THE TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY.
It isn’t the best lurk jn the world to be a
Rabbit Board on the western edge of the Banana
State. Consider, for instance, some hits cut out
of a recent wail by the Gregory North Rabbit
Board, which meets at Boulia, out beyond Alice
and Jericho and Barcaldine and Longreach and
Goyder Table Top and Marion Downs —out past
God forgotten and Godforsaken and Lost Ox and
Dry Camp and the Dead Finish and the Great
Blanky Plain and the Shadow of Death Hotel,
and the place where Mulligan was lost 20 years
ago, and has never been heard of since, and isn’t
expected to be :
The portion of the border fencing—3so miles in length
—constructed along the western border of the State by
the Gregory North Rabbit Board runs through at least
200 miles of probably the driest country in Australia.
There is no permanent water on any portion of the line
of fence. The nearest permanent water on any part of
the line is at Pulchera, on Sandringham run. That
waterhole is situated 15 miles east from the fence. The
water in it is good for about 12 months after rain, and
then, unless replenished by fresh rain water, it is filthy
and undrinkable. VV> 11 water is obtainable on some por-
tions of the line, and on other portions “ mickeries ” are re-
sorted to. The supply of water from both the wells and
“ mickeries ” is, as a rule, small and of indifferent quality.
The Board let contracts at as high as £45 per mile for the
putting up of the fence. In the contract referred to—oo
miles at £45 per mile —the work was carried through a
desperately bud waterless stretch of country, a consider-
able portion consisting of sandhills. Some idea of the
fencing difficulties can be gathered from the fact that, in
the 60 miles mentioned, 160 sandhills were encountered,
over which the fence had to be constructed. Some of
these sandhills are of considerable height. In a distance
of 20 miles there are SO of these sandhills clumped to-
gether. The fence was deviated in every possible
manner ; but. it was impossible to avoid negotiating
the number of sandhills above-mentioned. The con-
tractor put down about 30 wells, but bottomed on
salt or brackish water on every occasion except in one
instance, when very bad water was made drinkable by
mixing it with water carted a distance of 25
miles. The contractor met with such adversities
that lie had to file his schedule before the con-
tract was completed. This length of 60 miles of fenc-
ing is known as tlie desert line (Sections Nos. 2 and 3).
THE UNPARDONABLE OFFENCE.
SAM: “But wot did yer stoush ’im for , Ginger?"
GINGER: “Fer not ’ittin’ me when. I called ’m a liar.”
These sections are patrolled by boundary riders with
camels. The boundary riders have to carry sufficient
water to travel a distance of 80 miles to a spring a few
miles off the fence, where they r fill their canteens and
return the 80 miles, as in that distance there is not a
drop of water to be met with. In a distance of 180 miles
—more than half the total length of the fence—camels
are in continuous use for patrolling purposes... . Carriers
with horse teams would not take material —netting and
black wire—out to portions of the line of fence at any
price, recognising that such work would mean the risk of
killing all their horses.
And it is seriously proposed by certain wild and
hairy individuals that the transcontinental rail-
way—Port Augusta to Port Darwin —should be
deviated at great, needless cost in order that it
may go through this remarkable country !
-«r -
A Victorian syndicate is after a grant of
pear-cursed land at Chinchilla and Taroom.
In getting rid of the spiny curse the southerners
propose to convert it into pulp for paper manu-
facture, and to use up the timber in acid distilla-
tion and the production of potash. The pear has
made Capital do some hard thinking, and given it
many a twinge; but, after all, Capital takes con-
siderable scaring when there is any .free land
hanging around.
“Flinderino ” : A couple of mixed items
from the current issue of Thk Aboriginal News,
the paper that Black Brother prints at the
Yarrabah Mission Station (N.Q.) :
The King of Yarrabah is having a new and more
palatial residence built for him on the site of the old goat
house. The goats are now settled at their new home on
the cross roads of Bukki Creek and Bolbahroo. Here
reside Charlie Sandy-Cape and Mabel (the goat herds) in a
nice new hark cottage.
Easter Monday evening Jack Palmer and Fanny were
united together in wedlock. The service was a bright
one, and it was a very pretty wedding, as always at
Yarrabah. Jessie Keppell and Jennie Ma.vtown were
bridesmaids, and Peter was best man. A corroboree was
afterwards held.
The eullud brother from India’s plague
cities, though he is disqualified as a laborer m the
sugar fields of Australia and the dairies ot
Bananaland, is, nevertheless, allowed to compete
against the white when the State has one of its
rare scraps of land to offer. The other day one
struck the ballot against 100 white applicants for a
valuable block at Casino (N.S.W.), and another
drew the winning marble at Brisbane against a
score of white men. Premier Kidston used to say
that ownership of land by Ram Bux or Ah Miicc
was a cursed thing, and even proposed to legislate
against the leasing of land by white owners to any
black, brown, or yellow alien, because the evil
was so pronounced at Atherton (N.Q. ); but that
was before Philp was grafted on to him and he
became Phidston.
“Itan”: Quite an army of water finders
now ply their strange calling in Bananaland. Ihe
State Government keeps one or two of them
going, as precursors to settlement. Some are
alleged to be so skilled that they can tell almost
to a foot the depth of the underground flow ;
one reckons he can even decide whether the
water is salt, brackish, or sweet. Another out
Boulia way, whose case finds support from Hamil-
ton, M.L. A., utilises his old felt hat, or his boot,
instead of the orthodox eoolabah twig. Wells by
the score are going down all over the vast
Western plains, on spots selected by the men who
are possessed of a familiar water spirit. Ihe
legend goes that 90 per cent, of the tips
are winners. For some reason or other the sheep-
men of the Ma State do not pin much faith to this
method of water hunting—especially the old,
stodgy, heavy-going sheep-men, who scorn en-
silage and fodder conservation as new-fangled
devices, and shout to the Government for cheap
sheep-truckage when the rain leaves off. In
Maori land, Parson Mason, who has been water-
finding for the past 40 years, propounds elaborate
theories re the nervous system and the connection
between it and the flow of water, but the average
water-finder doesn’t go hunting for ghostly ex-
planations of his art; he just finds water.
It is many a year since Queensland saw such
a fight as the Laborites and the Phidstonites are
waging at Moreton. No less than 15 Labor mem-
bers have been stumping the district in support of
J. C. Denny, a democratic cow-cocky ; and every
available Phidstonite is on the warpath against
them. Moreton, which is mostly cocky of some
sort, begins to wish the whole business was
over. At any moment Digby Denham is
liable to burst along in a Government motor-
car ; and Strawberry and Spot have been disturbed
so "often while being milked that they are not
giving half as much as they did before Philp’s
brother-in-law, Campbell, resigned on account of
illness. Jimmy Forsyth, another brother-in-law,
is the Phidston candidate ; and if he can’t win the
seat, after it has been anti-Labor for years, the
Phidston party will look blue. It has lost Bulloo
already, and if Moreton follows, the Government
dreads a panic. Hence the frenzied efforts of
Digby Denham, and the horrible disturbance of
the bull’s aunts before-mentioned.
Veteran journalist Hugh Parkinson, who
has been connected with newspapers at Ipswich
since ’55, has ceased, at the age of 81, to worry
whether the paper comes out or not. He
first went to Bananaland as manager of the
North Australian, printed at the town which
was then recognised as the cipital of Queensland,
tnoughnow.lt is a quiet, respectable, backwash
sort of place. It was characteristic of the point
of view of the period that a paper published at
Ipswich should V>e called the North Australian.
Ipswich was north then ; it is now hardly half-way
up the map. Six years later Parkinson joined in the
purchase of HiSrald, and re-named
it the Queensland Times. It still flourishes.
Also he established in ’G7 the Nashville Times,
at Gy-mpie, now called the Gym pi e Times.
Those were days when the Queensland newspaper
man was prepared to go out any morning and start
a new journal before breakfast, and ten to one the
first issue contained a letter from “Constant
Reader.” A,\b.
Acquitted but not Unpunished.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brisbane, Wednesday. Billy Wilson, who was
acquitted of the Carpentaria Downs murder charge, has
been sent to the Barrumbah Mission. —S. M. Herald,
W/61’09.
SO, Bill, the Law has loosed you from its
grip.
Absolved of crime ;
You will not die, nor even do a trip
To gaol this time.
The shadow of the gallows-tree has gone ;
The hangman’s rope
Is laid aside, to be used later on.
Do joy and hope
Shine in your coal-black face, I wonder, Bill ?
Art gay again?
Perhaps. And yet herein strange doubtings till
My questioning brain.
The swift, horrific “ drop ” is not for you,
That’s understood.
But for the future you may never do
Aught that’s not good.
You are to be a mission nig. Dost know
All that implies ?
Nay ! If you did, methinks, we’d see the glow
Fade from your eyes.
No fascinating gin (or gins) sh ill bring
Home comforts to
The gunya.h you’ll inhabit—that’s a thing
The Saved don’t do.
Beer, in a mission station, is a rank
Anomaly,
And so is rum ; you’ll be allowed no swank,
But only tea.
Cards, racing, two-up—all the myriad joys
So freely scored
By unregenerates —are not for “ hoys”
Who’ve found the Lord.
Henceforth your pastimes, Bill, will riot be these;
But dreary psalms
Interminably howled, with bended knees
And outflung palms.
Sunday-school picnics, hymns in different styles,
Tall tales re Sin
And Aliriman, and his infernal wiles
Will-hem you in.
The Fates are coarse and horrid Females Three,
Long-clawed and fanged.
Within a month you’ll feel you’d rather be
Just quietly hanged.
N.S.W.
D.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 12, 1900.
My Dear Thaiigomin dah,
There was a gay junketing at the Burts’ pretti-
home, Wyandra, one evening this week, when a
crowd of rosebuds and their attendant males, with
a judicious sprinkling of more fully-blown roses,
footed a lively measure until the very little hours.
Consternation reigned one day last week at the
residenceofalady of greatsocial tonnage. An after-
noon bridge party, to which the Very Best People
had foregathered, was in progress, when a flust-
ered parlormaid announced “theparson, ma'am !”
Now the hostess is a pillar of the church, and
drinks in the Word under a rector whodenounces
bridge with some vehemence, and the thoughtof his
horrified face and his Christian remonstrance was
a fearsome thing. But the same hostess, even
though her flesh weight is nearly as great as her
social weight, is essentially a woman of action.
In two minutes she had swept the party—scores,
money and small tables—into the breakfast room,
flung a Japanese screen across the door, and
wiping a thought of moisture from her forehead,
subsided into a chair, and commenced a heart-to-
heart talk with the rev. gentleman without turn-
ing a hair. And if the soul-preserver saw any-
thing disconcerting in an ace of spades that
peeped from under the silken skirts of the affable
sheep of his flock, or in the audible and agonised
whisper of a hidden she to “Look out for my
purse,” he gave no sign. He just drank his tea
and ate his bun as a courteous fire-escape should.
I like the -liberality of the local National Ass.,
which, as a special inducement to artists, offers the
sky-towering sum of one guinea for a show poster,
to be drawn to scale—Bft. x 10ft. The article is to
become the property of the Ass.
The wedding epidemic continues, and two more
engagements have been announced this week.
Miss Jessie Hood, daughter of pastoral W. W. H.,
will in time wed sheep-grower Mildrum ; mid
pretty Annie Macdonald proposes to shed perma-
nent happiness on Chas. Maut, a well-known
society butterfly.
Major of the immaculate shirt-front, who is
bossing the Tittell Brune co., has declared war
against coats and skirts in the dress circle, and
unwary shes who assault the front steps in such
garb are hauled to leeward, and have things gently
but firmly explained to them. To dress for the
circle of His Majesty's these days, you must un-
dress, so to speak, in a major degree. Yet the
circle is thin—thin.
The peculiar ways of the Children’s Hospital
Committee are by way of coming home to roost.
Recently a collector called on a well-known Queen-
street merchant for his annual stout cheque. “ Oh,
no ! ” said Dry Goods ; “my subscription is with-
drawn.” “Why?” asked the collector, aghast.
“ Well, you see—l like to know what happens to
my contribution, and unless the press is allowed
to see what you do with public money, you can
write me off. I’m contributing to no secret
societies.” On top of this comes the refusal of
the Lieutenant-Governor to grant his patronage
to the annual ball. He is an editor in his spare
moments, and perhaps the Hospital’s attitude
towards the press has got on his nerves.
The passenger-list of the Aberdeen liner
Pericles contains the names of the gay Godsalls
—brother George and sisters Hemes and Ada—
who go Pogwards for a year.
An Anglican collection of reverend fire-escapes is
usually decked out with much unconscious humor.
This year the presidential address is one long con-
gratulation upon the heroic deed accomplished by
the Church in closing the Longreach drink-shop,
a propertv which fell into its hands as a bequest.
What the Bishop did not state is that the
old, eminently respectable hotel premises are
now occupied by a money-lending establishment
and a time-payment furniture place. Does the
Church, in its sober moments, really regard it as
any better to be the landlord of a loan office than
of a place which supplied good board, lodging and
bath, and an incidental drink and cigar, to the
wearv traveller? What loan office ever offered a
hot bath and a good dinner and a comfortable
resting-place to the dusty wanderer whom the
southern express casts out at our door ?
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


QUEENSLAND’S URBAN CONDITIONS.
Towered cities please ns then,
And the busy hum of men.
"At certain seasons of the year Abraham en-
camped beneath the walls' of cities, and ex-
changed the wool of his flocks for flour, oil,
and wine.”
“ To-day, in Queensland, the growth of the wealth
of the State is registered in the number of
marts which are growing with vigor and
energy in the towns.”
“ The octopus-lilce tentacles of the Queensland State
Railways drav> the produce to the cities, and
bring city and country, the great tablelands
and the 'plains and the seaports, the station
and the ship together .”
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXIV.
THE CITIES.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
Hitherto, the descriptions of the resources of
Queensland have been confined to the develop-
ment of the primary industries of the rich State.
Its flocks and herds, its wool and frozen meat, its
production of cheese and butter—all these are the
varied forms of development of natural riches, and
of the result of the application of human energies,
labor and capital, to the natural resources and
capacity of the virgin country, the striking of flint
on steel. All this is another phase of Dean
Swift’s famous generalisation that the world’s
greatest benefactor is he who can make
two blades of grass grow where one grew
before. The care and energy that create con-
ditions under which two cattle or horses or a
hundred sheep browse and fatten where only one
browsed before, is of a piece with the doubling of
the blades of grass. There is something patri-
archal in those occupations which appeals to
the man of imagination. “The pastoral em-
ployment,” says James Bonwick, “is identi-
fied with the morning of human life, the
youth of the world, the loves and sports
of simple souls whose symbols were the crook
and the spindle. Wool and woollen history
traverses the ages from the rude days of which
poets so fondly sing, and all along the progressive
road until we hear the roar of factories.”
I often read thissplendid historical generalisation
by Win wood Reade, which lights up and reduces
the perspective of history to its proper proportions.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“ Long after the building of the Pyramids,” says
he, “ but before the dawn of Greek and Roman
life, a Bedouin sheik, named Abraham, accom-
panied by his nephew Lot, migrated from the
plains which lie between the Tigris and the
Euphrates, crossed over the Syro-Arabian desert,
and entered Canaan, a country .... lying below
Phoenicia, between the desert and the Red bea.
They found it inhabited by a people of farmers
and vine-dressers, living in walled cities and sub-
sisting on the produce of the soil. But only a
portion of the country was under cultivation.
They discovered wide pastoral regions unoccupied
by men, and wandered at their pleasure from
pasture to pasture and from plain to plain. Their
flocks and herds were nourished to the full. . . .
SUPREME COURT, BRISBANE.
At certain seasons of the year Abraham encamped
beneath the walls of cities, and exchanged the
wool of his flocks for flour, oil and wine.”
Even in Abraham’s time, then, the cities had
grown as exchange marts for the primary pro-
ducer. And to-day, in Queensland, the rapid
growth of the wealth of the State is registered in
the number of marts which are growing with vigor
anil energy in the towns. But no longer have the
Abrahams of Queensland to b v e the nomadic
existence. The shriek of the railway whistle
brings the news of an era of machinery—of steam
and motive power. The octopus-like tentacles of
the Queensland railways draw the produce to
the cities, and bring city and country together.
The tangible expression of a country’s wealth
may be indicated by its towns. This is the era of
urban life, when the government of cities has
been developed to such a high pitch of perfection,
through communal effort, that enthusiasts are
SHIPPING ON WHARVES, BRISBANE.
almost looking forward to the millennium in the
cities of the future. The tendency which makes for
the congregation in towns of the great bulk of every
race is remarked by statisticians all over the world.
Urban conditions, comforts, amusements, ameni-
ties, the light, life, and gaiety of cities lure the
people from the country. The rule of settlement
in our latest State polity is to do away with the
isolation of the bush—fascinating as that will
always be to the adventurous —and, by closer
settlement, to bring the social amenities of urban
conditions to those who are tillers and users of the
soil—the primary producers. But just as our
rulers are introducing urban conditions in country
settlement, so there is a tendency to bring country
conditions into towns, by tree adornment and
park decoration.
If we take the cities as an expression of the
energies and the altruism of the Queensland
people, we find much to be proud of. Brisbane is
a very fine city, up-to-date in every respect; with
magnificent public buildings and State depart-
ments, splendid cathedrals, commercial establish-
ments, banks, warehouses, insurance buildings,
hostelries ; with the best-planned and most up-to-
date system of electric street traction to be found
in Australia —and perhaps in the Southern
Hemisphere. The city is divided into two by
a noble river, which, at the point where it is
spanned by a bridge, is wider than the world-
famed and historic Thames at Blackfriars. The
Brisbane River, lower down, receives at its
wharves steamers of the largest type, which lie
comfortably beside the warehouses,
unloading their cargoes, and taking
in merchandise for the markets
of the world.
The population
of Queensland is
but a little over
500,000, and yet
the population of
Brisbane alone is
135,655. while Rock-
hampton has 19,691,
Ipswich 15,236;
Gym pie 14.431,
Maryborough 12,900,
Townsville 15,506,
Toowoomba 14,087,
Charters Towers
20,976, Bundaberg
9666, and Mount
Morgan 8486. And
one characteristic
may be noted—
all these cities are
progressive ; they
are voung, vigorous ; they have splendid terri-
torial hinterlands to swell their commerce. All
cities are markets, places of barter and exchange ;
and Toowoomba or Warwick, Townsville or
Rockhampton .are as much fairs and world
markets as Nijni Novgorod. As settlement grows,
as production develops, these towns, now in their
infancy, will become splendid entrepots. Most
of them have been planned in advance, and
therefore the city planners have avoided the .mis-
takes made in Brisbane and Ipswich, where the
streets are narrow—or comparatively narrow, like
those of Sydney or London. Some day the main
thoroughfares of Brisbane, will have to be
widened, as London has had to widen her Strand
and Shaftesbury Avenue and Hoi born, and as
Paris has widened her streets and re-planned her
entire city site.
But in the other and more modern towns the
plan is, if not all that could be'desired, at least
perfect in one respect, viz., the streets are wide,
and the plan similar to that of Melbourne. The
bldcks are rectangular, and there are no
radials. There is no application of the
“cart-wheel” or spider-web plan, which is
recognised as the best and most convenient city
plan—that of New Orleans, U.S. A., Karlsruhe,
in Germany, and Dalny, in the East, the last-
named planned by Russian engineers according
to the very latest principles of city planning. For
splendid streets it would be hard to equal
Flinders-street. Townsville ; Ruthven-street, Too-
woomba; or East-street, Rockhampton. These
broad, straight streets, miles long, are the main
arteries of the business of districts which are
larger than German principalities or English
counties.
Brisbane, the political and commercial capital
of Queensland, is picturesquely situated on a
ROMA STREET MARKETS, BRISBANE.
number of undulating hills commanding the
river, and from the summits of these hills lovely
views may be obtained of miles and miles of
beautiful scenery from the sea to the mountain
ranges. The city is nearly 20 miles from the
mouth of the Brisbane River, which flows into
Moreton Bay. The voyage from the mouth of
the river to the wharf is a very picturesque one,
and the bay itself is surrounded by strange and
interesting scenery, not the least curious being the
singular conical peaks called the Glasshouse
Mountains. The channel entrances through the
bay to the mouth of the river have been care-
fully charted and marked with beacons, so
that navigation is perfectly safe for the
largest vessels. A continuous policy of har-
bor improvement has been carried on in the
river. Embankments and train-
ing walls have been erected,
while whole angles of the
sharp turns have been
cut away by powerful
dredges. On the bar
at the mouth of the
river the depth of 0
water has been #
as low as 4ft. ;
but scientific
treatment has
increased the
minimum depth
to 20ft. at low-
water springs in
the river and on the
bar, and this will
be deepened to 26ft.
There is an ample pro-
vision of wharf accommo-
dation in Brisbane, with
capacity for further ex-
pansion, 'arid in addition to the wharves which are
in the heart of the city itself, and at which ships
lie a stone’s throw away from the principal banks,
cathedrals, and business houses., there is a new set
of wharves at Pinkenba, connected by rail with
the city. At these wharves the shipping of horses
is.carried out, and the troopships on their way to
convey contingents to South Africa embarked the
men and horses there. There are drafting yards
for horses which are to be shipped abroad.
The population of Greater Brisbane has already
been stated as 135,055. The importance of the
city can be measured by the capbal value of
rateable property, which stands at £0,128,000, and
the annual value of rateable property is £408,600.
The civic government consists of a mayor, aider-
men, and an efficient staff. Brisbane was incor-
porated as a municipality in the year 1859, three
months before separation from N.S.W. There is
a splendid water supply by gravitation from
storage dams at Enogera and Gold Creek reser-
voirs, the former holding 1,000,000,000 gallons and
the latter 406,000,000 gallons. The capital cost of
the works was, up to 1906, £774,921.
The civic government of the Inner Brisbane is
in the hands of 14 aldermen, elected by seven
wards, and these elect a niayorfrom theirnumber.
The qualification for the office is to be of the age
of 21, a British born or naturalised subject, and
entered on the Council’s books as a ratepayer
(occupier or owner). The commercial spirit of
the town is fostered by the Chamber of Commerce,
the objects of which are: (1) to promote and
protect home, inter-State and oversea trade, com-
merce and shipping, and the manufactures and
industries of the State; (2) to promote, support
or oppose legislation or other measures affecting
such trade, commerce, shipping, etc. ; (3) and to
undertake the settlement by arbitration of dis-
putes arising out of trade, etc., and to act as arbi-
trator therein. There is a complete fire brigade
service, governed by a composite Board repre-
sentative of the municipal council, the insurance
companies, and the Government.
Among the leading public institutions are the
two clubs, the Queensland Club and the John-
sonian (a literary and quasi-Bohemian club, which
houses the ablest litterateurs, journalists, politi-
cians, lawyers, public servants, and commercia,
men); the Royal Geographical Society ; the Royal
Society of Queensland ; the Queensland National
Art Gallery, with a fine collection of pictures,
statues, engravings, etc.; the .Queensland Art
Society, the Public Library ; the Museum (with
scientific library) ; a General Hospital, Convales-
cent Home, and tho Hospital for Sick Children ; the
School of Arts, with library, reading rooms, chess
club, lecture hall, etc. ; the Queensland Blind.
Deaf and Dumb Institution : and the Queensland
Ambulance and Transport Brigade. There are
also two musical societies —the Brisbane Musical
Union and the Liedertafel, both of them choral
and orchestral societies.
In nearly every large or small town in Queens-
land there are Schools of Arts containing public
libraries, reading and lecture rooms. Queens-
landers, like the rest of the Australian people, are
intensely musical, and musical societies exist
throughout the State. It will be seen, therefore,
that the “amenities” of urban life are just as
numerous in Queensland as they are in any Ger-
man or French towns, certainly more so than in
the average English town. The immigrant need
not, therefore, look upon himself pityingly as a
kind of a social exile. He will find an organised
public opinion, which takes the direction of art
and music, and a fondness for literature. He
will probably find that Dickens, Thackeray,
and George Meredith are more read in Rock-
hampton than in Leeds or Bradford ; while
probably there is a greater general lcnow-
ledge of modern thought and modern tend-
encies—especially social and political tendencies—
in Queensland than in Britain. The Australian
is not intensely or rabidly religious. He is the
most tolerant of men; and, though feverishly
political, he is not an angry or a relentless foeman.
Few of the old political warriors are neglected in
their decline. His worst fault is probably that he
puts the whole of his stable money on party politics,
arid neglects and sometimes even despises the im-
portant civic side of government and administra-
tion ; and has a fixed and unalterable belief that
party governmentwith its uneonsecutive adminis-
tration is the best political system in the world. He
has no “.Council of Senior Statesmen” to appeal
to ; men‘who are studying organisation outside of
party warfare, and who plan in advance.
FITZROY RIVER , ROCKHAMPTON,
Centred Queensland.
Still, with this brilliant
growth of the cities the intel-
lectual development of
Queensland is going on
steadily; and with in-
tellectual progress
V ‘material pro-
gress proceeds
pari passu.
All thus e
services of
lighting and
cleansing, at-
tention to the
important sub-
ject of public
health, pure food,
good bousing, tree-
planting, gas, water and
electricity supply—all these,
which are the true com-
mercial services of an up-
to-date city, are to he
fouYid in perfection in Queensland. Public
parks are a notable feature of Queensland
cities, as the climate is suitable for outdoor enjoy-
ment. The Brisbane Botanical Gardens form
one of the beauty spots of Australia,; and the pro-
vision for open-air dining in that park recalls the
sensible methods which are found in the Bois,
Paris ; the Prater, Vienna ; or Battersea Park,
London. Towns, such as Rockhampton, Mary-
borough* Toowoomba, have'splendid parks, and all
provision for the enjoyment of an outdoor people,
in one of the finest of climates—undoubtedly the
mildest and most benignant winter climate in the
world.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling' at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
I.ON DON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10a
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklhournk A or, nts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
A del, aide & Fremantle Agents : GyO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hot.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &00., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731,601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. —■
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout, th» World.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——i
fair interest.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.'W7.
H|ontdepieteo.»M|.C().,[t!l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
• Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
.John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES.
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years'
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
proven
Shipping.
N ord JJeutscher Lloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Commander.
G. Bolte ..
F. Prosch
A. Ahlborn
0. Pahnke
L. Maass ..
Sydney.
July 10
Aug. 7
Sept. 4
Oct. 2
Oct. 30
ociiyujnj; — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Z® aland.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504.097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.) ; J. Campbell- Wood, Esq •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 4.
AFEIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—CaDecown or Durban Jtlo 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
Condon.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
* HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence bv
the Island Mail Steam ers
Moresby and Makatnbo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about S
M
r
CRUISES. *
, AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district,
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending- settlers on the land, a few of
* tne important features being*:
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during 1
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged. .■■■■■*■
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds (V) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (I) Unoertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
purcnase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
TUTS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
A situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skcrktart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
(jIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
ripped
ite.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Feath.er Slo.o;jp,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Edison
Amberol Records
These are the very latest and best
effort of the Edison organisation—
records that are no bigger than the
popular two-minute records, yet which
will play double that time.
Call in on your local dealer and ask
him to let you hear some of these
splendid new selections. He will also
show you the simple devices by which
the ordinary Edison Phonographs (ex-
cept the “ Gem ”) can be made to take
the Amberols.
Amberol Records cost 2/- each all
over Australia, and we will send you a
complete list of the new selections on
request.
Play for Four
Full Minutes.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
IMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
. A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
’ Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
'ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, > v tdney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet,
ls*4d. (stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 1 \/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS I
Messrs. Sayers, Aliport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney
Prepared bv I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Gian tala, June 18 (to
Melbourne only).
S.S. Yongala, July 3.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Gran tala, June 26.
S.S. Innamincka, July 3.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing-, the new twin-screw steamer “ATUA ”
June 22, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCR
LAND, transhipping at latter port for Sydney
thence every 28 days ; J
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ TOFUA,” leaving
Auckland on June 22 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydnej', every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO ” July 6
thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and ’TAHITI*
returning from the latter port to Wellington per
“ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 20 days in Tahiti
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, July 7
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI*
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “HAUROTO”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 28 davs, arriving at
Auckland August 26.
For further information
and descriptive booklet
apply—
to the various offices
in Australasia of
the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
£An INCLUDING HOTEL An
EXPENSES. dLUL/
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F. H.
vS.
Federal*Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.**
11,400 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 10th July
, „ „ SYDNEY - - 14th July
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - 17th July
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 22nd July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated afhidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
Liverpool' 1 [ £4910s - £1313s - £1515s - £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ f?r Coughs and Colds
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.


Eczema Spread All Over His Body—
Not a Minute’s Comfort in Sixteen
Months—Constantly Experi-
mented With Remedies, but Even
the Doctor’s Treatment Failed —
Writer Pronounces the
CUTICURA REMEDIES
OF MARVELOUS POWER
"A gentleman, ’"ho is a near relative
of mine, has suffered terribly with ec-
zema. The trouble started in the form
of litt 3 white pimples on the hands.
These pimples would burst and become
sore. Tho Irritation was very great at
all times, and sometimes almost un-
bearable. Ho triod various remedies
from tho first, but nothing seemed to
do him the least good. Still, he kept
persevering with ail tho things heard
or road of. As his condition gradually
became worse under these trials, ho de-
cided to go to a doctor. Tho doctor
put him under a treatment, and ho per-
sisted with it for some time without
the least sign of a permanent cure. He
was almost dospairing. No sooner had
ono sore healed than others came.
From being only on the hands, the dis-
ease spread until his whole body was
affected. His wrists, elbows, and back
were worst, and wero really most dis-
tressing. Tho pain he suffered is be-
yond words. His work necessitates plac-
ing his hands in water a great deal, and
tho water seemed to aggravate the
trouble. After the doctor's treatment
failed, my relative again resorted to
other remedies, with tho same disheart-
ening result, and in this way sixteen
months dragged by. During this time
I can truthfully say that he did not
havo a minute’s comfort. His case
haying become so serious, you caii im-
agine how thankful he was when he
found that he had tho right remedy in
Cuticura. Had he started withCuticura
Remedies at first ho would have saved
untold trouble and expense. He fol-
lowed the directions carefully and the
improvement was. most marked from
day to day. He derived great comfort
from the very first, and I should say that
within six months the disease was per-
fectly eradicated, and his skin is as clear
as it ever was. ' I pronounce Cuticura
Remedies to be of simply marvelous
power. Mrs. E. Spalding, 142 a, Den-
nett Rd., W. Croydon, nr. London,
England, Nov. 26, 1906.”
A Slnele Set of Cuticura Remedies often Cures.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 6, Rue de la Palx; Potter
<fc Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, Mass,
as-. Mailed JLtcc, Cuticura Look ou the Skin.
PAT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
irtl themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
EAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 OASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THIN w eak, nervous, scraggy,
mm, flat-chested, run-down
nnd UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add: flesh, be made
plump, Ktronsr, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“ MIRACULA ” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 OABTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
There’s Style and
Solid Worth in
this Boot at 18 6
IT may be had either
in Glac6 or Box Calf
—the leather in each
case beintr specially
selected and very soft to
the foot. You can have
it both in black or tan,
as you prefer.
The price of this is
18/6 posted in Victoria
!>d. extra; to any other
State 1/3 extra.
Send for our Booklet
illustrating our bic
of footwear for Woman,
Man and Child. It’s free.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street,
Melbourne;
and at North Melbourne
and Prahran.
rnilE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
J- Series. IV V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
‘COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.'
eA@)
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Soaps
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
‘ Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing and softening
the skin, sec up an irritatio-i on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
eA
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes &.Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
HEART
TROUBLE
Caused
By
FAT!
Every fat per-
son who feels
any uneasiness
or weakness
about the heart
should lose no
time in securing
relief from I heir condition. Fatty degenera-
tion of the heart is the cause of many deaths.
“Fatcure”
prevents any possibility of heart disease. It
removes the fat that surrounds the heart and
liver, and gives these organs a chance to do
their work. It cures Obesity quickly, safely
and permanently. It is non-poisonous and
A e f S- • • Send 2d. stamp for FREE
I RIAL SAMPLE and our Free Book.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Si., Sydney.^
r
fly Warrant of Appointment to H M The King
Vs.
TYRES 1
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
234 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY j
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne ;
10 McHenry St., Adelaide;
ds<> Perth, liobart & Brisbane.
GEREBOS
SALT
SEE
HOW
Wm
Agents—Harrison & Attwood t Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourhe Bt., Melbourne.
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write Us for I.vvkntors’ Guidk.
Kstaulisiikd 1877.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed und,,
illustrated in Australia—you
out'llt to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by P. E.Birtle* ; price, cloth, 3/0;
postage, 6<l.
The Poor Parson, by “Sieele Rudd"; price,
paper, 1/.; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by
** Steel* Rudd" ; price,
paper, l/.; posture 3d.
(The above two com-
bined); price, cloth,
3/0; postage 6d.
Sandy’s Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd ”; price,
paper, 1/.; pontage 3d.
Back at Our Selection.
by " Steele Rudd ”;
price, paper, 1/-; pos-
tage 3d.
From Selection to City,
by “ Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd"; price, paper, I/-;
postage 3<f. ’ 1 1 ’ ' *
Dad In Politics, by “Steele Ituibl price, paper
1/-; pontage 3d. * * 1 *
(Tbo above two combined), price, cloth 3/0 •
pontage fid. ’ ' ’
Settler nnd Savago, by
Oba». De Boot ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; poatityc* 4(1.
Do., paper, !/•; poat-
ace, 3d.
On tho Fringe of tho
Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham; price, paper,
1/-; poiUire 3d.
Tho Selector, by Jamea
Green ; price, paper,
1/-; poatage 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyeon ; price,
paper, 1/-; poatajre 3d.
Soafarcrs, by C. D.
Webidalo; price, cloth,
1/-; postage 3d.
Ihr. c Kin
IhiiniktMt ■ ff*
i
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by a. Pratt
price, paper, !/•; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
aaa
bird sJrfN
iiXUSTARD.JP/
Bird’s
Custard IDith 3ruit
The delioious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Briar
Pipes
GBD
Briar
Pipes
They copy us
They follow us
They neYer catch us.
You buy
and you buy
the Best.
(GBD)
2 6
SO9
ANDREW McGEE
Two of McGee’s
French Briars.
Made from specially-selected, flawless, genuine French Briar Root. The shapes are
attractive and popular—the finish of the highest grade. Guaranteed not to crack,
509—2 6. split or burn. Posted 3d. extra to any part of Australia. 504 —3/6.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST AND GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, corner HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
3 A LOO X OPEN ALL DAT WEDNESDAY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
At every turn Private Enterprise ia being tolii
that it Isn’t all that it wbh eraoked up to be, and that the
cold eye of suspicion can't rent on it too frequently. The
oold eye turns up in all sorts of shapes. Just at this
moment it turns up In tho Milkinir Shorthorn Cattle
Association of N.8.W., which casts forth Vol. 11. of the
M. 0. Herd Hook of N.H. W.” In general, this paper
can t tret violently excited over a herd hook ; but it
notes that, so far, three examiners inspect cattle
offered for mention in tho book, and that it
is now proposed to appoint a Judge to do
ti.o work. Thus Is Private (enterprise interfered
with. There was a time when there wasn’t any
examiner or Judge or herd-book, and when Brown,
the cattle-dealer, oould swear that the beast he was
offering was a puru shorthorn ; now he is liable to be
asked to prove It by the herd-book, wherefore he swears
more cautiously than he did. But if this Interferes with
Brown's Private enterprise, it is “ conducing to a truer
type of oattle,” and, putting a gallon and a half of milk
in the pail where there was only a gallon before ; so the
interference will no doubt go on getting worse and worst.
t * _ * • •
An additional incentive to the Victorian, as
well os otlrer, Laborites to capture tiro municipal councils
is afforded by an indefensible caper of the binstiferons
middleman—in the milk trade tiiis time. Lately the
producer, owing to the scarcity of grass and tire com-
paratively high price of chaff, put up tho price of iris cow-
juice one penny a gallon, whereupon the Melbourne
Retail Dairymen’s Ass. bumped up its price one penny
a quart—4d. a gallon. Of course there is no Justification
for this outrageous increase, and as it touches the worker
where he lives, it should impress on him the urgent need
for getting the whole disti ~ .Uon of the city’s milk taken
over by the oonncils. But the existing councillors, who
are mostly traders themselves, won’t touclr such a pro-
posal with a long pole.
« * » •
“Dandalup”: I never did have much faith in
the opinions of “mining experts," and have less since
perusing some very ancient Westralian documents.
Therein reference is made to E. 11. Hargreaves, the
famous expert of his day—the discoverer of gold in New
Bouth Wales—and his trip to Westralia in 1862. Har-
greaves, iu that year, offered his services to the W.A.
Government for £6OO and expenses, in return for which
he was to prospect the country for “six months or
longer," and report on same. The Government accepted
his offer. Hargreaves’ report was anything but favorable.
He emphatically stated that W.A. was a trap country,
where gold could only exist in very small nnd unpayable
quantities. But the “expert” went still further. He
contributed a paper, on “ The Non-Auriferous Character
of the Rocks of Westralia,” to the London Koval
Geographical Society, and in it he stated that “the
colony contained very little gold.” For the benefit of all
so-called “ mining experts," allow me to state in conclu-
sion that, notwithstanding Mr. Hargreaves’ damning
report, the Western State, between 1886 and June, 1908,
produced no less than 587 J tons of gold, valued at
£81,617,362, and put into the capacious Dockets of Fat,
in the shape of dividends, nearly £18,500,000. Expert*’'
Phew !
* • • *
“ Mallaooota ”: Another of the blessings of
Foreign-trade. A city gunsmith recently informed me
that a great percentage of the monumental mason and
undertaker work occasioned by the pea-rifle can be laid
to the charge of cheap Belgian arms of this pattern. The
locks are made of soft, wearable metal, which soon plays
out and allows the trigger to come down unexpectedly,
after or when it is being cocked, fn proof of this conten-
tion he showed me a couple of pen-rifles which had come
in for repair. They were new weapons, but in each case
the catch of the lock had worn down, and the cartridge
naturally exploded without any attention being given to
the trigger. This sort of thing usually happens without
warning and with some unsuspecting friend or stranger
right in the zone of Are. Hence the daily inquest.
Produce agents’ reputations, not too savory at
best, are sometimes given an odor of decayed onion and
superannuated carrot they don’t deserve. Here are some
current tricks of the trade : Agent Tom has had no con-
signments of artichokes or cauliflowers from the North-
ern Rivers lately, so in his sale reports he quotes these
items Is. per dozen higher than the actual prices Dick
and Harry, who sold loads of them, obtained. The
Northern River man, without waiting to wash the yellow
clay from his hands, seizes pen and ink and writes a
scathing, blotted letter to Dick or Harry, and another
appointing Tom his agent for future consignments. So
with maize, so with potatoes—so, indeed, all round. And
as Dick and Harry, when left without particular lines,
are as capable of lying as Tom, the hairy agriculturist
often curses an agent who has done his best.
» * • .
Westralia is pushing its salt industry along.
Years ago the deposits at Port Gregory, near Geraidton,
were worked with fair success ; but the old-time Gropers
had little faith in their own goods, and went on
buying the imported article. Recently the Port Gregory
leases have been taken up by two Geraidton residents,
and now the works are turning out large quantities of
first-cla-s salt. A syndicate is also working the great
Yarra Yarra salt lakes in the Three Springs district,
where the salt is so pure that it hardly needs refining.
Last year Westralia was still a large importer ; but it is
estimated tiiat this year all the local demands will be
filled by the local product. And theii a market will be
sought in China, Japan, Java and India.
“ J.S.” (Syd.): As a disease-distributor, the old
material torn down from condemned premises calls for
more attention than it gets. Whenever a slum area or
block of ancient rookeries is wiped out, the custom is to
sell all the old more-or-less rotten and germ-infested
bricks, stone, timber, etc. For instance, Wexford-street.
This notorious disease farm was recently demolished, and
jerry-builders, Chow gardeners, dairymen and others
snapped up the heaps of materials, and carted them far
and near, to incorporate the filthy stuff in new (?)
structures. Worse still, while the demolition was
going on, swarms of children gathered up the chips
and fragments, and carried them away for firewood. So
when the authorities condemn a structure as filthy and
insanitary, the filthiness and insanitariness is put up by
auction and carted off to the suburbs. The Health Board
should interfere in this business, and, where necessary,
compel such rubbish to be burnt or thoroughly'cleansed
and disinfected before being used again. Other sorts of
rubbish and garbage are not allowed co-go into use again,
so why should dirt-encrusted building material, with its
colonies of germs? The suburban councils, under the
Local Government Act, have pnwtr (Section 109) to regu-
late “ the erection of buildings and the materials used
therein.” Under this section they could prevent new
terraces being built out of the debris of the sins of our
ancestors.
IN COHEN’S ORCHARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Saturday afternoon.—The Financial Nkws
comments adversely on the subscription to the New South
.. x? ° an of 000,000 in 3J per cents, at £9S 10s.
New South Wales," the Nkws states, “has worn out
her welcome in the loan market."— Cable.
It is, of course, somethin); out of the common to float
two loans, as we did, in three months. But the position
was that when we paid off the £1,800,000 of 4 per cents,
in January the Treasury was very depleted, and a new
loan to make {rood the bulk of that repayment became
essential. In addition, we needed a considerable sum to
continue the works which were in progress, and the
market was not ripe early in the year for a larger issue
Sydney Tklkorafu.
“The time’s not ripe ! " the Tory said,
And the patient clock ticked on,
Knocking the seconds on the head,
Till the hour of fate had gone.
“The market’s ripe ! " the Tory yelled,
As he leaped the trees between,
Then w, ndfi;i! ut the fruit he held,
For the loan was hard and green.
A dismal judge of ripeness, he
Hath ever a word to say
When cash or Time hangs on the tree
In a wild or garden way.
N.B.W.
I. O. U.


THE FIRST TEST
of a PLUM RAZOR will prove it 3 work. It is
miles away a different and better razor to the
ordinary. Will {rive you a cool, comfortable shave
every day of the year. The secret of its splendid
success is the steel. We guarantee and keep it in
order two years free of charge.
Price 10/6,
Post Free to
any Country.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
0
IR
B
35/=
PRICE Post Free.
JERDAN'S "HOME
BATTERY
STRENGTHENS
THE NERVES.
In the rush arid stress of this 20th
century business and social life—the
nervous system suffers.
No matter how hustling, how try-
ing your work, we guarantee you
exemption from all nervous strain
troubles, break-downs, etc., by the daily
use of our “ Home” Battery.
It is a wonderful bracer, a nerve
strengthener. It tones up the system
arid gives new life.
Also it is invaluable for all Winter
Ailments and Complaints.
Our “Home” Battery is compact,
conveniently and easily handled—and
the first cost constitutes the whole cost.
Send for the Battery. If you are not
thoroughly satisfied, we refund your
money.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET, koySel, SYDNEY.
“ REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents-
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RTCHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY '& CO., Port D;irwin.
" A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/"
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
BILLIARDS LIMITED
TEL. 1338
CITY.
perpetual tournaments for bona fide amateurs.
ALL COMPETITORS TO BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF COMPANY..
Prizes every fortnight, or as soon after as any Competition is won.
BILLIARDS : Break of 50, or biggest over 50 .. • • Onier, value £2 2s.
Break of 51, or biggest over 51, off red ball -- —■ 9 < ! el ’ va ! ue 4? ? s -
SNOOKER : Break of 30, or biggest over 30
PYRAMIDS : Break of 8 or over
'-/I UC1 , > ulllC cCO OSa
Order,, value £2 2s.
£2 2s.
ot S or over .. •• -• -* ,
BILLIARDS LTD. NOVELTY SNOOKER to be run monthly.
Three prizes-Orders value £4 4s., £2 2s., £1 Is., for the largest breaks made during the month. Entrance fee, 3d.
Three P» z f ; starte d MONDAY, 7th inst. Mornmg, Afternoon and Evemng Sessions.
P Fnll particulars from HARRY GRAY, Manner R30 <W« ~
r 1
(Reminder
to
[ Engine
» Buyers
This is the month of Special
Concessions to buyers of
“Buffalo Pitts” Steam, and
“1.H.C.” Gasolene Engines.
Many who intended buying later in the year
have shown by placing orders for delivery in
June, that they are fully alive to the benefits
derived by so doing.
Scores more, after investigating our offer, will
surely follow suit.
It is practically certain that if you are in need
of an Engine of any horse power from 1 to 50,
that you will purchase either a “Buffalo” or an
because investigation will prove to you
that these are the Engines that are giving by far
the greatest satisfaction to the greatest number.
Dy the time this meets your eye the month
of June will be well advanced.
The Special Concessions will positively be
withdrawn on June 30th.
Now, therefore, is the time to make your
enquiries.
They can’t cost you anything, but can save
you much.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AMERICA
(Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway Sydney.
545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
17 Bank Street, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
(273)
ymg4Umd^r >
& Sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Work= : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England. France, itussia, Spain and
America.
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES.
i x 2$ inch.
2£ x 3J- inch.
4J x (J.plate).
6i x if (A-plate).
l| x 4j inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking- with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. I 2
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis*
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c 0
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
l ung Tonic could not have been won.
and continue to increase after
30 YEAtio, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
, remedy ever known. Beware oj Sub •
stilutes ; ask for “ OWBHIDGE '
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER,
Sold every where ‘
in bogles ac Is l^d..
).l ,4s 6d.,0c"
COPYRIGHT
RUPTURE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
positive cure for all forms of
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give wav to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. 1 There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in eveiy case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
■ Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
j receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’S Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
mail must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health -into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
: it has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware ot cheap imitations. i
=<
V\
//
>w.
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
THE McLAUGHUN CO
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN Dep. 10, Castleresgh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MsLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED ROOK.
Name
Address
12


“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HE ARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or, toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and. Stores.
dade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng,
Australian
Established 1849. '
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand PF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving-
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— -The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C. :
Jas. 0. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece,- F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rink's. —Richardson Ball-Bearing 1
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great, Britain and Ireland—Messrs, J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
“RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE “ NEVER-STOP ” HUMMING TOP.
. THt '
musical a pi h am;
T OP.
This new metalhum-
ming top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and hand-
somely painted in five
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal ,and the spring
of tempered sited, is
practically, .indestruc-
tible. Spins about
three minutes, hum-
ming all the time.
Price 9d. each post
free anywhere, o r
three tops posted free
to any address for 2/-
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring'
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
-©6c-
U.S.A, SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
othei-s. Oa n be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. t Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets,.Sydney
TERMS ARRANGED.
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5OOO ?
We arrang-e Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting- to sell. Numerous
cliepts always on the look out for {rood businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
o.'lq
KING’S
NORTON” *
CARTRIDGES
Purposed for .22 calibre Rifle
Shooting-, these British-made
cartridges are of the very finest
shootiug quality. The hollow-
point bullet is recommended for
sporting—the long and short solid
point for rifle practice. Specify
King’s Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealer. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. ,
- - MELBOURNE j
WHMtft VICTORIA
fjßri/isF
{flac/ei
£2OO
FOR 2 WORDS.
GAN YOU
HIT THE
WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
intend to give away for correct answers to this
puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
words that the picture represents, write us at
once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
are right we will at once send you the prize.
If more than one correct answer is received
the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
for reply. Only one reply from a family
allowed. National Publishing Co.,
89 Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES* PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2£d.)
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
DIET
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “AHenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “AHenburys ” Foods for Infant.*
i FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd ~ and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has been the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by dll Qftemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland —Elliott Bros., Sydney & Brisbane.
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
CURES
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
■ '
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford,
writes: —“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED ’was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubles,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years;
I take that when nothing else will give relief. One
or two bottles invariably set me up. It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bottle to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You may make what use of this
you like.” —December nth, 1907.
COLDS
*
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
I H or Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ A. 8.” makes a discovery :
For a long time, I wondered why it was that the Wade
Ministry of N.S.W. seemed familiar. I spent sleepless
nights worryinsf, over the matter, and was just about to
join the Theosophists to ascertain whether, in some pre-
vious existence, ,niy lines had been cast close to theirs,
riut last week I was saved this trouble and expense. In a
copy of an imported comic journal the solution was
spread before me. The journal was Ally Sloper’s Half-
Holiday, and I shall never speak disrespectfully of that
ipighty organ again. Wade is Ally Sloper, and his is the
Moper Ministry. There on its front page was the hero of
Liberalism, Charles Gregory Wade, thinly disguised in a
tottered hat and a whisky bottle. I have only known
Wade since he entered politics, a year or two back ; but,
Tif n <?j nce a * i tide, he has grown more and more like
Ally Sloper everyday. Perhaps he thinks it up to him
his appearance as well as his actions coincide
with those of the Great Master. When vou think of it
the resemblance spreads over the whole'Wade Cabinet.
Wood is the Dook Snook.i Lee the Laird, Hogue the
Honorable Billy, and Waddell is Aunt Geezer. Other
minor members of the Ministry also correspond more or
less with the hangers-on of the'Sloper inAnage. The only
figure missing is that of Flossie Fewclothes. I waited
outside the Sydney Government offices for half an hour
the other night to see if she would turn up. It’s a pity
Wade didn’t give Flossie a portfolio. It would strengthen
the team considerably, and almost persuade me to become
an alleged Liberal. Now I fear that, after all, I shall
have to go on voting for McGowen.
TO THE TOO INTENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Be intent. Closely scrutinise. Growth must be
watched in seconds. The world must be studied in
grains.”— Melb. Professor.
The more you watch the less you see
Is axiomatic truth to me.
The lady stands before her glass,
While days die out and seasons pass.
She watches with exceeding zest,
And nought distracts her interest.
At fifteen she began, and till
She’s sixty she’ll be watching still.
At fifteen she waj skiii and bone,
At forty she’s eleven stone.
Yet in her heart the dame declares
She’s scarcely changed in all these years.
Watch nothing, then, too narrowly— '
The more .you watch the less .you see !
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
E’Ac LEADING
HOUSE
importing Goods
Fishing TacKle &. Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE,
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our
COLLECTOR GUN.
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 381 in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards.
40s.
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W.; .3s 2d, Interstate.
CANT
B
BEAT
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Cd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up,-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Cd. Nigger. Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor. Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Cd. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Cd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Cd.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Houses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French PgMSiiing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,'
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted.. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every-
man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date,. Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public.
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elemf,nts of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Giievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay’3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR, CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
HE ARNE 'S
The Famous Remedy for
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Th° s e wh° h ay e taken thi s medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from'Bronchitis, Cough, Croup
Asthma, Difficulty of Bieathmg, Hoarseness, Pain or. Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
m the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, no? Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properlv treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain. r
SrnaU Size, 26 ; Large Size, 46. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
hi pills mm
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDEBTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
('Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ’*
the only machine on the
market covered by* a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs i
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”,
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-vear guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these-
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirelv and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. D.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
pfICKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN. sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
&
15
«
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fret, 1».
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
iiw
E
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately - s
relieved, by GRIMAULX & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bn all Choroi**'.


Don’t Neglect Y our Skin
Rub Zam-Buk In, and Avoid All
Winter Skin Troubles
The skin is one of the most sensitive parts of the human
body ; and, because it is also the most exposed to injury and
disease, it ought to get more attention than most people think
is necessary.
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack or small
abrasion, and skin-weakness are all likely to
lead to trouble. Neglected chafings, “ chaps,”
chilblains, cold=sores, or cuts may also cause more serious
disease in the shape of festering wounds, ulcers, or itching
sores, and even chronic eczema is often traceable to neglect
in the early stages of a simple affection.
Zam-Buk, a balm made of the gums and juices of rare medi-
cal herbs, is the ideal application for the skin at this season.
No ordinary ointments or salves, concocted from rancid
animal fats or mineral irritants, can do for the skin what
Zam-Buk does. Such coarse and harmful preparations never
give lasting satisfaction—the sort that is undoubtedly got
from rubbing in Zam-Buk.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost instant-
aneous cleansing and restorative effect. So pure are the
vegetable juices in Zam-Buk that they sink deep into the
pores, permeating all the minute “ machinery ” of the tissue,
and they just go to work right away to end the trouble
thoroughly and permanently.
No skin looks so well—or is, in fact, so soft, sound, and healthy
throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings of Zam=Buk.
And this perfection is more than “ skin=deep,” seeing that a healthy skin
exerts a wholesome influence upon the rest of the body. The Zam=Buk
treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the LOST ARTS
of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was universal.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER
Zam-Buk is invaluable for eczema, ulcers, ringworm, psoriasis, bad legs, rashes,
eruptions, pimples, sores, scabs, scales, piles, pains, swellings, chapped hands, sore faces,
cold sores, chilblains, cuts, burns, festerings, gatherings, poisoned wounds, children’s
sores, and all injured and diseased, irritated, inflamed, and unheaHhv conditions of the skin.
, '>
u
y#
a= ss^x^
Of all chemists
and stores at Is.
6d. and 3s. 6d.
per pot (3s. 6d.
holds nearly
four times the
Is. 6d.); or post
free from The
Zam - Buk Co.,
39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Doctors Enthusiastic Over New Discovery.
DR. HARTMANN SOLVES NEURASTHENIC MYSTERY.
Explains the Brilliant Success of the New Treatment for Nerve Wrecks.
How Nervous Disorders are Cured by Brain Feeding.
“ Neurasthenia has been the Central Africa of medicine
—an unexplored territory into which few men enter.”
These words are eloquent testimony to the great mystery
that surrounds the most common of human ailments.
VVe are able, however, to chronicle the fact that at
least one scientist has penetrated to the heart of that
mystery, and has brought us back a warning and —health.
There can be no more fascinating study than the study
of that great mysterious force the ordinary worker is
content to call “the nervous system.” The hidden force
that guides our every action, that controls our hopes,
that decides our ambitions and aspirations—it is this
power that we desire chained down and shielded ; then
we “know” our battle is over.
When it is remembered that the percentage of illness
grouped under “nervous weakness” or neurasthenia, is
higher than any other class of ailment, it will be realised
how serious a matter is dealt with here, and this will lend
an added greatness to Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant discovery.
The cure for neurasthenia, says Dr. Hartmann, is food
—hrain food.
In these days of high-pressure living, with fierce social
and commercial competition, there is a strain put upon
the nervous system which not one man in a hundred can
healthily withstand.
The effect of the strain is shown either in extreme
irritability, lack of concentration, irresponsible thought,
and finally insanity. The story of the neurasthenic is,
perhaps, best told in the following chart, which shows
clearly the descent and how swiftly we are taken to the
end :
Sensitiveness
Restlessness | Irritability
Melancholia | Nervousness | Pessimism
Hysteria I Fearfulness I Inaptitude for | Dizziness
| I Steady Work |
Memory I Weak I Lack of Mental
Weakness | Will Power [ Clarity
Brain Fag | Insomnia
Mental Derangement
Suicidal Tendency
Somewhere in that chart the trouble of nine out of
every ten men and women is placed. It is the neurasthenic
chart, and once a person can recognise his symptoms
thereon, he should know that within him is the worst of
all diseases, a disease that unchecked can but lead to one
end —total collapse.
Dr. Hartmann’s cure for the neurasthenic is brain-feed-
ing. That this treatment, under Dr. Hartmann’s
method, is effective is proved by the splendid testimony
voluntarily affirmed by medical men in the highest
position.
This method of treatment, that Dr. Hartmann has
proved to be truly successful, may be thus detailed.
Food, when taken into the body, is used in various
ways for general nourishment. Certain foods are used for
fat production, others for the manufacture of bone ; and,
yet again, other parts of food are used up in the produc-
tion of brain tissue. Now, since all nervous affections
arise in the brain, and are caused by malnutrition— i.e. ,
its starvation—the cure for neurasthenia lies in the ques-
tion of supplying the nerve centre with proper food to
allow due strengthening.
Now, in all foods —in some more than others—there are
brain-forming materials. They are scientifically known
as Mylene or Lecithine. Under natural conditions the
best food contains but a trace of this wonderful substance,
and, therefore, it is impossible in the ordinary way to
absorb into the system a sufficient quantity to effect an
appreciable improvement in a neurasthenic case.
“ It is, in brief, a question of administering a sufficient
supply of nerve-feeding elements to balance the rapid
waste of nerve tissue, caused by the unnatural strain of
present day life, by a rapid repair.”
The result of Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant experiments has
been to prepare a nerve food in which the brain-forming
element is sufficiently strong to at once have a beneficial
effect.
To his new discovery Dr. Hartmann has given the title
“ Antineurasthin,” and already most remarkable cures
have been effected by its administration.
Antineurasthin is a preparation which contains all the
nerve-building materials “Lecithine,” in a highly con-
centrated form ; it is easily assimilated, and the benefits
it confers are lasting. It has, therefore, nothing in com-
mon with medicines, drugs, or other stimulants—it is
the natural nerve food which nourishes the nerve system
independently of the body. To everyone requiring a
genuine tonic —to the man whose nerves have become
unstrung through business worries, to the woman who
has become supersensitive or morbid—this simple remedy
will prove an inestimable benefit.
The following testimony will certainly interest those
who are nervous patients. It comes from one of the
most brilliant physicians in Europe—Dr. Guiseppe Lap-
poni, Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness the Pope
“ Rome.
“ Dear Sir, —I made trial in my private practice of
Antineurasthin, and shall prescribe it henceforward, as it
is ah admirable agent for toning' and strengthening the
nervous system. I take the liberty of congratulating
you on your discoverv.
(Signed) “ Dr. GUISEPPE LAPPONI, ■
“ Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness Pope Pius X.”
This is praise indeed, and the most satisfactory feature
of Dr. Hartmann’s' success is that the congratulation of
his medical confreres is overwhelmingly supported by the
testimony of actual users of Antineurasthin.
The fact cannot be too strongly impressed upon the
minds of readers that nervous disorder, no matter how
slight, must not be neglected or played with. The small
worry of to-day becomes the morbid melancholia or break-
down of to-morrow. It is useless to endeavor to seek
temporary stimulation in chemical or so-called tonics,
which can have but a serious after effect—a Loss of
Nervous Force.
Nervous disorders must be cured, and if, on once
glancing at the chart given, you recognise your trouble,
we advise you to at once investigate the claims of
Antineurasthin.
On sending eightpence in stamps of any Australasian
State to the wholesale distributor, H. A. Goddard, Eagle
Street, Brisbane, Queensland, a sample supply'of Anti-
neurasthin, and in addition a copy of an interesting
treatise on “Nervous Disorders,” as well as Dr. Kuhner’s
pamphlet, will be forwarded.
The Twelve-Inch Speaks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/ am the Gun !
I am lord upon the waters —lord of all Earth’s
sons and daughters ;
I am he who strikes and slaughters, sinking fleets
beneath the sea ;
I am Science, I am Power—l have death for meed
and dower;
When I speak the peoples cower—l am roaring
Destiny !
King arn I .of guns a-thunder ! See me tread the
nations under,
See me tear the lands asunder when their days
are surely spun;
From the Pole to the Equator I am Ruler and
Dictator—
I am God and Arch-Creator,
I am final Legislator—
I am the Gun !
Hear ye the Gun !
Looming starkly from my portal, 10, I speak in
tones immortal—
I am he whose Voice athwart all charged with
menace grimly rolls.
lam Master—l, the Smiter, I, the lightning-
fisted Fighter—
I am he to whom the Writer and the Talker bow
their souls !
They are strong, but I am stronger, grows my
arm for ever longer,
When I speak the brawling throng o’er, then the
preacher’s day is done.
Hearken well, ye folks Australian ! In no land
am I an alien—
From the Thames unto Saghalien,
Lo, I guard the freighted galleon—
I am the Gun !
Fear yc the Gun!
None may stay me—l, gigantic, reach beyond the
broad Atlantic—
Priests may mumble, corybantic fools may shriek
their vain applause ;
I, the Titan, thunder-blasting, fling my challenge
terror-casting,
Bow ye down ! —for everlasting I am Arbiter of
Laws !
Acts and Measures—lo, I spurn them ! With my
strength I overturn them.
Heed my warnings—yea, and lear.i them ere the
* sands historic run ;
Strut ye not with vain attire on—heed no more
the calling siren,
Ere my shells smite fierce and dire on,
Your weak walls grip steel and iron—
I am the Gun !
Behold the Gun !
Born ami of fires with hammers
huge, Titanic,
I, whose lips breathe fear and panic—I, whose
strokes make nations reel;
I am Science, I am Power —in the blood-red
battle hour
I shall win for ye your dower—Liberty is built of
steel.
Prince am lof guns a-thunder ! I will tread the
foeman under—
I will rip his ships asunder, wreck the Vandal
and the Hun.
[ am Ruler (none is greater) from the Pole to the
. Equator—
God am I, and Arch-Dictator,
I am Final Legislator—
I am tiie Gun !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury.
THE FEUD.
[FOR THR BULLETIN.]
IN the old days Canterbury, in. Maori-
land, was more like a country under the
feudal system than part of a modern British
settlement. As a class the squatters were tyrants,
and of the worst sort. Justices of the Peace to a
map, and backed up by the physical force of
their station hands and dependents, they held
courts in their offices, and kept the working classes
very much in what they considered the workers’
proper place.
On the other hand, they were not overlaw-abiding
theinselves. They were a convivial, pleasure-
loving crowd, and they gambled and rioted, and
made love to one another’s wives and women-folk
in a scandalous manner. Then, naturally, they
fought, and weird things were done; but the
weirdest of all was what happened when Morlev
Greville, of The Wilderness, fought George
.Martin, of Duntroon Waters.
Morley, the youngest of the Grevilles, was
totally different from the rest of the family. The
other boys were a very wild lot—cheerful, edu-
cated larrikins. Morley was studious and retir-
ing. Physically, the'rest of the family Were tall,
fair,-haired, blue-eyed, and spare of figure. Morley
was black “-haired, aquiline-featured, short and
robust.
Shortly after his return from England, where
he had been educated, he met Herbert Clinton,
and they had assisted one another to burn a fire-
break when a wild nor’-wester was driving a 30-
mile-wide tussock fire before it. They took to
onej another, and Morley went to stay with his
new-found friend, and discovered that, although
Herton Clinton yvas a most charming companion,
his jsister Beatrice could give him many points
and) win easily.
When Morley suddenly interviewed his father
on the subject of marrying Beatrice Clinton, the
squjitter said, “You 11 never get the Queen’s
consent, my boy ” (he always called his wife “the
Quqen ’’). “ Her mother was a parlor-maid when
old Clinton married her. But if you like her,
sticjc to her, my boy—it’s best in the long run.
I 11 jtalk your mother round in a year or two, no
Ihe Queen” took it very differently. She
covered her ears and sprang to her feet
- ‘ ; My dear Morley, this is quite impossible.
Her mother was a housemaid, ora kitehenmaid
or something. I’d as soon see you married to a
Maori as a girl whose mother scrubbed pots. It’s
horrible, horrible ! ” and the Queen’s voice went
up to a little shriek.
“But, mother”
“ Never mention the subject or the girl’s name
to me again, sir. What next? I suppose it will
be the maids in the pantry soon. I’m shocked !
Ho.wever, I have told you not to mention the
subject to me again, and I expect you to remember
my wishes, Morley.”
“I expect you to respect my happiness,
mother ! ” said Morley. But the Queen rose
hurriedly and bounced out of the room.
* * k ■*
The next person to lodge an objection was
Beatrice’s brother Herbert.
“Touching this projected marriage,” he said;
“doesn’t Mrs. Greville object?”
“She does, but as she is not likely to come in
actual contact with my wife, that makes no real
difference. I’m going to the North Island as soon
as Trix is ready.”
“ Well, Morley, don’t fall out with your mother
over a prospective wife. You can always get
another wife—there’s only one mother.”
“ H’m, yes ; but there’s only one Beatrice, old
fellow.”
“Well, I don’t want to see you in hot water
with your people over my sister, Morley. Let it
slide for a while. You’re both very young. Wait
a few years, and then the objections may be
waived.”
“ That’s so—in the meantime, someone else may
get Beatrice.”
“Well, you let it stand a year or two, and
then, if you are both of the same mind, I guess we
can talk it over again.”
“ Bah ! It is marvellous the way you mothers
and elder brothers, who are not in any way con-
cerned, tell us interested young people to wait a
year or two or live it down. Just apply your own
advice to yourselves. You’ve come an awful long
way to talk damned nonsense, Herbert.”
"But it isn’t nonsense—it’s wisdom, wisdom
most profound. I don’t want you and Trix to
marry, honestly.”
Morley put down his glass and stared.
“ Why ? ” he gasped.
“ Many reasons; some I would rather keep to
myself.”
" Anyone else you prefer ? ”
“ Oh no ; by heavens, no.”
Morley Greville saw that his friend’s face was
drawn .and white. In his eyes was a deep earnest-
ness mingled with fear. Morley Greville leaned
over to him, and laid his hand on his shoulder.
“I’m coming back with you, Herbert; and I’m
going to ask Trix to marry me this day week. Delay
with everyone against you is too dangerous. I’m
not going to lose Trix for father, mother, brother,
or devil.”
“Brave words. Well, listen, since you force
me to it. My sister shall go to no man under
false colors. If I don’t tell you she will do so
herself, and it’s easier for me.” He leaned over
till his mouth was against Greville’s ear. “Bea-
trice, my sister, has a child—a girl four years old-
born out of wedlock. Do you love her sufficiently
to overlook that? Will your affection for her
extend to the little girl? If so, she’s yours till
death—not otherwise.”
Morley Greville sank down on the sofa like a
man stricken in the vitals, and rocked himself to
and fro. Herbert Clinton watched him curiously.
Suddenly Greville staggered to his feet.
“ Is the man still alive, Herbert ? ”
“ He is.”
“ Who is he ?”
“ George Martin, of Duntroon Waters.”
“That wretch !”
Herbert Clinton felt himself giving way. He
touched Morley on the shoulder.
“ Hold up, Greville. There will be no marriage.
Think no more about it. I must fie going.”
“Why didn’t you kill him, Herbert ? ”
“Because I preferred to hush it up. It saved
my sister much agony. She has her child with
her much of the time, and is devoted to it. And,
indeed, it is impossible not to love the little thing,
she is so winning in her ways and so bright. But
I understand what it means to you. Perhaps
later on when ”
“ When he is dead. Yes, yes, when he is dead
—all will come right. Why didn’t you kill him
at the time, curse him ? ”
Herbert shook his head mournfully.
“ Death doesn’t wipe out that sort of crime;
it only adds to the horror. One atrocity is not
to be obliterated by the commission of a worse.
It would not have lightened my sister’s pain to
know that she had made a murderer of her
brother. Can’t you see all that, Morley?”
“Oh, you are too damned logical!” said Mor-
ley, wearily. “ When Martin is dead I’ll marry
Beatrice. Before is impossible. This thing
would always come like a skeleton between us.
When he is dead ”
“ I don’t exactly understand that phrase ‘ when
he is dead,’ but, Morley, remember this, my sister
shall marry no man whose hands are stained with
blood. Would you marry the girl you say you
love to a murderer?”
“ Oh, there won’t be any blood,” said Morley.
Although Martin of Duntroon Waters was a
scoundrel, he was a talented one. At his wool-
shed was a splendid installation of double dump-
ing machinery of his own invention, and there
were also waterworks of his own design to supply
hydraulic power to the dumping presses, and a
wool-scouring plant. His shed was about three
miles from his homestead ; but, owing to the slop-
ing, terraced nature of the country, in full view of it.
It was a moonlit night. Shearing was over, and
the shed tull of wool. Standing at his window
Martin looked out over the face of his territory
and felt it was good to be alive.
A red spout of flame cut through the misty
moonlight haze. He stared at it unthinkingly for
a moment. Why, that must be the shed. In two
minutes the groom was saddling the Arabian.
When he galloped clear of his plantation he saw
it was indeed his woolshed, and there were other
intermediate fires. However, nothing mattered
compared to the shed and machinery. Just then
a puff of smoke and a tongue of flame showed
over the hedge of the fence round the paddock,
where hay was stacked for the cattle. Then over
the fence came a horseman. Martin nearly fell
out of his saddle with astonishment. As the figure
of the horseman was silhouetted in the moonlight
he knew the incendiary for Morley Greville.
The big stallion landed on the road, and with a
bound was across it into the tussock. Expectation
of some sudden avenger of Beatrice Clinton’s
honor had caused Martin to carry arms for many
a long day: In a moment his revolver was out,
and he took careful aim at the great, bounding
•stallion. Shot after shot he fired, and the great,
shadowy horse bounded on, the man bent down
on his shoulder. Martin knew that with the start
the other had got the Arabian had no show, and
he turned and galloped to his shed.
The hands had saved half the shed and all the
machinery and the waterworks. The intermediate
fires did a lot of damage, but nothing that even
' Continued on next vage.)


“THE, WINTER IS AT HAND!”
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand ;
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?—Richard 111. ii., 3.
Nature never takes us by surprise ; she always gives a clear signal when change or danger is near. A sharp pain or dull ache
in the back is Nature’s warning of Kidney Disease. Is it any wonder that the sufferer from Kidney Disease is short-tempered
and irritable, nervous and despondent ? His back gives him no peace, day and night; the least change in the weather tells on
him, and he is afraid to venture outside the door if it’s damp or cold; he can’t stoop, can’t walk far, can’t collect his thoughts,
has no appetite, no vim. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills give tone to the kidneys, and expel from the system the uric acid
and kidney poisons that cause Backache, Bheumatism, Sediment, Gravel, Dropsy, Urinary Disorders. During the winter
months you are more likely to get colds. And colds very often affect the kidneys ; therefore, at the first sign of backache or
any other symptom of kidney derangement, take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Bead the following testimony :
Cold in the Kidneys
caused Severe Backache.
Cured by Doan's Pills*
Mrs. F. Reardon, Goodman Terrace, off
Hart Street, Sydney, says: —“About six
months ago my husband took cold in the
kidneys, and he began to put in a bad time
with an aching back. It was so severe that
he could not rest at night, and through the
day he worked in great agony. He should
have knocked off work, he was so ill, but
managed to keep on. A friend advised him
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He
obtained a box, and used the medicine with
first-rate results. He has become a great
enthusiast for Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. He recommends them to everybody
he hears complaining of a sore back.”
Four years later Mrs. Reardon says :
“We have still the same good opinion of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as when the
above statement was made four years ago.
They are the finest kidney remedy to be
obtained. In the trying winter weather
people should use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and there would be less suffering.”
Jsn-VN\
\\\
\\
N>
P
$
■ *
wm
3?
Every Picture
Pells a Story »
Severe Chill; No Rest from
Backache.
Lasting Cure by Doan's Pills*
Mrs. Verhay, 56 Grose Street, Camper-
down, Sydney, says : —“ Six years ago I got
a severe chill, and from that day I have had.
no rest from backache. It hampered all
my movements ; I could scarcely turn in bed
and could not stoop. I got little rest, and
consequently always felt tired out, and
could not do my work in the day. I tried
many remedies, but they did me no good,
and I was hopeless, and thought I would
never get my back better. However, I was
advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and this wonderful remedy cured me.
I feel sure lam permanently cured. There
is a lot of backache among women, and I
hope many will benefit by my cure and get
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Two years later Mrs. Yerhay says :
“ Yes, I am still well to-day, and have been
ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me two years ago. These pills so
strengthen the kidneys that they are fortified
against cold.”
DOAN’S,
Remember!
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists <&
Storekeepers, 2/9
per box; or from
Foster - McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
crippled. Martin. Early in the morning he rode
across to Laud, of Rolling Meadows, about having
Morlev Greville apprehended. Laud scoffed at
the idea.
“ Mistaken identity, I assure you. I was at
The Wilderness myself last night till TO o’clock.
Had a whisky with him after nine o’clock. It’s
13 miles from The Wilderness to the bridge, and
there’s no ford between. Then it’s 22 miles from
the bridge to your shed. And this fire broke out
just before 11 6’clock. He couldn’t cover it.”
“■ Unless he swam the river. ”
“Swam the river! Bah! Why don’t you
suggest he jumped it. It’s only a quarter of a
mile wide. Why, man, we could hardly hear
ourselves speak last night for the crashing of the
boulders. It would break up old Satan himself.”
“Well, he fired my shed, anyhow,’’said Martin,
“Quite impossible. Where’s the motive, any-
how? No, no; it wouldn’t hang together, Mar-
tin. You’d be drummed out of the district—you
know, you do * hum ’ a little already, old fellow,
if I might venture to remark it. ”
Martin chuckled, and went off. That night the
buildings at The Wilderness out-station caught
fire and were burnt to the ground. By a strange
coincidence, the same night saw the homestead
at Duntroon Waters catch fire, but the blaze was
extinguished before much damage was done.
Martin armed his hands, and posted sentinels
wherever there was the slightest chance of danger,
The Wilderness did the same.
The wind was from the nor-’west, travelling
about nine miles an hour. It was just on the
stroke of midnight, and every man was extra
vigilant. Martin himself sat on his roof with a
pair of night glasses scanning the various quarters
from which The Wilderness men might suddenly
appear. And while he sat there he wondered why 1
on earth The Wilderness men should haveattacked
h m. , Had the attack come from the Clintons
** q Ce , C | 0U c / ive understood it.
Suddenly as he sat there he became aware of a
rosy glow that fel upon h.m. He looked up.
Just overhead floated a light, and in another
moment it was gone At first he thought it was
of /XA "5 , away Tf he S l "ht
of a shadowy dome-like top. It was a toy fire
balioon, wnh an opaque covering, which pre-
n QIS 06 u n a n T n ~
light night. It was out of range, anyhow, and m
another moment was invisible.
This was a new kind of attack. As a rule, fires
were started by turning a dog with a fire stick
fastened to his tail into the tussock in autumn.
Ihe dog ran till the string broke or burnt through,
but by that time he had generally covered a lot of
ground, set a lot of tussock on fire, and singed his
own tail considerably. That balloon evidently
ed 116 down somewhere, for that night Duntroon
Waters was again on fire. Martin started a
balloon factory of his own. But it takes time to
getinto the knack of properly making fire bal-
loons that are to travel and ignite to a certain
time. In the meantime the tussock on Duntroon
Waters caught fire thrice in one week, and
then at last the fire got on a big front with a rising
breeze, and licked up half George Martin’s re
sources in one
m, " A- mi .tTT.i, ,
There were minor fires on The Wilderness, but
nothing of any magnitude, though George Martin
set fire to the Greville property all he knew.
The next week a wild nor’-wester, the hottest
and most destructive wind in Maoriland, raged
over the country. The Duntroon Waters home-
stead caught fire on the roof, and was burnt to the
grbund. The same day Morley’s two elder
brothers were both wounded in a fight with
drunken horsemen as they rode home from the
Bridge Hotel. Also The Wilderness sheep-dipping
yards were destroyed by fire, and many valuable
stock shot.
The two fires which had started at The Wilder-
ness dipping-yards and on the Duntroon tussock
country ran before the great nor’-west hurricane
over something like four other stations. The squat-
tocracy got mad. The Leighs, the Danesburys,
the Russells, the Watts and Heliers formed them-
selves into an armed deputation, and waited on
both the Grevillesand Martin, and made savage
threats.
Then the fires stopped. Martin had little but
his shed* and machinery left to burn. A month
went by, and there being'no more outrages the
feud was considered at Rn end, and everyone
wondered what it was all about. In the mean-
time Martin was turning an honest penny by
dumping the wool of his neighbors, who con-
sidered that Martin’s enemies would hardly burn
other people’s wool to revenge themselves on
Martin’s plant.
One morning the overseer, going into the shed,
found a bale of dumped wool had been left in one
of the presses all night. He raged, and told the
party whom he held responsible that it was a good
thing Martin didn’t find it. The man protested
that when he left the bale the night before it was
only half full, and finally the manager got so
vexed that he threatened to tell Martin imme-
diately he arrived.
But Martin had evidently gone on a spree to
celebrate the end of the war. The manager went
on dumping the wool, and sending it to the
ship. Martin always came back from these re-
current jamborees in a frightful temper.
* •* * *
The roaring Rangitata flows close by the home-
stead of The Wilderness. Part of the orchard of
that property is actually in the river-bed, and the
cabbage-tree-dotted terrace formed part of “the
Queen’s” pleasure garden. The gardener, taking
a morning stroll there, was horrified to find on the
shingle bank, half submerged in the eddying
water, the body of a young man in a knicker-
bocker suit. Close beside him was the corpse of a
great bay stallion, its legs broken and almost torn
off by the rolling boulders. The gardener dis-
liked dead bodies, and was quite incapable of
touching one, so he hurried up to the house and
got the groom and other hands, and then bade
them wait till he acquainted the Boss, who was a
Justice of the Peace. No one had the right to
touch a dead body, he said, till a Justice of the
Peace or a policeman had viewed it as it was
found.
Squatter Greville, hurrying down in his dress-
ing jacket, suddenly reeled—then rushed wildly
forward and fell on that dead body.
* * * *
Why Morley Greville had tried to cross that
awful river at that almost impossible place was a
mystery to all but the initiated—and they were
few. People connected it with the disappearance
of Squatter Martin, of Duntroon Waters ; and it
was generally believed that Martin had stampeded
Greville’s horse into the Rangitata at a spot where
it was certain death to try crossing.
But one day Beatrice Clintqn met her brother
and handed him an English paper, in which was a
vivid description of the finding in a bale of
dumped , wool of the body of a man who had evi-
dently been crushed to death in the press. The
clothing, the jewellery and the general affluence
of the corpse proved it to be that of a man of
substance, and the crushed cheque-book in the
pocket was endorsed, “George Martin, Duntroon
Waters, Canterbury, Maoriland.”
Herbert read it right through.
“ That solves it—why Morley tried to cross the
river just there.”
“ I don’t see it,” she said.
“ He was trying to establish an alibi.”
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Elder Daughter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I NEVER could see any sense in all this
sentiment people waste over the Prodigal
Son. When I imagine the Elder Son graft-
ing away on his father’s selection with a sense of
filial duty that smothered youth and enthusiasm,
and never a glimpse of those distant foreign lands
youth longs for—living in a veritable Slough of
Despond (a nice, godly, respectable sort of De-
spond, of course, but still a Despond) it is to him
my sympathies go. I suppose this is very pro-
fane, and all that—but then, I am the Elder
Daughter. That is why my drab-colored hair is
streaked with grey, and my colorless life bitter
with pessimism.
Someone says there is a three-volume novel in
every life. Perhaps. But mine would read like
the legend of how “one locust came in and carried
away one grain of wheat, and another locust came
in and carried off another grain, etc., etc.” You
see, I began to pay for my seniority from the
edge of my infancy, when it was my lot to stay
from school to help in the drudgery of the farm,
or mind the baby. We were on a selection then,
with the storekeeper and the mortgagee, as well
as the wolf, at the door. But even then I was a
mutineer, and fitted into the angel-sister-mother
rdle very badly. There was nothing good or
Martha-like in my nature. I always had dreams
of something better than the life I had been born
into. But if ever a day dream seemed within
reach, some sickness or trouble would always turn
up. So my years grew, and with them work and
responsibility. Likewise the family and the mort-
gage grew, but, otherwise, life had a dreadful
sameness. The boys found paths for themselves,
and if they found only husks abroad they seemed
to relish them more than the home fare.
There was little romance in my life. I had
been engaged, ever since I was grown up, to our
neighbor, Tom Hardy. But Tom had a home to
get together, and my family darkly hinted that
an engagement of less than ten or twelve years
was hasty and ill-advised. So we drifted along
till that little red-haired cousin of the Dwyers,
our other neighbors, went to live with them. I
think the last streak of sunshine went out of my
life when Tom came to get his promise back. I
might even have done something desperate and
got away from home, but about that time there
was a driving accident in which father was killed.
The family wanted me more than ever then, and
so I lived on to pay calls on Mrs. Hardy, and lend
her patterns and bootees for their baby. Mother,
always ailing, was stricken with paralysis. One
sister was away teaching music, and the other
girls were all married. So it was taken for granted
I would devote myself to the invalid. I did so,
and five years passed away. Then Death was
kind —to mother.-
The neighbors, coming in with subdued condo-
lences, said what a blessed relief it was for her.
“And for you, too, Martha,” they added, not
quite sure of how I would take it. For me!
When my whole occupation and the one creature
who really needed me or cared for me was gone, and
the emptiness of my existence was never more
apparent or more cruel!
I am free now, when middle age is upon me,
and I have no ambition left. It is not easy to
begin anything when you are a woman, and 41,
and have spent your life as I have. Of course, my
married sisters have offered me a home; and
there I see my vocation stretching away into the
greyness of the future. It is to be just “Auntie”
and a poor relation for the rest of my life.
Maiden aunts aren’t supposed to have blue
devils, and to write slabs of pessimism under their
influence. But it is the reward of the Elder Son
—or Daughter.
L’FOU.
The Waiting Room.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A NOISELESS woman opes the door,
And leads me to the stuffy room,
Bolt upright on their chairs are four,
All silent in the coffin gloom.
They do not move ; each pallid face
Shows stark and barbarously dull.
The eyes of one burn for a space,
Like embers kindled in a skull.
I to my corner creep again,
And sit until I seem to know
The walls are hieroglyphed with pain
And fungused deep with human woe. •
A weary sigh, a sniff or two,
A foolish catching of the breath
Are all they dare, these strangers who
Are callers at the House of Death.
Upon the table scattered rest
A dozen papers dank and old ;
Contamination doth infest
With graveyard odors every fold.
None touches them. Perchance they bide
For patients whom the worm doth mark,
Whose ghosts a-down the shadows glide
To read the journals in the dark.
The thought provokes a raffish grin,
And then a chill about my heart.
A tinkling bell, and some steal in,
And other groping shades depart.
How drear they grow ! I long to yell
A ribald jest, a dance to tread,
To prove ’tis not the porch of Hell,
And that as yet we are not dead.
The noiseless woman beckons me.
The doctor has few words to give ;
But, kindly for a modest fee
Allows me yet a year to live.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD SYSON.


K
-v
m
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends his
photo, and writes that he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Pills. He took
in all three bottles ©f the Sarsaparilla
two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S s arsaparilla
acts directly upon the blood-forming glands of the body, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color to the lips and cheeks, clearing away pimples and blackheads.
As new made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S,” not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you auffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T hen send for particulars
o; our perfect fitting
Automatic air cushion appliance
The Best Rupture Appliance of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St..Melbourne, Vic
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, tld. The Bulletin Office.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each I
Sbe Standard Burned.- which has outlived the Centuries
SIIBLftTQI'S EYE OINTMENT.
in nse since 1506.
CURBS
Australia! Blight, Falling Eyelashes,Wea]c Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
8 Breakspear,
’ • ‘ ... ' ■' ' ' ' 1 '
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flias and affords comforb to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flics
aretrou
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not toil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
hrnggists,
Groce s and
Hardware
Dealer •
are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern <fc Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Fauldtng ifc Co.. O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Ailport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt Sfc.j
Feldheim, Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &00. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport
Remedy’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk.” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J„
The Original
BROWNE’S
Genuine
Convincing-
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/
■
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague,
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
A, and is the only
WATER
TANK
-//
DUMMY
e.
PEsmom
FILTERED 0/L
C.l CRATES
HLTCR
RECEPTACLE
DIRTS WATLR]
it-----/*
own n/L
Williams’ Patent OIL FILTER.
Description :
The large vessel is the filtering cylinder ; into the bottom division
the oil is poured through the funnel. The top vessel is a water tank
of exactly the same capacity as the bottom one, and connected by
a pipe. The pressure of the water forces the oil through the filtering
medium into the reservoir above, whence it is drawn off quite clean.
PRICE £5 Sydney or Melbourne.
Sent on approval. If unsatisfactory return it at our expense.
Five Gallons of Dirty Oil can be made quite clean and fit
for use in Six Minutes.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.,
263 George St., Sydney ; 486 Collins St., Melbourne,
Sole Licensees and Manufacturers for Australia.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale.
Dog Head Stout. King’s
Club Rum.
Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PLAIN TRUTHS
on the •'jubject of Health are the only acceptable pronouncements.
Exaggerated statements end by convincing no one—’rather do. they create
suspicion, and give rise to doubt. But you may safely listen to universal
opinion. The public have for long known the value of Beeeham’s Pills
in cases of disorder and irregularity of the Stomach, Bowels, Liver and
Kidneys. Thousands of men and women know, from glad experience,
that an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills will promote the healthy action
of these organs, and that all the good things heard on every hand
ABOUT
this medicine are true in the strictest sense. Most people desire a
specific that can be depended upon at all times to correct the vital
functions when they are out of order and Nature calls for some assist-
ance. Such a preparation may be found in BEECHAM’S PILLS.
They will put you right and keep you up to the mark. They have
proved an immense boon to many thousands of men and women
all over the world. It is just as certain that they will benefit you—
and this is a plain truth you may accept and act upon in regard to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1\ (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
, s > T^v
:■■ .
■' ••' v •' V*' : ' . \ ■ >.}*■
•. • '-i “ V'-' V
m
@K
m
isi
p
A
■
*
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & 00.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring: this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding’ up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-ioading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price .. ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hainmerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. ..£5150
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price ~ .. ..£2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price .. .. .. . .. .. .. 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
The Bulletin
PRINTED IN
SIN COLORS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OP TEN. “ The Heathen,
in his Blindness." Prom Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - 6d.
Packet of Ten - - - - sd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21U George Street, Sydney.
Prescriptions Faithfully
Dispensed by
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
Specialists in all ailments relating to
water supplies for sheep, cattle, horses
and land.
Thirst cured by imbibing water
pumped by
“Steel Wings” Windmills.
Strong, steady, powerful, easy-
running, large size—all owing to the
bearing on each side of the windwheel.
Send full list of symptoms to Department C,
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 64.
Thibaolt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 64.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries & Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining § Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
“O 1
States,
Street,
THE HOP”—Cheap Edition NowOn
Sale — 2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Sydney.
Britisb=Hustralasian
.8* ■
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
fLA POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British- Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by tKe paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLB9RN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price


PERBRIAITS 38s. MACINTOSH.
• Macintosh materials are used
m these coats, and, as they are thoreeghly proofed,
Sof eaa deftand on their serviceability. They are
iigbt, stylish aael comfortable—the laud of saacin-
<
n
toshes men like to wear.
We have an exceptionally
fine grade at 455., as well
as the 30b. coat, and, if
yoo feel the need of a
protection against winter
storms, we invite you to
write for a hook of patterns.
When ordering the oo.at
by mail, you simply need
to quote your height and
easy ohest measurement to
ensure a perfect fit.
Ask. far those patterns to-iay. 'lfiey cost you
nothing’, but will show you She way to get a
BTSt-otass maoui tosh at a very low price.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
“ The Best Bouse for All Rubber Good#,"
270 George Street, Sydney,
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
ici^gtffoMoxdßS. Cra .]
FOR
HINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE balata.
TRADI
m
S33E
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard agaVnst itirerioi'
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Do.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
9
Buy Whole
Its Action on the Secretive Organs
is at once Stimulative and Curative.
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Beit, Steam or Motor Driven , For Mining Purposes ,
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
for Prices apply-j. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
,
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
Did
Head Australian Office : E.
Engineers, Contractors,
8 CO. LTD.,
S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
■■irtWlWllWf
INQUIRIES
w»i] iifliiiiiniiiiii ii inwl ihiiibm—Mhbw
■SOLICITED.
M
tel.
(3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE .
J
162 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
THE WISE ADVERTISER
Will notice the increase in the number
of advertisements in the June issue of
“THE LONE HAND. IMaga&ine advertisings
is a new tiling in Australia. .See what it
lias become in America! And the pre-
eminence of THE LONE HAND—its steady
improvement in maße-up and contents—
maKes it the ideal advertising medium.
It goes into the Home. And its price
ensures that it is bought by the people
you want to reach.
GET THE HABIT !
Even tHe best magazine-agent is not
always able to judge bow many copies of
THE LONE HAND will be bought in any
given month. It is annoying to miss a
number, especially now that each issue is
a feature number devoted largely to some
insistent topic of the hour. The safest way
is to become a subscriber. For 12s. THE-
LONE HAND will be delivered for twelve
months post-free in your home— the place
where THE TONE HAND is appreciated.
e
The Victory Heating Furnace
Adapted for
Case Hardening.
Will Heat 2700 DRILLS
in 16 HOURS.
Made in Any Size to
Suit All Requirements.
ONLY KEROSENE 8 AIR USED.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
Sydney & Melbourne
