

: -v
■ J
The Whisky fer Men of T aste.
i
■ ■ ■
9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining; and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 5 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
McLaren
Traction Engines.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Berit Street, Sydney,
1 and
128 WilHajm Street, Melbourne.
3E3L O B&. 3ErK. T
ON E'ER
KAkHEk
EVERY BELT dUARANJEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ln.. li7 York St., Sydney
i
\
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
We weary of the thriftless few
Who will not stay at home,
Still yearning for th’ imagined blue
Of some phantasmal Rome.
Rome, Greece—have not the treasure
We shower on the missis:
That pure Utopian pleasure,
HOMEY KISSES.
OF ALL
SWEET SHOPS.
d ua
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
Ws make it a point of never being out of anything. We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
THE, SILVERTGWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 i GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
I
IS
MALTHOJD has! all the
qualities necessary to
secure perfect protection
from the element at a
minimum coif.
fHE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY
It is a roofing that differs
from all others, its base
being a permanent, water-
proof mineral 100 per
cent. pure.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Hercules’’ Refrigerating Machine.
...«■&
Eg;
»i
RTHIN
TON
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send dor Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
MARTEEL’S
One •Stax* (EL Three Star
BRANDY.
A baby HELIDON is tbe surest
appetiser.
GOLLIN & CO.^
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.—N0. 1533.]
[Thursday, July 1, 1909.
Registered at d;he General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF THE WEEK,
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO., PROP., LTD.,
71 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
Wilcox : Poem's of Sentiment, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Lindsay : Studies tn European Philosophy, 12s 6d, p. S<l.
Gunther : Ore Separation, 15s, postage 9d.
Hoovers : Principles of Mining, 12s (id, postage 9d.
Neitzsche : P.eyond Good and Evil, 4s,- postage fid.
Swinburne : Three Plays of Shakespeare, 3s, postage 4d.
Frazer, Prof. J. G.: Psyche's Task, 3s postage 3d.
THE DRESSING OF MINERALS,
Sta.ir: The English Woman, 11s, postage Bd.
Bloch : The Sexual Life of Out- Time, 255, postage Is.
KorellSexual Ethics, wrapper Is (id posted.
Wilde : Picture of Dorian Gray, 3s 9d posted.
Morris : News from Nowhere, cloth Is 6d, postage 4d.
Studio Year Book of Decorative Art, 1909, wrapper 6s,
cloth 9s, p. 9d. Tolstoy, The Teaching of Jesus, 3s, p. 4d.
by HENRY LOUIS,'M. A., D.Se., A.R.S.M., with over
400 illustrations, clot!) 365, postage Is. 9d.
HUDSON’S
“EUMERTHBL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antistptic and Prophylactic
suited for Jld and Young.
For COUGHS, CO.DS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, Ii'FLUEIVIZA, and the
PREVENTION DF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
toLecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their , voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
The Larynx or
0-s»" ■=*
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
c a
o o
Pr,
Sold by Chemists, tins VS post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’, EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
John Davidson
disappearance of John Davidson,
j mentioned here some weeks ago, is
regarded by his family as final.
The high-strung nervous poet, bitterly
resenting; the neglect of what he con-
sidered <■ his most important work, and
apparently dreading cancer, wrote a note
stating that “.the time had come to make
an end,” and vanished utterly. The
occasion provoked William Watson to
write to the Times, blaming the public
for Davidson’s death, and bewailing the
lot of the poet in modern society. As a
matter of fact,- Davidson had been in
receipt of a Government pension of
a year, and had been fairly successful as
a translator and adapter of plays ; but
for the last nine or ten years lie had
chosen to expound a message to man-
kind in wild-and whirling blank verse,
with frequent lapses into prose, which
the public failed to apjoreciate. It is
no use blaming the public for not
taking what they did not want. Nor is
it pertinent to say that the poet should
have tried to do some Ordinary payable
work and run poetry as a side-show. The
tragedy of the artist’s life so often is that
the work lie feels powerfully impelled to
do is not wanted by his contemporaries,
and he cannot do -any other. He
suffers, and posterity is sorry. Most
people would have been glad to see
such a man in some snug sinecure, which
would have made it unnecessary for
him to divert his talents to inferior
work. But in any case Davidson had
spoiled himself as a poet. The work
to which he devoted much time and
wished to devote more was the preaching
of a weird but not new philosophy of
revolt. He used the drama: as a
pulpit, dragged together an extraor-
dinary collection of types represent-
ing modern civilisation, and pressed
the harsh vocabulary of science into
service. The meaning was plain, but the
language unbalanced and ugly, and no
one heeded the philosophy. The title of
“ Testaments ” given to some remarkable
talk on Things-in-General seems to indi-
cate a conscious address to posterity.
And the hard world will not honor bills
on posterity.
His career as a poet may be partly ex
plained by the fact that he was born in Scot-
land, a Son of the manse. At an early age
he became an analyst in a sugar works
at Greenock, and for 12 years he was a
schoolmaster in and near Edinburgh. In
18-90, after publishing a volume of plays,
he followed the beaten track to London.
Unfortunately he had not the tough
fibre- of Carlyle, nor the thick skin of
Buchanan—predecessors on the same
path. He worked for a while as a
journalist, and contributed “The Ballad
of a Nun” to The Yellow Booh. That
ballad brought him a measure of notoriety,
for some said it was improper, and Dean
Farrar, who had read a few stanzas in a
review, quoted them approvingly in a
sermon. It was widely read, and Fleet
Street Eclogues, which appeared in 1893,
and Ballads and Songs (1894) sold well.
They proved unquestionably that David-
son was a poet of power and beauty. He
was aflfime with the beauty of the world
and the horrors of life, and contrasted
them with great force in poems as indi-
vidual and memorable as the best of Hen-
ley’s. Almostallof the contents are tingling
with purpose ; but the purpose remains
within and is not allowed to mar the
beauty of form. London, however, got
op to his nerves. The misery of
those who lived in “ rooms about
the size of travelling trunks,” and
those who had no homes at all; the
tragedy of the unrecognised artists and
the artists’ wives burnt into his soul, and
found expression in ballads of passionate
intensity. One of the speakers in the
eclogue for St. George’s Day states
Davidson’s position in London :
I cannot see the stars and flowers,
Nor hear the lark’s soprano ring,
Because a ruddy darkness lowers
Forever, and the tempests .sing.
I see the strong coerce the weak,
And labor, over-wrought, rebel ;
I hear the useless treadmill creak,
The prisoner cursing in his cell.
He felt with the clerk keeping a family
on “ thirty bob a week ” that ;
It’s a naked child against a hungry wolf;
It’s playing bowls upon a splitting wreck ;
It’s walking''on a string across a gulf,
With millstones fore-and-aft about your
neck ;
But the thing is daily done by many and
many a one;
And we fall, face forward, fighting, on the
deck.
The sympathy he had in so large a
degree for the under dog, the outcast, and
the accurst, and the foree aad directness of
their attack made these fine ballads and
eclogues a refreshing relief to the tame
strumming on antique harps by the other
Bodley Head poets. And the early
poems, with all their vigorous purpose,
contained many passages which showed
the craftsman’s concern for mere beauty :
The adventurous sun took Heaven by storm,
Clouds scattered largesses of rain ;
The sounding cities, rich and warm,
Smouldered and glittered in the plain.
For still night’s starry scroll unfurled
And still the day came like a flood.
When midnight set the spaces free,
And brimming stars hung from the sky
Low down, and spilt their jewellery.
In the later volumes appeared occa-
sional passages in his best manner, and
the recent 'Testament of John, Davidson
contained the prophetic “Last Journey,”
quoted on this page (20/5/’O9). In
his “Testaments” and plays since 1900
the analyst and teacher controlled the
poet and wrecked the poetry, and all that
was dour in his Scotch nature came up and
blotted out the sun.
The case of Davidson points the moral
of the disastrous effects of Purpose
settling like a bee in the Poet’s bonnet.
The best of his work is to be found in
Selected Poems (1905), a volume that will
live.
Poems by Davidson
FROM “ A BALLAD OF A POET BORN.’
Upon a ruddy ember eve
They feasted in the hall :
The old broken man, with no one’s leave,
Sat down among them all.
And while the swarthy rafters rang
With antique praise of wine,
There rose a conscious youth and sang
A ditty nOw and fine.
Of Fate’s mills, and the human grist
They grind at, was his song ;
He cursed the canting moralist
Who measures right and wrong.
“The earth, a flying tumor, wends
Through space all blotched and blown
With suns and worlds, with odds and ends
, Of systems seamed and sewn :
“ Beneath the sun it froths like yeast;
Its fiery essence flares ;
It festers into man and beast;
It throbs with flowers and tares.
“ Behold ! ’Tis hut a heap of dust,
Kneaded by fire and flood ;
While hunger fierce, and fiercer lust,
Drench it with tears and blood.
“ Yet why seek after some new birth ?
For surely, late or soon.
This ague-fit we call the earth
Shall be a corpse-cold moon.
“Why need we, lacking help and hope,
By fears and fancies tossed,
Vainly debate with ruthless Fate,
' Fighting a battle lost?
“Fill high the bowl! We are the scum
Of matter ; fill the bowl ;
Drink scathe to him, and death to him,
Who dreams he has a soul.”
They clinked their cans and roared applause;
The singer swelled with pride.
“You sneer and carp 1 Give me the harp ! ”
The old man, trembling, cried.
They laughed and wondered, and grew still,
To see one so aghast
Smiting the chords ; but all his skill
Came back to him at last.
And 10, as searching-sweet as musk
The words were and the tune,
The while he sang of dawn and dusk,
Of midnight and of noon ;
Of Heaven and Hell, of times and tides;
Of wintry winds that blow,
Of spring that haunts the world and hides
Her flowers among the snow ;
Of summer, rustling green and glad,
With blossoms purfled fair ;
Of autumn’s wine-stained mouth and sad,
Wan eyes and golden hair ;
Of Love, of Love, the wild sweet scent
Of flowers, and words, and lives,
And loyal Nature’s urgent bent
Whereby the world survives ;
Of magic Love that opes the ports
Of sense and soul, that saith
The moonlight’s meaning, and extorts
The fealty of Death.
He sang of peace and work that bless
The simple and the sage ;
He sang of hope and happiness,
He sang the Golden Age.
And the shamed listeners knew the spell
That still enchants the years,
When the world’s commonplaces fell
In music on their ears.
“Go, bring a wreath of glossy bay
To place upon his head !
A poet born ! ” Woe worth the day,
They crowned a poet dead !
Dead, while upon the pulsing string
Still beat his early rhyme—
The song the poet horn shall sing
Until the end of Time 1
FROM “A BALLAD IN BLANK VERSE.”
• I need " ,
No world more spacious than the region here;
The foani-embroidered firth, a purple path
For argosies that still on pinions speed,
Or fiery-hearted cleave with iron limbs
And hows precipitous the pliant sea ;
The sloping shores that fringe the velvet tides
With heavy bullion and with golden lace
Of restless pebble woven and tine spun sand ;
The villages that sleep the winter through,
And, wakening with the spring, keep festival
All summer and all autumn : this grey town
That pipes the morning up before the lark
With shrieking steam, and from a hundred stalks
Lacquers the sooty sky ; where hammers clang
On iron hulls, and cranes in harbors creak,
Rattle'.and swing, whole cargoes on their necks;
Where men sweat gold that others hoard or
spend.
And lurk like vermin in their narrow streets :
This old grey town, this firth, the further strand
Spangled with hamlets, and?the wooded steeps,
Whose rocky tops behind each other press,
Fantastically carved like antique helms
High-hung in heaven’s cloudy armory,
Is world enough for me.
Australian Novels
The name of Clegg does not yet. rank
amongst the “ six best sellers ” in the fiction
market; but four or five honest and inter-
esting novels by this, author have won appre-
ciation from those who care for workman-
ship and an. Australian setting. We would
not: be surprised if some turn of capricious
Fortune brought him into the blaze of popu-
larity, arid sent readers clamoring for his
earlier books. They would find them good
reading. Joan of the Hills (Sydney Book
Club) does not offer anything startling in
the way of plot. The story begins in
London, but is quickly transferred to Aus-
tralia —rather too quickly, for by a slip the
author has left a minor character asleep in
his London chambers in one chapter, and in
the next, without any warning, he writes
from Australia. However, that does not
affect the story, which is quite sufficient as a
foundation for some admirable character-
building. The well-meaning but feeble
English barrister and bis son, the hard-
headed Peter Honey, and his
daughter Joan, are very well handled. Old
Honey is a personality. You can see him
in his solid bush home at the back of the
store, with the oil painting of “Mother"'’
by a local Chinese artist on the wall, and
you can hear him laying down the law :
“ What’s the matter with this . country ?
It’s as good a country as God ever made, but
you can’t stop, as many of ’em do, at shear-
ing your sheep, and trusting to Providence
to do all the rest. God takes a spell at
times. Then you don’t get any rain, an’
some curse Providence, an’ some pray ; but
the man who scores all the time is the man
who digs water tanks and puts in silos when
God’s awake and doing business.”
He had made money by storekeeping,
money lending and other means in this
country of ups and downs—“ more out of
the downs than the ups”; and one of his
rules Was never to lend money to a squinny-
eyed man, nor to one with “ a wandering-
willy sort of nose.”
* * * *
Double Bonds, by Florinda McCall (Dy-
mock’s Library), is a good pie.ee of work on
conventional lines, and, if it is a first
attempt, promises a successful career for
the writer. It is not up to the level of Ada
Cambridge ; but it is better than many of the
imported yarhs which have their regular
readers in the libraries. Silver, the Wes-
tralian girl, attracts from the, start, and one
follows her career with interest. Florinda
McCall knows her way; in the country she
writes about, and.fells hjer sthry brightly.
Duncan Falconer’s Revenge is the third or
fourth novel by Alice M. Daje; and follows
.the pattern of The Family Ilefald. Judged
by the standards of thht class, it is not a
bad book.
“ Oudeis ” : What the London publishing
trade calls a “ Crisis ” has been created by
the sevenpenny clothbpund: novel (9d. in
Australia), neat, compact, and well-printed.
The crisis view is shared (by the stock
novelist, and indeed the subject affects all
writers of fiction, eVen those concerned in
the futures of the Australian novel.
The seven penny cloth bound came into the
ring, two years ago, apd (|uted the 4|d. ‘
paper-covered reprint (6d. hate) in the very
first round. In a year the sevenpenny
was selling by millions, anti had thrown
down the guantlft/ to the' respectable 6/-
novel. Publishers of' the shveuponny, who
began with reprints : 'of successful novels some
years old, installed larger pri nting plants,
and made their Contracts with authors of
books only in their third and fourth months
of .production. Now the provincial retailer
refuses to stock the 6/- novel of the “library”
variety, a id: the 1 royalties: .of the stock
novelist have-declined by nearly one half.
Wherefore the publishing,- trade has con-
ferred witl: the Society of Authors, and, as a
result, the Society asks its members to insist
on a special clause in t very publishing con-
tract, barring thqprodiictiorrof a sevenpenny
edition until thebnovhl has had a two years’
run. At tim time of Writing? it appears that
the members of the Society are by iio means .
unanimous on the subject. 1 1 The people at
the. top of the ladder don’t ’care, and the
people down at the.foot can |eo an excellent
opportunity for themselves infthe sevenpenny
clotlnbound. v I
Tim stock novelists are this people whom
the sevenpenny hits th,e harflest, since they
are rapidly losing every tiling except the
library circ. la'tion. Not ojjr in a hundred
of these no els ever;reach|s the goal of a
cheap repri :t. Now -the ptailers say they -
are not got 1 enough 5 to sfbek at 4s. 6d., if
they were 'not good enough to reprint at
sevenpence. There is; a cold ume ahead for 1
machine-made fiction.; ®
The new■ writers make little out of even a
successful iio.ek Mostiof them have to
accept a'-B ter cent, royalty,' with con-
ditions. Many such books are well reviewed
and widely read, witlp ait. bringing in. more
than '£25 t the wit eHijA quick way to
fame; atm a library circulation for the new
writer, may be fouijc im the sevenpenny.
There is mo’ e money,! ioo, i jn a penny a copy
on a cheap edition Shah 1.0 per cent, on a
6s., book. lAlready t i 1 new-writers, fresh in
matter and manner; share seyenpenny honors
with top-rank novelists, jto the exclusion of'
the stock performers.
But the deciding fakor in the situation is
the retailer. He sell -. sconi of sevenpennies
for every copy of a s; shilling novel, clear-
ing 2d. a copy as agn istTs..4d., and taking
smaller risks of deadstock. The crisis will
evidently require a lcjt of ,-grappling.
I .
The Federal Government; has wisely pur-/
chased the Petherick library, and engaged
the services of H. A.-.Petherick as librarian.
The collection is particularly rich in early-
printed books relating t( ' Australia, and
contains mafiy unique |e-)pies. With the
York Gate library in Adelaide and the
splendid Mitchell collection in Sydney,
Australia must now possess everything of
importance in prin relating to herself.
Petherick has been engaged for years in the
compilation of a bibliography of Australia.
Such a book is required ;'and the printing
should be done by fife Government, as it is
a national work of reference, and there is no
profit in it. The Government of M.L. is
publishing a bibliogiaphy of that country,
prepar d, as a labor of love, by Dr. Hocken.


CM
CO
CM
LADIES’ WALTHAM
WATCHES.
*9-
3
i
Lady’s Waltham Gold Watch,
handsomely engraved, special finish,
Nickel Movement, adjusted to tempera-
ture, patent Micrometric Regulator,
tempered Steel Safety Barrel, etc.—
14ct. Gold Hunter, .£9 ss. ; Gold Filled
Case, guaranteed by the manufacturers
for 25 years, <£s ss.
Gold Fancy Bamboo Bar Brooch —
9-carat, Rubies and Pearls (No.
261) 13/6
No. 20G.
Gold Double Fancy Twist Bar
Brooch, 9-carat, Scroll Centre,
Set with Two Rubies or Sap-
phires and One Pearl(No. 206)14/-
No. 250.
Gold Bar Brooch, 9-carat, Bird
Centre, Amethyst Heart attached,
14/-; ditto with Gem Set Bird,
(No. 250) 20/-
©
MBs
II
V-;
No* 232.
Greenstone Double-Bar Brooch,
9-carat, Gold Mounted—
(No. 232) ... 14/9
Large variety of other designs at
8/-, 10/-, 12/-, 16/- to 25/-
Gentleman’s Silver Rotherham English
Lever, Jewelled Movement., extra well finished
throughout, Compensated Balance, accurately timed
and adjusted—Kev less Hunter, f-plate .extra, jewelled,
£5 155. ; Keyless Hunter, fully jewelled, -£4 12s. 6d.
II
Biiiniii
No. 1876.
Sterlinef Silver-Mounted Cloth. Brush,
design (No. 1876), 6/9, 8/6, 10/6.
Ditto, Plain, Burnished Back (No. 1875),
12/-, 16/-
No. IS3I.
Sterling 1 Silver-mounted Mili-
tary Hair Brush, hird and mask
design (No. 1831), 6/9, 10/6, 12/-
No. 18288.
Sterling Silver Ring' Stand, -
richly chased (No. 1828 B) , 9/3.
sssj2
No. 1802.
Gentleman’s Shaving Set, to
hang or in fine polished
Nickel, comprising Revolving
Mirror, Hot Water Mug, Opal
lined Bowl and Shaving Brush, 24/-
TERMS—
SPOT CASH
POPULAR PRESENTS
... AT ...
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 677.
Handsomely Engraved Silver
Ciffarette Cases, Hall-marked
(No. 677)— 15/-. 18/6, 21/-, 22/6,
24/-, 25/-. 26/-, 27/6, 30/-
No. 1812.
Handsome Shaving Set,
adjustable glass, Badger Brush,
Nickel Bowl, with China Pot, on
square Polished Wood Base
(No. 1812), 12/6.
No. 2X. No. 3X.
Serviette Rings, best quality
Electro-plate on Nickel Silver.
Engraved Designs.
No. 2X, 2/6. No. 3X, 4/-.
Sterling 1 Silver-Mounted Cloth Brush,
Cupid design (No. 1838), 8/3, 12/-
No. 18978.
Sterling Silver-Mounted
Military Hair Brush, plain
design (No. 1897 B), 12/6, 15/-
No. ISIBB.
Handsome Nickel Stand,
bevelled Swinging Mirror,
Brushes with black polished
wooden backs, nickel mounts
(No. 1818 B), 23/6.
No. 1800.
Shaving Set, on Mahogany
Base, Porcelain lined Bowl,
Nickel-mounted (No. 1800), 4/6.
TERMS—
SPOT
CASH.
Oar Illustrated Price List of PRESENTS TO SUIT
EVERY PURSE demonstrates the Marvellous
Economy that Is effected by our Unique System of
Spot Cash Trade. Write for a copy, posted free on
request, and try a course of
Anthony Horderns* Famoas Low Prices
acknowledged to be the LOWEST In the Land.
LADIES’ HUNTERS.
Lady’s Gold Hunter, Horizontal
Movement, extra Jewelled —18ct.,
.£6 10s. ; 14ct., £ 5 2s. 6d. ; 9ct.,
£4: 2s. 6d.
Ladi e s’ Hall-Marked Silver
Hunters, tastefully engraved, Longines
Lever, highly finished movement, 52/6 ;
Open Face, 45/- ; Open Face and centre
Second Hand —specially made for Nurses,
32/6, 55/-
No. 264.
N.Z. Greenstone Bar Brooch, 9-carat
Gold Mounted (No. 264) ... 14/6
No. 304.
Gold Fancy Bar Brooch, 15-carat,
Ruby or Sapphire centre (Nc.
304) 1 5 /-
No. 23.
Gold Brooch, 15-carat, Set with Fine
Amethyst or Topaz (No. 23) 17/6
■■ftO’
eiii
©
No. 22.
Gold Double-Bar Brooch, 15-carat,
Set with Rubies or Sapphires, or
Two Rubies and Pearl, or Two
Sapphires and Pearl (No. 22) 22/6
P 3
No. 59.
Gold Brooch, 15-carat, Fancy Bar,
Heart and True Lovers’ Knot
set with Pearls and one Ruby
(N 0.59) 47/6
Gentleman's Riverside Waltham Watch,
Engine Turned Case, Nickel Movement, with 1/
Fine Ruby Jewels. Adjusted to temperature and
three positions. Sterling 1 Silver Hunter, <£s 15s. ,
Gold Filled Hunter, £9 7s. 6d. ; Gold Idled Open
Face £9 2s. 6d. ; Heavv 18ct. Gold Hunter,
.£l7 15s-
' I
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON S Co. Ltd.
Sydney's Leading Skin Salesmen.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES. TALLOW and MARSUPIAL SKINS
towd-i nl y ckS'n? t0 A y \ ° Ur - taff t° f high ] y effic ] ient EXPERTS, attentL.
V ?,' V b ® st Account Sales rendered prompt,
theire T SS i this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
tneir gram, b nil particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Jock
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape »■ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-,-posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
GreatSta'ble Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
paR-es, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
ok Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, l/..
Letter Writer, ]/-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
Diminishing 1
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n g
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
'Complete,
with full in-
struct! o n s ;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/m
Other Easy Card Tricks are (])The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
Dee Are He May Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
£5O
Given away in sums of /I each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above.puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS —The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the £5O will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
“ REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND keep your money at home.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of tile Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from. -Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FKUITSALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver Unuroio qt,:„
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has Wafc tv! Kidneys
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illnessf 1 ' 68 *
Prepared only by ENO
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
CHESTER
id
m
m
yv/
ass
%
i
“New Rival” Black Powder
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
THE RED w BRAND
TRADE MARK REG. IN U. 8. PAT. OFF.
Shoo* Strong and Evenly—Are Sure Fire— Will Stand Reloading
THEY ALWAYS GET THE GAME. FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
RACKAJACK
(JU
Built to Beat the Band
•I The Reeds are made
of Be 1 Metal, and
are Timid to Perfec-
. tion.
Crackalack Mouth Organs
J MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/. Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... If.
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/.
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadat, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
— SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD. MeTb^urne
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use. ;
iDINNEFORDSI
[MAGNESIA,
I
SIX MONTHS UNFIT
FOR WORK.
After Effects of Influenza.
There is no better equipment for life than a
stock of such information as a reporter gleaned
from Mr. Henry Adolphus Adams, cabinetmaker,
of 16 Burton Street, Camperdown, because it can
be so readily turned to one’s own account if cir-
cumstances require. Mr. Adams said, “Fifteen
years from date I was a painter, but did not
contract the trouble so peculiar to that trade,
namely, colic; but I got something just as bad
though, about the time I speak of.”
“What was that ? ” inquired the pressman.
“Influenza,” was the response, “and when a
man gets a proper attack of that complaint he
knows about it,’’said Mr. Adams, with emphasis.
“ I was so ill that my doctor would not allow me
| anything but milk food, so you may depend I
did not get very fat on that. For six solid months
I was laid up, utterly unfit for work, and not able
to get about at all. How much weight I lost
goodness knows, but a great amount at all events,
for their was little left of me but skin and bone!
I was down to the lowest possible ebb, and felt
like a helpless mortal, drifting out slowly, but
surely, upon the tide of adversity that had so
ruthlessly set in against me. No medicine that
had as yet been administered was capable of
stemming the adverse current, and it seemed
that I might as well give up the fight for life and
consign myself resignedly to the merciless fat.e
that yawned before me. My appetite was gone,
I could not sleep, excepting in short stages that
had no refreshing influence upon me, and I had such
severe aching sensations in all parts of my body
that I could not lie anyway with the least degree
of comfort. In my head the dull, depressing pains
almost racked my brain. They were too severe
to enable me to spend a few hours reading, even
if I could have settled my mind to do so, which I
doubt; and there were many signs at hand that
my liver was thoroughly upset. My tongue, for
one thing, was completely overlain with a white
coating ; the taste in my mouth was like gall, and
the pains across the kidneys were so bad that I
could hardly bend my back, added to which my
shoulder blades had pains under them too.
Taken altogether, there was little of me left but
aches and pains, and what I would have done
without Tonic I do not know.”
“ That was the medicine which cured you, 1
believe?”
• . “ Nothing else but Clements Tonic saved me, d
give youniy word. It was touch-and-go with mje
when I Started on it, for I was almost too feeble
to stand. My nerves had gone. Any noise set
me all of a shake, especially if it came to my ears
abruptly, and I had in my excessive weakness
contracted the habit of worrying more than I had
ever done in my life. But what a lucky stroke to
think of Clements Tonic after all the medicine I
had taken for no result! And it would be very
ungrateful of me if I did not hand down my ex-
perience of that remedy for my fellow citizens,
as I am quite convinced it is a veritable booh
to mankind. As a strength-producing agent it
certainly is far ahead of any remedy I know of,
and for pulling together one’s shattered nerves,
it cannot be excelled. Clements Tonic applied in
my case like a strong man leading a helpless,
hopeless w r reck of humanity away from certain
danger—it accomplished an act of revivification,
and to my last day on earth I shall be thankful,
bo far as putting to lights my digestive organs
was concerned, Clements Tonic was equally
effective, all the old troubles disappearing as if
wafted away by the magician’s wand, and I did
not leave off taking it till a thorough recovery was
firmly established.”
“Have you had any further experience with
Clements Tonic ? ”
“I have heard of numerous cases it has cured,
but I can speak of its value from another point of
view myself. It is a reliable remedy for neuralgia,
for some time ago I had a bad attack and Clements
lonic gave me relief very speedily. Yes, there is
nothing I think so highly of as Clements Tonic,
T) on ni ' n d you publishing every syllable
I ve uttered, in any way it suits you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ADOLPHUS ADAMS, of 16 Burton Street,
Oamperdown, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, .and that it.
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness;
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which 1
g:ive voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1000.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this twentv-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me, ,
9] 0. S. MALLETT, J.P.


A
n
Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
Mger’s
A gentlemanresiding at Dunedin,
N. Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor and preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass..- 11. S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
money in ful refunded without qufstion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
model's £3alo to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & DeSSvered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
fIfITIUF AJIPMTQ ? anted each Strict.
HU I ItfE. HuL.IV I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and nur tuecial offer on sample machine.
MEJ&E9 GYGL.F GGaj Dept. 280 E-ivorpooi»
T LONE HAND is the logical complement
4- of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Ml'
THE
STORY
OF
young women threatened with consump-
tion and saved by SCOTT’S Emulsion
is always a wonderful one.
Mr. G. L. Garling, “ Glencoe,” Jersey Road,
Paddington, N.SW., writes (August, 1908) :
“Attacked by haemor-
rhage of the lungs, one of
my daughters, aged 21,
wasted away almost to
skin and bone, and de-
veloped a strong ten-
dency to consumption. I
tried SCOTT’S Emulsion
and there was a marked
improvement before the
first bottle was done. She
progressed rapidly and
is now thoroughly strong
and well. We attribute
the saving of her life to
SCOTT’S Emulsion.”
Cases like this (of which the SCOTT'S
Emulsion post bag is constantly bringing
new records) are the best possible proof
of the exceptional power of SCOTT’S.
Such power is not found in any other emul-
sion whatever, for the simple reason that
EMULSION
is the only standard emulsion, standard in
the one quality needed in sickness—
the power to cure 1
The mark
by which
you pick
out your
cure!
SVO
Of all
chemists
and
dealers in
medicines.
ut lo*
hsth
CARE OF THE LUNCS
SELS ■ J ♦
THRonT disea
RESULT OF SCIENCE-
Bonningtons is a special process
for compounding Carrageen or Irish Moss
(Chrondrus Crispus), obtained from the
West Coast of Ireland. The Irish Moss
in its crude state has many uses but it
was left to that skilful chemist—George
Bonnington—to so combine this product
with other ingredients to pioduce the
splendid chest medicine known as—
This remedy has a world wide reputation ;or the cure of Coughs aud Colds
and Affections of the Chest, Throat and Tungs. It has been in constant use
for upwards of 45 years. The most persistent cough will yield to its influence
and be permanently cured. It has proved its worth to other people—let it
do so for you.
PRICE 1/6 & 2/6 PER BOTTLE. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD/S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the "PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere . WO CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
rmt BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years."
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold, water,.
CAUTION.-
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
w-
T7>
THE OLD
LINES
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
where formerly the mirror
S] reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
“Flesh-Food ” adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight by five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or call for
Free Trial Sample and Free Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT* Si
Linden Court,
Castueheagu St.,
SYDNEY.
mim
mtNTs
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Investors’ Guide. Established 1877.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
XOUR
WITH
Cil
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEM'STS
AND STORES.
yZng4Can4&r >
& Sohn,
A. G.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Heliar-
Camera
i PLATE.
SUITABLE FOR TROPICAL CLIMATES,
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, near C.P.0., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. [3
THE CELEBRATED
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
JA v 7^
TRADE
MARK
o.
Wholesale only —
I. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Sheol.
I here is a lanji where the air is warm, and the
sun burns bright and red,
V\ here roseate skies trail clouds of fire and brim-
| stojie overhead;
The land where the gay soul dwells apart when
the gay old body’s dead.
Rebellious souls they muster there with their
backs to the gleaming bar,
Or revel afloat on the Burning Lake, and light
their pipes at a star ;
And lies they swop round asbestos stoves where
their boiling billies are.
And there s mulga beer, and snake juice mulled,
and geysers of boiling rum
(They never catch cold nor rheum nor ’flu’, do the
boys of Kingdom Come)
In those pearl and gold-pilastered pubs of
Pandemonium.
They muse in the meadows o’ molten marl. They
linger the streets upon—
The shining streets that are lit at night with the
light old Nick switched on.
Oh ! Death goes gay as a roundelay in the Valley
' of Acheron.
While the Unco Guid who have passed the Gates
of Respectability
With pious frown, and heart bowed down, and
visage dour and dree
They harp and hymn on clouds of dim, damp
tenebrosity.
But in Tophet, down by Hinnom’s Vale, or what
pilots label Hell,
They flag the Girls of the Golden Gate, and Peter,
the sentinel,
And no verger tolls upon a cracked and dismal
church-tower bell.
The Land of Sentiment and Romance is Sheol up
to date—
Of Women and Wine and Song and Dance and
Kisses passionate ;
The summer resort of Bohemians who rattle the
dice with Fate.
The blood runs red, and with tropic heat the rosy
sky doth glow ;
So I’ll hump my swag down the blazed, bad track
that mates o’ mine must go,
For riot and rhyme and a real hot time in Sheol
down below.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.
Ballade of an Artist’s Window.
Your studio window opens wide
Across green gardens to the west,
And there your easel stands beside
A cushioned haven—just a nest
For happy thoughts and dreamful rest —
There gleams, the tree-tops glancing through,
The vista you must love the best,
Our river, clad in silver-blue !
Beyond the dim veiled hills that hide
The wharves and harbor, traffic-pressed,
i he keels of deep-sea wanderers ride.
Ihrough tropic waters, splendor-drest,
Adventurous seas, they made their quest
These thronging gates, this avenue
Of peopled beach and forest crest,
Our river, clad in silver-blue !
Let fancy steal, unsatisfied,
A roaming truant, dream-possessed,
Down the broad water’s beckoning tide
Across enchanted ocean’s breast
To faery kingdoms, yet unguessed !
To the dear land of Dreams-come-True
It leads, and Islands of the Blest,
Our river, clad in silver-blue !
Envoy.
Princess, look out, and put to test
The promise of this palimpsest !
A free Heart’s-High way shines for you,
Our river, clad in silver-blue !
W.A.
THE PRODIGAL.
The Song of the Eight!
ITe chose to sing loud of the Right,
And he sang and was glad of his choice;
But the music, the charm, the delight
1 hat had won a Ring’s way for his voice,
They passed when he sang of the Right.
And deaf grew the ears of the world,
And silent the shouted applause ;
But ever with banner unfurled
He marshalled his songs in the cause—
The Triumph of God in the world.
1 hey had thrown him red gold for his song
Had he tamed the wild scorn of his lyre,
Had he feasted the ears of the throng,
And preached it a smoother desire—
They had thrown him red gold for his song.
But ever he sang of the Right,
And flung the red stars of his song,
Trailing fire through the dark of the night,
Yet ever the minions of Wrong
Were deaf to his song of the Right.
Death came, and the singer grew cold,
And was mixed with the worms of the earth,
And out of his heart and the mould
A rose and a lily had birth ;
Yet none sighed when the singer grew cold.
But his songs are a voice in the air,
A bidding, a trumpet, a thrill,
And at moments the soul grows aware
Of an impulse new-shaping the will,
And it seems a clenched hand in the air.
And whenever we champion the Right
1 here comes a far call to the ear,
A voice from the regions of night,
And we fall not, nor falter with fear—
For a Sword is the song of the Right.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“A Well Decorated House
Is Permanently Attractive."
Wunderlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that makes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste i 9 catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire maKes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Sydney Showrooms: Postal Address* Melbourne Showrooms:
56 PITT ST. Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST.
Combination Couch and Bed-
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
* * * * ■»
* » v v v v.'v rf. *
r >• ■ v * * *,<■»■
.Y ,\aA n N\\Csvs^ x \V\ ' >' '' vWVW* \WV\\^\Jr
Sf
msm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
ass
m
Ss 6Sl^
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required*
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as' linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. * in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
CHEAP EDITION of ON THE HOP!
Price 2 /Q,
Postage —N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydkey.
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
M
w*
.
mm
£■.
Kfit;
.
SWE
"'. I :
m
'
r
, - .... -' ,
►
UalllfJ
m ■
secured
b
s ms
iS SBK&
5
RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE
E. RICH 2) (? lW Sydney Brisbane
Damp Walls
are unknown
in a building
when the
foundations
are laid with
RUBEROID
Dampcourse.
M—TOIIWII ■! —Wl™ lll HIJ'MHiaiIW'WI


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1533.
THURSDAY, JULY 1, 1909.
Pkice Gd.
THE SPIES RETURN FROM CANAAN—BEG PARDON, CANBERRA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
l’rinted and Published by William Maclicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES s Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maolkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivonld oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no cask be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor mill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the“ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, 5000 rvords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tint Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. _ When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-draivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
Mew Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at h/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Mews Agency, Cavetow/i;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central Meivs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 441 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A .—l sserlis A ., Seattle, Washington ; International
Mews Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and Mews Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6iin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 1, 1909.
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL, WITH
A CURIOUS WATER SUPPLY.
The members of the “Advisory Board ” which was
sent out to range over the Yassberra Federal area
in search of a capital site have made their
selection, and it is understood that the Fused
Government will shortly proceed to the last act of
the foolish Yassberra iniquity. The spot chosen
is described as being somewhere near to Mugga
Mugga Mountain. It was apparently the best to
be found in the area, but the Advisory Board
speaks of it with no enthusiasm. On the subject
of the Cotter River its report, as published in the
S. M. Herald, Sydney Telegraph and Mel-
bourne Age and Argus, ran thus :
The catchment area of this river, above the point at
which the gauge readings for 1908 were taken, embraces
an area of about 170 square miles. According to the 1908
records, the supply at the point of gauging is sufficient
for the domestic and civic requirements of a population
of 25,000. The total volume f rom the catchment area of
ilO square miles would be available, however, only by
PUMPING.
It is practicable to supply water by gravitation from
the upper 100 square miles of this catchment to service
reservoirs at the city. SUCH A SCHEME WOULD
INVOLVE LARGE CAPITAL EXPENDITURE, EVEN
FOR THE INITIAL POPULATION. . . . The full de-
velopment of the Cotter would, so far as available data
indicate, during years of low rainfall, such as 1908, pro-
vide for a population of 50,000 a sufficient water supply
for domestic and civic purposes, for electric transmission
of energy for lighting, and for city power and street tram-
ways. Rut from the information available, it cannot be
determined whether or not a scheme combining a gravita-
tion water supply and a power installation could be laid
down at a cost that would be economical. . . . It cannot
BE ANTICIPATED WITH CERTAINTY THAT THE COTTER SUPPLY
WOULD MEET TIIE DEMANDS FOR TIIE ABOVE COMBINED
PURPOSES FOR A GREATER POPULATION THAN 50,000, and
for manufacturing purposes of any magnitude, should
such ever be proposed within the territory.
It was afterwards declared, on the authority of
an architect, of all people, that all the papers
quoted had somehow made the same mistake, and
that what was written was that there was water
enough for 250,000 people by gravitation at “ large
capital expenditure,” and that it was a population
of 500,000 people (not 50,000) that might be
supplied with water by the addition of a pumping
scheme, which the Board reckons might not
“be economical” — i.e., it might tnake the
water too expensive to be worth using.
But even if it is 250,000 (and not 25,000) people
that the Advisory Board definitely sees its way to
supply with water from Cotter Creek, there
isn’t much joy in that fact, and it isn’t a case of
looking far ahead. Mere provincial cities like
Glasgow, Liverpool, Bombay, Moscow, Phila-
delphia and Chicago have from three to six
times that population, and not one of them is
the capital of any place, let alone of a
whole continent. The 250,000 (if it isn’t 25,000)
people spoken of are fewer than the population of
Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Hull, Leeds,
Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham, Sheffield,
West Ham, Belfast, Dublin, Edinburgh, Alexan-
dria, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Baltimore) Boston,
Breslau, Bucharest, Cairo, Copenhagen, Dresden,
Hamburg, Madras, Milan, Munich, New Orleans,
Prague, Bio, Borne, Botterdarn, Stockholm, the
Hague, Turin, or any one of a multitude of other
towns. But there are, it seems, two other possibly
available streams, the Queanbeyan and the
Molonglo, and of these the Board says :
The construction of weirs on the upper reaches will be
necessary. The total catchment is about 500 square
miles, and in conjunction with developed conservation,
the combined flow of these rivers taken off from weirs
below the city area carried to a site for generating, would
provide considerable powkr. The character of the
country points to the practicability of such a scheme, hut
there is not sufficient information available upon which
to estimate the cost. It will be a question for prolonged
gauging and investigation to ascertain the possibilities
IN THIS RESPECT.
So the affair sums up in this fashion : (1) The
Cotter, on which the whole Canberra lie and
fraud was constructed, is either an utter failure
or a comparative failure and a sure source
of vast expense. (2) There are two other
little streams which may supply “consider-
able ” water, but the quantity that they
are able to supply is not given, the cost is
unknown, and it isn’t certain that their water
can be brought to the proposed Federal city at
all; “ the character of the country points to the
POSSIBILITY ” of getting water from the
Queanbeyan and the Molonglo, but “it will be a
question for prolonged gauging and investigation
TO ASCERTAIN THE POSSIBILITIES IN THIS RESPECT.”
On this shaky basis, it is understood, Parlia-
ment is going to select the place that is
intended to be, for all time, the capital of
a whole continent—the only place on earth
that is the capital of a whole continent, and
that continent the only one which, in all the
world’s history, has been under one flag and one
Government, and has spoken the one language.
It is proposed to deliberately place this unique
capital where, according to the official reports,
it can never be much more than a commonplace
country town. The Advisory Board doesn’t even
say a kind word for the scenery ; nor does
it say anything particular about the fertility
of the soil, any more than if it was selecting a site
for a parish hall or a station tank. It is hard to
remember when there has been a more sordid foql-
ing away of a splendid chance —an opportunity
such as the world has never seen before and is
never likely to see again.
One naturally asks what gain there can possibly
be to set against this loss of a fine opportunity,
and what are the reasons of all this foolishness.
In the first place, there is the usual clamor in
certain quarters that everything should be dragged
to Sydney, or as near it as possible. The habit,
in certain quarters, of demanding that everything
should be dragged to Sydney has become so deep-
rooted that the dragging is now done mechanically,
whether the result is likely to be good or bad ; a
hanging and a dead body and a capital and
a job at printing two penn’orth of postage
stamps—they are all dragged just the same.
Then, as a second reason, there is the anti-
Australian,, the State Frights person, the
individual who is always holding forth about
“ Federal encroachments.” His idea is to put the
capital in the worst possible place—to make it as
small and barren and hopeless as possible, so
: that its obscurity and general meanness may
express ’his idea of what the political centre of
the hated Australia ought to be. This kind of
person is prepared to enthuse over the splendors
of Yassberra till he gets the Federal capital
really fixed there, and then he will let himself go
in a wild burst of mirth, and explain to the people
who were fools enough to credit his tales that they
have fallen into the pit that was digged for them,
and that they well deserved to do so. To this
species of horror or lower animal it is a fresh
source of joy that the Commonwealth should
depend on Jervis Bay for its Federal port—
Jervis Bay, which is 13 miles inside the 100-mile
limit from Sydney fixed by the Constitution,
so that there is a good chance of a High Court
decision taking it away from the Commonwealth
after much good Australian money has been spent
upon it, and thus reducing the capital to the
status of a mere inland city, whereby it will be
even meaner and more like what the anti-Aus-
tralian desires than would otherwise be the case.
It is a notable fact in this connection that all the
conspicuous anti-Federalists and State Rights
people are almost bursting with admiration re the
alleged beauties of Yassberra, though they go to
Monaro for their holidays, and never dream of
spending their vacation in the place which, they
say, is the grandest capital site that can be
imagined. Almost every Yassberra-ite who can
get away, and who has money to spend, is even
now, despite the winter weather, making holiday
at the new Sanatorium on Mount Kosciusko, which
looks down on the Dalgety tableland ; that region
isthefavorite recreation hauntof such men as Wade
and Oarruthers and J. C. Watson and many
more, while Yassberra might be dredged all over,
and searched with bloodhounds, and sifted
through a fine sieve without a single Yassberra-ite
politician being found among the debris. The
anti-Federalist loves Monaro, partly for its own
sake—for its beauty and healthfulness, its
abundant rivers and its scenery—and partly for
the joy of looking upon it and thinking what a
chance the Australian fool-Government, which he
hates, is throwing away.
* * * *
Then the wholesale Sydney trader is for Yass-
berra because he has a vague idea that, it being
close to Sydney, he will secure its trade. The
anti-land taxer, too, is for it all the time. The
honest and intelligent advocate of a Federal pro-
gressive land-tax desires to break up the
great estates, and to create a wide diffu-
sion of population, rather than to have
things remain as at present, when Australia holds
the world’s record for shutting up its
population in five State capitals. The anti-land-
taxer prefers to maintain the present state of con-
gestion because only in that way can the huge
estates be preserved. To him it seems eminently
desirable that the Federal city and its population
should be crowded up as close as possible to the
most thickly-peopled part of Australia, rather
than turned loose in a wide new country where
the sight of the huge estates at their very door
would preach a sermon, morning, noon and night,
on the need for “bursting-up” legislation. That
kind of person would gladly have put the
Federal city in Paddington or Redfern if he
could, so as to keep the Federal legislators out of
view of the great estates whereof the bursting-
up is such an urgent matter. The city manu-
facturers, too, have not been specially friendly
to Monaro ; a place yvith such abundant
water power that it is eminently fitted to
be the greatest and cheapest manufacturing
centre in Australia would mean competition ; and
a manufacturing population that lived a healthy
prosperous life under Federal industries would be
a serious reproach to their own methods. More-
over, the existence of a Federal manufacturing city
under Federal industrial laws must lead, sooner or
to Federal industrial legislation for all
Australia. Therefore, those of the manufacturers
who consider .the matter in a deeply Tory spirit
reckon it best that the Federal capital should be
in some wretched spot where there are no facilities
for manufacture. The same view is shared by
bitter and high-dried anti-Socialists, who con-
sider that a Federal manufacturing city might
lead to “ wild Socialistic experiments ” in publicly-
owned industries. And the same people weep
bitterly at the idea of giving the Commonwealth a
decent area of land for a Federal territory, lest it
should rush into “rash Socialistic experiments ’
in the way of land nationalisation, and prevent
the private speculator annexing the unearned
increment. And those of the old Foreign-trade
gang who still survive consider it essential to
have the capital as near as possible to Sydney, the
centre of what little of the importing gospel
still lingers and totters above ground, so that
it may be in a Foreign-trade atmosphere
—such Foreign-trade atmosphere as is left these
times—and hear daily the voices of Sydney’s
three Tory and importing papers crying like
Solomon Eagle of old: “Yet 40 days of
Socialism and Australia shall be destroyed.”
* ¥ •* *
Yet though these Tory influences are numerous,
they are individually small. Even when all are
added together they are not very large. The scale
was turned by the Sydney daily press. It had its
advertisements and its circulation to consider. A
capital at Dalgety might be good enough for Aus-
tralia. It would be in a healthy climate, with a
fertile soil, and with a fine port at its door—a
port, too, that no decision of the High Court could
later on take away from ic on the ground that its
ownership transgressed the clause in the Consti-
tution which says that the Seat of Government
must be at least 100 miles from Sydney. But a
capital at Dalgety would be so far away from
Sydney that the Sydney Tory dailies could not
hope to run the show there. It would necessarily
develop a press of its own. On the other hand, if
the capital is placed at Yassberra, and there is a
servile State Government at Sydney to supply
special trains for the swift conveyance of the
Sydney dailies, they can be delivered on the spot
in time to compete with any local publication and
get the local business. In the selection of the
capital the circulation and advertising business of
the Sydney dailies is at stake. And it must be
admitted that they toiled heroically—aided, un-
happily, by the apathy of many people from distant
States who held that, as the capital was to be in
none of their States, it didn’t matter where it was.
At a time when Sydney cared so little that it was
impossible to raise there a single public meeting
worth mentioning to protest against the proposed
capital on Monaro, thedailies represented N.S.W.
as passionately demanding the Canberra site
almost to the verge of secession and revolu-
tion. An absolutely unscrupulous newspaper
has great opportunities for the manufacture of
public opinion, by publishing all the letters that
coincide with its views, by supplying itself with
enthusiastic pro-Canberra letters when the genuine
supply fails, and by suppressing the great bulk of
the correspondence on the other side of the case.
It isn’t really known that such a thing was done
in this particular instance, but the circumstances
certainly suggest that it was. So in time, through
Tory newspaper raving, an impression arose in
the mind of almost every separate Sydneyite that,
however little he cared about the matter,
almost everybody else was frantic over it. Also
an impression arose among subservient politicians
that it was best to go with the alleged tide. They
went with what they thought was the tide, and
the Yassberra capital, with its barren soil and
its scanty water supply, and its harbor held upon
a dubious title, are the consequences.
If ■* -r
Yet, if the Yassberra capital comes to pass,
what will be the result ? The chances are ten to
one that it will, in the end, be the same Utter dis-
comfiture which usually follows in the wake of
meanness, lies, and short-sighted treachery. The
Federal capital will refuse to remain a mere
shabby country town, with a handful of popu-
lation. If the water supply is insufficient for a
stately city worthy to be Australia’s capital, it
will look for more water. If there isn’t sufficient
water to be found in the scanty Federal territory
of 1000 square miles, it will look for more territory.
If the N.S.W. State Government refuses to grant
more territory, that fact will only hasten the
Unification and Reconstruction movement, which
will abolish all the existing divisions and create a
new subdivision of Australia into smaller States,
with Legislatures that hold only such powers as
the Federal Parliament sees fit to delegate to
them ; and during the period between Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction the Australian Parlia-
ment, being supreme, will take such lands and
water supiplies as suit its purpose. It will also
take such harbors as suit its purpose, if a decision
of the High Court should deprive it of Jervis Bay.
If the miserable nature of the Yassberra water-
supply necessitates a vast outlay in order to bring
sufficient drinking and washing fluid to the
Federal city, the Commonwealth will raise the
money, of which two-fifths will be at the charge
of New South Wales. If Jervis Bay isn’t much of
a harbor, it will do the necessary works to make it
a real harbor, and, on a population basis, two-
fifths of that bill also will fall on New South
Wales. And so the Federal city will rise, largely
at the cost of New South Wales, to be the rival of
Sydney ; and the Federal port, almost alongside
Sydney, will rise, largely at the cost of New
South Wales, to be the rival of Port Jackson. It
will intercept the trade that now comes to Sydney
along the N.S.W. southern lines from Albury,
Cooma, Hay, Finley, Corowa, Wyalong, Barellan,
and by other railways, and carry it to the Federal
port at Jervis Bay. That port will be the first
calling-place for mail steamers on the N.S.W.
coast, and their last point of departure. And the
other States, which will be partners in the owner-
ship and profits of the Federal capital and port,
though their capitals, unlike Sydney, will suffer
none of the loss caused by Federal competition,
will probably consider that the situation suits
them well enough. The good Australians in the
Federal Parliament have no desire to bring these
troubles about, but if the troubles must come
about they will make the best of the situation in
Australia’s interests. It was their desire to estab-
lish the Federal metropolis so far away
from any existing State capital that it wouldn t
be a competitor. They wanted to plant it
where it wouldn’t steal trade off any State
railways, or take it from any State port, but
would rather create a trade of its own in a coun-
try hitherto empty and neglected. They still
hold these ideas, but if they are driven, by the
insanity of the Sydney parochial party, to place
the Federal city where it can only become great
at the expense of the N.S. W. State capital, then the
N.S.W. State capital will evidently have to take
its chance. It is the price of 1 electing short-
sighted, narrow-minded, parish-souled political
has-beens of the Willy Relly and Bruce Smith
persuasion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Neaily all the States have Land Taxes.”
Prime Minister Demon says, now, that he is
against the Labor partyls land-tax proposals
because nearly all the States have land-taxes
already. It is quite true that every State,
except Queensland, has a land-tax; but he
might at least have been frank enough to say
that not one of the States has a progressive land-
tax, excepting Tasmania and S. Australia; and
the land-tax in even those States is only progress-
ive in a small way. Deakin alleges that he
doesn’t object to a land-tax for settlement
purposes; yet does he seriously mean to
say that the Victorian tax is of the smallest
value for settlement purposes? In the first
place, the Victorian tax is not collected on any
estate which is less than 640 acres in area ; and a
man may escape taxation although he may have
10,000 acres, or any other vast tract of country,
provided the blocks do not exceed 640 acres each
and are five miles apart. He might own the free-
hold of the whole of a suburb of Melbourne, or
half a dozen suburbs, or he might have £500,000
worth of land in the city, and still pay no tax..
He might own a square mile of the richest garden-
ing or lucerne land in the State, or twenty such
blocks as long as they are separated, and still pay
no tax. And even when a man does pay the tax,
his land can never, under any circumstances, be
valued at more than £4 per acre ; and land so good
that it is capable of carrying a sheep to the acre
is valued at only £2. If a man owns a square
mile of the richest land in Victoria —land which
could easily support a dozen or twenty families—
all the tax the Victorian law allows him
to be asked for is 15s. ; not 15s. per acre, or
15s. per cent, of the capital value of the estate,
but 15s. for the lot. Valuing the land at £3O an
acre —and for good land much more is often de-
manded in Victoria—the tax represents the 106th
part of a penny per annum on each £ of capital
value. Would Alfred Deakin, when he is build-
ing a tariff, regard a duty of the 106th part of a
penny in the £ of the value of the goods as
effective Protection? Does Prime Minister
Deakin, who doesn’t object to a land-tax for
settlement purposes, honestly believe that a tax
of that sort is of the smallest value for land
settlement purposes ? Does he honestly believe
that it will force the owner into admitting one
single additional settler on to his sheep-walk to
use it ? And yet it is because this tax is levied in
Victoria, and because similar taxes are levied
elsewhere, that Deakin conspired with Cook to
throw the Labor Government out in order to stop
an effective land-tax from coming in. The Vic-
torian law declares expressly that for land-tax
purposes the land shall be valued according to its
capacity for carrying sheep, and not according toits
capacity for carrying human beings ; and yet the
Prime Minister, who says he doesn’t object to a
land-tax for settlement purposes, accep.s that law
as' ah excuse for throwing out a Government
which proposes an effective tax. In the way of
an excuse it is about the most paltry piece of
fhmsiness ever put forward. As for the other
States, the position is scarcely any better, and in
some cases it is worse. In Queensland, as said
just now, there is no land-tax at all; and in
N. S. Wales it isn’t progressive, so that a huge
absentee co., which owns £500,000 worth of land,
does not have to pay a farthing more in the £
than the small freehold farmer who owns £250
worth. Will Deakin say that a tax of that sort,
bearing no more heavily upon the holder of a
vast area than upon the small cocky who
already owns less than a living area, is a tax
designed to promote settlement ? Yet from that
point of view, the situation in Westralia is worse
still, and so far as that State is concerned,
Deakin’s argument is even more rotten, and his
excuse still more wretched ; for, over on that side
of the Commonwealth, the man who owns a patch
valued at £5l has to pay exactly as much in the £
as the grabber who owns a principality valued at
£510,000. And Deakin alleges that a tax of that
sort, limited to one penny in the £, is the reason
why he doesn’t go ahead with a Commonwealth
land-tax for settlement purposes ! It is admitted
that Tasmania has a land-tax ; but even there the
maximum rate is one penny in the £ ; and if
Deakin believes that a penny tax will burst
up the great estate he has more faith in a
copper than this paper has. There isn’t, in fact,
one thoroughly effective land-tax in Australia ;
the only approach to it is in S. Australia. But
the existence of the tax there doesn’t call on
Deakin to stop ; it literally shrieks at him to go
ahead. For the progressive principle was adopted
therein 1895;. and this has been the remarkable
growth in the export trade of the State since
about that date (the figures are from the State’s
last “Bulletin of Intelligence”):—
1898 £6,795,774
1903 8,300,445
1908 13,446,052
An honest land-taxer assuredly won’t stop because
of the wretched subterfuges that masquerade as
land-taxes in most of the States; and he certainly
won’t stop from applying to the whole the thing
that has helped to produce the astonishing figures
in S. Australia. But Deakin does stop; and if
he continues to stop there will be only one pos-
sible conclusion—either he isn’t a land-taxer or he
isn’t honest.
♦
The Proposed National Suicide Loan.
The statement becomes more and more definite
that the Fused Government is on the borrowing
track. Amid all Australia’s debts and loans and
extravagances it has hitherto found a certain con-
solation in the fact that one, at least, of its seven
Governments kept out of the pawnshop, and was
never found lurking round the corner with its
second-best shirt under its arm, waiting a
chance to flit unobserved into the Three
Ballery. Now it seems that, owing to the bless-
ings of Fusion, it is going to lose even that scrap
of satisfaction. The objects of the proposed loan
are principally these :
(1) To enable the Commonwealth to return more money
to the State Governments, in order that they may keep
up the needless foolishness of having 12 Houses of Parlia-
ment where six would do ; and six imported State
Governors where their Chief Justices, acting as deputies


for the Governor-General, would fill the bill as well; and
to enable persons like Wade to take off some local stamp
duties, and thus relieve the x-ich of a little taxation.
(2) To present Britain with a battleship which it doesn’t
want to receive, and which the Australian people don’t
want to give.
(3—the principal one) To prevent settlement, to retard
agriculture, to keep down population, to prevent
marriage, to kill off the unborn Austi’alian infant, and to
make the country weak for defence and poor through
lack of taxpayers. A progressive land-tax, sufficiently
heavy to break up a lot of the great estates, and
thus provide farms for those who want them, would
promote agriculture; it would increase population
by making land available for immigrants; it
would enable the young men of the country
to settle down and marry, instead of wandering to and
fro in search of the elusive bit of soil while their
sisters remain at home and drift into old-maidenhood.
Out of these increased facilities for marriage would come
an increased birthrate ; and out of the extra birthrate
and the extra immigration would come increase of the
fighting and tax-paying community, which would make
the country safer and the revenue larger, and thus reduce
the inclination to borrow in the future. And as the pro-
posed Deakin loan is intended to obviate the necessity
for levying the progressive land-tax, which would do all
these things, the natural and reasonable name for it is the
National Suicide Loan.
Of course, one National Suicide Loan won’t fill
the bill. If the Fused Government lasts, there
will probably be a Suicide L° an every year. For
there are big and expensive things to be done, and
if, say, an extra £1,000,000 a year is needlessly
returned to the States, and the proceeds of the
progressive land-tax are sacrificed, and the
revenue that ought to be derived from the new
settlers whom the progressive land-tax would
establish is sacrificed, and there are to be no
additions to the tariff for fear of hurting Cook’s
feelings, an annual Suicide Loan of £2,000,000 or
£3,000,000 will probably become necessary.
Suicide is cheap or dear according to how the
thing is done. If a man cuts his throat right off
with a carving knife, it is cheap. If he prefers
to slowly drink himself to death with champagne,
it is expensive—in fact, it may cost him all he has
before he gets himself satisfactorily dead.
The Freetrade Press and Railway Subsidies.
In the days when Sydney’s morning papers were
attacking Railway Commissioner Oliver, the
man who objected to free newspaper trains, the
S. M. Herald’s one hymn of joy was : “ Thank
goodness, however, Mr. Johnson will soon be
here, and all will be well 1 ” How Johnson is
here, and although it will necessitate a complete
somersault on the part of the Herald, it seems
just possible that the morning papers will soon be
attacking his management just as virulently as
they did that of his predecessor. For months
they agitated for what would have been practi-
cally a newspaper train, run in the early morning
hours, to enable them to land their papers in
Newcastle in time to compete successfully against
the local publications.. But there is little outward
railway goods tragic to the Newcastle districts,
which are served by sea carriage ; and
the Railway Commissioner gatly refused to
run a train at a loss to oblige the Sydney papers.
Finding him hrnr on the subject, they dropped
the demand for what would have been practically
a newspaper special, and are now agitating for a
change in the time-table by which the train that
leaves Sydney for Newcastle at 9.5 a.in. shall
start about 6.30 a.m. In this they have the sup-
port of the Sydney merchants, whose interests
would be served by making it possible to send a,
traveller to do Newcastle in the morning and get
him back the same night. But the train that
now leaves Sydney at 9.5 a.m. is a most conve-
nient one, and suits the thousands of the public that
travel by it; whereas 6.30 a.m. is an awkward
hour. And there is no reason why the com-
mercial travellers, who form about 2 per cent, of the
total passengers of the train, and, moreover, travel
at low rates compared with the rest of the passen-
gers, should be studied to the inconvenience of the
rest of the population. Of course, a 6.30 a.m. train
would do a lot more than oblige the infrequent
bagman. It would also give the Sydney dailies a
chance to strangle papers like the Newcastle
Morning Herald, which, under present con-
ditions, can hold their own against the city
octopus. When the business people of Newcastle
were approached on the subject, and requested to
say that they would be benefited by the early
arrival of their letters, they scoffed at the idea.
They get their letters as early as they require
them at present by the boat from Sydney, and,
realising that the agitation for an early train is
merely a demand for a State subsidy to the policy
of centralisation and the running of everything
by Sydney newspapers and merchants, they fiatly
refuse to have anything to do with the matter.
It is significant that the papers don’t approach
the steamer people with the sort of request they
fire at the head of the Railway Department.
4
A Premium on Child-Murder.
The sort of item that habitually disfigures the
“Miscellaneous Advt.” section of the S. M.
Herald
Ty ANTED, kind, elderly person care for baby boy,
v ’ 3 weeks, with prem. Write A., G.P.O.
The signification of the above is (1) that someone
has an infant, probably illegitimate, that
she doesn’t want to keep ; (2) that the infant-
possessor is able to command £lO or £l5 ready
cash; (3) that she hankers to get into com-
munication with the frequent old local female
who, fora consideration, is prepared to adopt any
number of children (“ with prems.”), secure in the
conviction that a profit will accrue to her on each
individual deal. For that to happen it is
necessary that the infant shall die without undue
delay. And it does. The S. M. Herald
might almost as well take Od. or Is. for an
advt. starting “THUG wanted,” or beginning
“TO BABY-Murderesses.” Vital statistics
shout this fact in the public ear. The Victorian
Year Book for 1907-8 (which is quoted because it
goes into this subject, while other statistical
volumes mostly pass it by or give it only a casual
mention) shows that on the average of the five
years previous to 1907 slightly over one in every
five illegitimate infants (which are, naturally, the
most unwanted infants) died within a year, as
against one in every 13 legitimate children. That
is to say, in the words of the Year Book, “the
chance of an illegitimate child dying before the
age of one year is nearly three times that of the
legitimate infant.” In amplification whereof the
following damning table is supplied :
Legitimate and Illegitimate Death Hates from Certain
Causes. 1903-7.
Deaths under 1 Year per
r, , „ . 10,000 Births.
Cause of Death. !
Legitimate. Illegitimate.
Diarrhoeal Diseases .. .. 211 752
Prematurity, Congenital De-
fects, Marasmus, etc. .. 31.1 583
Bronchitis, Pneumonia .. 75 214
Other Causes 190 (525
Total all Causes .. 787 2174
Diarrhoeal diseases, of which 752 of every 10,000
children born out of wedlock died within one
year of birth against 211 legitimate infants, arise
almost always from lack of necessary food—in a
word, from starvation. In the few cases where
the police drop on to the baby-farmer whose
charge has expired in particularly suspicious
circumstances, it is mostly found that the tiny
deceased suffered from “diarrhoea, vomiting, and
malnutrition generally.” Pneumonia, which kills
214 illegitimates while it is accounting for 75
legitimates, is a disease which doesn’t require
much fostering in a small child. And there is the
ghastly tally of complaints grouped under “other
causes,” which disposes of 625 illegitimate
children for every 190 legitimate ones it slays.
These appalling figures are accounted for by the
surplusage of “kind, elderly persons” in our
midst. Their trade is as wide and lucrative as
that of the other sort of kind, elderly person
whose mission in life it is to prevent infants
arriving at all. Ethics apart, the practice
of baby-disposing, with premiums, needs to
be grasped firmly by the State with both
hands and in 17 different places. Doctors
and police alike are agreed as to the pro-
fessional baby-farmer’s dreadful skill in her grave-
yard trade. Under her experienced treatment
the doomed infant wilts away and expires in a
fashion no medical man can well cavil at. J.t is
necessary, in order that her deal may show a
profit, that the child shall pass over before the
cost of its keep has eaten unduly into the pre-
mium, and when the premium is only £5 or £lO,
the infant must simply sprint for the cemetery.
It dies to time with deadly punctuality. It would
be a check on this sort of business if it were made
illegal for parents or others to advertise for
strangers to adopt their offspring at a premium,
or for elderly or ocher persons to advertise their
willingness to take such children. Likewise, it
would be a check on wholesale murder if a
respectable daily paper proprietor, like the owner
of the 8. M. HkraljD, was occasionally put in
gaol for publishing ad vertisements of a palpably
baby-farming complexion. It would be a further
hindrance to a revolting and anti-social practice if
squatters and other big employers of labor, who
ad vertise v for married couples “ without encum-
brance,” could be legally proceeded against and
punished for offering inducements to baby-
murder. In conjunction with such legislation,
the institution of State-run foundling homes,
wherein the children of the very poor
might be taken in and cared for, and no
questions asked, is desirable. It would mean
money, but it would result inevitably in
the saving of thousands of pounds’ worth of
infant life to the country every year. And to
those who rail at the “ wasteful socialism ” of
such a proceeding it maybe pointed out that there
is a lot of cash spent needlessly at present on
flag-flapping, Dreadnausea, and other futile
things, nearly all of which might be more profit-
ably diverted, from a national standpoint, in the
direction indicated.
Stinking Fish in the Church.
The decision of the Anglican authorities to im-
port a new Archbishop of Sydney is calculated to
set people thinking hard over the dreadfully
superior attitude of this fane. The Anglicans
have always imported their bishops as a regular
thing, and in the main these bishops have been a
rather unsatisfactory lot. Still they were imported,
and that, to the Anglican authorities, is the
great essential. Except when there is a poor sort
of job going—something too poor to offer to an
Englishman—the Anglican creed is that no Aus-
tralian need apply. This view is carried so far
that even an Englishman becomes disqualified for
the best billets in the Vineyard after he has been
a number of years in Australia ; the clamor is
always for something fresh from England.
The Anglican tabernacle is the Stinking
Fish Church of Australia. Under the cir-
cumstances, there is room to add another com-
mandment to the decalogue of the good Aus-
tralian : "Thou shalt not be an Anglican.” A
church which is so horribly superior that it would
shudder at the idea of having an Australian for
its archbishop is obviously too superior to be in-
fested by a mere Australian congregation, and a
mere Australian thrippence amounts to profana-
tion in the plate of so lofty a sect. The Anglican
dignitaries should import their congregations as
well as their bishops, and then they would feel
that they had got the genuine article. All Aus-
tralian Protectionists, all Australian nationalists,
all the people with a patriotic desire to see this
country go ahead, should swear off Anglicanism
and all its works right now, and give its support
to some denomination which isn’t so deadly
ashamed of the country that pays its salary.
The aim of every patriot is to encourage
Australian industry, and the Australian
sky-pilot calls for support and encouragement
for exactly the same reason and on exactly the
same principle as the Australian bootmaker or
cloth-weaver or shipwright. The tale that no
good boots and butter can be made in Australia
is dead now, and the theory that no good bishops
can be made here ought to die also. The Stink-
ing Fish person who said that boots couldn’t be
made in Australia was rightly discouraged by
a heavy duty. If it is impossible to put a duty on
imported bishops, the other remedy is to decline
to use the imported goods. When a church lays
it down as a general rule that no Australian—
Australian either by birth or education or adop-
tion—need apply so far as its mitre is concerned,
the best answer is that no Australian is going to
apply so far as the pew door is concerned either.
r .
Spuds and State Eights.
Pketty well every week now, while people are
hooraying for State Frights and making angry
remarks about Federal encroachments, something
heavy falls on their toes ; and when they look to
see what it is they find it is the very State Frights
they have been yelling for. The latest instance
happened in Sydney. A couple of steamers
arrived, loaded up with Tasmanian potatoes.
Now, Tasmania has been struggling to build up
an export trade in apples and spuds; consequently
it has gone to some trouble and expense to have
the apples and spuds State-inspected before being
shipped. The inspection took place as usual before
these last lots left; but when they arrived in
Sydney, N. S. WalesmadeanotherStateinspeetion,
as the result of which a thousand or two bags
were condemned for some alleged disease which
the Tasmanian inspectors couldn’t notice. Con-
sequently the Sydney consignees have to ship
the condemned potatoes back to Tasmania, in
which case they may, or may not, be able to collect
the return passage-money from the small
Tasmanian spud-farmers; or, if they decide not
to risk that, they can pay for the spuds and then
charter a steamer and dump the lot outside the
Heads, and thereby help to fill up the sea, which is
already eating away the flat lands of Australia fast
enough in any case. Either way there must be a
heavy waste; for, even if the spuds are eatable now,
they won’t be after they have been further bat-
tered, and there will be the freight backwards and
forwards between Tasmania and Sydney anyhow.
Consequently the growers, and the agents, and
the Sydney buyers are all cursing wildly, and
naturally want to know why there can’t be one
inspection, and be done with it. Obviously, how-
ever, inspection by a Tasmanian State official
can’t bind the N. S. Wales State Govern-
ment ; for the moment, therefore, these cursing
people leave off clamoring for State Rights
in a vague, general way, and demand
that this business of inspection should be
a Commonwealth matter. And, of course, it
should be a Commonwealth matter. For though
it may not have happened in this case, yet it cer-
tainly is a fact that one State can, under the cloak
of this system of inspection, block the goods of
another State in order to keep the local market for
its own goods. In fact, it may be,significant
that one of the daily paper reports of the
firing out of the Tasmanian spuds in Sydney
was followed by the remark that the N. S. Wales
potato crop this year is very heavy. Altogether
the business suggests to people that before they
yell for State Rights they should find out exactly
what the thing means. It will do the Tasmanian
grower, for instance, good to remember that
State Rights mean the right of N. S. Wales to
fire out his spuds, though they have been passed
by a Tasmanian inspector ; and the N. S. Wales
grower and shipper might just as well remember
that Tasmania and the other States can hit back
with the same ugly weapon.
Wade and Wood on Distant Settlement.
“ Ganesha ” writes from the country :
Chief Secretary Wood lately went to Bathurst (N.S.W.)
to expound the mysterious land policy of the Wade
Government. Bathurst affords a classical example of a
district town which suffers from chronic land-monopoly,
tenant-farming, bad debts and unseemly respectability ;
so the tenant-farmers, who sit up o’ nights with a slate,
figuring- out how much rent they owe, and are smitten by
bad seasons, and Jimmie Stewart of the Mount, and
drought, and Walter McPiiillamy, and other visitations
of Providence, came to the meeting, and laughed and
wept, and rose in wrath, as Wood slowly lifted the veil
from the Government policy of closer —or rather distant
—settlement. And the local Deform member, one John
Miller, gave Wood his support, and assured his landless
constituents that “the time was not yet ripe for closer
settlement in Bathurst”—this Old Town that has been
getting ripe, not to say rotten, for half a century or so.
and has nearly gone broke in the process.
Wood cheered up the landless folk, which term included
nearly everybody, with the happy remark that there
would be no progressive land-tax. His Government
would never introduce such an explosive proposition;
and for the Federal Government to do so would mean
“ a serious encroachment on State Bights." The Federal
Government, in short, must not burst up the bloated
estates; the State Government will not. Wood claimed
that- the Government policy was “to encourage self-
reliance, and independence,"-while the Labor party went
in the opposite direction. Wood gave the whole show
away. He let the land-hungry crowd know what it had
to expect from the Wade regime. He proved that State
Frights was another name for land monopoly, and Anti-
Socialism, and sheep, and the blankness of Toryism.
Incidentally he reduced John Miller’s chance of re-
election to several degrees below zero.
The Chief Secretary wiped his thoughtful brow and re-
marked what a difficult ” problem this Closer Settle-
ment was. “Thearea for Closer Settlement,” said Wood,
“ was strictly limited.” According to this gospel, sunny
New South Wales is a very little place, already over-
crowded, and with not enough land to go round. The
present supply of soil seems to have been a cheap and
meagre lot, and has given out. Any new immigrant will
have to bring his land with him. But by “ heroic
efforts ” and “ wise action,” Wood informed his audience,
some land had actually been made available. In certain
districts, it is true, Wade’s great scheme has had the effect
of shooing away settlers. This is the kind of settlement
approved of by reasonable men ! No blush of shame will
mantle the Fat Man’s cheek through any “ wise action ”
ever taken by Wood, or Miller, or Wade.
According to the Government, New South Wales lias
reached its decline, and is waiting for the fall. If, despite
“heroic efforts” and “wise action,” there is no land
available, there can be no more population, and no more
manufactures, and no agricultural development, and no
defence. There can be nothing but emptiness and rab-
bits. Every town in the country will become like
Bathurst, dispirited, tired even of beer, and baggy at the
knees.
The typical cocky is not mentally energetic ; but he is
working up a conviction that the time is ripe for Wade
and his Tory crew to be thrown out in a sudden heap.
Sydney’s Traffic Troubles.
Sydney grows fast, and its traffic problem becomes
more serious day by day. The lirst trouble is that
practically every railway passenger has to change
in order to get to his or her destination. That is
to say, a train empties, say, 275 people out at
Owe’Sullivan’s wholly deranged station, in a
suburb that 250 of them don’t want to go to, a
mile or more away from the head offices of the
banks, merchants, insurance companies, shipping
companies, and other business enterprises. If
Sydney had a sane (instead of an Owk’Sullivan)
railway system, the train would stop a minute
where the White Elephant is now, and drop the
25 passengers who really want to get out there,
and then carry the other 250 on to about King-
street or Hunter-street or Wynyard-square ; but
it does nothing so sensible. So the 250 people
rush madly for three tram arrangements of two
cars each. A car holds 22 people sitting, and
about eight swearing and hanging on, and a
maddened rush for six cars absorbs most of
the people who come out of one train. The
elderly person who isn’t so active as he used
to be was able, a year or so ago, to get into the
third car. Now, after jumping vainly for five
cars, he gets into the sixth if he has luck. But it
very often happens that there are two trains pour-
ing forth about 550 people at the same moment,
and these 550 people are rushing furiously for 12
tramcars. They load the 12 cars to the brim,
and hang on like the bitterness of death till they
get to about King-street or Hunter-street, which
tendency on their part shows where the Sydney
main station ought to be. These 12 cars involve
the wages of 24 or 30 men who wouldn’t be needed
if the station was in a sane position, and the 12
cars make 12 separate and needless rows and con-
gestions in the narrow streets of Sydney, and
cause much needless tearing up and re-laying of
the streets, and run over a good many needless
dogs. Meanwhile, the train that the 275 people
have come out of at the wrong place is peforming
curious and needless gyrations at the station
where it was last heard of. It has come in with
its engine in front of it, and as the place is
a dead end or a cul-de-sac— Owe’Sullivan de-
liberately built it like that—instead of a
place where the rails extend right through,
the engine that brought the train in is uselessly
bogged at the bottom of a hole, so to speak, till the
terrace of vehicles is pulled out again by another
engine at the other end. This involves delay,
and waste of effort, and congestion ; and the re-
sult is that there is already talk of the great cul-
de-sac that Owe’Sullivan built being too small.
It is congested like the streets, and when certain
suburbs clamor for more train accommodation
they are told that the White Elephant is already
working up to its full elephantine capacity, and
that nothing more can be done. The news is
depressing, seeing that the narrow streets of
Sydney are also working up to their full capacity
in the way of carrying tramcars ; and until the
streets are reconstructed it seems fairly certain
that nothing more can be done there either. At
North Shore, about two miles away from Owe’-
Sullivan’s White Elephant, there is another
station where the railway comes to a dead end,
the difference between it and the Redfern
show being that there the passengers make
a mad rush to get into a boat instead of making a
frenzied battle to get into a tramcar. If the rail-
way ran right through the city, and the train
from Parramatta could scoot on to Hornsby, and
the engines weren’t bogged in dead ends, and the
people weren’t thrown out by thousands at places
which are of no earthly use to them, and compelled
to pile themselves into vehicles which won’t hold
them, and to rush madly down narrow streets
which won’t comfortably hold the vehicles, it is
probable that the railways could carry double the
traffic. And, under these conditions, the streets
certainly wouldn’t need to carry nearly so much
traffic. The one plea seriously advanced on
behalf of Owe'Sullivan’s White Elephant is
that, so far as population is concerned, it is
central.’ That isn’t much of a recommenda-
tion. A railway station planted amid the Mae-
donnell Ranges would be “central” so far as
Australia is concerned, but it wouldn’t be much
use, all the same.
♦
A Weary Willie Way of Tackling the
Irrigation Problem.
“Habitual Irrigator ” sends a condensed
statement of the case;—
Victoria’s irrigation problem is just this : The State
has brought water to 1,104,000 acres of land and only
218,000 acres were irrigated last year; and, though
interest and working expenses cost the State £145,000
the annual receipts are only £35,000. Yet, while
Victoria has 886,000 acres of land which isn’t irrigated
though the means of irrigation are at hand, and though
in consequence great numbers of people who ought to
be employed are not employed, the State is losino-
population ; for, unable to find land on which to make
a living, the young men are trekking west and
north. Therefore Victoria’s irrigation problem is part of
Victoria’s great problem, which is merely how it is to
keep its people. If irrigated land can carry more people
than non-irrigated land—and of that there isn’t any
doubt in’ the world—the foregoing figures indicate one
way in which the loss of population can be stopped. The
area of 886,000 acres that ought to be irrigated must be
made to carry the extra people which it is capable of
carrying ; and in carrying the extra people it will bridge
over the great gulf that yawns between the £145,000 a
year which the State now pays and the £35,000 which it
receives.
Practically forced at last to do something—very
largely on account of the persistency of Elwood Meai>,
A Ballad of Bloated Cities.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia’s capital cities are, in proportion to the popu-
lation of the States, the biggest in the world.
Bloat!
Let us bloat!
Let us spend our final groat—
How the dreary politicians suffer still from this
disease!
How they pile the shoddy cities, where the Harbor
and the Spit is—
Where we pile the shoddy merchandise upon un-
paid-for quays !
Hail the large, congested places, where the rich
importer paces—
Where the people gasp in summer, lacking air and
elbow-room ;
Let us celebrate the vastness of the Foreign-
trader’s fastness,
Though the continent be rolling down the greasy
ways of doom !
%
Bloat!
Always bloat !
Every man who has a vote —
Let him plump for much congestion in the cities
by the sea ;
Australia does not matter —let us make the Fat-
men fatter—
Let us stagger this old planet with insane obesity !
Let us hail the swollen liars with great sacrificial
fires !
Bow us humbly to the idols that the Telegraph
hath sawn ;
Build the bloated cities bigger—write the lOU
with vigor—
Let us raise the monster places with the proceeds
of the Fawn !
Bloat !
Haste to bloat!
Let us calculate and gloat—
See ! We’ve stacked the population in a vast,
ungainly heap !
Adding warehouse, shanty, skillion; let us raise
them by the million ;
Let us rush the blessed Nation down Perdition’s
pathway steep !
Let us burst Australia wholly—we are bloating all
too slowly,
All that matters is the swelling of the cities on
the coast;
Adding terrace, street and alley, building over hill
and valley,
Making of each huge metropolis an everlasting
boast!
Bloat !
Dream of bloat!
Think about it on the boat—
As you cross the shining Harbor cogitate upon the
plans;
When you journey on the ferry scheme the giant
cemetery
Which shall swallow up Australia and the fool
Australi-ans!
Are we bloated and top-heavy ? Let us strike
another levy—
Drag the assets unto Moses, so that we may
rapidly
Rush with hods and lath-and-plaster, making use-
less cities vaster —
’Neath the pyramids of mortar let us plant
Posterity !
Bloat !
Sacred bloat !
All your energies devote—
We’re the heirs of Ancient Bloaters, so we’d
better imitate;
Let us thunder forth a chorus, “ All the fools who
went before us
Shall be paralysed with envy o’er our folly steep
and great!”
Tear the records all asunder —damn Australia ;
sink her under,
Let us build us mighty monuments that he may
read who runs.
Let the great sky-scrapers tower, growing denser
hour by hour,
Till they shut out God’s fair daylight from our
daughters and our sons.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harmful drug.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
for HIRERS and BUYERS.
We are Aprents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 9S Queen St., Brisbane.
Party Government has evidently resolved
itself into a formula of obstruction. And the
world awaits the man of vigorous intellect who,
urged to his best by D.C.L. Whisky, shall storm
into the breach and throw party Government
forcibly off the premises. D.0.L., the-scholarly
brand, is ready to do its part in the transaction
and only awaits the man of force to come along-
and combine with it.*
the State’s irrigation expert—Premier John Murray has
undertaken to introduce a measure ; and he announces
that it will provide for new compact irrigation districts,
for compulsory resumption of irrigable land where the
owners refrain from suitably subdividing it, and for the
imposition of sufficiently high rates to repay annual
expenses and interest, as well as a reasonable amount
towards a sinking fund. In future, irrigation holdings
are to be restricted to from 20 to 220 acres per agricul-
turist. In notifying his Government’s intentions, Mur-
ray produced the figures quoted above ; therefore he
knows the full size of the scandal from which his State is
suffering. Also Treasurer Willie Watt knows the full
size of the gulf between receipts and expenditure.
Yet, in spile of their knowledge, he and Murray only
propose for a start to levy a rate sufficient to realise half
of the £145,000, though the idea is to slowly raise the
rate till the accounts balance. It is a gradual way of
doing things ; but if it were merely gradual it might
pass. The trouble is that, as a device for getting large
irrigated areas subdivided into workable blocks,
Murray’s plan looks like a mere extension of Bent’s old
shiftless, lazy plan 6f Closer Settlement—the plan that
only served to enrich private landlords and boost up land
prices. There is absolutely no provision—other than the
strictly moderate irrigation rate before mentioned —for
compelling the holder of idle lands to cut them up and
s. 11 them. He is to be requested to do so ; and if he fails
to do so, “ his lands will be compulsorily purchased by
the State at a fair price." As the land-owner, especially
tlie swindling Itodney land-owner whose acres have been
increased to many times their former value by the
State-provided water, will assuredly demand their
“irrigated” price from possible purchasers, and
as he will do very little subdivision and create even less
settlement on that basis, the State will be besieged by
land-hungry persons to buy from him and parcel it out
much on the ancient and odoriferous Closer Settlement
lines. And all the while the same landowner will be buy-
ing up other discarded blocks or blocks in newly-
irrigated districts, and working the same old swindle
over again. The folly of the thing is that there is no
need for the State to borrow large sums in ord r to buy
out these loafing owners at inflated prices. All that is
needed is a Parliament-authorised instruction to the
Water Commission to levy a progressive rate on all irri-
gated lands sufficient in the aggregate to meet working
expenses, interest and sinking fund. Under Murray’s
scheme, a man will find the most liberal buyer in the
country—the State—provided that he goes on loafing ;
and that will merely encourage loafing. A progressive
irrigation rate has been declared to be necessary by
Elwood Mead all along ; yet it is the very remedy that
Murray and Watt continue to ignore.
4
A Famous Case, and a Sidelight which it Casts.
The sentiments of “ 10-2-4 ” :
The dismissal by the British Court of Appeal (16/6/’O9)
of ex-Lieutenant Woods’ case against the Army Council
was looked for, in view of the mass of evidence hostile to
the appellant that was available at the Military Court.
His appeal effort was not even in the nature of a forlorn
hope ; it was simply the registering of a public protest.
Most people seized of the facts of the case will
sympathise with the unfortunate young man. His
main offence lay in the fact that he was
socially “impossible”—a characteristic that is calcu-
lated to debar from long residence in a British
Guards regiment an officer with the military capacity
of a Napoleon. (Of course, this was solemnly questioned
at the original trial, as it always is in such cases, but the
denial carried no general conviction outside, and, in fact,
was greeted with considerable derision.) Woods refused
to belong to the Guards’ Club, he didn’t play polo, he
declined to subscribe to the regimental coach. Which is
to say he was “no sportsman.” For a commissioned
member of the British army not to be a sportsman means
that he is hopelessly out of touch with at least 98 per
cent, of his fellow-officers throughout the service. The
two per cent, of non-sporting (which is to say earnest)
soldiers is made up mostly of gunners and Royal Engi-
neer officers —who, as Kipling and other experts have
noted, are widely regarded as “ madmen.”
There is another aspect of the Woods affair that is
worth considering. To anyone who has dined much at
messes in the United Kingdom, the loathing, frankly
shown and expressed by all present, of the officer who
trenches on what one may call “intellectual” topics, is
amazing. Winston Churchill, President of the Board of
Trade in the present British Government, was, in his
day, as well-hated a subaltern as the 4th Hussars had
known. This chiefly because—albeit a fine horseman,
and otherwise acceptable in a sporting sense—he per-
sisted in airing in the presence of his brother officers his
views on subjects they tabooed. The British officer holds
it “ bad form ” —the unforgivable sin—to express himself
definitely in society on any controversial question
whatever. You will not get out of the majority
of him any but the nrost guarded express-
ion of opinion on politics, or books, or religious
questions. Above all, he reels and shudders and becomes
speechless at the faintest attempt to talk “ shop ” to him.
He traffics, conversationally, in genial personalities, and
the gossip of the theatre and racecourse. This doesn’t
make for professional efficiency. It was a code which
ex-Lieutenant Woods found it impossible to live up to.
He was bitten by the war-mania. He took an interest in
his profession, and showed it shamelessly. He talked
openly on military subjects with anyone who seemed
likely to give him information. Time and again an out-
raged brother officer was forced to beseech him to re-
member the decencies, and desist. Then he wandered
off and sought counsel and enlightenment from veteran
sergeants and others of Inferior rank. Of course, the
eccentric youth had to go. In a “smart” British regi-
ment the keen soldier needs, unless he is prepared to be
“ ragg : ed ” violently into civil life, to be keen furtively—
for preference alone, at midnight, in a locked room with
the lights turned out. Even to be suspected of knowing
his business is “ bad form,” but to be known to know it
is terrible. It suggests that he is working for his living.
The calamity of ex-Lieutenant Woods suggests certain
things to Australians. The present British military
system, which is broad based on the theory that the
officer belongs to a particular caste, and is in the soldiering
game merely because it is the right thing to be there,
may do for Britain ; but it is unsuited to Australia, or any
other country that lacks a hereditary aristocracy and
centuries of tradition. There is an eager clamor amongst
the importing party here, just now, that a well-known
British officer shall be invited to Australia to teach
Australian soldiers their jobs. And, at short intervals,
the same party rises up and demands that other
British officers shall be imported to teach Aus-
tralian officers special details of the defence business.
Yet it is as hopeless to expect the average
British officer to do much permanent good in alliance
with the Australian officer as it is to expect him to hit it
off for long with the ex-Lieutenant Woods sort. The
types are antipathetic. They cmnot comprehend
each other’s point of view, and they are bound to jar on
each other so severely in time as to make a smooth
passage impossible. There are indications that even the
British army is getting ahead of its own caste system—a
system which dates from the time when commissions
were for sale, and which presupposes that all officers are
built on identical lines, and are practically members of
the same social set. But at present the caste system is
inseparable from the British military system as a whole,
and that renders it a system capable of showing- little or
nothing of value to a democratic country. Each recur-
ring Woods’case—properly regarded—furnishes a fresh
argument for the working out by Australia, on its abso-
lute own, of its own military destiny.
♦
“ Redtape Senior ” (from Bathurst): —
N.S.W. Minister Wood, while ambling round and fall-
ing over his own eloquent feet at Bathurst, made
a show of himself re the matter of the minimum wage
for shop girls and such-like young workers. When the
Wade Government first fixed its gigantic intellect on this
matter it proposed a 3s. or 4s. per week minimum. The
Assembly, at the instance of the Laborparty, declared
for ss. a week, which seems little enough, and the
“Liberal” Government was so angry that it abandoned
the Bill and left things at the old figure of nothing a
week. Next session the 4s. a week proposition was
carried, though Wade had to fight like a terrace of wild
cats to prevent the figure being fixed at ss. The Bathurst
people threw opprobrious matter at Minister Wood over
this, and he became flustered and untidy about the bah-,
and didn’t know which leg he was standing on. Said
Wood
“If later on it can be proved that no disruption of
child labor will take place and no displacement of
children will follow [the payment of an extra Is. per
week] I believe that the Government will fight for a
larger increase.”
Which is very characteristic. For Wood knows that the
Wade Government doesn't need to “ fight ” to get Parlia-
ment to raise the shop-girls’ minimum wage to os ; rather
it had to fight all it knew, and whip up its servile follow-
ing-, and almost threaten to resign, else the ss. wage
would have been carried in spite of it. As for saying
that the Wade push will agree to the ss. minimum, if it
can be proved in advance that it won’t cause any kiddy
to lose her job, that is an unworthy and crawlsome case
of side-stepping. People know by experience that the Is.
rise won’t cause a displacement of child labor, but a thing
that is ahead can’t be proved. As well might Wood’s
aunt say that she would allow him to go out if it could
be proved in advance that he wouldn’t be bitten by a
mad horse while he was out. It being impossible to
prove, by Euclid or otherwise, that Wood wouldn’t be
bitten by a mad horse, he would have to stay indoors all
his life. One might think that this mode of reasoning
proved Wood’s aunt a rather foolish woman, but it
wouldn’t prove her any more foolish than Wood.
»
The S. M. Herald, in an editorial (21/6/’O9) set
itself to make out a case for N.S.W. Premier
Wade’s land policy. Here is the case:—
If we take all the settlers who have been, or may be,
placed on all the resumptions so far, or all the settlers
that can be placed on all the further resumptions which
the Government can possibly find the money to make in
the next few years, their numbers would not be anything
to grow enthusiastic about. . . Mr. Wade’s idea of having
the lands within the settlement zones classified and
valued, and making the valuation to-day the valuation at
which the State can resume at any time in the future,
irrespective of any added value in the meantime, will be
much more effective than a graduated land-tax, if it is
applied in a sufficiently business-like and determined
way. . . Estate owners could found on this no legitimate
grievance. They could have always open to them a sure
way to save themselves from loss —that is, to see that
their lands carry people as well as stock.
In other words :
(1) It is absolutely necessary to settle people exten-
sively on the land.
(2) People cannot possibly be settled extensively on the
land bv resumption.
(3) Therefore resumption fills the bill, and beats the
band.
Furthermore, the Herald alleges that its objec-
tion to the graduated land-tax is that it is “con-
fiscatory ” —which is the Herald’s way of saying
the tax will force owners to sell their land for use
instead of holding it idle. It is a crime, says the
Herald, to force owners to sell their land. But
the Herald is quite sure that Wade’s new scheme
is a good thing, because it will force owners to sell
their land. It’s about the queerest bit of “ logic ”
that even the Herald has been guilty of for a
long time.
While N.S.W. Premier Wade was busy telhng
Chatswood how essential it was to keep
as many matters as possible under the con-
trol of the six State Parliaments, it is a pity he
didn’t think of enforcing his argument by men-
tioning chaff. Qn the first of next month an Act
comes into force in Victoria whereby the seller of
adulterated chaff will strike trouble. All this
month, therefore, large quantities of chaff have
been pouring from Victoria into N.S.W. ; as
much as 47,000 bags came in one week. Natu-
rally, some unkind people hint that the new Vic-
torian Act is the reason of this suddenness. In
N. S. Wales there isn’t any law against sel-
ling adulterated chaff; consequently the rub-
bish that will be dead stock in Victoria a
few days hence blows over the border to
Sydney. Then if Sydney objects to seeing starved
horses'falling in the street, and N.S.W. passes
the same law as Victoria has already passed, the
swindlers may turn to Queensland. Then Queens-
land will have to pass exactly the same law. In
fact, the whole six Parliaments will have to
laboriously pass six separate Acts in the same
terms before the adulterator is stopped from
cheating the Australian horse. And when the
six Acts are passed, it is pretty certain that one
at least will have forgotten to define “chaff” ; so
the adulterator will be able to go on pouring tons
of rubbish through the hole thus created. Mean-
time Wade, the far-seeing statesman, says that
all this i 5 the acme of good government; while
if one Parliament did the job for the six States in
one act, it would be chaos.
-♦
Even as Andrew Fisher got his reward, in the
shape of expulsion from office, for abasing himself
to the Tory and State Frights and Congested
Population party by accepting Yassberra as the
Australian capital, so the reward of George
Turner has come to him in the matter of the
Post Office inquiry. George Turner, while he
was Treasurer, had a great regard for the State
Governments, and struggled hard to return to
them far more than the three-fourths of the tariff
revenue to which they were entitled. Through
his influence the Federal services were starved to
the last possible degree, and, by way of repay-
ment, he got, not merely one reward, but three :
(1) He and his colleagues were howled at for years
by the State Frights press with dingo-like cries of
“Federal extravagance (2) one of the biggest
and most starved of the Federal departments is
now being overhauled amid wild whoops about
“Federal mismanagement ” and “Federal sweat-
ing”; (3) George Turner wore himself out
before his time in the struggle to make Is. 6d.
do the duty of half-a-crown, and is now in retire-
ment and almost forgotten by the short-memoried
public which he served so faithfully. And the
moral of it all is that the making of concessions to
Toryism and parish-mindedness doesn’t pay. The
only wav to treat them is with contempt and a
brick. 'The brick should be thrown straight, and
should skim along about 3ift. above the ground
surface.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR. COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Sweet Kitty Bellairs.”
Theatre Royal ; “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “ The Gambler’s Sweetheart.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Hypocrites.”
Her Majesty's “The King of Cadonia."
King’s “White Australia.”
Princess’s “A Royal Divorce.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Town Hall (Saturdays) Tait’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
The annual ball, in aid of the Hospice for
the Dying, occurs next Wednesday at Sydney
Town Hall. And it is not going to be a ball
merely, out a theatrical show of an elevated
order ’to boot. The promoters have organ-
ised a number of grave and gay tableaux,
Mrs. Slapoffski will sing, and other pleasing
items are listed. So keen are the Chelmsford
lord and his lady on seeing all the entertainment
portion of the frivol that they have notified their
intention of turning up at 8 p.m. instead of an
hour later, when the dancing starts. Gallery
tickets are 25., and all anxicjs to help along a
good cause, and enjoy themselves withal, should
earmark that sum for disbursement in six nights
time.
# # * - *
“Struck Oil’’—threateningly advertised
as “a play that will never die”—was revived at
Sydney Criterion last Saturday night. Miss
Maggie Moore appears as an ultra-buxom Lizzie
Stofel in flaxen curls—a veritable South Sea
Islander’s dream of delight in the female line.
H. R. Roberts impersonates John Stofel, and
does the job satisfactorily. A new and revolt-
ingly Uriah-Heep-like Deacon is provided by John
F. Eorde. The missing documents remain in good
repair,' and are lost and found up to time with
laudable punctuality. This revival will go the
way of its kind after Friday night, for on the
Saturday following, “ The Gambler’s Sweetheart ”
is due to start enthralling and elevating the
multitude.
** * *
At Sydney Royal, “ The Great Rescue ”
continues to snare plaudits, shekels and other de-
sirable things in great quantities. Some day, pre-
sumably, the rescuers will throw down their diving
suits and intimate that the public is no longer
supplying a living wage in the trade of stage-
salvaging, and that they intend, therefore, to
direct their energies elsewhere. But that period
lurks in the remote offing. (A flooded mine being
a sort of fresh-water marine scene, the word
“offing” is introduced on purpose.) For the
present the humanitarian business is booming,
and the wages of thrill are fairly pouring into
Blandolt’s coffers.
* * *
“Sweet Kitty Bellairs,” with the aid of
some perfectly sweet clothes, a mass of gorgeous
scenery, and a number of capable and alluringly-
clad colleagues, is nightly re-creating the palmiest
days of Bath (England) at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
The combination renders the old town an attract-
ive place to visit these nights, and the populace
is hastening to the early door in droves and
platoons accordingly.
# *■ # *
R. H. Douglass, the monologue enter-
tainer who has been sojourning at Melbourne
Opera House, arrived opportunely at Sydney
Tivoli last Saturday. A packed, wet day audi-
ence was waiting anxiously for amusement. A
great pounding of sodden brollies followed his
first selection, and thereafter the winter refugees
warmed themselves by vigorously applauding each
item of his turn, the best of which is the rehearsal
burlesque. The other new turn is provided by
Merton (Mr.) and Rydon (Miss), also various un-
happy patrons, at whose faces the lady partner
directs a small searchlight of considerable candle-
power, whilst aiming a few musical remarks m the
same direction. The trick is one that may offend
some large, furious man some evening when the
performers are least expecting it. Other capital
letter entertainers now present are Rosina Cas-
selli and her cute troupe of dogs, the three acro-
batic Laurels, Florence and Lillian, Cissie Cur-
lette, Guest and Newlyn, and Graham and Dent.
** * *
“An Englishman’s Home,” at Adelaide
Royal, has met with the usual divided opinions,
some taking it as a valuable political lesson and
some as a well-meant burlesque. As a plain fact,
it is both. The staging is splendid, but several of
the players evidently think more about their
elocution than their acting. Kolker and Miss
Humphreys play with admirable restraint. The
management has forced them into big type in the
bills, but on the stage they keep well back into
the picture. They get a bigger chance in the grim
“ After the Ball.” That half-hour thriller has a
weak ending. To leave two men staring at each
other is, strictly speaking, not an end at all. One
wonders if it stopped thus in its native
French. But the big chance missed seems
to be in the brief second scene. Follett
demands to have the house entered ; and it is done
at once. But imagine the entry delayed for quite a
while: he, in custody, raving that the woman he
loves is being done to death inside the house, and
his captors taking it all for a trick and simply de-
JOHN STOFEL (H. E. Roberts) and LIZZIE
( Mai/tjie Moore) annoying Deacon, Skinner
at Sydney Criterion.
clining to move? What a chance for emotion !
Maekay is excellent throughout the bill. Koiker
is now taking his reserve force and his, American
accent back to his native land, and an old, old
favorite, Walter Bentley, has come back to the
stage in a play about his contemporary, “The
Silver King.’’ West’s Pictures have got back into
the Town Hall after nearly a week given to
mayoral festivities; and Spencer, at the Tivoli,
scores heavily with films of local football matches
and other representations of Adelaide as it was
only last week.
“White Australia,” the new melodrama
by Randolph Bedford, struck a sympathetic audi-
ence on its first appearance at Melbourne King’s,
but it didn’t strike the people so hard as they had
hoped it would. Apart from inevitable short-
comings in stagecraft, and a superfluity of verbiage
which can be easily pruned, the Bedfordian pro-
duction shows three reasons why it got only a
friendly reception where roars of enthusiasm had
been expected. The central characters command
no particular interest, the story loses credibility
as it goes along, and the fact that it has a political
purpose is too glaringly obvious at the outset.
Whereas “An Englishman’s Home” deals with
the utter consternation of Brown, Jones and
Robinson when England is invaded, “ White
Australia” presents an attack on Australia
by the Japs as a foregone conclusion. The hero
has built an airship from which he proposes to
rain destruction upon the enemy in due season.
His friends and admirers, male and female, regard
him as the pre-ordained saviour of his country.
They talk White Australia from the word “ go,”
all except the pro-Jap villains of the piece who
are plotting to get control of the airship. Finally,
when the hero, having steered his weird canoe
into the clouds above Sydney Harbour, causes
each Jap ironclad, in turn, to explode like a two-
penny squib and sink into the painted sea, one
feels that, although the drama is intended to
create an Australian Navy, the dramatist has
defeated his own good intention. All that the
A TERRIBLE HOLY SHOW!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It only took seven minutes to fill the Town Hall.
Women poured in like water from an Alpine
stream. They did not walk in —they ran. They
knew no courtesy and pretended none during' the
preliminary dash from the outer gates, and they
exhibited less consideration one to another when
they were inside until they had secured a seat. Mothers
with babies in their arms and children at their skirts
brushed stalwart young policeman on one side and ran—
dragging the kiddies with them —from the gates to the
building, as schoolgirls rush wildly round a playground.
Staid matrons vied with young women for a foremost
place in the crush. Women and girls pushed and shoved
for precedence.— Daily paper report of Alexander and
Chapman's Great Heligious Entertainment at Sydney
Town Hall.
See how they rush !
Watch how they run ! !
The choking corridors seethe and gush ;
Shrill, angry screams arise from the crush.
(Yet the trouble has but begun !)
Run ! run !
The Fiend offers two to one
Bar none!
Women fall in by the ton
Quite done !
They shove and buffet and claw and roar,
They leap and dodge on the shiny floor.
And still they tumble in ! More and more
Come clattering madly. (Oh !
Each huddled, perspiring row
Is of the sex
That nags and pecks
And breaks men’s pockets, and hearts
and necks,
And makes them drunkards, and bores
and wrecks!
So they have all (quite so !)
Arrived at the holy—
Meek and lowly—
Terrible Holy Show ! ! !
Lord, how they fan !
Lord, how they stare !!
What chance has an unprotected man—
Even allowing he dodged and ran—
To sit all alone on a chair
And dare
To look for salvation there?
(The bare-
Faced blackguard !) They will not spare
A prayer !
Not one hind-leg of a slow “ Amen ! ”
Will that man get! He can call again !
“ I’ll collar that chair Vs on now w’en
’E gets up t’ go ! . . . I shall! ! . . .
’Ere’s old Alexander !!!... ‘ Al-
Le-looyer ! ’ . . . Eh ' l
That means ’Ooray ! ’
(You’ll see in th’ Bible any day
That ‘ Alle-looyer ’ stands f’r
’Oorav ’ !)
Now, that’ll do yer, Sal!
’Ere ! sing this ’ere slowly,
It’s a ’oly
Terrible ’olv way ! ! ”
Oh ! what a day !
Ah-h ! what a Show ! !
To get hysterics, to sob and pray,
To sing in a flat, enraptured way,
And a very red nose to blow',
And go
Like some raging Holy Joe
Whose foe
Is poor old Satan. (You know
He’s so
Old, poor old Devil !. .. His rage and grief,
When he hears loud humbugs turn a sheaf
Of leaves and hum, passes all belief !)
(E en if Satan you oppose ,
Why sing at him through the nose ?)
Up in the sky
.When That goes by
Then the white-robed flocks in horror fly.
From the voices flat, and the screeches high,
Each hurried seraph goes.
(And they don’t fly slowly
From the holy
Noise of the Holy Joes !!)
N.S.W.
THE VERGER.


There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harmful drug.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY,
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements PrjOMPt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
There is not the least danger in givino-
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harmful drug.*
Commonwealth needs to guard its shores is an
airship and a few bottles of fleet-destroyer.
* * * *
In Bedford’s maiden melodrama none of
the things that happen ashore are so flagrantly
absurd as the situations that arise in many an im-
ported shocker. The blood-and-gunpowder scenes
of the second act were stronger in suggestion than
in effect, on Saturday. The stage management
was weak, and the supers who fired off their rifles
or perished in the attempt gave a deplorable ex-
hibition of how not to do it. The play was
somewhat “cruelled” by their performance
until it went up into the clouds. From that time
Bedford’s audacious authorship—or, rather, air-
ship—is all to blame. He makes too great a
demand on the scenic artist and mechanist, who
have given him good support. He overtaxes
their strength when he introduces the pantomimic
flight of an aerial vehicle that starts from Port
Darwin (with the surviving principals all aboard),
and motors right along to Sydney. The tableau
curtain was dropped and raised again on
Saturday, until the gods grew tired of
“ WHITE AUSTRALIA ” AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
TEMPLE HARRISON
as Gam Webster.
HARRY DIVER
as Yarnamota.
gazing at an outline map of their glorious con-
tinent covered by a Southern Cross flag. Several
promising young Australians have died for their
country ere its saviour, Roy Redgrave, goes
careering through space. Dalgleish and Max
Clifton drop out of the play, each with a bullet in
a vital spot. Veteran Stirling Whyte is stabbed
by a fat Chow whilst wiring the news that a con-
federation of colored races has declared war
against Australia. The one and only white villain
of the piece (he owes his meanness to an English
education, it appears) is said to he dropped out of
the airship, but his brown colleague (Harry Diver)
disappears without leaving a hint of his where-
abouts. It would all be very exciting if one could
take it seriously. This is what one doesn’t. In
short, Randolph Bedford must profit by experi-
ence and write a more convincing play next time.
Roy Redgrave, as the hero, makes no
strenuous effprt to conquer the difficulties of his
part. He arid the unimpressive leading lady
(Miss Helen Vigors) are two or three times tied to
trees, or other pieces of stage furniture, and con-
demned to converse with one another whilst thus
restrained from suiting the action to the word.
Edmund Duggan, the heavy White Australian
father, is also tied to a tree. The worst use to
which an author can put an actor is to tie him to
a tree. He can’t move an audience if he is unable
to hlmself. Harry Diver delivers his pro-
Jap Hpes with incisive emphasis ; Dunbar is the
miscreant who sells his country to Japan ; Temple
Harrison is a patriot who drinks heavily ; Bert
Bailey scores as a humorous black-tracker ; and
there are other people, white and colored, in
minor parts, the women characters being the
weaker sex all the time;
¥* * *
The Her Majesty’s, which doth hedge “A
King of Cadonia,” is now hedging that songful
potentate for the third week, and he is going to
be shaved every evening until further notice.
Next Thursday the Melbourne University students
(who for some obscure English reason call them-
selves ‘"’varsity boys”) will witness the ceremony.
** * *
Also, the run of “The Hypocrites” at
Melbourne Royal is being prolonged, by permis-
sion of the local clergy. The meek-spirited young
woman, with the fine pair of eyes, will provide
an object-lesson in submission for another fort-
night presumably; and then the Oscar Asche-Lily
Brayton Co. from Britain is to open its expensive
proceedings in “ The Taming of the Shrew ” —not
“Count Hannibal,” as was first intended. As a
contrast to the gentle sufferer in “The Hypo-
crites,” the rampageous Katharine whom Shak-
speare drew will be like the proverbial storm that
follows a lull.
** * *
The reappearance of “A Royal Divorce,”
at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday, was marked
by the usual chorus of generous approval. The
play is now a trifle under-fresh in appearance.
The scenery, with the exception of a quartette of
tableaux, looks slightly faded and old. The fur-
niture of the Buonaparte residences seems to wear
a frown of paling elegance. Only the royal
initials—surrounded by their symbolic wreaths of
vegetation—smile, bland, brilliant and dapper,
from the bulk of the cabinetware and domestic
utensils: The effect, therefore, is to suggest
that a genteel penury is creeping into the rather
dingy menage of the magnificent throne-jumper.
Napoleon himself, however, is the same oldimposing
monarch, oblivious alike of his palpably shabby
suite and the quietly perishing loveliness of his
armed guard. Julius Knight is pleasantly effective
as of yore. The gentle corporation, the eyes in
heavy mourning, the hint of a tired sunset in his
hair^—these are three spectacular assets that aid
the presentment. Miss Beatrice Day makes just
the lady-like and doting Josephine that is wildly
popular, though the part is hardly up to her best
work. Miss Elsie Wilson is seen as the haughty
second Mrs. Buonaparte, and is character-
istically important, •if a little melodramatic.
Miss Florence Gleeson is piquant and cheeky
enough as Stephanie de Beauharnais, and
Miss Ethel Phillips, as Blanche, is recorded for
the nice way she prattles her two or three lines.
•Leslie Victor, with his finished elocution, is quite
a likeable Talleyrand, and George Chalmers may
be noted for a tolerable sketch of Grimaud, the
innkeeper, the part that Athol wood “created”
for Australia. As for Harry Plimmer, he com-
ports himself dashingly in the scarlet pants of
General Augereau ; but the other gentlemen who
have aught to say are mostly poor and uncon-
vincing.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia West is also
featuring the domestic infelicities of Mr. and Mrs.
Buonaparte, but the picture lacks impressiveness,
because Boney himself is not quite de rigueur.
He is meek and undersized, and looks about as
imperial as a suburban grocer. The terror of
tyranny and the greater terror of revenge are well
illustrated in “The Buffoon,” and the sporting pro-
clivities of the Javanese, who appear to make sport
out of the whole animal creation, are mentioned
lengthily in “Races at Surakarta.” The swift
punishment that befalls a man who collaborates
with another gentleman’s wife is breathlessly
revealed in “ A Mexican Drama” ; and “ Children
of the Plains,” another thriller, is so overloaded
with violence, Indians and bucking bronchos that
juveniles in the audience go mad with excitement.
** * *
A special flight of Wilbur Wright’s aero-
plane before the King of Italy and other notabili-
ties, is now the flicker de luxe of Tait’s programme
at Melbourne Town Hall; but a picture, more
appealing to the great, throbbing heart of the
masses is “Beautiful, but Destitute.” This dis-
plays with quite an artistic naturalness the adven-
tures of a damsel who bravely resists the siren
call of Vice ; and ends up in a most satisfactory
and lovable manner. Another picture that is a
heart-render of great pathos is “Convict 99.”
But there is one prime sensation in it that is a
trial to this paper’s credulity. It asserts that a
noble convict, about to be discharged from prison,
enthusiastically changes places with another who is
serving a “ lifer.”
“ 0.K.” speaks a piece about Jones :
Talking of “The Hypocrites” and its weak ending-, I
am struck by the fact that all the alleged best plays of
that anxious moralist, Henry Arthur Jones, have been
carefully withheld from this country. For instance,
“Michael and his Lost Angel,” or “The Crusaders,” or
“ The Triumph of the Philistines.” What was the matter
with those plays, in the London performance of them,
that no Australian manager brought them along? I take
it that there was too much of Jones’s Pharisaism in the
stories. Jones is, in all the plays of his that I have seen,
the cynic who went wrong— i.e., the “drummer” who
discovered a serious mission in life. He was a commercial
traveller before he found his higher intellect and began
to study the Bible anevvin search of plots. The intellectual
attitude of Jones is explained in the Tennysonian quota-
tion which expresses the moral'purpose of “ The Silver
King.” His collaborateur in that early effort (Henry
Hermann) was a plain, godless melodramatist, with a
talent for sensational-plot construction, and he didn’t
care twopence whether the plot taught a lesson or other-
wise. But H. A. Jones ! O Lor ! He provided a text for
the beautiful sermon :
I hold it true, with him who sings
To one clear harp in divers tones,
That men may rise on stepping stones
Of their dead selves to higher things.”
He was thinking of his own dead self—his commercial-
travelling personality—when he rang in that quote. In
his mind he altered the last two lines to—
That men who’d rise to higher things
Must have the wings of H. A. Jones.
And wheresoever there was an opportunity for a prayer
to Heaven, or a warning to bad young men, to be dragged
into “The Silver King,” the converted “ drummer ” got
there. Of course, he put a lot of bright, effective
writing into the drama, but the secret as “to how much
more snuffle he would have put in but for the restraining
influence of Hermann, is now buried in the grave.
Every play by Jones which I can call to mind has filled
me with amazement that a writer of his abilities should
have elected himself a sort of spiritual president of the
Church and Stage Guild. There is no doubt that he and
his contemporary, Sydney Grundy, should have swapped
names. H. A. Jones is the Air. Grundy of modern
dramatic literature. He thinks himself a shockingly'
outspoken purist and a fine, broad-minded devil of a
preacherin such playsas “The Hypocrites,” “The Liars,”
• “The Masqueraders,” etc., but ail the time he is wedded
to Airs. Grundy. The idea, voiced by “ Silas” in a recent
Poverty Point, that Jones “makes paltry concessions to
the managerial craving for happy endings” is quite
erroneous, I believe.
Jones starts off with a “ moral ” ending in view. Why
should he make concessions, seeing that “Mrs. Tan-
queray,” with its horribly unhappy ending, has been a
greater business success than any of his own plays? It
is he, and not the managers, who insist on offering up a
sacrifice to the god of Respectability in the last act.
Look at “ The Masqueraders ”1 In the third act the wife
of a drunken savage of a baronet is content to let her
“ respectability ”be staked on a game of cards. A noble-
minded astronomer, who adores her, proposes to do a
gamble for her with her lawful owner, and she consents
to the game. The astronomer wins, but when it comes
to the question of the handing over of the lady both he
and she are too moral to act up to the contract. In
“ The Liars” there is the same display of moral scruples
on the author’s part. A brave, honest man loves a
married woman. Certainly she is at first a contemptible
coquette—one of the hot-and-cold females commonly
known as “ teasers”—but the hero loves her, and would
take her off her husband’s hands. Just when she has
arrived at a sincere affection for this whole-hearted
adorer, Jones converts his play to respectability, and pins
a copy of the Ten Commandments on its chest. Instead
of going off with her hero, the young matron goes off to
supper with hubby to a highly-respectable restaurant.
Again “ The Case of Rebellious Susan ” is finished off with
a coating of conventional whitewash, if I remember
rightly.
It is H. A. Jones who writes in the sacred cause of
“Respectability,” for Respectability’s sake, rather than
the public who ask him to put the fear of God into his
characters at the finish. He shows us what easy Liars
and Hypocrites and Mi' gable Sinners we are, revealing
his original bagman sympathy with human nature in the
first three acts of his plays. Then he changes suddenly
to the Jones who has risen to higher things, and compels
his heroes and heroines to an unnatural repentance. Bv
the way, one of the first plays that H. A. Jones wrote
“on his own’’after quarrelling with his “Silver King”
collaborateur, was called “Saints and Sinners.” From
the outset he was a preacher, and in this 25-year-old play
as in “The Hypocrites,” he led the giddy young seducer
to repentance, and compelled him to marry the girl.
** * #
At Melbourne Opera House the name
of Cinquevalli is as attractive as ever, and the art
of that mighty juggler shines from the centre of
the bill. It is an unusually strong bill just now.
Blake and Granby came along on Saturday with a
comedy sketch of a domestic upheaval, in which
Blake or Granby smashes things in all directions.
Woottwell and the Meisters and Cull Pitt are still
in evidence; also the joyous Sprightly Sisters,
whose three united ages are said to amount to no
more than sixty, are putt’ng in three “turns” of
light-hearted fooling with good results. If they
were to rub the rough edges off their speech, and,
put a little more music into their voices, the
Sprightly trio would be just It. Another pair of
sketchers—Lawson and Namon—were due at the
Opera House last Monday. On the word of the
ttickards ad vt. The Bulletin assumes that L. and
N. have arrived on the scene and are doing well.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Locust ” : Evangelactor Chapman came down one
night, in Sydney Town Hall, and said he had been asked
whether an evangelist could be a Christian—no, I am
wrong. He was asked whether a Christian could play
cards or go to the theatre. I have read his reply in ail
the papers there are, and I am hopelessly mixed as to
how he stands. As far as I can get a glimmering, he
thinks that there are some kinds of people who can
play cards and be Christians, or some kindfe of cards that
can be played and be Christians, or some kinds of theatres
in which you can play cards and be Christians, or some
kinds of Christians who can be theatres and play cards
or play theatres and be cards or be Christians and play
theatres. It’s something like that. I only know for cer-
tain that the things got mixed up with Hell and Judg-
ment and the rattling of the collection; boxes and the
hymn tunes. I have got partially converted to the Chap-
man view myself, by the way, and have given up several
things to a very great extent, for the present.
The glories of London’s Shaftesbury Theatre, where
George Musgrove made a fortune with “ The Belle of New
York,” have been revived by Robert Courtneidge’s pro-
duction of “ The Arcadians.” Courtneidge spent a lot of
money on improvements in the house before he staged
the new show, which is a novelty in musical comedy, with
a Gilbertian strain of fanciful humor and sentiment in
plot and dialogue. Critics speak of the opening scene as
a reminder of Gilbert’s least successful fairy play, “The
Wicked World,” though the. natives of Arcadia are not
fairies, but merely mortal miracles of rustic innocence.
The Great Sea Serpent, who supplies Arcadia with news,
has given the local girls a terrible account of city life ;
therefore, when the head of a Cockney catering firm
happens to land in Arcadia from his airship, the in-
habitants convert him into one of themselves, and
christen him Smith Simplicitas, and- compel him
to ship them all to London on a mission of
sweetness and light. They stop, in the first place,
at a woodland enclosure, said to be a “ dream ”
of stage scenery—and finish up at a restaurant conducted
on Arcadian lines in Piccadilly. Newspaper notices have
exhausted their stock of adjectives in praise of the show.
It is “ bewilderingly beautiful,” and so forth. Court-
neidge himself, in a letter to a Melbourne friend, reckons
that the second act is the finest thing he has ever set up.
His production of “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream ” —the.
one that Musgrove brought to Australia—entitles him to
speak with authority on spectacular effects. Moreover,
he reckons that “ The Arcadians ” will run for a year.
The “ libraries ” or ticket dealers rushed in and bought
reserved seats for three months ahead, the total amount
of the deal being a record in that sdrt of speculation.
In these cases the piece and the embellishments are
accepted as a certain draw without regard to the indi-
vidual merits of performers. The dealers take the risk of
an epidemic of “ indisposition ” among the principals.
They back the horse rather than the jockey.
“ Gamboge ” : The deceased scenic artist, W. J. Wilson,
was a rare mine of Thespian reminiscences. He came
from London to Melbourne in 1854, and was employed at
the Queen’s Theatre. He was cradled in the profession,
his father being an excellent scenic artist. Wilson
remembered peeping through the green-baize curtain of
Drury Lane before it rose on the Christmas pantomime
of “ Good Queen Bess.” Queen Victoria, Prince Albert,
and the present King Edward, then eight years old, were
in the royal box. W. J. Wilson was a good actor as well'
as artist. It was feared that an accident on the stage of
the Melbourne Queen’s would end his career, but he went
on working far longer than any of his then contemporaries.
Wilson got the job from Coppin for painting the huge
Siege of Sebastopol, shown behind the lake at Cremorne
Gardens, Melbourne, with a bursting of bombs and
fireworks, which was the delight of Richmond.
While these bombs were going the local kiddies
couldn’t be got to bed before ten o’clock. Wilson
was at Coppin’s Olympic (Melbourne), under the
management of R. and F. Younge in 1858. There he gave
his clever performance of Robin Wilabriarin “Extremis.”
After that, he was mostly identified with Sydney, except
as regards his management of Melbourne Bijou with
Majeroni. He and Majeroni ran the Sydney Opera House,
at the corner of York and King streets, Sydney. In those
days the Sydney theatres ranked in order of importance
somewhat as follows : (1) Royal—the old mouldy Royal
before the fire and the rebuilding ; (2) Opera House—a
plain, match-box, combustible kind of place, all upstairs,
and withr a pub u'nderneath ; (3) Gaiety—though the
Gaiety proprietary claimed that its theatre came next to
the Royal ; (4) Royal Standard ; (5, 6, and 7) Academy of
Music, New Masonic Hall, and Alhambra ; (8) any
anonymous hole or tent or sundry that happened
to transpire. Her Majesty’s, the Criterion, Tivoli,
Palace, and Lyceum were all unbuilt in those
days. Majeroni and Wilson at the Opera House
ranked next in importance to Wiliamson, Garner and
Musgrove ; for Brough and BouCicault, though just about
due, hadn’t appeared on the scene. As for Harry
Rickards, he was merely a luckless wanderer, and his
great good fortune hadn’t begun. Bland Holt was in
other lands. But Wilson was an easy-going manager.
Majeroni, clever as he was, could only do good work
when he played stately historical characters, .and there
was the same trouble with his wife ; as Marie Antoinette
or Queen Elizabeth she was magnificent, but neither of
them would have been worth their salt in “ The Kelly
Gang,” or “ East Lynne,” or “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
The Opera House, which looked like the inside of a bonnet
box, faded ; and the firm of Majeroni and Wilson also
faded. The brilliant Majeroni and his equally brilliant
wife are both dead, and now Wilson has followed them.
The last-named might have made money by writing his
reminiscences, for he wrote well, and his reminiscences
were innumerable; blithe hadn’t the self-confidence which
makes the successful land-agent or revivalist preacher,
and he neglected his opportunities.
“Billy T.”: Ted Kalman, a babbling vaudeville
comedian, has been called upon to pay £lO for smiting a
Maoriland journalist who tried to give the public a
thorough understanding of his defects. Most pressmen
who “do the shows” have had to deal with outraged
innocents like Kalman. Had a narrow escape myself a
few years back, when I was introduced to the mild, male
partner of a bright, not-too-particular vaudeville star in
a Melbourne bar. “ What,” he said, “you’re the bloke
who wrote tha6 about me in the Aokous ?” “ Yes,” I re-
plied. He held his long sleever threateningly. , “ I’d
throw this over you, you cow,” he said, “if”- — “If
what ?” I asked. “If it wasn’t beer ! ” said he, gloomily.
The soul of the stage super is glad, and he makes a loud
noise on an instrument of three strings. At Melbourne
King’s his wage has been raised from 12s. 6d. a week
to 15s.
“Locust”: Ada Ward’s posters are up in Sydney
(posters, I said!) —“the actress-evangelist.” (Why not
the evangelactrice?—a good new word 1) Butit’s notgood
business, from the showman’s point of view, coming here
after the big combination. Rather like a side show coming
along after Barnum’s. Still, she may get good houses
from the crowded-outs of the big soul-sating season ; as
all the theatres benefit from a big attraction at one of
them—they get the overflow and the theatre-going'habit
is encouraged, like the cursed derrrrrinnnkk 1 Getting
saved is the latest craze, following upon the Merry W'idow
hat. Some people, the oftener they get saved, the more
they like it. These evangelist people should come here
oftener, until we acquire a national taste for getting
saved, like some of the surf bathers.
“ Harrison O.” : Every second performer in London’s
music-halls at present is billed as a dancer of some kind
or other. Sometimes she is just a beautiful girl who
wriggles her beautiful naked body and twists her nice
bare limbs. Sometimes she does all of these things, only
she isn’t beautiful—then she calls herself “ Salome,” and
describes her stunt as “classical dancing.” Sometimis
she writhes and postures with fancy snakes and miscel-
laneous reptiles coiled about various parts of her. Some-
times she high-kicks, sometimes she merry-widows,
sometimes she does La Danse, des Apaches ; but the
very latest one dream-dances. “Dream-dancing,” by
one Magdeleine(if I have occasion to refer to her by name
again I shall call her Mary Jones, for the sake of conveni-
ence), aided and abetted by “Professor” Magnin, is at
present transpiring at London Palace. Miss Jones takes
the stage with the Professor, who proceeds to hypnotise
her. This operation only takes a couple of minutes, and
upon its completion the Pro. retires to the wings. Mary re-
mains in an inert condition, like a heavily-lunched snake,
until the orchestra strikes up a tune. At the first note
she stirs, and after that her dancing, it is alleged, gives
expression to the thoughts embodied in the music. In
this manner she interprets many and various composi-
tions (some of them named by members of the audience
and played and interpreted right away). There is evi-
dently a certain amount of merit in the strange perform-
ance, for the Timks takes the lady very seriously. Re-
garding her “ Marseillaise” stunt, it remarks “ She is the
very embodiment of human passion and blood-lust.”
Emma Earnes, the great operatic singer, is up against a
remarkable lawsuit. She came into cpntact profes-
sionally with one De Gogorza, a baritone, and now his
wife sues her for “alienation of husband’s affec-
tion.” It is expressly set out that no immorality is
alleged, but that Mrs. Eamcs has “cast a spell over” De
G. ; and the wife reckons the spell worth £lO,OOO.
“0.K.” : Cinquevalli in Melbourne revives memories of
poor Dante, the conjurer, who died of somebody’s gun
going off whilst out on a rabbit-shooting expedition. The
conjurer and the juggler formed a pretty close friendship
in Melbourne what time the one was performing at
St. George’s Hall and the other at the Bijou ; and
Cinquevalli, when they parted, presented the tricky
American (Dante was said to be a Salt Lake citizen of
Mormon parentage) with a beauteous gold watch, in-
scribed, as a souvenir. He didn’t carry it for long. In
December of the same year he met his fate. The incident
happens to be a reminder also of the fact that the
Rickards’show, always associated with the Opera House
—old and new—in the minds of Melbourne people,was
for 18 months located at the old Bijou. It was there that
Cinquevalli, the Newsky Family of Russian dancers, Irene
Franklin, Paul Martinetti, the Haytors, and other notable
“turns” made their first appearance.
“ U.S.”: Apropos the Yid performance of “ The Jewess ”
in Melbourne, under Manager Weisberg. He attended a
splendid performance given of the “ Merchant of Venice,”
in the Fifth Avenue Theatre, New York. Shylock was
acted in Yiddish by Jacob Adler, the greatest actor of
that kind. H. R. Roberts, now in Sydney, was onfe" of
the other performers. Only Adler spoke Yiddish.
Roberts acted David Cohen in Zangwill’s “ Children of
the Ghetto,” staged at San Francisco. Wilton Lackaye,
the original Svengali, performed Ben Shemuel. Bertha
Kalich, the Shebrew, is one of the finest American
actresses ; and Warfield, the American leading actor, is a
Jew: He recently accepted £40,000 for a London season.
Adler’s Yid performance of Shylock, with English-speaking
comrades, is a reminder of Rossi andSalvini, the Italians,
acting in America on the same plan ; and Edwin Booth
acted Hamlet in Berlin with German support. Ristori,
however, learnt English to act Lady Macbeth with
William Rignold, though she might have done better had
she stuck to Italian.
“Snell”: The Clarke, Meynell and Gunn appeal to
Melbourne parsons to roll up and inspect “ The Hypo-
crites ”on the nod was a scheme that didn’t. The clergy
didn’t rush the show, and those who lagged in supplied
no views that were really worth publishing. It is under-
stood that a few ghostiy discomforters were shocked at
a minister of grace being depicted as a shameless world-
ling whose gizzard was his god, and they thought the
Vicar’s adoration of his lower waistcoat part should be
cut out. Otherwise they extended mild approval to the
play, but were reluctant to approve publicly. Tacit
approval is no good to a theatre; it wants its apprecia-
tion on an eight-sheet poster in five colors hung on the
outer wall of the temple. This attempt to secure the
church as an advertising agent failed ; but there are large
possibilities in the idea, and parsons may be induce)! to
adopt it some day. The clergyman who commences
interlarding his sermons with advts., and gives two-inch
puffs next praying matter may presently rise superior to
the plate.
AN ACTOR TO AN EX-ACTRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lam going back to the stage. But I am not going as
an actress. I shall get into every theatre I can. I intend
to go upon the stage in England during the rehearsals
for the pantomime and try and save the performers,
especially the poor, innocent girls, and prevent them
drifting from bad to worse.— Remarks of Ex-Actress
Ada Ward.
We thank you, Miss A. Ward—well, I, for one, do;
As all the lost will, once it’s understood
Back to the stage you go—forgive the pun, do !
To make bad actors good !
How we have got along these years without you
Passes one’s comprehension. You’ve been missed !
Come to our arms again, though others flout you,
Lady Evangelist I
Rehearsals daily—oh, vve waste time badly !
With evening shows and matinees and things,
Leave us with hours in which to welcome gladly
An angel without wings.
So come, angelic female, quickly enter
The Early Door, and, when you’ve passed through it,
Oh, take the stage once more—of course the centre—
We’ll listen—from the Pit!
We’ll stop rehearsals for you. It won’t hurt us
To let the new production slide. What odds
To disappoint the public? You’ll convert us,
Lost darling of the gods 1
And yet, Miss Ward, I’d ask —please, answer, would
you ?
Are you on saving us indeed intent ?
Ex-actresses the value know—or should do—
Of bold advertisement!
We would be saved— a better state we’d bless it!
And here’s the prayer I’d offer to the Lord :
“For all our sins—they’re many, vve confess it—
Save us—from Ada Ward ! ”
S. A.
EARDLEY TURNER.
TO AN OLD COAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old coat, my friend of other years,
You set my thoughts away a-flying-,
When in your pockets sadly worn
All carelessly I went a-prying.
Old friend, you had your little joke
VV'hen you my dormant niem’ry woke.
A check—row D, seats five and six.
Now, who?—ah, Mab !—no, it was Mary—
You of the moods which oft I thought
Were charming and yet most contrary.
Or was it Phyllis ?—Yes, ’twaS she
Who sat with me, seat five, row D.
“ Received the sum—for board a deux
From Saturday and unto Monday.”
, Ah, Chloe, Chloe, we escaped
The roving eye of Mrs. Grundy.
And yet who knows \yhat might have been
Had you said nay that March sixteen?
And here we have a tattered sheet
From Ethelwyn, with many kisses.
She wept (how I remember it!)
When I took note of other misses.
Hear little girl, you were just eight;
You cut me now you’ve grown sedate.
A hairpin ; and a ticket on
A certainty that never started.
Old friend, your pockets take me back
To joys and pains of days departed ;
And yet you wake not dead desire;
Old friend, I cast you to the fire.
VICTORIA.
GORDON MASSEY.


OUR D.J. RUG
AT 19s.
Pure .Australian Wool
measures 60in. x 72in.
Usual Price - -21 s,
SALE Price - - 19 s.
We send it carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Sale begins June 28th, ends July 24th.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A CHARMING PRESENT!
Necklet, New and Choice Design. Solid Gold, set with Real Pearls
and Amethysts, Pearl and Garnets or Topaz. Price £3 10s.
Our Catalogue is posted Free to Any Address.
OUR SPECIAL.
v-;.;
SSSkJSf
Lady’s Solid Oct. Gold Hand-
some Keyless Lever Watch,
warranted for five years. Post
Free to any address, £3 10s.
Superior Quality, £5 ss.
We Pay Postage on all Orders.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Sydney City Improvement Commis-
sion has issued its scheme for the patching of the
haphazard old metropolis. It is only a case of
patching after all, but it seems a fairly good
article of its kind. The scheme includes :
(1) An underground city electric railway system, as a
partial repairing of the blunder of the White Elephant
at Redfern.
(2) Elizabeth-street. to be levelled down and widened to
100 ft.—doubtless at the expense of the park.
(3) Sussex-street, which is now only the bottom of a
sack, to be widened to 90ft. and carried right round the
waterside to Circular Quay.
(4) A new and greatly improved Pyrmont Bridge to be
constructed.
(5) The muddy head of Darling Harbor to be reclaimed.
(6) A great widening and regrading of George-street
West, Cathedral-street, Womerah-avenue, Oxford-street,
William-street, Bayswater-road, Wells-street, Macquarie-
street, Coliege-street, Elinders-street, Eveleigh-street,
Randwick-road, etc., etc. In all these streets there is to
be a cutting down of humps and filling in of hollows.
Moore-street is to be extended to Macquarie-street, and
King-street to the Domain.
(7) About a dozen new streets to be opened. Darling-
hurst Gaol, the Law Courts and the Land Titles office to
be shifted. George-street to be extended in a straight
line to Dawes Point.
(3) Etc., etc., etc., etc.
It is a gigantic scheme —in fact, about twice as
gigantic as the above summary would indicate—
for repairing the follies of our short-sighted
ancestors. How many millions the astonishing,
yet inevitable bill will run into it is difficult to
sty —it will certainly cost more than the whole
city was worth 40 years ago. And the other side
of the matter is that the cost is increasing every
day, so the longer the community looks before it
leaps the bigger the unavoidable leap will be.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to see how anything
can be doue to advantage until Gregory Wade is
politically dead. To let loose that amazing and
shiftless borrower on a scheme like this seems
suicidal. As one aspect of the case—Wade has a
passion for litigation, which makes him ready and
willing to go to law in a hopeless case concerning
a packet of pins, and to drag the matter by the
hair right up to the Privy Council before he lets
go. If such a man got loose on hundreds of re-
sumption eases, N.S.W. would have to offer
assisted passages to immigrant barristers and
solicitors, and lease Judges from the other State
Governments.
The voice of the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos the Riley estate and old Tom Burdekin (B.
24/6/'O9). The Woolloomooloo estate formed the great
part of the Riley property. It was an area of 100 acres
handed out bv grant to John Palmer on February 20,
1793 “Wolomoloo” House was built by Palmer, and
stood on Palmer-street, about 200yds. from William-
street. This writer has an original drawing by John Eyre
of the house and grounds. There were about five acres ot
garden in front of the house, extending to where the
Woolloomooloo lockup now is. A clear stream of water
ran bv here into the harbor. On 10th May, 1822, the
Sydney Gazette contained a notice of the transfer of thi
estate : “ The sale of the Wolomoloo estate, postponed on
account of the weather, took place on Thursday, the 2nd
instant, when it was purchased on trust, for Mrs. Ann
Riley for £2290.” The house and all the grant were leased
at various times to Archdeacon Scott, Miss Saxe Bannister.
Dr. James Bowman, and others at £l7O per year. Edward
Riley’s will provided that when the youngest of seven chil-
dren came of age, the grant was to be divided into seven por-
tions. Before the event, however, one of the sons, George,
borrowed money from Thomas Burdekin on his seventh
interest. To secure payment of the bond, Burdekin
moved the Supreme Court, and obtained a decree on
June 25, 1841, for the subdivision of the estate and the
enforcement of his right to George Riley’s share. Chief
Justice Dowling, on October 8. 1841, appointed E. J. H.
Knapp, John Armstrong, W. M. Brownrigg and V. C. F.
Wilson to report, to the Supreme Court. The two first-
named surveyed the Wolomoloo estate, and the last-
named two the Surry Hills estate,, which was south of
Oxford-street. The Board held 70 meetings ; exhaustive
returns and valuations were made by Edward Flood,
John Thompson (Deputy-Surveyor-General, who bought,
an allotment in William-street and built there about the
oldest house now surviving), and John Blackman, an
auctioneer of the time. After providing for streets
and lanes in the “Wolomoloo” portion, extend-
ing from the Old South Head Road (now Oxford-
street) to the original high-water mark at “ Wolo-
moloo ” Bay, the Commissioners declared the
value to be £97,274. Dots were drawn, each of
the seven interested securing his portion. The old
house had been allowed to go to ruin, but in 21 years
Mrs. Riley’s £2290 bad grown to £97,274. Tom Burdekin’s
seventh (George Riley’s that was) lay, or rather lies, for
it is still in the Burdekin family, on the western side of
the grant towards the water, below Cathedral-street..
Tom Burdekin had other interests, and larger ones, in
the Surry Hills portion of the Riley estate, and the un-
earned increment benefited the owner largely.
A NEW ACQUISITION.
“ I've got a head this morning right enough.”
“ Well, that's something, anyhow. You were
always behind before."
Melbourne adds another unexplained
murder to its long, long list. A while back an
aged widow was slaughtered at Richmond, and
the Law, as usual, took the line of least resistance.
That is to say it arrested the nearest man. His
name happened to be O’Sullivan, but that had no
special connection with the matter. The Law could
hardly raise a speck of evidence against O’Sullivan,
but it raised what it could, and then sat down to
wait till the trial fell due. At the trial the police
case proved so absurdly weak that the Judge put
his foot through it in disgust, and directed the jury
to acquit. By this time, of course, the real
criminal has had weeks in which to flee from the
scene of trouble, and any clues which might have
pointed his way have faded, or been mislaid, or
been obliterated by many feet. But the police
aren’t likely to look for any further criminal. The
simple logic of the force is that it always arrests
the right man, and his acquittal is only a mis-
carriage of justice ; and the acquitted man being
the right man it is no use looking for any other
man, as every other man would be the wrong man.
Another old Sydney landmark is likely to
go down in the scuffle. The authorities of the
old Presbyterian Church, at the rear of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral and adjoining the Town Hall
lands, want to sell to the City Council for £9500.
The ancient building was commenced in 1833, the
foundation stone being laid by Colonel Kenneth
Snodgrass, the grandfather of Janet Clarke just
deceased. The Rev. John McGarvie was first
minister, and held the pulpit until his death
(April, 1853) in the manse in Kent-street. Colonel
Snodgrass at that time lived in the house which
stands on the N.-W. corner of Kent and Bathurst
streets, owned by Dr. J. D. Lang. There was an
acre of ground, having frontages to Bathurst,
Kent and Sussex streets. Dr. Lang parted with
the property in order to keep his Australian
College, in Jamieson-street, going. Dr. McGarvie
died worth £13,000. Dr. Lang passed out in 1879
leaving no assets at all.
* * * ♦
The beery railway passenger who hangs a
limp arm out of one of Johnson’s suburban rail-
way windows, or waves the claw of a crayfish at
somebody in a passing train, has a good deal of
luck if he takes both hands home with him. Bor
it came out during the hearing of an action in the
Sydney Jury Court the other day that, though the
up and down lines are 6ft. apart, if a door swings
it escapes a train on the other line by only lin. In
this case, in fact, it didn’t escape the other train
at all; evidently the carriage felt beery itself, and
swayed a trifle, and so the swinging door ripped
off the iron guard-rail of the carriage that it
bumped against. Unfortunately for Johnson, a
senior-constable of police had an elbow at the
back of the guard-rail; and after he had been
several months in the hospital the jury decided
that he was entitled to £1250 out of Johnson’s
expected railway surplus.
“Philoyid”: A mischievous recent de-
velopment is the appearance in Australia of the
Society for the Conversion of the Jews. Some
fanatic is putting money into
it, and it is a great drinker
of cash, for the reports are
said to show that each con-
version costs £BOO. Doubt-
less when you have got the
victim he is not , worth
having. He is only a Rice
Christian. Rabbi Cohen
has referred to this move in
preaching at the Sydney
Great Synagogue. It has
just turned up also in the
Melbourne Presbyterian
Assembly. If a Jew chooses,'
as a matter of conscience,
to take on Christianity his
fellow Hebraics think none
the worse of him ; but they
do object to having Stig-
gins and Chadband let loose
upon them, under subsidies,
and hound to justify a
sneaking existence by hir-
ing sham converts. It is
believed that the Jews
have increased from
4,000,000 to 10,000,000 in
the last 100 years. Atten-
tion may be directed to the
“Jewish Cyclopaedia,” with
its 12 large volumes, re-
cently issued in New York.
There you will see the
generous views taken by
the Hebrews
of Christ,
his Apos-
tles, and
the
New
Testa-
ment.
Subsi-
dised pro-
selytism,
in all di-
rections, is
a root of
bitterness.
“Hamer”: Revenge is the thing a man
takes when he gives him who has struck him a jab
in the stomach. It is said to be sweet. Not having
tasted it, I can’t say ; but I saw it in operation,
the other day, and it seemed satisfactory. I came
upon a disturbance at my favorite pub. The
landlady (a brawny female) was in the act of
placing a degenerate loafer on the pavement.
Her victim made a futile attempt to strike her,
and the cowardice of the action aroused the chival-
rous instincts of a dozen well-beered sailors, who
reeled out and wanted to fight the offender.
They also inquired how he dared strike
a woman. The woman, however, chased them
in again to where the beer-tree grew, and the
loafer brooded gloomily against a telegraph-
pole. Then an idea occurred to him. He
laughed wildly, and wrote something on a
piece of paper.' Then he crept quietly to the pub
door, slammed some mud on the wall, and stuck
the paper upon it. He regarded it for a minute ;
then burst into a yell of laughter and fled madly.
He was'revenged ! The paper simply stated that
the landlady'had big feet.
The grievously involved Victorian licens-
ing law° got into another tangle the other day,
when a P.M. decided that a window wasn’t a
door. The law allows a publican to serve a bona-
fide traveller on the Sabbath, but at the same
time insists that he shall keep his bar door locked
throughout the day, apparently intending him to
climb down the chimney or squeeze through the
keyhole to get at the beer-pump. So a Chelten-
ham publican put a small window, 21in. by 20in.,
in his door, and served his travellers by projecting
himself, through it, he being of slim build and
sinuous habit. The police considered this window
was a door, but the beak said it wasn t; so
another puncture was made in an Act which
begins to look more like a colander than a frying-
pan.
A MATTER OF NECESSITY.
HE: “ There goes young Brokely. He's promised
to give up drinking and smoking when he
marries the heiress.”
SHE: “ He'll have to give up eating soon if he
doesn't.”
The Council of Melbourne University pur-
poses establishing a course of “domestic tech-
nology,” with a view to raising the status of the
domestic servant, and making it possible for cooks
and laundresses to perfect themselves in their
profession. When Mary Ann, the iron-worker,
wears a cap and gown, and writes “C.E.” after
her name, and Bridget is a Bachelor of Tarts,
domestic service will have taken ori dignity, and
the superior person who now condescends to
nothing less than the position of lady help in a
tea-room may aspire to become Jane Jones,
D.C.L.— Doctor of Culinary Laws. The kitchen
female’s status has been a very lowly one, but it
is about to be elevated by degrees.
RIPE PLANETS AND BUSTED STARS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Professor Bickerton, the Maoriland scientist, lectured
on “The Romance of the Universe ” last evening- in the
King’s Hall, under the auspices of the Sydney Theo-
sophical Society. The whole formation of the Milky Way
was explained in a lucid manner, with here and there in-
teresting similes to liven the discourse. The lecturer re-
viewed the birth of the worlds, the explosion of a star,
atom-sorting, the fairy-realm of the real, the immort 1
Cosmos, the wonderful stars of the heavens, and the
ripening of a planet.— Daily Paper.
When wearied by the details of To-Day
1 love ’mid large and starry facts to stray,
And, for a space, forget my ills and bills
In contemplation of the Milky Way.
So, when some calm professor takes my hand,
And leads me up where never German band
Or organ-grinder goes, I thrill with joy,
And wade through clouds by angels’ wing-beats farm <l.
The breath of Heaven on my throbbing brow,'
I nod to all the stars and murmur, "Now,
Dear friends, we are alone ! And This shall tell
The wondrous plot of Whence we came —and How ! ”
Forthwith the lights within the crowded hall
Blink out, and of the mob we two are all
That walk on high. The shrill, top-hatted rest
In abject haste to lower levels fall.
And then I lean on Heaven’s golden har
Whilst the small Voice of Science from afar
Respectfully describes the blazing hate
And indignation of the bursting star.
Star-dust, like gems w'ind-driven by the breeze,
Blows up and down. (Some fragments large as peas
Oft sting the face. But most is very fine
And makes the harping Blest and angels sneeze.)
1 like to see the angels pause in doubt
And flap their wings and, furtive, look about
When they are on the complicated job
Of sorting little, gritty atoms out.
But when the planets ripen ! ! Ah ! ’tis bliss
To wander then where Dawn’s first, sleepy kiss
On God’s skv-orchard stirs the perfect spheres !
“Ripe loans,” I ruminate, “ ne’er equalled this!”
If worlds were WHAT? . . . The vote of thanks ! Oh,
DAMN!!
Once more from starry heights to earth I slam,
And, putting on my overcoat, go forth
To find a common, penny, earth-borne tram.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
ROCKEFELLER’S SOLILOQUY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know of nothing more despicable and pathetic than a
man who devotes all the waking hours of the day to
making money for money’s sake. 1f..1 were;4o years
younger, I should like to go into business again, for the
association with interesting and' quick-minded men was
always a great pleasure.— J. I), /v., in World’s Work.
The mail who works for Pelf alone is but a puny slave,
He grovels in the gravel from the cradle to the grave ;
He only lives to flay the poor and fleece his fellow-toiler,
Not his the strenuous Days and Ways of Me-the-Standard-
Oiler.
If I could start my life again, I’d keep to fashions lowly,
I’d never join the hustling crowds.that run a race unholy ;
I’d never let them call me “ John, the Rascally Despoiler,”
But play the saintly role that suits the gentle Standard
Oiler.
The Lowliness of Poverty, how genuinely I prize it;
The arrogance of worldly Pomp—how deeply I despise it,
My mind is bent on better things—and so, a . weary
moiler,
I bear the bitter load that bows the jaded Standard-
Oiler.
If I were young and free again I’d never think of self at
all;
I’d go ahead on business lines without a thought of pelf
at all ;
The world should find a foe to wealth —of Want and Woe
a toiler,
In John, who was in times agorie a rampant Standard-
Oiler.
But Time has gone too far with nie-rl can’t put back the
clock,
And so I’ll close my coffers down and shut the shining
lock,
And whet my knife and load my gun and watch the
greedy spoiler
Who casts an eye that’s covetous on John, the Standard-
Oiler.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNES BORN.


SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F.1.C., F.C.S.
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi-
mony to that of other scientific men on the
purity of Sunlight Soap, He reports:—
“Having analysed samples of Sunlight
Satip. purchased on open market, we have
pleasure in attesting to the especial purity
of Sunlight Soap. Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteration what-
ever. Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
smell of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap. Whilst it cannot
injure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet i*
will do its work thoroughly.”
There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harrhful drug.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
JSM
Healthy Wool Underwear
The most hygienic material for next-to-skin
wear this season is wool—Pure Wool.
Our Light Blue Underwear, so popular last
season, is again in demand this Winter, and
gives exactly what is required in this respect.
The material is not weighty, but, being closely
and evenly woven and supplied with long
sleeves, gives a fine genial warmth.
With every confidence we can recommend this
Underwear as exceptionally serviceable Winter
Wear, at a moderate price.
Price, either Singlet or Pants,
Give Chest measure for Shirt.
Give Waist measure for Pants.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
6/6
“ Blue Grass ” discourses upon the subject
of an ancient Club
The seventieth anniversary of the Melbourne Club has
just revolved. It was founded in 1839, and hung' out at
the Lamb Inn, which stood in Collins-street West,
opposite Scott’s, which was formerly the Clarendon. The
Lamb stood between Fawkner’s Hotel, on the corner of
Collins and Market streets, and Batman’s house, on the
c >rner of Collins and William streets, where the Austra-
lian Mutual Provident is now. The club shifted in time
from the Lamb to Fawkner’s, which had become a two-
storey building. It still stood on the site where .Johnny
began with a hut. This hut was standing until
about a quarter-century ago. I saw it, and
regretted that it could not be taken to pieces,
and set up in the Museum. The club advanced
from Fawkner’s to the Clarence, a more pre-
tentious pubbery on the corner of Elizabeth and Collins
streets. This place was long afterwards identified with
the poetic John Whiteman, M.L.A., and his wife, known as
Madanie Midas, the mining spectatress, daughter of con-
tractor Cornwell, who built the Opera House and the Exhi-
bition. He rivalled thatother big contractor, Dave Mitchell,
Melba’s dad. The Melbourne Club’s next place was a big-,
gloomy-looking, square, yellow-plastered mansion, of
damp and lazaretto-like aspect, standing in a square of
dank grass in Collins-street, opposite the Block,
on the site now occupied by the Bank of Victoria.
The club has another anniversary this year ; it is exactly
half a century since it moved into the’ present premises,
erected at a cost of £BO,OOO. There are some old eatings
and drinkings which the institution keeps in special
remembrance. First, it tore a bit of food with Governor
Canterbury', then Manners-Sutton, and hailed him as a
Heaven sent deliverer come to release the Fatman from
M'Cullochr.v and Higinbotbamy'. However, this was a
case of holloa-irig while the wood was still very thick.
Then there was a hall given, to the Duke of Edinburgh,
on which £2lOO was knocked down. This was intended
to eclipse that other extravagant function, the fancy' ball
at the Exhibition, in the rear of the Public Library'. But
the most remarkable piece of feeding' in the club’s history
was the dinner given to Captain Waddell and the officers
of the Confederate pirate Shenandoah. “ Confusion to
the American Union ” was uproariously drunk, out of
sympathy with the English Tories. This banquet was
regarded by the Yanks as a special grievance. Britain
kindly paid for it, along with the other breakages, in the
Alabama award. Lastly', the astounding fact may be
stated that, when Graham Berry began to fall away'
from his old-time Democratic virtues, he once attended a
soirbe at the Melbourne Club.
* * * *
Lands Minister McKenzie, of Victoria,
has just been listening to a remarkable yarn
about the Lai Lai racecourse. No races have
been held there for years; and, according to the
yarn before mentioned, certain of the old trustees
have been using the course for grazing sheep, and
the grandstand as a shearing shed. (Ikey Noses
also used it for that purpose, but that is a dif-
ferent matter.) Lately the race committee re-
suscitated itself, and the populace wants to go
backing gee-gees again ; but the trustees, who are
irresponsible and irremovable, dwell on their
legal rights, and go on grazing and shearing. The
only way out of the difficulty is tb appoint enough
new trustees to outvote the old ones, and Lands
McKenzie swears he’ll do that, even if he has to
appoint every man in Lai Lai.
HER REASONABLE PRICE.
BIG-UN : “ Miss Jobson's started to pvt on a lot
of dog.”
LITTLE-UN : “ Yes, Eve just asked her to dance
the next waltz.”
It is pretty hard work to dodge the
schoolmaster and the truant inspector these times.
Twenty years ago in N. S. Wales, when the State
hadn’t yet recovered from the evils of denomi-
national education, there was a steady average of
from 30 to 40 “ marksmen ” in every thousand who
signed the marriage register ; even as late as 1891
there were 31 crosses per 1000. Last year the
figures got to the lowest water-mark so far, with
only eight per 1000 ; and nearly all of them were
in the country districts—ls 7 out of the whole 202.
Soon, it seems, the only persons who will heed to
know how to draw a cross will be bishops, and
evening-paper reporters thirsting to let the public
know where the. bloodstains were found.
I he Sydney-Auckland syndicate which
bought the wreck of the United States
steamer A£on on Christmas Island,
appears to have fallen in. Pro-
<e ding from Auckland in
the scow Zingara the party
found that some plundering
Yankees from Hawaii or
Frisco, or other modern Tor-
toga, had got there first and
picked the bones of the de-
ceased ship clean. Practi-
cally everything but some
damaged timber and a few
sion s had been removed. At
Fanning Island the syndicate
learned that seveial steamers
had visited Christmas Isle,
and that one of them was
thoroughly equipped for
wrecking. While the Zin-
gara was lying by the wreck
a small steamer appeared in
the offing, but when the
Zingara sent up a couple
of flares the stranger extin-
guished lights and disap-
peared. The captain of the
scow concluded from this
that the Yankees had hidden
the cargo of the ACon on one
or more small islands in the
vicinity, and will remove it as
opportunity offers. Legiti-
mate wrecking seems to be an
unprofitable game. The men
who, clothed with proper-
authority, went forth to re-
cover the gold from the lost
Elingamite off the Three Kings
(M.L.) never recovered the price
of a drink, and it is now said to
be a sort of open secret that they
were anticipated by an unauthorised
recoverer or solicitor-on-the-seas, who
was eminently successful. There are two kinds
of wreckers. One waits till the lost vessel is put
up at auction, and then buys it and goes forth to
pick out the eyes of the dead. The other doesn’t
wa t; he just gets on board his pirate craft and
flies like blazes to the scene of action.
* * * -x-
Acting-Judge Rogers, of N.S.W., has laid
it down that “ a burglar, when caught red-handed
in a room, has no right to struggle at all.” Un-
fortunately, the average burglar never thinks of
taking his solicitor with him when he goes burgl-
ing, and for want of prompt legal advice he falls
into all manner of mistakes.
“ K.” : It takes a fearful time for China to
wake up. Ever since the day I read my first news
paper I have been accustomed to seeing the head-
line, “ The Awakening of China.” Some-
times it is in connection with strange
yellow political rows ; as a rule, though,
the Grossly Exaggerated Lizard only
wakes up to rid itself Of an accumulation
of foreign missionary. However, with
the awful Dowager oht of the way,
China seems to have awakened suffici-
ently to sit up in bed and blink thought-
fully at a few reforms. According to
Lian Lan Hsun, the new Consul-General,
who reached Sydney last week amid a
tremendous smell of joss-sticks, China is
contemplating parts of this programme,
and has other parts in active rehearsal :
1, compulsory education; 2, financial
reform ; 3, currency reform ; 4, army
and navy reform ; 5, post-office reorgani-
sation. Australia certainly is ahead of
the vegetable John country on educa-
tion ; and we at least mint a portion of
the precious metals that we drag out
of this country’s bosom. But the gam-
boge greengrocer is quite up with us as
regards defence. It is a depressing thing
to think that this country is now content
to let its four-in-hand walk respectfully
behind the hand-cart of the Dispenser of
Cabbages in the national procession ; but
that appears to be the situation.
A Melbourne court case lately dis-
closed a giddy old Lothario, with about
the most varied family on record; he
had been responsible for no less than 15
unwelcome little strangers, by about 13
different mothers. His pursuit of beauty
doesn’t seem to have hindered his
chase after wealth, as he owns six houses,
a square mile of land, and five cabs.
He owned six cabs till recently; but his
latest attraction —a widow—got so ex-
cited on learning the size of his record
that she first sawed the shafts off the
other vehicle, and then slew it with an
axe. After that she cooled down, and
asked the Court for 10s. a week—and
got the money.
The Chapman-Alexander missioners held a
final meeting of their converts before leaving
Sydney—4ooo converts all told. And when the
exhorters next pass this way the 4000 will be
ready for conversion all over again. The revivalist
convert is a very temporary animal—he is here
to-day and a land-agent to-morrow. In some
small American towns the great revival is an
annual affair, and much the same lot of miserable
sinners are gathered into the fold every time.
The local drunk—if he is an old-established and
deep-rooted drunk—has probably been saved as
often as 20 times. TheChapzander type of preacher
knows this so well that he doesn’t think it worth
while to be converted himself. There would
probably be no wilder man on earth than Chapman
if Alexander tried to save his soul after office
hours. It would be like one bagman showing his
samples to another.
A little-known Australian industry has
come to light in the S. A. law courts—the catching
of wild donkeys in the Northern Territory. A
semi-Afghan partnership was formed to exploit it;
but the white men who tried the game found they
had been exploited themselves. There were
supposed to be 4000 wild asses available, and one
witness swore he had seen them in “droves,” but
they “scattered like rabbits” when approached,
and were too fast in the hill country for any horses
locally available. Playful counsel had lots of fun
out of the case. “You have had plenty of ex-
perience with horses?” “Yes.” “But none
with donkeys—before you met the defendant ?
and so on. The neatest thing, however, was said
(unconsciously) by an inexperienced ass-snatcher.
“ There are plenty of donkeys in the hills,” he
wrote to Adelaide, “ but they come down to
the flats ? ” So the flat didn’t snatch any ass.
SHIPS THAT DRIFT
IN THE NIGHT.
SHE: “ We drifted apart.”
HE: “Ah! Married life too stormy, eh?”
SHE: “No. Too deadly calm!”
One Nathan Bear, of S. Melbourne, who
evidently had the idea that the law is an ass,
made the mistake lately of fooling about at the
wrong end of the animal. Originally he was pro-
ceeded against at St. Arnaud for a debt of
£9 Bs. 6d., and an order was made. As he didn’t
pay up he was invited to attend and explain
matters. He scorned that invitation likewise; so
the case was adjourned for a week, and Bear was
fined £3 to go on with. Next court day he was
still an absent Bear, so he- was fined £lO. As
matters didn’t look too pleasant, Bear sent his
lawyer to speak softly to J. Hrysdale Brown, the
Solicitor-General, and Brown reduced the two
fines to 20s. on condition that Bear paid com-
plainant’s costs—£3 11s. 6d. Bear sent
the 205., but instead of the costs he
forwarded an epistle in which he ex-
pressed his complete contempt of the
complainant, his lawyer, the St. Arnaud
Bench, the clerk of courts and every-
body concerned. Thereupon J. Drys-
dale Brown hastily withdrew his re-
commendation to mercy, or whatever
he called it, and once again the Law
told Bear to come to St. Arnaud and
explain his attitude. He went up the
day before he was wanted, paid £4
11s. 6d. and departed, leaving a lawyer
to do the explaining. But the beaks
said they didn’t want any lawyer, or
any reduced fine either—they wanted
Bear ; and as they endorsed the war-
rant “three months’ hard labor,” they
will probably get him.
France has been overhauling its navy, and
it feels a sinking in the place where it puts its
frog. The report says that ships are often ordered
before the plans are complete, and in the absence
of plans they are apparently built anyhow.
Gun s are not tested. They are so rotten that
the Mediterranean squadron has given up firing-
practice to avoid killing off its crews by the burst-
ing of its own weapons. The six big warships
now being built at a cost 50 per cent, above the
estimate will be ready by 1911, but their guns and
ammunition won’t be ready till 1914 or 1915 ; so in
the interval an enemy can carry them off without
them being able to fire a shot in their own de-
fence. And there isn’t a single graving dock
large enough to repair them in. The first
of the six monsters, by the way, was
to be launched the other day; but as
some genius hadn’t sufficiently inclined the
ways down which it was to glide it refused to
glide_ worth a cent, and, so far as is known, it
remains stuck. There is a weird tale, too, of a
French warship returning to Toulon because the
people who supplied the guns had quite forgotten
an essential part of the sighting mechanism. The
required fittings couldn’t be supplied in all the
vast Government stores and arsenals ; but a watch-
maker contrived to produce some decent make-
shifts. Three French war vessels have gone
amissing within quite recent times. It is sup-
posed that the bottoms dropped out of them, or
else that the ships fell overboard and, being unable
to swim, were all drowned.
New York was needlessly surprised the
other day at finding the body of a female mis-
sionary in a box in a Chinese restaurant. She
was' the daughter of General Sigel, a not wildly-
distinguished fighter of the U.S. Civil War; in
fact, until the remains were discovered in the
trunk nobody really thought of calling Sigel a great
soldier, and his rather scratnbleaome victory at
Carthage was quite forgotten. Now he shines in
the reflected glory of his daughter’s corpse. Elsie
Sigel, young and good-looking, had the frequent
craze after the soul of her Yellow Brother. The
Brother doesn’t understand that sort of thing. A
conspicuous tenet of his religion is that nobody
should worry about anybody else’s religion, and
he has got that tenet solid. Therefore, he
usually regards the man missionary as some
curious and uneasy kind of swindler. The
female one he regards as a mad woman
if she is old, while if she is young he considers
her an incomprehensible female of loose character
who is looking for the Chinese variety of sin. If
his overtures are rejected he can only assume that
she doesn’t regard him as the right kind of China-
man. He may become a bogus convert for busi-
ness reasons, or for amusement, or in his pursuit
of the white missionary girl, but it is doubtful if
there is a single real convert in all Chinadom.
The Chow with a European education possibly
gets a dim comprehension that there are religions
which Can’t Keep Still, and that the preacher and
preacheress are really hunting for converts ; but
the ordinary Chow doesn’t get even the beginning
of a notion of the mission point of view. The
preacher might as well be a lobster waving
tentacles at him. On a rough guess, Elsie Sigel’s
“converts” took her for an excited young woman
who, on the evidence of her actions, was the
natural prey of any Chow who could win her
affections. In her lonely benighted Scriptural
wanderings in New York’s Chinese quarters she
seems to have fallen into the hands of a shocking
Chow who failed to win her affections —or
perhaps a number of shocking Chows. Then,
presumably, she went the way of many other white
women under like circumstances, and was after-
wards strangled to avoid unpleasant fuss. The
cablegram seems to hint a suspicion that quite a
number of Miss Sigel’s converts were connected
with the crime, if indeed her congregation wasn’t
simply and solely a criminal organisation.
Chinese missionising is now on the slump in New
York, but it will revive. Religious hysteria is an
enduring thing.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant has a
spasm of recollection
On Wednesday, February 11, 1835, a land sale was held
in the market place, Sydney, which was well attended by
capitalists. Some thousands of acres were sold at the
minimum price of ss. per acre, but other lots brought
higher figures. For instance, Mr. Archibald Mossman
got 80 acres on North Shore at £1 19s. per acre. Archi-
bald Mossman (who lies in St. Jude’s, Randwick) built
The Rangers house there, and the bay was named after
him: John Tawell, a well-known emancipist, afterwards
hanged in England for the murder of his mistress, got 12
acres on Hunter River at 15s. 6d. John Gurner got three
acres at Rushcutter’s Bay at £3O an acre, and two other
acres at £33. Though described as being at Rushcutter's
Bay, the ground was actually on what is now Glenmore-
SORDID.
FATHER : “ Torn, Ido wish you'd give up that
laneful cigarette habit.”
T OM: “ What’s wrong, dad?”
FATHER: “ Why, you're smoking out all the
pattern of the wall paper.”
road. Gurner’s son, Henry Field Gurner, became Crown
Solicitor at Melbourne. He was a god-son of Justice
Barron Field, who conceived himself a bit of a poet, and
published a volume, which drew from a cynic these re-
marks :
Thy poems, Barron Field, I’ve read,
And thus adjudge their meed,
So poor a crbp proclaims thy head
A barren field indeed.
James Chisholm got 20 acres at Balls Head at £6 per
acre ; and Samuel Onions, of “ Onion’s Point,” got 19
acres in Lane Cove at 445. There was a long string of
lots in country towns. George Suttor got half an acre in
Bathurst at Is. 2d. per perch. John Tawell got several
lots at Berrima and Double Bay. John Black, cashier of
the Bank of New South Wales, and Charles Crane, of the
Leather Bottle public house in Castlereagh-street, got 20
perches in the parish of St. Philip at £6 Ss, per perch,
and so on.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENCINE and PLANT "s‘f
Roval Agricultural Society’s trials in England. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“ NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented Arthur Leplastfier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron
machinery. Addresses
a Winding Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
_ Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
liases. —
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARA ,
' and Pall Mall, BENDIGO. -
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A small advt. that was published a day or two
ago no doubt means a good deal; it announced that an
extraordinary general meeting ot the Australian Joint
Stock Bank, Ltd., would be held on Julyo, at which it
would be proposed that one of the articles of association
be amended by striking out the words “a director or.”
This article is to the effect that a director of the A.J.S.
Batik shall not, among other things, be a director of
another bank ; and no doubt that alteration is necessary
in view of the long-delayed reconstruction. It is well
known that director W. P. Manning left for England
some weeks ago to meet the old depositors ;
and the advt. above mentioned suggests that things are
coming to a head. Formerly it was possible to rearrange
matters without much bother ; but the A.J.S. has let
things drag on so long that the Joint Stock Companies
Arrangement Act has been dead for ten years. .Now,
therefore, the only feasible way will probably be to form
what is nominally a new bank ; hence the notice con-
vening the meeting, so that the directors of the old bank
may be permitted to be also directors of the new.
As expected. Justice Hood (Vic.) and Statis-
tician Knibbs, who make up the Commonwealth Insur-
ance Commission, were not able to complete their work
by June 30, so they ask for another 12 months to do it in.
The’ir progress report is a mere intimation of what they
propose to do ; among other things, they mention that
their next report will deal with the life offices, and that
is the issue that will have most attention. Meantime, a
commotion is being made over the A.M.IVs figures for
1907. The Commission was really appointed on account
of things that had been said by its competitors about
the Citizens’; for a start, it was alleged that the
published accounts and the returns lodged with the Vic-
torian Government did not agree. Now it transpires that
the A.M.P.’s published report and the return lodged with
the British Board of Trade don’t agree either. The matter
was drawn attention to here at the time. The Ordinary
department is liable for the debts of the Industrial de-
partment—necessarily, because it is all one society ,\et
though there was a deficit in the Industrial depart-
ment it was disregarded in the actuarial report to the
policy-holders. Therefore while the policy-holders were
told that “ the total surplus for the year is £808,812,” the
Board of Trade—which is rather particular over these
matters—had to be told that the surplus was £808,812,
“less debit balance Industrial department, £14,673,” leav-
ing£794,l4o net. The fact of the matter no doubt is that
the big society has been struggling to put the very best face
possible on the Industrial business, which naturally
showed a big loss at the outset; hence this trouble. And
as the smaller offices somehow refuse to regard the big
A.M.P. as a chivalrous or even generous competitor, it is
pretty certain that they will make the most of the big
office’s disingenuousness.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of foodstuffs: —
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1891) .. £6,53.0 ,2J.per cent. = £3648 £2,882 £28,524
1900 .. 6,359 2£ „ „ 3648 2,711 31,235
1901 .. 7,124 2* „ „ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902 .. 15,883 3| ~ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
Loss.
1903 .. 4,097 Nil 41,024
1904 .. 15,420 Nil 25,604
Profits.
1905 .. 10,658 Nil 10,658 36,262
1906 .. 12,140 1J per cent. = £1824 10,316 46,578
1907 .. 12,209 2£ ~ ~ 3648 8,561 55,139
1908 !. 2,234 2! „ „ 3648 53,725
1909 .. 9,696 2| „ „ 3648 6,048 59,773
This is not a wholly satisfactory balance-sheet, chiefly
because of the first line on the assets side—“ Original
purchase of freehold properties, machinery, horses, rolling
stock, etc., £148,500.” The co. is now 21 years old ; and
if any of those horses are left, it is about time they got
the -co.’s old-age pension. It is almost too much to
believe, though, that they are all left and are of the same
value as thev were 21 years back ; and if they are not,
and if some of the old rolling-stock is a bit the worse for
wea,r, then it is time that the item was altered. So long
as the item stands in its present form, it simply
means that what are alleged to be profits are not
profits at all, because as those original assets
are worn out, they ought to be written off
out of revenue. If a co. makes £lOOO “ profit,’
but wears out a £5O horse or machine in doing it, obvi-
ously the true profit is only £950. Additions made to the
properties, plant, etc., are- also included among the
assets ; but in this case something is written off against
depreciation. It seems absurd to write something off
for the depreciation of additions and nothing at all for
that" of the older plant, rolling stock, etc. ; but there it
is. What the amount is that is written off even on this
account is not disclosed. But it very rarely equals the
cost of the additions ; wherefore the net amount added
to the assets on account of these additions now totals
£35,241. The real value of the substantial assets is there-
fore unknown ; and the true profits cannot be arrived at
either. The business depends very largely on the
seasons ; thus a drought, sending up the price of raw
materials, may hit it very hard. The liabilities are heavy.
The recent movement in regard to that and some other
matters is shown hereunder: —
1905. 1908. 1909.
Liabilities .. .. ••• £75,231 £82,939 £72,239
Freeholds, plant, rolling-
stock, etc. .. .. 191,796 202,652 202,186
Stock .. .. .. .. 40,001 47,405 45,987
Book debts .. •• 25,470 34,208 31,461
Cash 178 173 154
In spite, therefore, of the large profits, or alleged profits,
and the small dividends of the past four or five years, the
cash position hasn’t improved much ; the money has gone
into plant additions (possibly to a great extent replace-
merits or displacements), stock and book debts. Still,
these things ought to make the earning of future
dividends easier. In the past 10 years they haven’t
averaged quite 2 per cent.—very good proof of the shock-
ing load of paper there is amongst the assets. It is a
great pity these fictitious values are not cleared out;
their continued existence doesn’t tend to improve the
regard which people have for published balance-sheets or
auditors’ certificates.
t- * * *
Mercantile Bank Assets Co.—ln February,
1892, Matthew Davies’s Mercantile Bank of Australia held
its ordinary half-yearly meeting in Melbourne, reported
that things were pretty good, showed a profit, and
declared a dividend. Fourteen days afterwards it stopped
paynfent. Three liquidators were appointed, including
the late Graham- Berry ; but they soon found that the
job was beyond them. Then W. F. Ducker was
appointed. The original liquidators had at first figured
the matter out as follows
Due to depositors .. .. £1,548,776
Assets likely to realise.. .. 1,300,124
Probable deficit .. -. £248,652
There was, however, £577,500 of uncalled capital when
the bank suspended, so the depositors, etc., were told not
to worrv. Matthew Davies went to England and pro-
posed to the creditors to issue to them either pref. shares
or debentures payable in four years. Of course, things
turned out far worse than had been expected. By 1894
the estimate of probable losses had grown to £1,333,416.
At that time the creditors had got 4s. 2d. ini thei fand
were told they might expect another 7s. Ducker con-
tinued the liquidation till 189 S, when the present Mercan-
tile Bank Assets Co. was formed; the creditors had bj
then received in all 6s. Bd. in the £. The total liabilities
at this time were £1,042,978. The new co. issued 15,310
£1 shares and £268,952 of 3 per cent, debenture stock to
creditors, equal to about ss. in the £ of the liabilities , and
the Melbourne Trust, Ltd., has been carrying on the liqui-
dation. The following shows how the debenture debt has
been got rid of:—
Debenture Debt Outstanding.
1898 .. .. £268,952 1906 .. .. £105,491
1903 144,421 1907 .. .. 88,305
1904:: :: moss i&os .. .. 70,590
1905 .. .. 123,651
A suspense account, “ being nominal surplus of assets
over liabilities,” provides for contingencies. This surplus
has grown as follows: —
1904 .. .. £11,692 I 1907 .. .. £25,073
1905 .. .. 16,370 1908 .. .. 37,308
1906 .. .. 19,147 |
This is not, however, all the result of profit on trading.
The unfortunate Mercantile Bank shareholders are still
being tapped. The old calls made upon them have pro-
duced the following amounts lately
1904 £1153 I 1907 £212
1905 1046 1908 136
1906 326 |
“Still further collections may be made,” the directors
sav in their last report, “ but it is not expected that they
will be of any great amount.” No credit is taken in the
balance-sheet for any such asset, which is significant.
Two modern valuations of the properties, etc., have been
made, one in 1899 and the other in 1906. As the latter
practically supported the other, the 1899 values have
been retained in the published accounts. These valua-
tions do not appear to be much under the mark, anyhow.
It is true that in the past four years, as shown above, the
surplus has been increased by £25,616, of w hich £1720 has
come from calls. But it is impossible to say how much,
if any, of the other £23,896 has come from the sale of pro-
perties which have brought more than the valuation,
because the co. has another and a probably
much greater source of “ revenue ” —the purchase of
the 3 per cent, debentures at a discount. Gross, the
assets produced £6176 last year ; deducting £lBB4 for
upkeep we get £4292 net, and the assets producing in-
terest ’averaged £llB,OOO. The return is therefore
£3 13s. 6d. per cent. ; and, besides the 3 per cent, deben-
ture interest, administration has to be paid out of that.
It doesn’t therefore look as though the properties are
undervalued ; and, though the £37,308 of surplus may be
good, it doesn’t look either as though the shareholders
will have any big thing to draw after the debentures have
gone. For, of course, the cost of administration will not
come down in proportion to the shrinkage of the assets,
so it is quite possible that the surplus, or suspense
account, may yet have to be freely drawn upon. It has
been a most'gh'astly business altogether.
*'• * *
The Pknshurst and District Butter and
Cheese Co. (Vic.), another of the little co-operative con-
cerns which want to know whether this paper thinks they
are going the right way :
Bonus Writ-
to Sup- ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. pliers. Off. serve?
‘Mar., ’04.. £44 lOp.c. = £5B £B9 £3OO
Sept.,’o4 .. 56 Nil 44 312
Mar., ’05.. 663 lOp.c. = 61 43 871
Sept., ’O5 .. 89 5,, ~ 32 £306 45 577
Mar., ’O6 .. 80 5„ ~ 32 122 44 459
Sept., ’O6 .. 63 Nil 43 479
Loss.
Mar., ’O7 .. 87 Nil 43 349
Profit.
Sept.,’o7.. 139 Nil 72 416
Mar., ’OB .. 300 Nil 177 539
Loss.
Sept.,’oB.. 62 Nil 477
Profit.
Mar., ’O9 .. 105 Nil 69 513
It doesn’t look much of a record ; dividends and bonuses
have alike been few. But if the suppliers have got for
' their milk more than they could have got if this sort of
co. wasn’t in existence, then its existence is justified
even if it pays neither bonus nor dividend. Very little
progress is, however, being made in the matter of turn-
over ; and that isn’t a good sign. The probable
explanation is that the big . landlord is tqo
conspicuous around Penshurst. The assets are appar-
ently kept well written down to counterbalance wear
and tear; and the co.’s financial position is quite sound,
if its book debts are good ; it owes £B2l, and has £1425
of liquid assets, including £1072 of book debts.
The Zinc Corporation, formed in 1905 to make
millions out of the Broken Hill ore after the silver and lead
have been Skininied from it: —•
Loss. Written Off. Deficit.
Feb., 1906 .. £4,499 £4,499
Aug., 1906 .. 7,981 12,480
Reserves.
Premiums on new shares, £28,333 15,853
Deficit.
Feb., 1907 .. 13,841 £28,333 26,321
Feb., 1908 .. 22,901 35,932 85,154
Profit.
Dec. * 1903 .. 25,504 59,650
That looks better. It is, however, admitted by the
directors that the deficit is greater than is shown above ;
for one thing the profit shown for the 10 months is gross,
no deduction having been made to cover wear and tear.
Therefore, it is now proposed to write £90,626 off capital
by reducing the 373,132 ordinary shares from 20s. to 16s.
That will wipe out the P. and L. debit, allow something
to be written off for the 10 months’ depreciation, and
provide also for writing down certain other assets. But
the writing-off is to be purely nominal, because the
directors propose that both for purposes of dividend and
for the distribution of assets “the capital paid up on
such shares shall be deemed to be the sum of ail per share
notwithstanding any reduction of capital.” It is a
“paper” reduction,'therefore ; and a 10 p.c. dividend on
the 16s. share is to be 25., in spite of the rules of arith-
metic.
So far paid capital and liabilities have moved in
this way......
Capital. Liabilities.
Feb., 1906 .. .. £240,000 .. £11,631
Au»- , 1906 .. - - 292,453 .. 150,360
Feb, 1907 .. .. 373,689 .. 144,769
Feb., 1908 .. .. 555,213 .. 108,228
Dec., 1908 .. .. 599,315 .. 76,898
Thus in the past 10 months the co. raised £44,102 more
capital and paid off £3L,330 of debt. The balance of the
new capital, plus the profits for the 10 months, went in
payments for tailings (£16,084) and new plant (£20,753);
and an additional £22,442 is owed by sundry debtors.
The expenditure on plant has for the time being come to
an end. In the early part of the period covered by the
latest accounts, the working costs were as much as 13s.
2d. per ton; they have now been got down to a shade
over 9s. On the tonnage now being handled, this
represents an extra monthly profit of about £3600. Apart,
therefore, from any improvement in extraction, it will be
seen that the figures for last year (to Dec. 31) don’t give
much of an idea of what is being done now in the way of
making profits.
For the first four months of the current year
it is estimated that the Zinc Corporation cleared £23,451,
after paying for tailings, or at the rate of £70,353 a
year. Write off £19,000 for depreciation—approximately
10 per cent.—and we get £51,353 net. Certainly the co.
mav not write off 10 per cent.; but it is none too much,
not because all the plant, etc., will wear out in 10 years,
but because in operations of this sort new and improved
appliances are coming along all the time, and old appli-
ances have then to bescrapped. A net profit of £51,353
isn’t dazzling on a capital of £599,315. Of the co.’s
capital, moreover, £182,000 is preferential; and profits go
this way—(l) Pref. shares are entitled to dividends of £1
per share in the aggregate ; (2) after the pref. share has
had its £1 in the aggregate, the prefs. are entitled to a
cumulative div. of 4s. per share, i.e. , 20 per cent., or £36,400
a year ; (3) after that the pref. share gets the same as the
ordinary share. So the preference shares must in the
aggregate set the first £182,000; then the preference shares
set £36,400 a year ; and even after that the ordmaries
only share equally with the prefs. If there were £60.000
of profits available, prefs. would get 4s. 9d. per share ,
ordinaries would get 9d. It doesn’t seem a very brilliant
prospect for ordinaries. True, for the present some of the
182 000 preference shares remain unissued : the total out
on December 31 was 149,026'. But options have been given
over most or all of the balance ; and some at least of those
options have been exercised. Wherefore the figures can
stand as given above. Of course, the co. had to offer
preference shares on these extraordinary terms in order
to get in indispensable capital at a time when things
looked simply deadly ; but now that things have changed,
the result of the extraordinary terms is that preference
shares (£1 paid) are worth about 475. 6d. and have been
higher—a remarkable price for a stock thathasn t yet paid
a dividend. Nevertheless it is a price that, under the
circumstances, is quite explainable.
* * * *
The North Coast Co-operative Co. (N.S. W.)
makes more butter than any other concern—probably
more than any other two concerns—in Australia. Last
half-year it turned out 3127 tons —7,003,7951 b., to be
exact—audit also stopped the grunt of 11,436 pigs. It
paid £268.217 for cream supplies, and it got £304,195 for
the product. Of course a quantity of this was exported; in
some cases the no. took the risk. The result of this ex-
port business is that profits are erratic. In the six
months to October 31, 1908, the co. showed a loss
of £760, besides writing off £1875 for depreciation^;
for the past half-year it showed a profit of £3357,
from which it wrote off £lOOO. Its reserves,
after paying a small bonus for the past half-year to
certain suppliers, are £6720. Considering that the paid
capital is only £15,091, those reserves look pitifully small,
seeing that the co. owes as much as £59,228 to suppliers,
and also carries on a fairly risky trade ; but the position
is really a good deal better than it looks, on account of
the severe way in which assets have been written down—
which, of course, is merely another way of saying that a
great many improvements have been paid for out
of revenue. In all, £66,918 has been spent on
plant, yet it only stands in the books at £26,877 ;
the balance has been written off or paid for
out of profits. The shareholders only draw a
very modest 5 per cent, on the small capital. The
management doesn’t go in for big bonuses either; it evi-
dently aims at(l) paying the utmost value to co-operators
at the time of delivery ; and (2) using the bulk of w'hat
profit it does make to strengthen the local market by
exporting any surplus, even though that may result in a
small loss. Last half-year the export account showed a
profit of £104; the previous half-year a loss of £2538,
though for that full year there was a profit of £3722.
When the co. has a streak of luck like that it encourages
export by paying a trifle extra on the exported butter.
The co.’s published accounts are a model in the way of
detailed information.
* • * *
The Ulladulla (N.S.W.) Refrigerating
Butter Co. shows a profit of £363 for the half-year, of
which £ll6 is written, off for depreciation ; out of the
balance the directors will pay the half-year’s div. at the
rate of 5 p.c. on the capital (£2596). This will leave re-
serves of about £4BB. Among the assets, however, is
£586 owing by the Farmers and Settlers’ Co-op. Society,
Ltd. (in liquidation), and possibly that won’t pan out 20s.
in the £.
* * * *
The Melbourne Electric Supply Go., which
has its head office in London, has just made
an issue of £lOO,OOO of shares and £lOO,OOO of
debentures in London. The issue was under-
written by the Debenture Corporation. 1 The directors in
Australia are W. L. Baillieu, Agar Wynne, and F. E.
Clements, all of Melbourne. The co. owns electric supply
works in Melbourne and Geelong, and is deeply interested
in the co. which runs the Adelaide electric supply. The
issue was mainly devoted to consolidating old loans,
although some of it will be spent in extending the co.’s
business.
jfc * * ■*
For years the public wouldn’t have anything to
do with Sulphide Corporation (N.S.W.); but lately it has
become the fashion again, and during the past 12 months
ordinaries have sprung up from 7s. 6d. to 175., and prefs.
(£1 paid) have gone on to 275. There are 500,000 each of
prefs. and ordinaries ; the ordinaries are now fully paid to
15s. During the last metal boom the latter went 25 per
cent, above par ; but they paid no dividend, and slumped
badly. In fact, ordinaries haven’t had a div. for nine
years ; but there are special circumstances to explain
some of that. The co. was formed in the first place to
work the Ashcroft sulphide process ; and the Broken
Hill Central mine was a mere side-line. The sulphide
process failed ; Ashcroft, who had been electrician at the
B. H. Prop., offered the excuse that the ore available
wasn’t of the value that the mining men had promised it
would be. By rights £400,000 or more should then have
been written off ; instead, only ss. per share disappeared
from the ordinaries—£l37,soo in all. The co. then set to
work to fill up the gap—to supply assets to the amount
of the real deficit. Hence year after year passed, and the
ordinaries saw’ huge lumps of profits written off. When
the end had been nearly reached, the mine suffered from
an underground collapse which spoiled the old mill; and
dividends on ordinaries were pushed further into the dis-
tance. What has brought the concern into favor during
the past 12 months is (1) the belief that the shocking
deficit before alluded to has been wiped out, so that
ordinaries may now at last get a bite ; and (2) the excel- .
lent developments at depth, which hold out a promise
that the bite will come regularly.
There is no doubt whatever about the mine.
The Central and the South are both great properties.
But the Central has one advantage over even the South :
its ore is much richer. Though it has been drawing its
supplies from all points from 500 ft. down to 1100 ft., an
average of over 17 per cent, lead, 330 z. silver, and 19 per
cent, zinc has been maintained. This is the, best ore fed
to any mill at Broken Hill. And' the stuff broken
at the deepest level—llooft.—is Above, the average; it
goes about 20 per cent, lead; 20oz. silver and 20 per cent,
zinc. Further, the co. has a very fine equipment.
Though it is managed by a London Board and an English
engineer, it has, done more struggling to establish the
zinc industry in Australia than any other concern ; and
it is making first-rate money out of that business now.
Apart from the uncertainty of the metal markets, the
only real trouble that frowns on the Co. is that the mine
is on the move all the time., It seems utterly impossible
to stop it; the only thing that does seem possible is to
keep it from going with a run. The chief movement is
down to about 500 ft. or 600 ft. ; and the co. makes hay-
while it can and is mining most of its ore from there—
later on that part may be practically shut .against the
men. Every day measurements are taken of the creep ;
it averages a trifle over an inch a month. As long as
the settlement Only goes at that rate, the management
doesn’t worry, for it has made its plans with that move-
ment in its eye. But there i'S always a danger that
something worse will happen, though all sorts of precau-
tions have been taken so that it shall not affect either the
surface machinery or the bottom levels.
The co.’s year ended on June 3Q. Twelve
months ago the chairman prophesied a net profit of
£lOO,OOO, which would allow of a 10 per cent. div. all
round—£ss,ooo (2s. per share) for the prefs., and £41,250
(Is. 6d. per share) for the ordinaries. That profit has
been realised ; in fact, even at present prices, and count-
ing in what is coming from the zinc, the profit is now at
the rate of over £175,000 a year.
* * *
Broken Hill Block 10 is just now finding out
that to start a lead concentrating mill that has lain idle
for five months means something more than, merely set-.
! ting- the machinery in motion. At the beginning of last
December the mill was putting through close on 3000 tons
of crude ore weekly, assaying 14 1 per cent, lead ; and of
that lead 75 per cent, was being recovered. In other
words, out of about 420 tons of lead contained in the ore,
315 tons were saved.. Since work was resumed the mill has
been taking its feed like an invalid, and the mill
doctor has had to be in constant attendance. The
first full week’s work disposed of 2224 tons of exactly
the old lead value ; yet out of the whole-313 tons of lead
only 215 tons were saved, representing a recovery of 68’6
per cent. A difficulty with Block 10 ore is that it goes to
slime, and it is in this sliming that so much lead is lost.
Special measures had been taken to reduce this loss, and
the high recovery of 75 per cent, shows that fair success
had been achieved prior to the closing-down. At present,
a new vanner section is being installed to recover more of
the metal from the slimes. But, unfortunately, the more
elaborate the process the higher the costs, so that mere
percentages don’t show everything.
* * * *
Block 10 is to have another change of manage-
ment—for a time, at any rate. Manager Stanley Low is
reported to be going on a holiday, and an assistant
manager is to be appointed to take charge during his
absence. Coming events cast their shadows before—at
least they did when Captain Warren relinquished com-
mand of the mine some years ago, and acting-manager
Grayson assumed first temporary and then permanent
charge. A new mill-man has also been introduced since
the re-opening of the mine.
» ■* * »
The sitting directors of the Junction, Broken
Hill, had to fight hard for it; but they won in the end.
The opposition, engineered bv Broken Hill shareholders,
proposed bluntly “That A. B. Addison, F. L. Wendland,
and W. liogg be and are hereby removed from office as
directors.” For the motion, 74,954 ; against, 93,088. So
the old directors stay, though the shaking they have had
ought to do them good. Had the opposition won, the
management would have been offered t08.,M. and Co.
But it is practically certain that the firm wouldn’t have
touched the mine unless five times more money was avail-
able than is visible at present.
* *■ * *
Gibraltar Consolidated, Adelong (N.S.W.), with
an issue of 296,905 shares (out of 300,000, at 10s.), has
struck a rich shoot of stone north of O’Brien’s shaft.
Driving a crosscut beyond a crosscourse the management
has opened up a new block of ground, and a profit of
£2OOO a month is expected from what, for some years
past, has been considered a worked-out mine. These
happy developments are due to the energy of Manager
R. A. Green, who made representations to the London
directors, and got prospecting started again. Recent
crushings have returned 3oz.
* * * *
The Homeward Bound cci., Wyalong (N.S.W.),
has definitely decided to give the deep country a trial;
and veteran'“.Tim my” Williams, who recently retired
from the management of the Junction, is temporarily in
charge, getting things ready for a start.
The Occidental, Cobar district (N.S.W.), has
issued a circular to flatten out a rumor that it will soon
have to suspend dividends. A regular monthly “ three-
penny ” has arrived since about September last; and as
that hasn’t absorbed more than about half the profits,
the co. needn’t knock off payments in order to provide
the bigger plant which the much improved prospects at
the deep levels justify. Up to this year the mine had
scarcely been touched below 300 ft. ; this last few months
the two bottom levels —the lowest at 550 ft. —have been
drawn upon, and the prospects there are enough to
justify any Board in believing that there is a good mine
still underneath —not a big mine, but one from which
modest divs. can be paid regularly. There are 84,000
shares in the co., fully paid to £l, and a total of £57,635
has been paid in divs. ; of that amount £10,086 has come
in the past 12 months.
* •* * *
Mitchell’s Creek, the N.S.W. gold mine
which for some years did great things, and then came to
a bad end after it had been passed on to the late James
Dick, of Glasgow, has reached its last stage. The mine is
hopeless, but there is a good stack of tailings that ought
to yield well under cyanide. Some time ago, when the
Dick estate was being wound up, tailings and plant were
taken over by the late owner’s representative ; and he
has now sold the whole turn-out to Cameron and Suther-
land, the energetic machinery-knackers. With proper
handling, the tailings dump ought to yield them a
pocketful.
Principal Westralian results for May :
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Great Boulder .. 18.307 £50,089 £26,537 54/8
Golden Horseshoe .. 25.291 52,790 20,126 50/9
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,283 42,280 20,010 43/10
Kalgurli .. • • 10,640 28,216 16,026 53/
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,606 20,530 6,586 30/2
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,590 20,044* 6,538 34/7
Boulder Perseverance 19,142 30,857 7,422 32/2
Associated .. .. 11,707 20,432 - 3,787 35/-
Lake View Consols .. 10,752 12,441 2,820 f 23/2
Great Fingall.. ... 10,442 14,262 350 27/4
Orova-Blaek Range .. 4,502 11,313 4,336 50/3
South Kalgurli .. 9,039 12,607 2,566 27/8
Associated Northern 3,675 6,734 2,744 36/8
Gwalia Consolidated 5,112 7,972 1,310 31/2
Gwalia South.. .. 1.856 4,628 1,159 49/-
Golden Ridge.. .. 2,240 5,780 2,803 51/7
Mararoa .. .. 2,457 4,645 2,009 3i/9
Peak Hill .. .. 6,697 2,846 202 8/6
Northern Mines .. 8,355 8,073 763 19/4
Hainault .. .. 5,116 6,646 925 26/-
North White Feather 2,280 3,293 313 28/10
Vivien.. .. .. 3,546 3,866 21 21/10
Marvel Loch .. .. 1,077 1,677 542 31/2
Orion ■ .. .. 695 1,456 382 41/11
Karangahake .. .. 815 1,650 294 46/-
Hills Proprietary .. 1,365 2,814 1,307 41/2
Loss.
Boulder No. 1.. .. 2,097 1,889 310 18/-
Lancefield .. 4,314 6,614 2,065 30/8,
Cumberland .. .. 586 1,247 260 42/9
*£4042 of this amount was recovered from old tailings,
tineluding £1214 derived from old slimes.
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) may have to “flya kite
before long. Last year its income from tribute royalties
at Kalgoorlie and from ore treatment at Magnet amounted
to £20,298 ; and, after deducting expenditure, £5938 re-
mained to be carried forward. During the term men-
tioned, £30,801 was paid out for the purchase and equip-
ment of the Magnet property, and when the balance was
struck the co. had £3703 in cash, £1452 in book debts,
and £2016 worth of stores. It, however, owed £5546 to
the Great Boulder and other creditors, so its financial
position was rather sick. Since then, ore treatment at
Magnet has' shown a loss of about £2600, but to what
extent this loss has been offset by revenue derived from
the Kalgoorlie tributors is_ not known. Anywaiy, it is
time the co. put promising aside, and either did better work
at Magnet or gave up ore reduction until it has learned
more about treating the pugg.v stuff in that locality.
Scarcity of gold may, however, have nearly as much to
do with the failure as treatment troubles. According to
the general manager, the irregular outlines and values of
the ore bodies in the Magnet property make it hard work
to estimate ore reserves ; hut, judging by the work done,
he thinks it is pretty safe to say that there are 25,000
tonsaveraging 6dwt. above the 100 ft. level. Something
is also said about the winzes below 100 ft. holding out good
prospects of better grade ore ; but, in the face of develop-
ment work done since then, this theory may be con-
sidered exploded. s .
* * * *
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.), which is looking
afield for means to prolong its life, is reported to have
acquired from a Jap bankeragold-miningoption covering
250 square miles of country in Korea.
As the result of negotiations which were opened
up two months ago, 8., M. and 00. are now sampling the
Sandstone Development (W.A.) on behalf Of the Oroya-
Black Range ; and by this time they ought to have about
finished the job. The Sandstone is in 250,000 shares ; and
the price that will be asked when terms come to be dis-
cussed (supposing 8., M. and Co. are satisfied with
the sampling) will probably bo about 15s. a share,
a third of it cash. The two mines lie side bv
side, the Sandstone getting the reef at “/shal-
low depth; and there is little doubt that they
could be worked more economically together than
separately- Meantime work is proceeding at the
Sandstone as usual. The mill will be erected by August,
though it may be September before it gets to work. llie
last crushing at the public battery—soo tons for £ll3O
equals 455. per ton over the plates. With sands,


Strength. and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 &, 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Fraser $ palmers,
LTD.
ft/ie English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALQOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
tratin','- mills and workshops, every snlall item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uhcon-
sidered factors* involving- waste of power* that make for
high working costs. -The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction, Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve* and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions th,e loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent* less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Will be
glad to supply further information to those interested**
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
-Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel* keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
lensation in steam pipe* is very light in weight* ana
condensation
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 ittch
thick; price 20s* per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane**
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “Condor” Packing-tor
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 80 to 40 t pet,
cent, of the coal bill. For high-claiss boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Premantle**
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral aoids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balanoes,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success fts a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining World has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, ho
clogging of the mesh * it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption, Yhe fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers* and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne: This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
“Fibro-Cement” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and Co., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue of
30/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited :—“ The Colonial Mutual typifies to
a great extent the Australian spirit, the keynotes of
which are ambition and enterprise. This Society has
much which commends it for acceptance to our country-
men, while its reputation for straightforward dealings
largely explains its success in the cither countries in
which it operates.”*
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuekett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reaveil
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reaveil Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Bunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide)- Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights : pocket. transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
Gibsop, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are making
a specialty of road-making machinery, and their plants
are now working in various parts of the State. The
traction engine forms a most important feature in a road-
making installation, and McLaren’s Engine, with its large
proportions, strength and steady working capacity, is un-
doubtedly one of the finest types of machine for this
class of work.*
DIERCKS & GO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AQEHTS for «R fll |Rg LOCOMOTIVES,
as purchased by the Covts. of N.S.W., Victoria
a nd Tasmania, and all principal mining' corn'
parties, sugar plantations, contractors, etc. ; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &E. Co
importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 ‘
this stone should be worth 50s. ; and out of stone
of that grade the Oroya-B.R. is making good
profits. Recent progress reports from the mine have
generally been less satisfactory than the reports were at
tiie beginning of the year ; but the occurrence of low-
grade stone between the payable shoots is a feature of
the Sandstone reef—the Oroya-B.R. reports clearly show
that. The bulk crushings are, therefore, the only reli-
able guide.
*■ * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) has just shown some 265.
ore in the bottom of the deep winze below No. 13 level,
and the local paper eagerly announces that the discovery
is “ the most important development that has occurred
in the property for some time past.” It seems that in
the last 20ft. of sinking the reef has gradually improved
to the grade alluded to ; but, although the stone may go
on getting richer, there is nothing to whoop about so far.
Still, on the chance of things continuing to improve, the
shares have gone up a bit as the result of VVestralian
buying.
When last heard of the Florence Gold Mine,
Ltd., was trying hard to fix up another reconstruction.
This co. rose out of the ashes of another Westralian con-
cern of the same name in 1897, and dropped its little lot
in the hopeless task of turning some Menzies leases
(W.A.) to profitable account. When the last balance-
sheet was made out, in September last year; the financial
position was as follows: —Cash, £2; calls unpaid, £840;
creditors, £1477: bank overdraft, £l4OO. A London
paper alleg'es that the reconstruction agreement has been
approved of by holders of upwards of 20,000 shares;
but it is one thing to “approve,” and another thing to
“ stump up.”
* * * *
Frpm an Australian point of view the mines on
the Paddy’s Flat line of reef are the best in W.A. They
include the Fenian, Ingliston Consols, Marmont and
others. Most of them average over the even ounce, are
equipped with up-to-date plants, and pay above the Arbi-
tration rate of wages. Nearly all are locally owned,
and big lumps of the profits are spent in developing other
shows in the district, instead of going to John Bullstein.
There is only one Bull-owned mine on the whole field, and
that pays the lowest wages.
# * * *
Duncan McAulay, formerly manager of the
Peak Hill (W.A.)andlatterly at the Great Oobar, has been
selected by Hooper, Speak arid Williams to superintend
things at the Boulder Perseverance (W.A.). McAulay is
now on his way out from London, and is expected to
reach the mine in a week or two.
if * * *
Word comes out that several big holders of
Colonial Consolidated Finance scrip are agitating for
liquidation and the distribution of assets. The co. has
paid one or two small dividends in its time, but, during
the past two years it has lost thousands.' Its present
assets include shares in Cosmopolitan Proprietary, Belle-
vue, Hannan’s Proprietary, and other chloroformed con-
cerns;,also interests in Kalgoorlie Trams and rubber.
Those \yho are clamoring for a division of the assets fear
that they will get nothing if the co. continues the way it
is going ; but some of the well-paid officials urge that the
breaking-up price of the co.’s possessions would be much
below the present market valuation, and they respect-
fully urge those who are dissatisfied to get out, and let
others less critical and more trustful come in.
m * * •*
For the year ended June 1908, North White
Feather (W.A.)showed a profit and loss surplus of £4455.
This sum has since been augmented by dribs and drabs,
and at the end of April the co. reckoned that a further
£3329 stood to the credit of the account. The cash posi-
tion on that date showed a credit balance of £7686 after
deducting £4OOO, purchase price of new leases; and,
although this was enough to provide for a dividend, tiie
Board considered itinadvisable to reduce the bank balance
until the result of operations now in hand has been
ascertained.
» * * *
Marvel Loch Co. (W.A.) cleaned up 1077 tons
of 31s. 2d. ore at its new mill, the other day, for a profit
of £542. The parcel came from dumps and development
work;
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) made up its accounts on May
31, and now shows that it did very well considering the
troubles of the year. The previous year it averaged gross
for its copper £74 10s.; last year it averaged only £6l 'ss.
Yet thepx-ofitfor lastyear was £228,216, as against £264,364
in the year before--a shrinkage of only £36,148. But, in
comparing these figures, one important change has to be
kept in mind. Previously, when the co. got paid for the
faeicbbVer product and received more money than it had
taken credit for, the surplus was passed over direct to
the contingent fund. In the same way, reclamations
(that is, over-payments or over-valuations) were debited
to that fund instead of to profit and loss. In 1907 large-
additions were made to the contingent fund ; in 1908
there were bet reclamations to the extent of £4721. For the
past year there were surpluses totalling £21,254 ; but
this has now been added to profit, instead of being, as
hitherto, credited to the contingent fund. The result is,
of course, tb improve the look of the year’s accounts.
Still, it is a perfectly fair thing to do, as the copper in
hand is only valued at £5O per ton.
Thfe comparison that follows shows some recent
revenue results:—
1905. 1906. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Metal .. £543,867 £524,677 £932,121 £910.309 £897,474
Sundries .. 2,014 3,254 2,311 1,415 4,364
£545,881 £527,931 £934,432 £911,724 £901,838
The revenue for the past two years has been got rid of as
follows: —
1908. 1909.
Wages and contracts .. .. £363,390 £355,726
Other expenses .. .. ... 284,970 317,895
Depreciation 24,195 23,981
Net profit .. .. .. .. 239,169 204,286
Total .. .. .. .. £911,724 £901,838
The year’s dividends have absorbed £150,000 (three of Is.
each). The past 10 years’ record has been :
1900 .. .. £350,000 11905 .. .. £150,000
• 1901 .. .. 350,000 1906 .. .. 160,000
1902 .. .. 204,166 11907 .. .. 162,500
1903 .. .. 275,000 I 1908 .. .. 175,000
1904 .. .. 150,000 | 1909 .. .. 150,000
In 1888 and thereabouts Mount Morg-an had its boom:
shares were £l4 10s. in this month 21 years ago. Since
then £6 16s. Bd. per share has been paid in dividends ; so
the people who bought in at the top still look to the
wonderful mine to make a lot of profits.
And no doubt it will. The underlying copper
ores have given it quite a, new lease of life. Gutting up
the revenue for the past two years, we get this result: —
1908. 1909.
Gold ores .. .. £359,838 £277,008
Blister copper .. .. 532,854 598,069
Copper precipitates .. 17,617 22,397
£910,309 £897,474
The S'old ores include those treated at the mundic
works, and yield also small quantities of copper.
The great bulk of the copper is, however, recovered from
the smelting ore. The reserves of this class of ore are
improving; the report says that “development work
carried on underground has revealed still larger quanti-
ties of auriferous copper ore than were previously known
of, and has justified the general manager in further in-
creasing the estimates he gave in former reports.” The
manager’s report isn’t j et available ; but 12 months ago
this was published
3J p. c. Copper Above 3p. c. Copper
and Bdwt. Gold, and 2£dwt. Gold.
May, 1905 .. 1,212,736 tons 1,539,744 tons
May, 1908 .. 1,280,000 „ 1,700,000 „
Gain .. 67,264 tons 110,256 tons
Two of the furnaces had to be shut down for several
months after the bad fall in the mine ; so the past year’s
figures as to ore mined are not normal. Under average
conditions 200,000 tons of ore may be called for a year ;
in the first half of the past year 98,735 tons were handled.
Even on the richer ore—though the other is also
drawn upon—there is thus over six years’ work in
sight. It is impossible to say exactly what
grade of ore it would paj r the co. to work;
very much depends on the price of copper. During
the year, 5799 tons fine copper and 138,3420 z. gold
were produced from 402,053 tons ore ; so that the average
net profit was almost an exact 10s. per ton. Still that
doesn’t tell us much, because the oxidised ores are barely
showing any profit at all: even in 1908 thej T were down
to under 3Jdwt., a fall of 50 per cent, in two years, and
they are poorer than that now.
* * * *
A development in the New Brilliant Freehold
has revived Charters Towers. The No. 2 crosscut at 30ft.
intersected 15in. of mineral stone, which is supposed to
be the Day Dawn continued over a distance of, say,
1000 ft. There is, of course, much uncertaintj' about the
connection, because the numerous formations cut while
sinking the shaft are practically all conformable with
the Daj' Dawn in strike and dip. So many shows, all
having some sort of a claim to be called Day
Dawns, spread confusion, and produce a poor idea
of a locality that was so desperately slow in coming
to the front. The Brilliant reef was worked by the
N.B.P. Co. on and off for 17 j-ears, and the long-suffering
shareholders got nothing. Things look much better
since the extension of the. two reefs from Mills’ United
boundary ; but some of the 900 ft. of driving in No. 1 level
covers unpayable ground, and No. 2 also proved rather
poor stone immediately below the rich shoot in the upper
level. On the other hand, East Mexican proved a very
poor reef immediately above stone worth £l2 per ton,
so conditions on the strongest or footwall side of the Day
Dawn are just as erratic as on the hanging wall side.
Despite all this, there is a good block of ground above
No. 1, so the market will treat N.B.F. shares with some
respect.
Bonnie Dundee, CbartersMowers, !has declared
another sixpenny div., so the market feels better. There are
now more cheerful prospects that the reef will be payable
No. 1 is.out 200 ft. on lOin. of good stone ;
and there is also a vein going away in the hanging wall.
No. 2, at 475 ft. east of the rise, is showing an improve-
ment, although not as yet very pronounced ; still
No. 2 is the best level so far. No. 3 has mineralised
veins in the face, but the stone requires a good deal of
picking ; and No. 4 lags behind the other levels. Pros-
pects in that part have been generally verj’ poor. Thelast
monthlv return was 696 tons for £4086.
* * •+ *
Carrington United, outside Charters Towers,
is to sink the main shaft below l No. 6, and intends to
prospect more vigorously. A crosscut from No. 6 level
has recently cut the parallel ore body proved in the
upper levels. This ore is within 20ft. of the old workings.
A clean-up of 302 tons for a fortnight returned £1379 and
34 tons of concentrates; there are now 500 tons of con-
centrates on the mine. Even with the latest develop-
ment ore reserves are not strong for so big a co. ; and, to
make matters worse, gold values get poorer with in-
creased depth. A great deal of the ore is silicious, which
makes smelting costly ; still, the concentrates could be
treated, or Sold at a fair profit. Carrington Nos. 1 and 2
east, next door, is smelting, and a fortnight’s run gave
10J tons of matte, assaying 50 per cent, copper, and from
2oz. to 3oz. of gold.
* * * *
While little money is forthcoming in Queens-
land for investment in genuine shows, it seems quite
easy to dispose of parcels of cheap, worthless shares. A
lot of people are discovering just now that the Home
Rule and Hilton speculations are not quite as cheap as
they appeared at first, and actions for recovery of unpaid
calls are common enough. This Gympie group is about
the poorest on the field, yet shares carrying considerable
liability have been got rid of all over the States ; and
some of the holders don’t even yet realise that the gun is
loaded.
■*•**•*
There is a revival at the Oaks (N.Q.). A syn-
dicate has erected a small battery, and it has been
arranged that only a maximum of 20 tons shall be taken
from each mine so as to give all claim-holders a show.
Sixty-four parcels are booked. One result will be that
only the richest stuff will be sent along. Riley, White,
and Harris, whose claim is on the east side of Wise’s
Hill, got 5270 z. from 18 tons. The stuff was, of course,
broken from a leader, and probably 10 times as much
rock had to be shifted in order to get the parcel. Pre-
viously 740 z. had been dollied from the stone. Another
parcel estimated to yield 40oz. to the ton has been Sent
to the Towers for treatment. Excluding the rich parcels
referred to, it is estimated that all the stone crushed to
date, after dollying, would average 3oz. The reefs vary
from an inch or so up to 2ft. ; and the field is apparently
confined to a small area.
* * * »
The Mitchell River Gold and Antimony Co.
(N.Q.) isn’t so dead as it looked. The co. was formed to
work a new patent process, invented by the McArthurs,
the Glasgow metallurgists ; but after all the co.’s money
had been used up in roads, plant, etc., the McArthurs’
representative suddenly abandoned the whole thing with-
out giving it a trial. He alleged that the Mitchell River
claim was bound to fail, and he said he wasn’t going- to
risk the reputation of his firm’s process upon it. Old
N.Q. prospector “Jack” Munro, who had promoted the
co. in the first place, has all through held that the con-
cern ought to be given a run for its money; so financial
arrangements have been made. Munro goes in charge,
with a metallurgist to help him, and a trial run is to take
place.
• * * *
Williams’ Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), got costs
down so low last year that on stuff averaging only 2dwt.
21gr. there was a loss of no more than about s|d. per
ton,; and that was after paying nearly sd. per ton for
development. If it had got 3dwt. stuff there would have
been a fair profit. Charters Towers must rub its eyes in
astonishment at such figures—
s. d.
Breaking and raising . . ~ 8 1 - 71
Treatment (including pj-rites) .. 3 0“29
Development 0 4‘BB
Total costs .. .. .. 11 6 - 88
On that scale thej' can’t drag stone an unnecessary two
or three miles in order to drop it into a battery owned by
the chairman’s uncle or nephew, or something of the
sort; and that's one reason why Charters Towers can’t
produce figures like it. And stiil Williams’ Fancy has an
idea that its costs have been too heavy-, wherefore it has
just had a suction-gas plant put in, and figures on a
saving of £l2OO a year, which is equal to 10 per cent, on
the co.’s entire paid-up capital.
This is the smiling record of the junction
Dredging Co. since the start of 1007
Re-
Gold, etc. Profits. Dividends. serves.
May, 1907.. 14125 £l9Ol £lOOO £1696
Nov., 1907.. 5390 2491 2000 2187
May, 1908.. 5234 2161 2500 1848
Nov., 1908.. 6869 3103 3000 1
Written off .. 800/ 1101
May, 1909.. * 5049 2220 1875 1496
The two and a half years’ work has thus given £B5OO in
divs., and the paid capital is only £9625, plus £553 pre-
miums on the last lot of shares issued. The co. is in
10,000 shares, but 6000 of them are paid to only 18s. 9d. ;
and £2 per share has now been distributed. The co. has
worked out 167 acres of its Bright (Vic.) ground, and
there are about 251 acres yet to work—enough to keep
the two dredges going for about eight .years. Dike most
of the Bright cos. the Junction has done nothing sys-
tematic in the way of sampling ; but there is apparently
no reason why the ground that is left should be poorer
than that which has been chewed up.
* * * *
North Mt. Farrell, in the wilds of Tasmania,
sends out a report bound in sackcloth and sprinkled with
ashes. A new manager arrived a few months ago, and he
says bluntly : “The position at present is briefly this —
practically a new mine has to be opened up by shaft-
sinking.” Development work at No. 0 level has given
poor results ; Nos. 3 and 4 levels have become almost ex-
hausted; and there is nothing for it now but to sink.
Shareholders had been told that reserves were all right,
because it was expected that the No-. 3 lode would come
up through the top levels to the surface; but as
far as work has gone, it appears to tail off badly
as it conies up. Still there’s some comfort: it is better
for a lode to. improve as it goes down than to start well
and then rapidly get worse. Back in the lead boom
time the co. made a profit of as much as 14s. per ton of
ore ; last half-year’s working profit got down to 3s. lid.
on a smaller output (11,478 tons). The total profit was
£2229 ; but £1725 was written off for depreciation. The
financial position is none too strong for a co. which has a
good deal of trouble ahead of it; more or less liquid
assets total £2830, and debts include debentures £3200,
and sundry creditors £6324. One dividend was paid
last half-year ; and it would have been better if it hadn’t
been.
* * * *
Briseis (Tas.) has been on some good tin drifts,
so returns may improve and help to remove the gloom
caused hy the failure to pay the quarterly dividend.
Hopes of a “sixpenny” were founded on last year’s big
profit made out of 1048 tons of black tin from Briseis
proper and 340 tons from New Brothers’ Home No. 1.
Compare that with last month’s 87 tons 2cwt., and it is
evident that only very low costs and high prices can give
6d. per quarter on 600,000 shares (£60,000 per annum).
Black tin isn’t worth anything like last year’s average,
the difference in price, together with the shortage in
output, makes a continuation of big dividends impos-
sible. Briseis may have something like £BO,OOO ; but it
knows that it must spend money in prospecting other
likely properties. Just now it is boring at Moorina, in
front of some old workings ; and it may strike an old
river bed hr tin lead there.
* * * *
The Anchor Tin Mines, Ltd. (Tas.), has arranged
to work some of the,Blue Tier tin deposits. Mount Lyell
forfeited its holdings in this locality ; and that didn’t
sound well. However, Lyell would have had to provide a
new plant, while the Anchor already has one of 100 head
of stamps ; and now that an aerial tram connects the tin
deposits with the mill, the proposition will get a
thorough trial. Mount Bisehoff can make a profit out of
very low-grade dirt, and its report should encourage the
holders of numerous low-grade propositions in Tasmania
and Queensland to try and handle £ per cent, stuff.
it H it
Mining in British Papua has been very dull
lately ; none of the alluvial fields are giving even fair re-
sults, so some of the old hands have been turning their
eyes towards the Northern Territory. A month ago one
party wired Government Resident Herbert asking for
advice ; and his reply was that there were 100 men on the
Port Darwin or North Arm tin field, which was quite
enough ; and as for the rest—“ Men should not come
here unless with means to leave if unsuccessful,’,’which,
didn’t look like the message of a very confident
man. The same party wanted to know if it
was any use taking over a 20-ton oil launch
for use on the N.T. rivers. “No use on rivers
yet for a launch,” the Resident wired back ; and it’s just
about time there was some use. If Australia doesn’t get
oil launches on, the chances are that there will be
Chinese junks or other Asiatic craft there before long.
To try to give gold-mining a lift the Papuan
Government has sent out a party from Port Moresby.
The little lot consists of Matt. Crow (leader) and the two
Pryke brothers, with carriers. They go up one of the
Gulf rivers, make a base, and hope to then put in nine
months’prospecting in the interior.
The French co. which owns the Yelta and
Paramatta mines, in the Moonta district (N.S.W.), looks
as though it is getting over its bad smash. Yelta has
been turned over to tributors, who are doing well; and
for a start an estimate has been made of the cost of
unwatering the Paramatta.
■* * * *
The last English mail brought news of another
round in favor of the Elmore people in the course of the
long fight between the Minerals Separation Ltd. (owner
of the Suhnan-Picard, Ballot and Froment patents) and
the Ore Concentration Co. Ltd. (owner of the Elmore
patents). The former co. sought to establish priority for
the Froment patent over the Elmore Vacuum. In the
preliminary rounds various points were decided in favor
of the Ore Concentration Co., and apparently the other
party doesn’t now consider its own case good enough to
go on with.
* * * *
Sydney’s first taxi-cab co. has been formed. So
far, only enough capital has been issued to pay for six
vehicles, which had already been landed, and to provide
£5OO for working expenses. The vehicles cost about £5OO
each.
* » * *
Mine engineer A. W. Freeman, who, with his
partner Horton, introduced the Harden (N.S.W.) to the
public, was posted off to Tongkah when that Siamese tin-
concession began to make a stir. His cabled report is
to the effect that the concession is “a very valuable pro-
perty,” but that the harbor work is much more important
than has been thought. (It will be remembered that
in return for the concession the co. undertakes to dredge
out a dock and a channel leading thereto.) There must,
he adds, be no delayabout this work. A fortnight ago
he estimated the surplus of assets at £7OOO, and calculated
that for the next four months there should be a profit of
£2OOO a month, and more later. Further sampling, etc.,
are necessary before he can say more- than that the
property is very valuable. With good manage-
ment, he thinks the dredges are all right ;
and he describes the present management as
satisfactory. The adjacent Compound—which, unlike
the Tongkah, isn’t under water—he says is undoubtedly
rich. Pending the long-delayed issue of necessary papers
by the Siamese Government, nothing, however, is being
done with that property.
■* .. •* * *
Re the suggestion (B. 3/6/’O9) that some day
Tongkah might strike trouble through the shiftiness of
the rulers of Siam, the manager of the co. writes that his
directors “ have every confidence in the integrity of the
.Siamese Government, from which we have received most
generous treatment in the past, and we have no reason to
suppose that wb will be unjustly or unfairly treated in
the future.” And at that the matter can stand, with the
remark that the directors probably have as little real
information of a definite nature about the Siamese
Government as The Bulletin cheerfully owns up to.
» * « *
The last English mail had something to say
about a new magnetic process, the Murex. As usual, it
is claimed that the various minerals are sorted out in one
continuous operation, so that the tailings are left prac-
tically free from mineral values, while the various Ibts of
concentrates are produced in such a form as to command
top prices. The co. owning' the patent reckons that it
can increase the gross value of recoveries from low-grade
Broken Hill ore by 9s. lid. per ton. But it really needn’t
bother about Broken Hill, there are scores of IoW-grade
mines lying idle, and it can make itself rich by getting to
work on a few of them without waiting t’6 convert any
Broken Hill directorate.


CORTICELLI SPOOL SILK wears well in the garment:
the seams don't rip, and each stitch holds secure. We guaran-
tee CORTICELL! SILK is smooth, even elastic, and strong,
and that every spool is " Full Measure."
CORTICELLI COSTS YOU
LITTLE more than Common Silk, but YOU GET MORE
SILK, better Silk and stronger Silk, when you buy “ CORTI-
CELLI,'' which has held the WORLD'S RECORD for
superiority for over 70 Years.
Think of what this Meansl
Cortlcelli Silk Mills,
ESTABLISHED 1838.
AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE : 91a YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. VV. GROVE’S siffna
ture is on each box. Is. ljd.*
EDUCATION BY POST.
—The Proprietors
tt , n _ ~ . of Stott and
Hoare s business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of' education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering-, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in g-ood positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious youn<>- man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.* a ’
A Great Law Suit Decided.
The Supreme Court the People, have decided
that Dr. bheldon s New Discovery wins against
coughs and colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation,
Special Attention to
the Cuisine, . . ,
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
PREOCCUPIED .
Has that friend of yours altered much since
he’s been away?”
“ Don’t remember. We met in a pub.”
“ Leo Lear ” : “ XXX ” and “ Don ” bark
the praises of the currajong as the best indigenous
shade tree. Certainly, for all-round purposes—
shade, growth, hardiness and suitability to dif-
ferent soils and climates, this may be so. But if
all virtues, bar shade, are excluded from the list,
there are other trees that can shake off half their
foliage and still leave the shadow of the currajong
mu , a moultir) g ironbark in comparison.
Ihe thickest-foliaged Australian tree I have
loafed under is the Moreton Bay chestnut (Gas-
tanospermum Australis ), sometimes called hv a
new chump the Queensland bean, although it is
no relation to the matchbox gentleman The
chestnut grows best on river banks, and often in
clumps. It can very easily be raised from seed.
On the hottest and brightest northern day you
will see as much sun under one of these trees as
you will in the Collingwood tunnel. If it
came to a beauty competition, my alpha-
betical chestnut could give the currajong the
benefit of two hours’ preparation in any gar-
dener s catalogue or ladies’ toilet repository,
and leave her like a blushing surf-bather in a torn
go\\ n. Again the Port Jackson fig (F. Australis),
with its dense mat of leaves at the extreme end of
every branch, makes a covering that no sun can
penetrate. The Moreton Bay fig (F. macro-
phylia) is perhaps the best of this class, as it can
be grown almost anywhere if protected from
severe frosts when young ; but its shady charac-
teristics hardly equal Jackson’s. A splendid
specimen of this fig grows as far south as the
Botanical Gardens, at Portland (Victoria).
Another shady customer, the Queensland weep-
ing fig (F. Benjuminii) is perhaps the most
beautiful native tree we have, but it only grows
to perfection in the warm, equable climate of the
north Among the eucalypti, most of the trees
would require a long course of hair-restorer before
inviting anyone in out of the sun. But the bastard
mahogany (E. botryoidesj keeps itself fairly
well dressed, and sometimes a drooping old
red guru (E. rostra ta) makes a great effort
to hide the scars on its white naked limbs,
itxeept at noon, most pines are bad trees to seek
shade under, as the long, straight stems carry the
shadow into your neighbor’s paddock. Both
pines and eucalypti favor the directoire mode of
dress, covering their head-pieces with a fine show
of millinery, and leaving the outline of their
trunks and limbs to be gazed at by an admiring
public. However, the Murray pines that grow on
a mallee plain are old-fashioned enough to be
satisfied with the crinoline. Their well-covered
limbs, tapering from the ground to the top, make
a welcome shade in the bald-headed and mangy
mallee scrub. Many other trees could be enume-
rated for shade purposes ; but seeing that curra-
jongs adapt themselves to most Australian en-
vironments, I should give them the palm or laurel
or any other old shrub they prefer.
“Dandalup ” re speed of bush fires:—
Milky White ” (B. 3/6/’O9), whom everybody thought
had perished in the vain endeavor to crawl away from his
epileptic tortoise of a bush fire, which travelled at the
stupendous rate of 3J miles per hour, has resurrected
himself somehow from the ashes and reaches for the part
of me where the thatch ought to reside-hut doesn’t,
lhe whole of Milky s ’ wrath seems to have been caused
by my labelling- his fire, which raced over three miles in
two hours, a “ blazing snail.” I still maintain that a fire
that whizzes along- at that extraordinary velocity is the
great, -grandmother of all the blazing snail 'family.
Milky makes a statement that the great fires
which periodically sweep through the Gippsland
foiests seldom exceed this rate of speed. From
personal ex-perience, I say that ids 'statement is
2- *h' °l th ° se V ho scrug-g-led for existence
during the terrible Gippsland bush-fires of January, 1898
will also bear me out. A few instances. Two brothers
named Murphy tell the story that, as they were riding
froni Mirboo to Yarragon, they were enveloped by a fire
which pounced down on them suddenly. It approached
so swiftl}' that they hardly noticed it before it had
arrived They only saved their lives by furious gallop.
%£• lf th .® r ® had , heen a policeman there on point
duty they would have been arrested for exceeding the
speed limit. About the same date, the Thorpdale train
which travels more than 1 £ miles per hour, had an
exciting race with a fire which tore along beside
~,f or v es ‘ The driver afterwards stated that
although he sent the train along at full speed he
expected to be grabbed by the fiend anv minute
At Avoca eyewitnesses tell of “a bush fire which
travelled so rapidly that it overtook kangaroos and
horses, burning them alive.” And. I understand, these
two species of animal can travel some. At Yea a small
blaze covered 80 miles area, and people who ivere there
say that n propelled itself along with “unprecedented
m P 'tlwYi<n u, ” a - lso scoffs at n, y statement
(B. 4/2/ 09) that ‘ often the flight of the Gippsland bush
fires was along the tops of trees.” People who were in
jMeerim (1898), when that town was practically obliter-
ated, will substantiate my remarks. One farmer who
was in the thick of it, in giving an account of his experi-
ences, said : ‘The approaching flames escaped through
to £ B t .’? e trees in mighty bounds, covering from
50ft. to 100 ft. at a time.” At Warragul the blaze
leaped from tree to tree, a roaring mass of flame ”
lhe most combustible part of a bush fire, and especially
in very green country, is the gas which is generated by
the blaze. A gas giving a blue-colored flame was very
much in evidence in the fires of ’9B. These gases often
account for the increase of velocity. “ Milky ” says that
the Gippsland forest is at its most inflammable state in
midwinter. If this be so, how is it that all the greatest
and fiercest bush fires experienced in those parts have
occur re d during the summer months? In conclusion,
( Milky infers th 1 1, according to my narratives I
must have seen Hell on wing-s.” When I consider some
of the flares I have held argument with and then care-
fully regard Milky’s ” backyard fizzle, I am convinced
that I have gazed upon 15 Hells on wings condensed into
“XXX”: The great scarcity of snakes
m the bush last summer causes me to believe
these reptiles are dying out. In places where it
was once unsafe to walk unless fortified with leg-
gmgs. and antidotes, one may now wander in
security. If the snakes have not entirely dis-
appeared they are at least very scarce. My
opinion is that they have been shifted by the
poisoned baits intended to eradicate bunny.
One sufferer from the recent Gippsland
floods had a stroke of luck. He and his family
had deserted their farm-house, and found sanctu-
ary in a stable on higher ground. The water
came into the stable, and Hayband shoved his
family into the racks among the fodder. There
was no room for Hayband himself, and he re-
mained in three feet of misery and water. When
things were at their worst, a small cask floated in
at the broken door. While Hayband was invest-
igating his prize, a second cask bobbed in on the
tide. At this point the tiller of the earth grabbed
a rake, and, stationing himself at the opening,
hooked five kegs. They all contained more or
less whisky. A local illicit still had been washed
out by the excessive wetness, and the stock had
broken loose, and had borne down upon Hay-
band’s homestead. Hayband is said to have
started prayers for rain while the district is still
in soak. He wants another whisky-and-water
flood almost immediately.
BE NEAT ,
DOOTOR'S WIFE : "Why, Mrs. Tonics, WHATEVER are you doing to poor Mr. Tonics I My hus-
band told vie this morning that the poor man couldn't possibly live more than a few days."
MRS. TONKS: “0, well, yer see, ma'am, when yer 'usband said as 'ow 'Enery was yoin’ ter peg
out, I says, 'Enery,' I says, ‘ you’re a goner.' And I'm taking him to the barber's
to git shaved, for Ido ’ate a untidy corpse !”
Bun garni ” : Jack the Groper and
Bardy Mick were talking about the days
before the goldfields broke out, and of the
ways the old Gropers used to pay their hired men.
the Groper said he was working for a cocky down
North am way, and left his job after a couple of
weeks. The cocky goes over to the barn,
collars bag of wheat, weighs it out and
says, “There you are.” “Strike me
pink!” says the Groper. “Do you
think X can lug that 15 mile? Can’t you
give us something that can walk?”
The cocky says, “All right, you can
have that sow.” So the Groper hitched
on to the pig and drove her to
Northam. and got a pair of moles
and 6s. change. Then Bardy Mick
chipped in. “ I was on my way
to Bun bury to buy a team. I
meets a cocky bloke and made
a deal with him for two
brumbies for £l2. I had
a hundred soverings with
me, so I counts out 12.
‘What’s them?’ he says.
I told him. * None of your
soverings for me,’ he says.
‘Give me an order on the store-
keeper.’ But I said they were
good anywhere—the storekeeper
would take them. He shook his head. ‘Who’s
that woman on it?’ I told him ‘Queen Victoria ’
H don’t know her. Do John Forrest?’ I said
Gert nly, J turned the severing over, showed him
Britannia and said, ‘Why, there’s John Forrest.’
He says, ‘ Well, if that’s John they’re all right’ •
and he took them.”
“ Lantana’s ” assertion :
There is a flock of sheep at present travelling- in Queens-
land known as “ The Israelites.” It belongs to one Mrs.
Cot-mack, of Peak Downs. Six years ago, drovt-r D. Cole-
man started out with 4000 aged ewes from the above
homestead, and he has been on the road (with an occa-
sional spell now and again on rented country) ever since
He has sold 9300 sheep out of the flock durin<>- the s-'x
years and yet 9000 still remain. The original" nomads
have long since gone to that bourne from which no mut-
ton returns, and the traditions of the flock are being
upheld by the second and third generations. The wan-
derers are proceeding via Blackall to Charleville having
rusticated down beyond Isisford since last July. ’
* * * «
“ Veni ” : Talking of narrow shaves. Last
summer I had a death adder in a small bottle (I’m
a bit of a snake-fancier). I had been showing it
to my best girl, and then put the bottle in my coat
breast pocket. Going home a thunderstorm came
up and heavy rain. I put my coat on her for-
getting about the bottle. Crossing a bit of a dry
creek she slipped while getting up the side, and fell
forwards. I picked her up and thought she was
hrst-rate. I hen she- went suddenly into hysterics
without any preliminaries. Reckoned she w;is
Cleopatra, and mentioned something about an asp.
1 hat made me think of the adder. I managed to
get the coat off her, and threw it on the ground
the while she shrieked that her life’s blood was
drained. (She always was good at.melodramu.)
Rut it was a bit of the broken glass she felt
sticking through her thin blouse, and the adder
itself was practically dead, being mortally
wounded in nine places and also cut in three pieces.
“Edyson”: Curious , the hatred your
typical wild man of the woods bears to woman-
kind. Is he wild because he dislikes females, or
is it his wildness that has caused in him hatred of
the long-haired worriers ? It is a nice problem
for alienists. Taking the air recently in a
wood of my acquaintance, I unearthed' a fine
specimen of the genus wild or untutored man—or
bloque. He was small and tremendously hairy,
and dirtier than 27 of Tait’s railway carriages.
He was dressed in a Prince Albert overcoat of
local bearskins, fastened together with splinters of
wood. His feet were bare, shaped like pancakes,
and as tough as the pads of a camel. He fled
back to the bush at the.first opportunity, although
I fed him lavishly with bottled beer. On this
occasion I was alone. Shortly afterwards I lured
a mixed picnic party to the spot. My wild
acquaintance—still clad in his scant and freely-
ventilated topcoat—stole down upon us, attracted,
no doubt, by the odor of beer. He seemed pre-
pared to take his chances with man, but presently
he discovered woman, and the effect on him
was painful. He stood thunder-struck, staring
at woman wild-eyed, tremulous; and then
he howled a strange animal howl. It sug-
gested the swan-song of a dying ichthyo-
saurus. Three times did our afflicted visitor howl,
and great was the howl thereof. Then he fled
along the gorge like capital departing for foreign
parts. A long search for him was fruitless, but
two years later his remains were found in an old
prospector’s drive, the entrance to which was
grown over. He had evidently rushed in to hide
himself from woman, and had perished rather
tnan venture forth and look upon her skirts again.
AN EVERY-DAY SIGHT AT MITCHELL.
QUEENSLAND.
Selectors “in for provisions
“H. Phelthatfc ” : The average miner
doesn’t seem able to bear up against a slice of
luck. I have seen very few men strike a “ patch ”
and remain rational. I know two who took £3OOO
out in a month. One of them took the shortest
possible cut to the lunatic asylum. The other
only went foolish. Until he struck his patch an
accordion had sufficed to keep the family in music,
but now a pipe organ was found to be necessary,
and one side of the house had to be pulled down
to admit the behemoth. Then as he couldn’t use
the weapon himself, he hired a private secretary at
£3 10s. a week to make melody in the humpy and
write needless letters to the wife’s relations. Quite
recently I saw him give ss. 9d. for a double-ended
pick ; he had a job on the road. Generally, how-
ever, the turf, or basalt, or whatever a country
racecourse is, gets the bulk of the patch. It takes
about three large slices of luck to satisfy a miner’s
appetite for foolishness.
A CRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see that Senator Pearce challenges me to produce the
speech in which he advocated “confiscation of land.” In
tne press Senator Pearce is reported as follows “ The
remedy is to make these lands too hot for monopolists to
noicl. I will be told that this is confiscation. Unless you
can people this country effectually, and put the land to
as fullest use, you will have to face confiscation later
■rh confiscation that talks with bayonet and bullet.”
the Public must now judge between Senator Pearce and
myself.— Fairbairn, in the Argus (22/5’09).
Stale sounds of muffled dustiness—slow, creaking noises
here; ’
Dull murmurs, there, of crazed distress, of blind and
groping fear ;
And though, beneath the tyrant thumb
Of Socialists and suchlike scum,
The Uppah Ilouse is almost dumb : one voice insistent
floats ’
Among the folk with Tory votes ;
And (see the Argus taking notes 1)
Cracked screams of “ Confiscation ! ” come from full one
dozen throats !
Can this be true? Shall rude, red hands move Croesus’
boundaries,
And grab his choicest pasture-lands, and cooil v come and
seize
The cows that graze thereon, and snatch
The very fowls that cluck and scratch
s>^ e ace ’ to catch grasshoppers, fast and
Too true ! Outside upon the mat
The sons that Croesus, he begat,
Will learn that they have met their match— nor will it
stop at that!
Good land and houses—yes, and all that honest Croesus
owns,
Into the hands of Sosh shall fall, despite stout Croesus*
groans !
Though Anti-Sosh in legions rise
With policies of various size,
We’ll yet observe, with goggling eyes, amid wild Tory
hoots, J
Old Croesus struggling for his boots,
Mobbed by these Socialistic brutes—
Old Croesus, full of strangled cries, struggling to keep his
boots! r
Victoria.
FRANK HENTY.
ADENOIDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of the children examined 51 •! per cent, were found to
be affected with adenoid growths. In some low-lying
and moist localities, the percentage of adenoids was 85
to 92 per cent.— Dr. Gertrude Hatley, Medical Inspector
of schools in Tasmania.
Here come the Adenoids, fifty per cent.,
Marching’ along in a row ;
Puffing and snuffling as God never meant,
Mark how the Adenoids go.
With lolloping stalactites down in their throats,
These are the kids growing up to get votes.
These are the Dreadnoughts, and these are the breed
VV ho believe that Our Navy is rot;
They live in the damp, and on dampness they feed,
And want niggers to work where it’s hot.
These are the chaps who have never swung axes,
Think soldiering’s bluggy, and hate to pay taxes.
Adenoids, Adenoids ! Cure ’em at once ;
Kill ’em with knife or with spray ;
Do you want to be ruled by the Adenoid Dunce,
For he’l.l be an elector some day ?
Sad is the prospect you’ll see if you look—
Adenoids cheering for Wade and J. Cook !
VICTORIA.
W.


A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Core Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appreciate pood
advice, and we are glad, therefore, to be able to publish
the following from a prominent physician.
It is astonishing: to know the prevalence of kidney
trouble and other diseases, such as rheumatism, bladder
and liver troubles, which are almost invariably caused by
weak kidneys. It is said on pood authority that fully
one-third of the people in Australia who have reached the
ape of maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature of
this disease is the fact that many people have it without
their knowledge, and consequently neglect it until it has
reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as backache,
must be given prompt attention, and a good reliable
treatment should be taken until every trace of the dis-
ease has been eliminated. We are glad to be able to give
our readers a prescription which we have seldom known
to fail in any case. It contains no harmful ingredients, is
pleasant to'take, not expensive, and can be supplied by
any good chemist. It is as follows
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce; Liquid Barkoia Compound, one ounce ;
Syrup of Ginger, live ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at bed-
time. . . .
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it a fair
trial. If taken continuously for a few weeks it will be
found to be an almost absolutely certain cure for rheu-
matism, kidney and bladder trouble, backache and all
allied complaints. ,
Note.—Other papers are privileged to copy the above.*
* ‘ Mary, Mary,
Most contrary,
How does your garden grow?”
“’Tis not,” said she,
“ As it used to be ;
I had catarrh, you know ;
But now I am as right as the bank,
And Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure I thank.”*
ARTISTIC
JEWEL
PRODUCTIONS
are a speciality of our high-class factory work.
The latest novelties are day by day produced,
sold, and in many cases never repeated. Our
clients do not care for what everyone else is
wearing', and so most of our best jewellery is
never publicly exhibited.
We buy the loose jewels from the source of
supply.
We mount them in our own premises. This
enables us to sell at London prices.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures
Cash.
23 Hunter Street.
Diamonds and Two
White Pearls, £l4.
L . ..
Pearls and Diamonds in fine
Gold and Platinum, £l6 16s.
“ Nymsie ” : The longest fish yarn I ever
heard told was that spun by my old fishing pal Bill
Glassenbury, who lives on his interest, conse-
quently he has time to see it out when once
started. Bill’s yarn begins 30 miles t’other side
of Geelong, where he found a fishing line and
hooks on the road (he was a carrier then, bound
for the Ovens diggings), and it meanders on, with
a thousand embellishments, not forgetting one
n ght when Bill pared his corns, till he camped on
the Goulburn, at Seymour. How Bill remembers
the night is because he bought some potatoes
(fully described) at the local store. At tea, he
remembered his line and hooks —then he started
to find a Sinker (the search for that sinker takes
two hours to tell). When he got back to camp
Bill’s dog (biography of the dog comes in here)
had eaten all the stores except one big mealy spud.
This he put on the hook (takes an hour to bait
Bill’s hook with spud). The cod that took that
spud was a ten-pounder when Bill first told the
yarn to our oldest inhabitant; now it’s up to
3151 b., and still growing. The landing of that fish
takes three hours—the digressions to explain
“that golden perch never grow bigger’n 401 b.”
and consequent arguments take four hours. Then
how Bill cleaned and salted that fish to take it
home to his wife (Bill wasn’t married till 10 years
later) would fill a three-volume novel. Bill’s sole
relaxation between the dates his interest becomes
due is to retail the fish yarn in instalments.
THE POLITE FOOTPAD.
BURGLAR BILL: “If you please, sir, I want to
sell this club, bein’ very hard up. I’ll take
£10 for it.”
A GROSS INSULT.
Bank Cashier (who requires Airs. Boss
Cockey's endorsement on a cheque):
“Across here, madam.”
MRS. BOSS COCKY: “A crossl Look
here, young feller , diner think I can't
sign me own name’!”
Wild men have been exceptionally plenti-
ful this year. A week or so back, a prospector in
Victoria was visited by one that hopped like a
sparrow, and tried to smoke broken mullock in an
old pipe. Presumably, his delusion was that he
was a blast furnace which had been allowed to go
out for want of a little more Protection. He
went down a shallow, deserted shaft in search of
some, but found only darkness—which is Free-
trade. So he hopped away, and he has not been
heard of since. The dismal yells that have been
shattering the town of Hargraves (N.S.W.) are
now known to be wild-man sounds, for the origin
thereof has been seen in broad daylight. The
local correspondent writes hurriedly as follows:
At about 5 o’clock on Thursday the noises were again
heard, and shortly afterwards several persons residing in
the locality were astonished to see a peculiar animal,
about sft. high, standing on his two legs, and brushing
away, with his claw-like hands, long unkempt-looking
hair from his eyes. The animal was covered with long
white hair, and when seen was littering cries similar to
those which have been disturbing the peace of the neigh-
borhood. The hairy man, or whatever he is, was only
seen for a minute, and disappeared as suddenly as he
came.
That’s always the way with these hairy men—too
much hair, and too little explanation.
“H. Phelthatt ” : Be fancy occupations.
Mine is insurance canvassing (“ Ordinary ” busi-
ness) in a country district, for any “ best office in
the world.” It is a healthy outdoor life, free from
the monotony of tree-slaying, the weariness of
prospecting, or the gumminess of wattle-
skinning. It requires a man of many parts,
and more principles. I have had as many
as 17 different political opinions in one
day—which eclipses Jokook’s world’s re-
cord by three-fifths of an opinion. It is
a cheaper and better method of seeing the
country than by tourist ticket; it is less
arduous and more respectable than whal-
ing. But, more than all, it inculcates a
habit of truthfulness and unexaggerated
discourse, lacking which no aboliar can
be truly great. I should not be surprised
if the first Link Aboliar, as “G. Bron ”
would say, was an insurance agent.
* ■* * *
“San”: I notice (B. 11/3/’o9)one “F.C.”
asks about indigenous shade trees, and “XXX’ 5
(B. 15/4/’O2) tells him that the currajong is the
tree for him. Then (B. 20/5/’OD) “F. A. W.” pre-
sumes that “ XXX ” meant Hibiscus heterophyllus
(green currajong) as being the thing to fill the bill.
Truly* a foolish presumption, for H. heterophyllus
is a very small grower—from 12ft. to 20ft. Its
habitat is in the brush forests from Illawarra to
Clarence River. The truth is that there are quite
a number of varieties with the local name of
“ kurrajong,” and not confined to one order either.
Hibiscus splendens is also a small growing tree, and
of the same habitat as Hib. h. aforesaid. These are
of the order of Malvacce. The tree that I think
“XXX ” meant is Sterculia dirersifolia, which is
locally named the black kurrajong(most authorities
spell it with a “ K ”). This tree and Stcr.
acerifolia (Flame Tree) and Ster. lurida grow to
be splendid shade trees if in suitable soil. This is
the main factor in the case. Plant in a
sandy back yard, with rock or pipeclay a
couple of feet beneath, and you get a
slow-growing stunted object of no account. But
put the young thing on top of a bleak limestone
or basalt ridge, and the Sterculia grows to noble
dimensions. Veracious back-blockers state that
the taproot of a kurrajong will go down a mile.
Others of more conservative mind swear to 100 ft.
There is one characteristic common to the
Malvacce and Sterculia orders—they have very
soft wood and very tough baric. The natives once
used their bark for making fishing-lines and
similar things. Seeing that the two orders are so
different in appearance, I am inclined to think
that the aborigines called them by the same
name on account of their bark resemblance.
RAW MATERIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The German Consul in Perth publishes the German
Imperial returns of trade with Australia in 1907. The
exports consisted mainly of manufactures of metals,
mac.iinery, clay, glass, fibrous textiles, and leather.
Imports from Australia were represented mainly by wool
and metals. —News item,
Hooray for Raw Material,
And Kaiser Bill’s Imperial
Returns that tell the story to Australia, half-asleep ;
It is wholesome, but it nettles
Just to note how wool and metals
Are about the only valuables we ever seem to keep.
(And, of course, we don’t produce them,
For we only break and loose them
From the old Earth’s stony bosom and the backs of silly
sheep.)
God bless the Finished Article
That’s foreign—ev’ry particle
(Perhaps it has a staple of the wool we sent away ;
And we really don’t know whether
That’s the same old coat of leather
That was worn by Spot or Poley in the good old bullock
dray).
But our store of wealth diminished,
Shows we’ve paid for it as “ finished,”
So the German takes the profit and says “Hooh!”
which means “ Hooray ! ”
So, cheer for Bill’s Imperial
Remarks on Raw Material;
It’s not a pleasant tonic, but it tunes the languid sort.
When the figures are unravelled
You will find the stuff has travelled
At least twice across the ocean—there and back from
port to port.
(Which mad fact, when plainly stated,
Is—it has been calculated—
Quite enough to make the Devil give one ten-horse-po\i'er
snort.
x.s.w.
JAMES VOLCANO.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Fuze (Argalong): Yes, but it's difficult at times
to enthuse whole-heartedly' over your idols either. While
the Labor party admits into its ranks Freetraders—men
who want to freely admit the pauper-made goods of the
nigger and the Chow, and so either drive the Australian
workman out of employment, or reduce his wages to the
Cliow-nigger level—enthusiasm is dashed hard at times.
And it is also a little difficult to enthuse over a Govern-
ment which preaches land-tax to promote settlement in
the empty places, and yet makes an abject surrender to the
Tory party, which wants the capital up against Sydney
on the ground that the County of Cumberland is already
the most crowded section of Australia, so the new popu-
lation which the capital will attract should be put as near
there as possible, in order to promote further congestion.
These things don’t amount to Fusing with Cook, but
they are a lamentable Fusing with Cook’s ideas
J.R.: The Fusion had been attacked with all the energy
The Bulletin had on the premises, and Deakin was
entitled to say what he could. Hence “ X.’a ’’ letter.
Now, having said its say, and allowed Deakin’s apologist
to say his say, The Bulletin proposes to deal with Deakin
on his policy—which, after all, is the only thing that
matters . W.A.F. : Too verbose. We hate long words
where short ones will serve the same purpose
Strutter: At rest... A. Gaunt: Some poetic ideas; but
the end is weak liorbra : Effect is spoiled by an evi-
dent misunderstanding of the Deakin-Cook agreement re
non-interference with the Protectionist policy H.J. :
Yes, it might have been put better. But the sub-
ject has been buried too long to dig up again
Snake : Please send name and address to accountant
Grey Lynn: Ditto....E.J.R. : Don’t know the lady’s
address ; but if you send your subscription to the Ade-
laide Advertiser or Adelaide Register, you can’t go
wrong Eureka : The Bulletin isn’t prepared to swear
to any tank-measuriijg formula ; but here is one that has
a good name behind it: (1) Multiply top length and
breadth. (2) Multiply bottom length and breadth. (3)
Multiply average length and breadth. (4) Add the first,
second, and four times the third. (5) Multiply by the
depth and divide by six. If in feet, divide by 27 to get
cub. yards. ..Young Soldier : This paper has aired your
remount grievance at least half a dozen times in the past
two years... .C.E. : As insane a joke suggestion as we
have encountered these six months . . Brownie : In brief,
Bill let the woman have a 3d. rabbij; for 2£d. It is about
the baldest episode we ever saw framed into a par A.
Bryning: NouseforaVic. lacrosse scribe .. H.M.8.: Your
joke requires a knowledge of chess, heraldry and ecclesi-
astical law, also a chart. It has accordingly’ been fired...
McP.: The “good thing” which you consider is “ worth
a picture ” has been retailed by laborite McDougall from
a score of platforms in the last six, weeks... Marc
Anthony: Articles were unsuitable C.M. : Glad to
hear of Willaura’s progress, but the fact that a district
which is cut up for settlement is sure to boom is too much
of a truism for re-statement C.W.W. : Why is Jingoism
always associated with horrible grammar? “ Build Your
Dreadnoughts” is something even beyond the average in
that line: “Your Possessions. .. protection still requires’’ ;
“.your traditions... animates .your children,” etc
G. M.V.K. : Have considered ballad. Miles too long as it
stands at present M.B.M. : Melancholy reverie
earnestly' recommended as insomnia-cure. Also, this
paper plays the wise Pharisee to your impenitent Sinner
. ...A.S.: Told so often before and so much better
Mabo: “We have no room for the Wattle Bloom.”
(N.B. —This is poetry—your poetry.).. ..The Porpoise:
Kailyard barred. Besides, you mustn’t jump the other
Kailyard bard’s “Gin a body kiss a body,” or words to
that effect.... J.E.P. : Screed about the inconsiderate
corpse that bobbed up and drowned a man was breathless
before it could reach the printer. . .N. de P. : Your dis-
sertation, proving' that Black is Black is joyfully rejected.
Sassa! Not even a wattle poet is allowed in this
paper —
To sip the honey measure
From bitter wells of care.
N.E. : Spiritless appeal and weary yearnings to die
in the mountains leave us unmoved Shirley:
You left just when the interesting part of your
anecdote might have been expected Ginger: The fat
mother of eight who danced out of a borrowed boot is
not a very humorous circumstance H.N.D.: Let one
stanza live :
Obese with egotism, scorning wowsers,
Alack ! a tiny ant, most truculent knave,
Did nip my leg ’neath cover of my trousers;
I cursed and yelled ; then pondered and was grave.
....J.E. : Your little jubilee boat-poem of no general
interest J.R. : Excellent sentiment disguised in
execrable doggerel and disfigured by obvious puns....
I.L. : In your touching- innocence you want us to give
free ads. to some enterprising tradesmen and to pay you
for our doing so ...Dinah : Amiable comments about
commonplace people not in our line G.B. : Drunken
Prohibitionist orators do not appeal to us C.N. :
Send Tommy and his Trip to Sunday-school
Warrenjella : You describe a boundary-rider and his life,
as if you had just discovered him. Write him up for an
English paper, and make him a long-lost duke or a bush-
ranger H.V.L.M. :No hankering after leisurely dis-
quisitions about fatted calves N.T.J. : Nothing won-
derful about your magpie.. ..Meek: Useless contribu-
tion to decayed controversy Aux Amies: Crude, if
earnest, appeal to miners to massacre Chinese regretfully
declined S.P. : Good patriotism wasted on Shetland
ponies and white horses Wangatooka: Well, if a man
who doesn’t know poker from a shovel hat is fool enough
to back his hand on the advice of a perfect stranger, he’s
got no call to squeal if he’s taken down... Di Abolo :
Why damn them both ? This paper has a tender corner
in its inside for sausages Sufferer: Sorry yourdugong
lard did not act. Apparently you did not follow the
directions. Take a hot bath—very hot—and then have
it rubbed in before applying the pad. If the skin
repels the lard, use the oil after the hot bath, and
have it well massaged ; the skin must absorb it
A.T.W. : Gloomy deathbed narrative, without deathbed
trimmings or other comforting circumstances J.C.L. :
Uninteresting story of an alleged murder and a certain
suicide Sandy Mac.: You’ve left out the only interest-
ing part of the story —why your cultured and beautiful
Desdemona married'her nasty nigger. . A.S.K. : Not
worth anything J.W.R. : Goat romance too poetical
for this paper Streeton : Dreary lies about waitresses.
E.S. : Not carried away by that fragment of a cycle,
and the other piece also leaves us unmoved W.S.:
Jealous Mrs. D. and cruel Mr. D. about as interesting as
used tea leaves Verdi: May use the bull (which is not
a bull at all), but draw the line at your version of the old
oath lie Tina: Your memo, says “Tina encloses two
penny stamps to return sketch I sent if not accepted.”
No surname, no address, no particulars by which to
identify sketch. Presume Tina is a nice girl, but it is
all very indefinite G.C.W.: Had got half way through
your stuff before the terrible truth dawned upon us that
you were using the unhappy medium of what you con-
sider verse... .Billie : “Where are those moons from
dark till wane?” How the deuce should we know?
R. :
The gentle No, the common Bask-
Et furnish all you ought to ask.
Phil Samson : Not in our line 8.M.H.: Your verse is,
on the whole, rather worse than your prose A.F.W. :
Too much slab-house in your effort, and too little giil,
and punctuation and interest E.O’T. : Poems about
“ Last September ” only published next Septem-
ber, and unfortunately all our September issues
are engaged for some years to come Oxo:
Account of the spree a bit off—like the beer
Bert: Strange yearning for death on the ocean wave has
sunk to the bottom of the basket Firestick : Ex-
planation not new ...Tag.: The Bulletin was right,
despite the Examiner’s statements. The four longest-
lived Tasmanian Ministries were : Braddon’s (5 years, 5
months, 28 days), Fysh’s (5 years, 4 months, 18 days),
Evans’s (4 years, 11 months, 7 days), Giblin’s (4 years, 9
months, 16 days) Winkie: No use for stories of
practical jokes on Chows, or others Felix: A banal
collection of yarns, and the writing would ruin the eye-
sight of a vulture, far away as that bird can see the dead
horse Jack Plane: “Breaking the News” appeared
in London Punch many years ago. The cream of
the other jest lies in the fact that the lady
grossly insults the canvasser. Wc don’t think
highly of you as a gag-suggester The Wasp:
Most of them reached our heart, and they all
reached the basket L.C.W. : Sorry we can’t oblige
E.M.F. : Don’t know; but S. Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-
street, Sydney, will tell you Southland: Note that
Joe Ward’s newspaper organ accuses this paper of having
no respect for Maoriland. The difference between Joe
Ward’s respect for his country and this paper’s respect
for it is that Jos- ph is apparently willing to see it financi-
ally drunk, and this paper isn’t willing—it doesn’t like to
see people it respects reeling in the gutter Subscriber
(Mt. Victoria): Only males can sit in the States’ Leg.
Councils. For the Assemblies, females may sit in Queens-
land, S. Australia and Tasmania; and they may sit
in either Commonwealth House.... Elpis : Poor stuS
Clyde: One sentence gleamed cheerily out of your
lengthy screed : “It appears to me that ideas such as
Empire Day and the gift of a Dreadnought are a hollow
mockery.” The rest was more or less dead literary fruit.
Bang: An imposing lie ; but too long-drawn out
G.A.R. : Mournfully true—in fact, platitudinous Salt:
No time to discuss the World’s News views on water-
spouts. The greatest living authority on this subject is
Jawbone Neild Long Mac: You haven’t the para-
graphing gift C. H.J. : There is no work of the precise
sort you want. B. R. Wise’s new book, “ The Common-
wealth of Australia,” might assist your relative.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTKIBUTORS
Charles Mai: The tub and pig joke is quite used up
now Bougie: Very medium J. McColl: The man’s
legs are ridiculously short, and the joke that the badly-
drawn boy is making was old in the days when
Artaxerxes Bonedust and Darius Tombstone were
king in Persia... ,-S.N. : Picture not up to mark,
and verses very much the same as picture W.H. :
No use for picture of man whose hat was blown
off last week J.A.E.: Quite agree that that five-year-
old artist should be encouraged. Hope you’ll do what
you can in that direction Darvo : Drawing not very
good, and it is better to invent your jokes than
take them out of the “Wit and Humor” column
Jikins: Evil sketch, criminal joke F.F.: “In the
Garb of Adam ” is simply no good to man or beast
Melrose: Nothing hopeful about the picture of Aunt
Ethel and Billy Gus: One may do as a suggestion;
but both drawings utterly impossible.... Panhandle:
(1) Sciatica yarn old ; (2) it wasn’t much good when it was
new F.G.: None new ; none good.


IN PREMIER JOHN WEARY’S STATE.
j
""Hr"! O
0 lb
I %
PIUC.K!
r lfe
(Xmo
\
0
o ABLE-
k f M C E_
ZYZ I>C»t7p o- 't\e,
Wci'eaAivfP s- ii-v '
Pkc *»j ice'll 11> ,
/ Sfe4Hif/o of
/ \>foo«si |eu4,
/~\)l& \» orditr&ry tuynesS
of He*/
|j
\
O u R
J^^ 'jro*o
'ftye 100 K of-tifinzs , Ik.
jj-ffie Boy w»/l grow
v/fjisKef's before
• S done in lItZ marft cr ,
C | ~
"W«h !
V»<?v/ o\ YvopermQt °\ fern * SKeflH by Outr correspondent;
Wid c^^»'ackSaca»n
f\*r-j never
On 'tune, %c S or 'to arrive
• TT)er* W no shelter. J
( Pfcf«.r) #


ALFRED THE AFFABLE COMES INTO HIS POLITICAL KINGDOM.-CORONATION OF KING DEAKIN L
Observe the respectful devotion on the faces of his loyal and fused subjects. (N.B.-The gentleman who is fixing up the sword of
Damocles doesn’t even pretend to be devoted.)


GAE LIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
‘AYE, THERE’S THE RUB ! ”
SWIFT & COMPANY,
VOCJ only need a very lit
Cherry Blossom Paste
f little of
- • WUW vm ■ „ste to get
a grand shine to your boots, and
a few rubs with a oioth are all
that is necessary. You get more
for your money, and it goes
further. What else could you
want when you remember the
good wet-resisting quali ties of the
P a ste ? Blank and Tan tins at 3d
and 6d. Write us if you cannot
get supplied locally'.
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Do you want to live happy and long- ?
Do you want to be healthy and strong?
Laxo-Tonic Pills take,
For it’s not yet too late,
And your system will never go wrong.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
Cures
Coughs
Angler’s Emulsion is unequalled for
coughs, bronchitis and all lung affec-
tions. By its soothing and healing
effects it stops the cough, allays inflam-
mation, improves the
breathing and makes
expectoration easy. At
the same time it keeps
the digestive organs
healthy and has a won-
derfully invigorating
influence upon the
general health. One
day’s trial will convince
you of its soothing,
cough - allaying, lung-
healing power. For free
samplesend4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
mm
ggpsi
PfSF
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
Angier Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St.,Sydney^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some birthdays for July: Ex-Senator
'John Downer, 65, and headmaster Girdlestone
(St. Peter s, S. A.), 46, on thesth ; Iceberg* Irvine,
51, and Professor Rentoul, 63, on the 6th; ex-
Postmaster General Todd (S. A.), 83, on the 7th ;
Percy Grainger, 27, and Joe Chamberlain, 73, on
the Bth ; the Adelaide Advertiser, 51, on the
12th ; Senator Trenwith, 62, on the 16th ; Crown
Solicitor Dash wood (S.A.), 66, and ex-Chief
Justice Onslow (W.A.), 67, on the 17th ; Lunatic-
Superintendent Cleland (S. A.), 62, on the 18th;
Naval Director Creswell. 57, on the 20th ; Ben
Hoare (Age), 67, on the 22nd ; Bishop Dawes, 66,
and Railway Commissioner Tait (Vic.), 45 on the
24th; Judge Gordon (S.A.). 59, on the 26th-
Senator Vardon, 66. on the 27th ; Randolph Bed-
ford, 41, on the 28th; ex-Mavor D. Jimmy
Graham (Sydney), 51, and Carty Salmon, M. H R
48, on the 29th.
GRANT HERVEY, blacksmith , carpenter, verse-
writer, good Democrat, and Federal. Labor
candidate for Denison (Tasmania),
The Oldest Inhabitant writes :
Mr. Justice a Beckett, of Melbourne, he with the new
Bk l d t 0 ’ll 8 , nanle ’ is a son of Thomas Turner
A Beckett, who in 1851 came to Melbourne on a visit to
his brother William, the then Chief Justice, and decided
to stay He was a solicitor and built up a big- practice
A 'Fii ICa r't S and such-like, and eventually became
MelhmiF ° f r '!i e ij > i OGeS . e ' He held a lar B' e interest in the
Melbourne and Hobson s Bay Railway Go., being- one of the
early promoters. His son, the present Judge, was born
fr-inthfFi a '!i d started a judicial capacity to
frankly tel! the defendant what he thought of him during
For their “mutual advantage” the ship-
ping people and; the coal merchants of Sydney
have come to an “honorable understanding.’’
Yet even without the horrible understanding the
coal merchants seem to have made a bit more than
a crust, rhus the will of the late “ Barney ”
Byrnes was proved the other day at £46,189; and
Barney started business life in a Sydney back-lane
with a ton or so of small coal not so very many
years ago.
Died in London, a few weeks ago, Sir
Reginald Barnewall, Bart., aged 71. The new
Bart., who is well advanced in the fifties, is
resident in Victoria—up at Alexandra, Gippsland,
or thereabouts—and he is off to claim the title and
estates of his deceased relative. The new Bart.,
by the way, is John Robert Barnewall, and the
title is so old that he will be duly recorded as
.°-10 on the list. What a mushroom is Rupert
m comparison with a Barnewall ! And there
seems to be some money in the family. Bart.
JNo. 9 died at a rather high-sounding address.
-fifty years ago the Freemasons were not
running after Excellencies to become Grand
Masters as they do to-day. In Melbourne John
I nomas Smith wasG.M. of the Irish Constitution.
He was a Sydney native, and his father a boot-
maker in Castlereagh-street, and John Thomas
Smith was about as ordinary as a kitchen table,
arM was defeated in single combat with the letter
h every time they met. It was a great time
when John Thomas went to England with a
suite ” and a chaplain, in search of a title. He
didn t get the title, and he lost the chaplain, but
he came back with two donkeys. In Sydney
about the same time, John Williams, a cooper,
whose place of business vyas in Reiby-lane, was
the leading light. Nothing is known about his
aspirates.
When the King’s birthday indignities were
being handed out. Providence kept a kindly eye on
old George Throssell, of Westralia, The aged
ex-Premier was made a whole, complete C.M?G.
I hrossell is f>9. He was in Westralian polities
trom the beginning of Responsible Government
was for four years a member of the first Ministry,'
and was head of the second Ministry. And in his
declining years he climbs the dizzy pinnacle of
ambition and becomes a C.M.G. Justice Simp-
son, of N.S.W., and Cornthwaiteßason, of W. A.,
and Justice a’Beckett, of Victoria, and one Alex.
Smith, who is described as “the founder of the
Boys Brigade,’ and William Amelia, who writes
the London letter for the S. M. Herald, are
made knights. But old George Throssell rushes
a T» d /rV.’ nto ft e ,n 'ddle of things and becomes a
C. M. G.
Concerning two pedagogues ;
Tardy local recognition has arrived for two clever and
persevering Australians. Oneis Dr. P. R. Cole, aN.S. VV. ex-
P’ l school teacher, who should have been principal of
the Sydney Teachers’Training College, but was passed
by in favor of a nice young imported man who had to
start in and learn about the system which the Australian
knew from At Z. Years ago Cole went away as Uni-
versity travelling scholar, and won more scholarships and
diplomas ; and though both Columbia and Illinois Uni-
versities make him good offers, he is coming home, as
most Australians long to do, his old Department havinv
made him vice-principal of the Training Colleo-e The
other exileis Professor Thomas H. Uaby, just appointed, at
the age of 30, to.tfie chair of Physics at Wellington (M.L).
Uaby, coming in from his farming home at Sutton
borrest (N.S. VV.), became a junior demonstrator at the
technical College, and afterwards at the University.
The wooden Sydney ’Varsity regulations refused him
matriculation because, being a born scientist and nothino-
but a scientist, he could not master smne dead lanvuave°
the corpse whereof should have long ago been buried.’
He spent many weary hours at it, but the ancient and
decayed tongue got him down. He gave it up in disgust
and took a science scholarship which carried him to the
Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge. There he has earned
increasing praise for his work, and an exhibit of his for
counting election results was called by the Timks last
May the most striking feature of the'Royal Society’s
display.
The beginning of the suppression of an old
landmark happened at the corner of Swnnston and
Collins streets, Melbourne, t’other day. The pre-
mises of Chambers and Seymour, the hardware
people, are being carved up into shops and
offices; and the old firm, which has been resting
oil the historic corner for 59 yenrs, moves to
another address. Probably Chambers and Sey-
mour hold the Melbourne record for lengthy
residence in the one locality, though Cornelius
Job Ham, the auctioneering - souvenir inSwanston-
street, two or three doors away, is also a stayer.
Cornelius Job must have been auctioneering etc
somewhere in that neighborhood for most of haif
a century.
“The Flat” makes some remarks about a
notable heap of bricks and mortar :
Cliveden, the big, white-elephant barrack that over-
shadows East Melbourne (Vic.), and which was intended
to be the baronial hall of the Clarkes for all time is now
in the market. And it is likely to remain there. It was
recently, offered to the State Government, along with the
insinuation that it would make a comfortable and con-
venient home for a deserving Governor. The Government
rejected the proposal, and, unless the enormous pile can
be utilised as a hospital, hotel, apartment house, or some-
thing of the kind, it may stare uselessly across the tree-
tops of the titzroy Gardens for a long time to come
Even in its palmiest days East Melbourne was never able
to live up to the brick and plaster glory of Cliveden ; and
now that the boarder and the landlady have laid waste
the suburb from an aristocratic point of view, the Clarkes’
attempt at grandeur is just a forlorn mass of building
material. Asa small boy, the barrack was a thing of awe
t .° ™e.' 1 had a vague idea that Queen Victoria had
decided to come and live in East Melbourne, and I was
-7 a X s ex P ectln S’ to find a line of carriages, cruarded bv
Life Guards, and loaded with the Riled Family, drawn up
ui front of the door which fronts dustv Wellington
Parade. It was a bitter disappointment when I realised
that I would never be gladdened by that impressive
spectacle. In all the years I lived in East Melbourne I
do not remember half a dozen occasions on which the bio-
corner mansion looked really alive. It seemed to stand
alwa £? , ln a . sor £ ? f brick-and-mortar stupor inside
its high, ugly brick walls,- which ran—or rushed
—so close to the building itself that the space
left for garden was. only a few strides wide.
The two dusty field-pieces that now stare at the
Richmond cable trams from the Wellington Parade nor-
tico are reminiscent of the gorgeous Rupertswood Bat-
tery °f Hor j e Artillery—the dead-and-gone military fad
of dead-and-gone Will,am Clarke. The Rupertswood
Battery was modelled on the Roval Horse Artillery and
its uniforms were beyond reproach, even if its guns’were
not. (They are doing just as good service now in front of
the seldom-opened front door as they would ever be
likely to do on the paddock of battle.) As regards the
house, it would be wildly inaccurate to sav that its glory
has departed or that it is sitting on its trunk in the hail
waging for the cab to come along so that it mav drive to
the station and take a second-class ticket for Footscrtv
Chveden never even had the brief burst of hilarity and
brightness that is generally the lot of the largest white
elephant before it sinks into the inevitable stage of
torpor. The C arkes’ animal was from the very start a
dull dead monster with chloroform leaves in its hair
THE SORT OF
JEST THAT
LEADS TO
BITTERNESS.
1ST SUBURBANITE:
"Steal I They'll steal
anything. Last week the
wife went out for an hour ,
and a man came in and shook
all the lead off the roof.”
2ND DITTO : “ That's nothing. My wife never left the house for a minute yesterday , and a man
came in and shook all the carpets. "
“Briner”: Some jags, from English
magazines, about the German Emperor. As a boy
he was familiar with the interior arrangements of
Portsmouth. Often went aboard the war vessels.
Saw the British naval pageants on the Solent.
He is the only foreigner who is a British Admiral.
The doting Queen Victoria appointed him, and
the appointment has been amazingly useful to him
in the gathering of inside information. In a speech
aboard the British battleship Royal Sovereign, he
mentioned that when inspecting the British
Mediterranean Fleet, he hoisted his flag aboard
the Dreadnought of that time, and took command,
nominally, of the greatest British fighting
squadron. At Malta he visited a British battle-
ship, hoisted his flag, took off his coat, and went
all over the vessel, inspecting turrets, engines
and boilers. When his schemes were rather
at a critical stage, the Emperor lectured the mem-
bers of the Reichstag for two hours, on the Ger-
man and British fleets, with illustrative diagrams
drawn by himself. It is doubtful whether any
British Admiral is better informed on every detail
of the British ships.
A statement in Beynoeds’s, of London,
that Dr. Arthur, M.L.A. (Sydney), is well paid
for encouraging emigration to Australia, shows
that the Britisher is still suspicious of the salaried
lecturer. When Henry Parkes visited England
on the same mission some 40 years ago the
gag that he was paid hit him at the close of
pretty well every address. “Don’t believe
him, mates,’ a man called out at Birming-
ham. “He gets £lOOO a year for spinning
those yarns.” Parkes was sick of the gibe,
so he spat back, “You’re a liar!” When
the uproar subsided, the chairman asked
Parkes to smooth things over. “Well,”
said Henry. “I’m sorry for calling the
gentleman a liar. But so he is. He said I
get £lOOO a year—l get £1200.” Then the
meeting roared, and let him goon. But it
didn’t follow him out to Australia.
The Launceston end of Tasmania won’t
hang crape round its hat over the knocking-out of
Premier Jack Evans. Premier Jack used to be a
skipper, and had the bad luck one day to find his
steamer on top of the Barrenjoey rocks—which
experience was a sore point with Captain John.
Years after, when he had got into political power,
Launceston worried him, whereupon he tried to
makegood with Hobart by asking facetiously con-
cerning its rival—“ I’m hearing a lot about Laun-
ceston. Where is this Launceston?” Then a
hollow voice boomed out from the back, “Forty
miles from Barrenjoey.” Captain John never
asked where Launceston was after that.
Aclvt. from a recent Dublin Weekly Irish
Times
Missing Friends. Lalor (P.H.), left co. Kildare for
Australia in 1859 ; concerned in Ballarat riots, afterwards
M.P. Last heard of at Forest Greek, Victoria. Inquirer
cousin. W. M. J. Lalor, Seamen’s Institute, E. India Dock-
road, London.
The cousin of Victoria’s former Speaker is a trifle
out in his dates, as Peter left the Potato Isle in
’52, and was in the Ballarat unpleasantness in ’54;
but it may interest him to learn that the brave
democrat died 20 years ago—February 9, 1889.
Also his son, Dr. Lalor, of Richmond, died a year
or so back ; though there is a grandson Peter still
m the Commonwealth somewhere.
THE FINANCIAL ASPECT.
McTAVISH: “ Did ye hue a good trip home tae
Scawtland , Mocpheerson?”
MOCPHEERSON: “ Not so verx had, hut it was a
vera great expense. Why, mon, it cost a whole
two shillings and saxpence in tips."
PING NAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Viewing l Australian political matters through Chinese
spectacles, Mr. Ping Nam held that statesmen of this
country must face the fact that, in the future, negotia-
tions with China would be on different lines to the
diplomacy of 50 years ago. It would be difficult to enter
into any sort of relation with China commercially if this
country was going to adopt sweeping and indiscriminate
legislation against Chinese, or, in upholding that legisla-
tion, to use language which was insulting to Chinese as
Chinese.— Daily paper.
Be abject, my brothers ! Bow lower ! Salaam !
’Tis the Voice of New China ! Ili-yah, Ping Nam ! •
He bubbles with wisdom, for he is no clam
Hi 1 joss-sticks and ginger for noble Ping Nam !
In dark Lower George-street, where crasheth the tram,
There dwelleth the Prophet—this haughty Ping Nam.
Whilst we with strange food did respectfully cram
We heard the stern message of Mister Ping Nam.
He meant what he said, for a Ping wouldn’t bam-
Boozle his customers. Oh, dignified Nam 1
He looked as an eagle might look at a lamb—
Or a king at a farthing. Relent, 0 Ping Nam !
As clearly as speech his bold gaze said : “ I am
Not here to be trifled with ! /am Ping Nam !
The tea and the plain cabbage Johns that peram-
Bulate the far suburbs bow down to Ping Nam.
The Chow on the boiler that fries like a ham
He sizzles to be with the mighty Ping Nam.
Beware lest your foolish endeavor to slam
Your door in the faces of friends of Ping Nam—
Annoys the Old Lizard ! If he starts a cam-
paign of boycotting— (Quickly Brothei ?/ SALAAM! !)
Good-bye to your opium, ginger and jam,
If you don’t admit them ! ( Have mercy, Ping Nam !/)
(Don’t stop it, O Brothers ! Keep on the salaam !
This is Something Tremendous ! It's name is Ping Nam !)
N.S.W.
AH TOO SOON.
WHALING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the District Court, Melbourne, the firm of Blogg
Brothers was fined £lO, with £5 ss. costs, for selling-
salad oil which was not of the nature, quality, and sub-
stance demanded by the purchaser. “The evidence for
the prosecution,” said the Argus, “showed that the oil
sold was branded ‘ Sublime salad oil, Olive brand.’ On
analysis it was found to be marine animal oil, contain-
ing a certain admixture of vegetable oil. It was admitted
by one of the defendants that the main constituent of
the oil branded as salad oil was whale oil.
Waiter, the lobster and the wine, the lettuces, tender
green,
The hard-boiled eggs, with endives and white celery
strewn between !
Waiter, the last train leaves at 12 and the time goes gal-
loping on,
So, hasten to garner the beetroot red, and the lobster-
haste thee, John !
Bring forth the things we need,
And let us, forthwith, feed ;
And, when you’re rushing to serve us with this beautiful,
midnight prog,
Pray, don’t forget the choicest thing—the oil from the
whale of Blogg 1
Ashes to ashes and dust to dust—aye, and fish to fish !
Why not?
The lobster gambolled among his mates in the joy of his
deep-sea lot—
The whale went wallowing down the trough or climbing
the mountain wave,
And now they’re booked for a company-trip to a beckon-
ing human grave.
When the tucker is rich and rare,
And the waiter is waiting there,
The jaded palates of epicures with his choice food-joys to
jog,
This Oil Sublime is the crowning touch—the oil from the
whale of Blogg.
VICTORIA.
THE WHALER.


Australia’s Need !
"THE cables daily tell us how, at the Empire’s Press Conference,
British statesmen ceaselessly impress our delegates with the
necessity of Australia being self-contained in the matter of armaments
and men. The Commonwealth calls. The writing is on the wall.
“ Australia’s need ” demands that Australia should pay heed to her
production. Australia must forge her own steel, wear her own
woollens, use her own leather, and altogether live on her own produce.
The profits on the forty millions of goods imported--the bulk of
which can be supplied here if the Australian demands them will
provide sturdy craftsmen and money to defy Eastern menace, or give
Australia’s quota towards defence of European machinations at the
heart of the Empire. Foster your industries. Start by wearing
Australian Woollens. Vicars’ Australian Marrickville Tweeds were
acknowledged by Lady Northcote to be the softest, daintiest, and
most durable—because they are made of pure wool, all wool, and
nothing but wool. To-day America is stampeding Britain’s wool
markets to buy Australian wool, to be made into woollens in
America —woollens and tweeds not a patch on Vicars’ Marrickville
Tweeds. Insist on your tailor supplying you with Vicars’
Marrickville Tweed —stamped on every two yards with their trade
mark ; or, if there is any difficulty, send a postcard for sample
patterns to John Vicars & Co., Marrickville, Sydney. Distributing
Agents (Wholesale) : W. S. Cook & Son, York Street, Sydney ;
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


Good
St.raig-ht
It -inedy
Sure,
Woods’
Great
Peppermint
Cure.*
Walter Bradley & Be.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Diningf Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harmful drug.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “ peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
State wishes clearly, Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
BAD COMPLEXION.
Beauty, they say, is only skin deep. Nature
made beauty the visible symptom of health. ' If
the digestive tract is clogged, the stomach over-
loaded, the liver a>sleep—it will show immediately
in the complexion. FRANZ JOSEF Natural
Aperient Water will help your body get rid of its
impurities. By eradicating the impurities of the
blood it will assist Nature to bring the bloom of
roses back to your cheeks and the blush of health
to the complexion. It is palatable, prompt and
permanent. Franz Josef Springs, Budapest.*
Don’t Cough All Night.
Restful sleep follows the use of I)r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. The best lung remedy in the
world. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. #
0
Bloodless People
Need More Blood
More Blood Means more
Strength and Good Health.
o
Weak, Languid Australian Girl,
Cured by a Blood
Making Tonic.
There’s only one way to cure anaemia or blood-
lessness—only one—increase the blood supply.
Don’t lose sight of that point. It is a medical
certainty that health and vigorous strength de-
pends upon good red blood to nourish the body.
When they have a better blood supply anaemic
people will find that the listless, tired feeling,
lack of appetite, headaches, backaches and nerv-
ousness have gone. That’s another certainty, be-
cause they are only symptoms. Then how to get-
more blood ? Simply Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—
that’s what they are for. They actually contain
the only ingredients that will combine with food
and oxygen to make red blood corpuscles. There’s
the case of Miss Francis Spring, 102 Dugan Street,
Kalgoorlie, W.A., which is a pretty fair example
of what they will do in anaemia.
“After I was fourteen I became gradually
anaemic,” said Miss Spring. “At school the
teacher noticed how bloodless my face and lips
were getting. I got worse each day and was
forced to leave school. My appetite went com-
pletely. They had to force me to eat. I had
queer fancies for sour things, like pickles or vine-
gar. I hadn’t a vestige of color in my face or
gums, my hands were waxy and transparent. I
had a haggard look, my eyes were sunken and I got
thinner each month. I had no strength to do
anything. I’d lie about all day and doze, and my
people would be quite distressed by my moaning
in mv sleep. Night and day I would have fits of
coughing. Often at night time I’d be wet with
perspiration. My feet were stone-cold, and my
hands clammy. All my friends thought T was on
the verge of consumption. For months I dared
not go out in the evenings; the slightest change
would bring on a cough. I’d get splitting head-
aches across my forehead. I had every remedy
that my people could hear of, but nothing did me
good. I could not walk quickly, as my heart
would palpitate. I was taken to Grafton, ISi.S. W.,
for a change, but it did not do me any good. I
got dull aches between my shoulder blades. I’d
lie awake for hours at night, coughing and unable
to close my eyes. They gave me port wine, but I
couldn’t keep even that down. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, however, brought back my health.
Gradually the color came into my face and lips,
and I began to eat better and to feel much stronger
and brighter. The cough eased and every box
found me better. You wouldn’t know me for the
same girl. Now I can help my aunt at the dress-
making. Every symptom of anaemia has dis-
appeared. ”
When you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
don’t be put off with anything else. Go where
you can get the genuine, with Dr. Williams’ name
on the outside wrapper. It’s the genuine that
cures. Price 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d.
To be had of storekeepers and chemists, or sent
direct by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYEB BROTHERS
Also ax Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Peake Ministers in S. Aus. can see
nothing but disaster ahead. The Labor party of
19 members is keen to throw them out, and the
Butler crowd of 13 is by no means keen to keep
them in. They can only muster nine votes, all
told, in the Assembly ; and the chances are that
directly the House meets on July 22 they will walk
the plank. What will happen then no one can
tell. The Labor party has sworn off alliances ;
and, as it can only tally 20 votes out of 42 even if
it wins Price’s seat, it isn’t likely to be able to
carry on business, supposing the Governor should
send for Labor-leader Verran, or for Coney beer,
who was the late Premier Price’s senior Labor
colleague.
A cheerful item from West Maitland
(N.S.W.) is the announcement of the formation
of a banking reform league, with the object of
engineering a wholesale banking panic and ruining
the private banks. Out of the ruins a State bank
is to arise. This weird item receives much pro-
minence in the Anti-Sosh press. Maitland is the
head-quarters of the Hunter electorate, which
Federal seat Dr. Liddell won last election bv a
200 majority in a poll of over 13,000. The Kurri
Kurri and other mining fields, as well as the North
Coast railway works, have recently brought a lot
of Labor votes into the electorate, which must be
lost to Anti-Sosh unless a miracle happens. The
banking panic yarn reads like a very inefficient
attempt to give a leg up to the miracle.
DEAKIN’S CALL. —THE FIRST RESPONSE.
The valuation of land is required for the purposes of
taxation, but in saying this I do not wish to frighten
anyone into believing that we are coming forward with a
proposition of taxation that will hear harshly upon any-
one or confiscate in any way t hat which any man has’a
right to retain for himself, hut I can assure you that it
will he lewis[?]tion of the most liberal kind. —Premier
Murray (Victoria).
COP MURRAY: "It's nil right. old man , don't
make a fuss. This is only a bit of kid. I'll
let yer go as soon as we’re out of sight!”
The landlord scores every time. Wheat
has gone up, and promises to stay up. The land-
owner didn’t put it up, and has no share in keep-
ing it up ; yet on the,Western plains of Victoria
the land •which a year or two ago he gladly let for
Bs. an acre he won’t let now for less than from 10s.
to 13s. So the farmer, who does all the hard graft,
and has to find the horses and ploughs, and take
the risks of the seasons, gets just the same old
bare living that he got when wheat was cheap.
State politics will miss a good-sized hand-
ful of N.S.W. members after next Federal election
—at least these members hope so. Charlton, the
popular Laborite for Northumberland, is going to
contest the Hunter Federal seat against Dr.
Liddell ; and Labor reckons the seat as good as
won. Fleming, an Anti-Sosh member, wants to
recover New England from Foster, the energetic
Labor man who defeated Lonsdale. B. B. O’Conor
and Arthur Griffith have already made a start ;
and Ashton and Joseph Carruthers are accused of
expecting the usual prodigious requisition asking
them to Federally nominate themselves for Some-
where.
When the N.S.-W. Government wanted to
resume part of the Peel River estate, a while ago,
the co. asked £500,000. The Government offered
£380,000. As the parties couldn’t agree, there had
to he the long, costly statutory inquiry, and
the Board said £405,000. Yet, though the
Government offered only £25,000 less than
the Board finds the land is worth, while
the co. demanded £95,000 more, the State
has to pay all the costs, officially estimated
at over £lO,OOO. Under those circum-
stances, a big landlord isn’t likely to suggest
a reasonable price, seeing that, no matter
how outrageous his demand, the other
side has to part up all the costs. The Wade
party has an idea that it may bring in a Bill
to deal somehow with the matter ; but any
sort of a Bill will be merely putting patches
on a rotten and superfluous old garment. At
least, it would be superfluous if there were a
stiff progressive land-tax at work.
According to S. M. Herald (25/6/’O9) :
Mr. Deakin has the support of the great majority.
And the great majority is the dead—the innumer-
able caravan of those that have gone before. Most
people are dead, and have been dead most of the
time.
Wade and the other State-frighters are
persistently cackling about the alleged chaos in
the Post Office now that it is a Commonwealth
Department. They might at least occasionally
mention where the new chaos has broken out.
One tremendous trouble is that the Department
can’t produce a separate balance-sheet for the
telephone branch—it doesn’t know for sure
whether the thing is paying or not. This is bad
enough, but it doesn’t amount to a new chaos—it
is just the old chaos which hasn’t yet been wholly
cleared up. And, naturally enough, the most
awful chaos of all rages in the N.S. W. section of
the service—the section that for years was Minis-
terially bossed by the scraps and tail-ends of
Governments, from D. O’Connor to Joe Cook. If
Wade can produce a telephone balance-sheet of
the days before the service went over to Federa-
tion, why doesn’t he do it? And if he can’t pro-
duce it, and if the alleged chaos of to-day is
simply the remnants of the old chaos not yet
cleaned up, what has Wade got to complain
about supposing somebody does refer to him as an
objectionable buzzing insect ?
The buzzing of the State mosquitoes has
had one good effect, anyway : it has kept S’Africa
from introducing the breed into those parts. Said
John X. Merriman, Premier of Cape Colony, in a
recent speech in advocacy of the S’African scheme
of union :
We see in Australia a number of local State politicians
who think themselves wiser than the men at the head of
national affairs. Possibly they may be right; it is not
for me to say. But Ido say that it is a most undesirable
state of affairs, and one that we in South Africa must
avoid at ail cost.
So the buzzing of the Wades and the Evanses de-
cided S’Afriea to go in for Union rather than
Federation ; and Wade can now have the joy of
knowing that, in other parts of the Empire, he is
regarded as the sort of spectacle that “must be
avoided at all cost.”
It is getting difficult nowadays to pick up
an English trade journal without finding in it a
demand for Protection. Not so very many years
ago the piano trade was very largely in the hands
of English makers, and such firms as Collard,
Broadwood, and Brinsmead had a world-wide
connection. Now, says a leading English musical
review, the trade is being grabbed hand-over-fist
by Germany. For example :
With respect to the pianoforte action, which may cor-
rectly be termed the core of the instrument, we are told
that the Germans have so effectually crushed out action-
making in England that sufficient skilled labor cannot
now be obtained for employers again to take up the
cudgels with any assured hope of success.
Pondering over the phenomenon, the journal
explains it :
Undoubtedly, the great industrial phenomenon of
modern Europe is i he commercial development of Ger-
many under Protection. The German export trade has
more than doubled in 10 years. We are told that, while
hundreds of thousands of people emigrate from Britain
each year, tens of thousands flock into Germany...
simply because there is more work than men to do it.
The Australian wool industry is having
another all-round scrap. Since selling in the
Australian market became the fashion, the middle-
men’s profits have been large, and in the squabble
for the bigger share the buyers and sellers got
into holts and fought on embittered cat principles.
A year or so ago the buyers formed themselves
into a strong trades union, and threatened a
general strike. They got things their own way
just then ; hut now the selling brokers have
banded together to cope with the buyers in ex-
tracting more profits from the business, and the
first act of the combine has been to charge extra
commission to the woolgrower. Now the pastoral-
ists talk of organising themselves into a union to
fight both buyers and sellers, and are busy read-
ing up trades union literature to learn how the
thing is done. “ Wingen ” Abbott is to be the
first walking delegate, and the concern may pos-
sibly affiliate with the Trades Hall. And, further,
apropos of the anti-Labor person’s hatred of free
competition when the thing comes his .own wnv,
it was announced last week .that: the N.S.W.
Coastal Steamship Owners’ Association and the
Sydney wholesale fuel merchants had combined
to protect their joint interests.
The popularity of N.S.W.’s present
Government is so immense that some of its
members can hardly get a hearing when they try
to address a meeting nowadays. At Newtown,
the other night, that ill-tempered man, Minister
Wood, had to have nearly half his audience
thrown out before he could get a chance to tell
the other half what he thought of the first half.
A REGULAR BUSTER.
Postmaster-General Quick said lie found that in the
Post Office he had undertaken a herculean task. Itmight
be necessary to resort, to a Loan Policy. A sum of
£2,000,000 was required.” —Daily Paper.
QUICK: “I want the price of a Dreadnought! ”
COHEN: "'Vat? Anutter? S'elp me. your crowd
ras not peen in office four reeks undt you rant
four millionts alretty! You ros goin’ ter
pace!”
William Lyne told his recent Sydney
meeting some of the history of the proposed Aus-
tralian navy :
Mr. Deakin and I had interviews with the Admiralty,
and he knows that the Admiralty did notask for a Dread-
nought or an increased subsidy but that they asked the
Commonwealth to build a small fleet of torpedo-boat
destroyers and submarines of i'ts own. I said to Mr.
Deakin, “I was with you then. How can you take ex-
ception to the policy initiated by Mr. Fisher?” Mr.
Deakin proposed six destroyers. Mr. Fisher proposed 23.
And when the time comes he will very likely in-
crease that proposal by having half a dozen, "or a
dozen, submarines to add to them. This is what the
Admiralty wanted. I said in that conversation with the
Admiralty : “Supposing we had that small fleet, what is
it for?” They said: “If we had war with a big and
powerful nation, we shall very likely require to concen-
trate all the fighting power of our fleet at one point or
two, to strike a decisive blow.” I said : “ Supposing the
enemy sends down one or two battleships ? ” “ You need
not worry about that,” they said. “If we had war with
any nation they will send the battleships to where we
are.” I said: “What do you want us to have these
destroyers for?" They said: “To preserve yourselves
against a marauding squadron of small ship's—to stop
their touching your main cities, or your coalfields.” This
all took place in Mr. Deakin’s h aring ; and yet he carped
at Mr. Fisher’s proposal, which was four times as good.
The S. M. Herald spoke with some scorn
the other day about people who had described the
land along the rail way route from the proposed Fed-
eral capital at Yassberra to Jervis Bay as “ being
of poor quality.” Yet, when it is considered that
land north of the Shoalhaven River often fetches
£5O an acre, while just a little way south of that
river, in the exact country which the proposed
Federal railway is, to traverse, it lately sold at
from 30s. to £3 an acre (and the seller had bought
some of it not long before at 155.), it does seem as
if the quality of the soil called for comment. As
a matter of fact, when Yassberra was first
selected and there was talk of a port at Jervis
Bay, a local Deform member urged that it was
advisable to be fairly liberal, as the land in that
direction was so poor that it really didn’t matter
how much of it the State gave away. The S. M.
Herald reported his remarks, and the four
officials who have just selected the site for the
city say not a word in refutation of them.
RESISTANCE (?).
A man has not any right, if he is caught red-handed
and burglariously in a room, to resist or struggle at all.—
Acting-Justice Rogers of N.S. W.
HOUSEHOLDER : “ Hey , now just you stop it!
It ain't lawful. Ask Judge Rogers!"
Maoriland’s public debt has now scrambled
up to a trifle of £70,5)53,530. Which, for less than
a million people, is fairly handsome. The race
between Maoriland and N.S.W. for the right to
first issue the new centennial postage stamp with
the legend “ We Owe a Hundred Millions” grows
interesting these days.
It isn’t often that a political body meets
and solemnly declares itself defunct; but it
happened lately at Sorrento (Vic.)- That village,
in Irvine’s Flinders electorate, had a Liberal
Association which was so horrified at the recent
Fusion that it decided to die rather than be sus-
pected.of any connection with the Fusionists’
“Liberal Association.” Later on, the thing may
be revived under some other name, with the
object of aiming clods at Irvine should he want to
be re-elected. Just at present, Flinders doesn’t
know what his intentions are; all it knows is
that he is about this most disgusted man in
Parliament. He thought the Reps, would take
him for an iceberg ; instead they insist on treat-
ing him as a mere icicle, and Irvine feels hurt.
UP AND DOING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argus warns the Labor Opposition that ttie electors
will hold it responsible if it does not allow the Govern-
ment to “ get on with the work of the country.”
Whence comes this sudden, fiery zeal
For business of the nation ?
Why does the tepid Argus feel
A burning' agitation?
The other day it bade us heed
(Its tones were soft and cooing)
The utter foolishness of speed,
The wickedness of doing !
That Parliaments for years should sleep
And cease to be creative
It preached of old ; now it can weep
For labors legislative !
Meanwhile this notion cutely spun
The people are pursuing—
That they it is who’re being done.
When Tory rags preach doing !
VICTORIA.
S. S.
GRANNY THE RAGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is difficult to speak temperately of the announcement
definitely made that the Labor caucus will refuse to give
a pair to the Minister absent at the Imperial Naval
Conference. —Melbourne Argus.
She is prancing round her cage
Full of stern and stupid rage.
She is almost fit to burst
With the curses yet uncurst.
She is filled with rage, and things
That are like to hornets’ stings,
Though her preference is pap—
She will break out yet, mayhap !
Oh, when gran’ma’s seeing' red,
She can hardly keep ahead
On the straight and narrow road 1
What if gran’ma should explode?
Yes, her temper’s blazing hot,
And suppose she busts. ..well, what ?
For Australia’s vanguard must
Move along, though gran’ma bust!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


M
Mr
#• \ Vv
MOM
JTUALLY
WCAR
7
6
9 9
Bourke Street
Aelbourrve.
Patterns Post Free
All over Australasia. 4
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The Questions of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the shin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no Question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years*
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
r EDUCATION -
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence
Can Train You —ByPosU
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you requii’e to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS,.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
Collins Street, Melbourne ; Union Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney ; 172 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
BrooK man’s Chambers, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
FANCY
VEST.
N \\\\J '/ / VwwVxwwww \w > x
"' llllll
r * v "‘ l ° 1 1 ' •' •'i;;' - x^ x^>>XN l,|^ J
i ll I'liiiiiin'i >\ n >nsx.\ >n
wmwww'i
*Z
Mi
**>»»
w
\\\w'
: \\\\\\V^
V /vvv\\\\\nw nn >.V. • 4 'jr "”
\\ V\\\\\W^W
COUNTRY READERS.
Send for Free Patterns, style
book of tailoring-, also colored
Vest Book showing Free Vests.
WITH YOUR
SUIT
to Measure.
We believe that the Public
like Candid Statements —
Well! here is ours. “The
reason we make the offer of
a Free Vest is to quicken
trade in the Slack time be-
tween seasons, and keep our
Tailoring Staff fully em-
ployed. Besides, we want to
get you acquainted with our
Tai'crng. It has no Fabulous Virtues, but it's
so good that it will make you a permanent
Customer of Ours. We Guarantee All Wool
Fabrics and Lower Prices than elsewhere for the
same Good Quality Patterns. Correct Style and
Honest Craftsmanship, and your * Money Back
if Dissatisfied.'" FREE VESTS FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
. ONE EXAMPLE IS FEATURED—
-50- TO MEASURE SUIT 50/-
This Suit, illustrated is the Best Value in Australia, in Imported Fine
Indigo Serge, Fancy Tweeds and Durable Worsteds. Coat has
Draped Front and Back, Close Fitting Shoulders, Snug Fitting
Collar, Long or Short Stayed Lapels, Sturdy Interlinings and Linings,
Three or Four Button Effect, Rounded or Square Cornered Coat
Bottoms, High or Low Cut Vest, Shapely Trousers,
Well-Made and Honestly Tailored. Our Special, I
with a “Free Fancy Winter Vest.”
FREE FANCY VESTS IN 150 PATTERNS.
The Free Vests are our own good make. The Regular Prices are
7/6 to 15/6, which we advertise all the time to be as lowas WRtiles'ale.
The Range of Choice depends on Price of Suit.
THE SUITS. The Suits are priced 50/-, 63/-, 70/-, 75/-, SO/-.
In 20 different styles and 500 Ail Wool Patterns for your choosinsr.
F. J. Palmer & S
on
(Two Stores), Cor. PITT and PARK STREETS,
also 726-8 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY


V AG/y
*
&
V
0*
\9
cV
£
m
o
W
m
w
(A
A©
V 6
v*
Oo^
The Praise of its Pleased
Customers has made the
Success of
“Silvasheen” Satin
Tens of Thousands of Women have
proved its Greater Reliability and
Value by Actual Use. They Buy
it again and again, year after year,
and they tell their Friends.
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
•11l I 111 I. 11l "
ftoeun
TEA
Special Grade
No. 1 „
No. 2 „
No. 3 „
The public like good value
for their money and you can’t
blame ’em seeing how hard most
of ’em have to work to earn it.
My customers arc wonderfully
keen judges of groceries, both
as regards quality and prices,
especially tea. The best staling
line l have in the shop is
Rob u r there’s the No. 1
and the No. 2 Grades and you
can’t go wrong in selling either.
If every article in my stock turned
out as uniformly good and
regularly up to the standard as
R o b u r tea —I’d be saved a lot of
worry 1 can tell you.
Naturally l keep a good many
other brands of tea on my shelves,
but only one customer here
and there ever seems to care
to take ’em, whereas, I’ve hardly
ever heard of anyone refusing
to take “RO B U R.”
Of course I’d rather sell my
own tea, but when l can’t, well,
then 1 don’t mind selling Robur
—there’s not much made out
of it, but it gives satisfaction
and that’s the main thing.
Can 1 sell you a pound?
The Grocer.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 29, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
( TheChapman-Alexander missioners “have burst
into nothingness ” ( vide Melba’s printed leaflet);
or, to be accurate, they have gone from Sydney
for the present. There must be compensations in
being Dr. Chapman. For instance, he says :
A high-born Californian girl confessed to me, at the
request of her broken-hearted mother, that she had gone
astray, and that it started with a dance. Every case is
not like that.
The last sentence is consoling. Perhaps the high-
born girl would have gone on the primrose lane just
as surely if “it had started ” with choir practice.
Watching the crowds fighting for entrance to the
Town Hall has filled me with admiration for the
Uld Woman —the Old Woman of about 80 years,
with the stringy-bark face, tenpence worth of
clothes, sharp elbows, and abusive eyes. Brandish-
ing her umbrella and using her uncushioned
elbows, she got past police, cordons of
ushers, and a swirling mass of other and
younger humans, coming in an opposite direc-
tion. Police and ushers would have sternly
turned back Venus herself, but great grand-
mother Venus overawed all guards and galloped
into the overcrowded hall and entered upon a new
way of life, quitting the world, the flesh and the
Devil in the singing of the Sparrow Song. And,
next day—converted, regenerated and saved —
grandmother Venus would fight her way in just as
furiously, and lash out just as despitefully with her
brolly.
No one doubts that the mission company worked
very hard at soul-cornering. Pretty well every
night a masseur and electric-healing expert was
requisitioned by the exhausted principals.
Curiosity, more than any ambitions in the way
of spiritual salvaging, steered me into the Ohap-
zander Mission on Sunday night last. Big
as the crowd was, I could identify scores of the
same queer old faces I had observed on the two
previous occasions I went missionising. And
what pathos lurks in the majority of them ! A
“ worker” in the cause told me tnat the prevalence
of these folks in large numbers prevents any
mission doing much good, financially, after the
first 10 days or so. They give generously to
start with, and then comes a time of cash-
leanness when they can’t afford to disburse any
more. But by now the keen, nervous excitement
of chanting in unison with a crowd numbering
thousands, and of “testifying” publicly, and
getting “saved,” and cheered, and patted on the
back have got into the bones of them. They
swarm to every succeeding service, and block out
good collection-plate “marks” who have not yet
“found the Lord ” according to U.S.A. methods.
If these missions do any good at all it is, it seems
to me. in the direction of supplying a splash of
badly-needed color to the grey, dreary lives of the
folk who attend them. The unusualness of the
Yankee evangelists’ soul-rescuing schemes, the
startlingly intimate attitude they adopt towards
the Deity and their congregations, the skilful
presentation and stage-management of each
leature of each “session,” provides a series
of thrills that beat, in the matter of
pleasing “shudder,” a Tittell Brune show out
of sight. Nature abhors a permanent emotional
vacuum. One sees that axiom daily exempli-
fied elsewhere than in missions. As I write, the
bald flat face and personality of a little suburban
solicitor I wot of surges before me. His existence
is all fog-grey deadly dulness. It is divided
between his uninteresting, dusty calling, his up-
right but hideously stagnant home, and the
mournful routine ot suburban golf. No excite-
ment ever comes his way. And so, in desperation,
lie took years ago to creating a fictitious, illusory
sort of emotionalism on his own behalf. He lives,
in fancy, in the midst of plots and counterplots.
Conspiracies and machinations surround him.
An unwonted handling of the oil-can on the
part of the engineer of his home-bound ferry
steamer fills him with dark conjectures.
His suspicions of underhand conduct are
aroused by the method of salutation of the passing
milkman, by the tone of voice in which a clerk
answers him, by the wording of a written invita-
tion to “high tea.” He will deduce any weird
and incorrect thing from the flimsiest premise.
This is not a monomania. It is his unconscious
tribute to the fact that a hankering for some sort
of gaudiness resides in the hearts of all of us.
His case is on a psychological par with that of the
mission enthusiasts. They get their keenest thrills
in confessing crimes they never perpetrated ;
he gets his identifying and shuddering over
schemes and plots that were never hatched.
A visitor from Britain, whose hat hangs in the
hall of the Australia, is one Joicey. His father
is the first baronet of the name (created 1893
vile year the banks broke hereabouts), and the
first baron (created 1905) The offhand way in
which people are " created ” according to “ Who’s
Who” is reminiscent of Genesis, in which ele-
phants and whales and such-like were shaken out
of the pepper-pot of God as if they were small
dust. The Joiceys dig much coal in county
Durham (Eng.)—not that they go down and hew
out the mineral personally, but they hire men to
do it.
Mrs. Syme, a sister of our own George 11. Reid,
was a passenger Canadaward on last trip of the
Makura. She went as an unattached member of
the sextette delegate party which is to represent
Australia at the Women’s Congress at Toronto.
A girl passenger on the Can.-Aus. liner writes :
“ Mrs. Syme travels with fifteen big trunks and a
large number of smaller boxes and swags, and
changes her frock every time a bell rings or a
gong is spanked. Bells, irrespective of the food
gongs, ring every hour. The lady weighs about
20st., and is as light on her lower supports as
Fanny Dango. When she skips upstairs wearing
1 >ronze shoes, striped hose, a petticoat with gold and
silver tracery, and a royal bluegown, the passengers
murmur ‘We are glad we came.’ One day at
lunch the addition of pea green gloves enhanced
the clever lady’s outfit. A breakfast frock that
greatly cheered the salooners was a comedy in
blue with stripes, 3in. wide, of crushed straw-
berry. Last night she apexed—she pinnacled—
she reached the summit of sartorial beauty, when
she appeared at dinner in a black gown, trimmed
with 16 miles of black sequins and silver spangles.
Its black was relieved with what the fashion
writers would call ‘touches’ of pink. The
‘touches’ were numerous, and were really balls of
silk, half the size of an egg, and hung in rows
back and front. A blue velvet cap, same size and
shape as the men’s travelling caps, she wears daily
on deck. Every Australian on board vows that
she will be some gum-leaves at the Toronto
Congress.”
High-flyer Colin Defries, the English-Spanish-
Dutch young party who will navigate the airship
now on its way hither, has preceded his craft to
Sydney, and abides at the Australia. He early
acquired the flying habit —that is as early as this
late invention allows—and has scores of times been
close under the soles of the angels, a fellow air-
farer of the Wilbur Wrights. His flier journeys
here packed in many crates, and will probably
make its first ascent from one of the Sydney race-
courses in August or September. Meantime its
captain thinks and talks music, and is evi-
dently on pet-name terms with famous melody
makers. “O, Dry Those Tears ” was written in
the home of the maternal Defries, and when
Sonny Defries dies “Chopin” will be found
inscrobe on his heart. (Of course, if the doctor
certifies that an autopsy is unnecessary, it won’t
be found.) He asserts that Amy Castles is the
finest soprano in Britain. Just before leaving
London Mr. Defries heard her at a Chappie con-
cert, and the thrall of her voice nearly made him
miss his passage. The Great British Public is
now worshipping Tetrazzini. Campanini, the
new prima donna’s brother-in-law, is an orchestral
conductor of note at Covent Garden.
Dr. Macdonagh, who sees to the health of
those who journey by the Macedonia, is on land
these days. He looks the hero of a pirate novel,
and ought to make the Macedonia a most popular
ship for the travelling damsel.
Talking of ships : The Ortona has waved its
anchor in farewell to our continent and taken a
job elsewhere. Last week, it farewelled with a
dance on board, and previously its “old man,”
Captain Collins, was fed at Paris House and
presented with a lot of solid silver things.
Amongst the men who took part in the present-
ation of food and silversmithery were B. R.
Wise, C. Graham, C. Nathan, Kitchen, Uhr
Smith, Waley, P. Dewar and Parsons. They
told the Chief Salt that no other seabird would
ever take his place in their affections, and all was
joy, amity and hands across the table. When the
only Collins departed on Saturday, the Dudley
Countess was one of those who went to wave him
an adieu.
Three Wards of Maoriland—the knight, his
wife, and Miss—passed through Sydney on the
way to spend a month in London. Quite a lot of
Maorilanders are in Sydney now in these days of
sheep sales and warmth and wattle.
Mr. G. B. Simpson, N.S.W.’s newest knight,
deserved some sort of Imperial recognition, if
only for that he is the best and most accurately
garbed law figure in our midst. An acquaintance
with legal technicalities is a thing almost any
man of intelligence can acquire ; the taste and
discrimination required to produce a G. B. Simp-
son wardrobe are the attributes of genius. The
freshly-ennobled one may be described as the last
of the Block-doers. In times agone every citizen
of position and fashion “did the Block” reli-
giously at least once a day. Now the prac-
tice has fallen into desuetude. With the
Darleys. Stephens, Simpsons, et al. (marvels
all of sartorial splendor) gone or going, there
remains no one, either on the Bench or at the
Bar, whom the average member of the public
could watch promenading with any aesthetic
gratification. The younger generation of Aus-
tralian lawyer is a careless dresser. Clothes, boots,
and hats that would, by their disreputableness and
out-of-date character, have occasioned the old-
timers intense pain, distinguish him. Years ago,
when G. B. Simpson first ascended the Bench, a
divorce practitioner appeared before him, with a
check suiting of an aggressive pattern shrieking
from behind his black robes. The Judge sharply
bade the advocate begone and change into a more
seemly garb. But now he has ceased the fruit-
less struggle. The normal junior performer in
his courts affects the garments of a bankrupt
dustman, and it is futile to urge him to depart and
alter his awful-looking get-up, for in many cases he
doesn’t seem to trouble to have more than the
one he stands up in.
The Kenneth Anderson knighthood is of
partial Australian interest. The winner of it is
a big London gun in the Orient'Co., and makes
periodical rushes to these shores on business.
By the way, he is not, as seems to be generally
suspected, a relation of the beauteous Anderson
girls of Sydney. Their male parent also assists to
keep the Orient fleet afloat, but is unconnected
with his colleague and namesake.
A two-leaved shamrock now in Sydney is by
name Gubbins. Mr. and Mrs. Gubbins—it sounds
a bit like a Dickensonian name, but the Gubbins
have a lineage older than St. Patrick, and
a pride of ancestry as great as a Jap emperor.
The lady is a Maorilander, but he is from
some place beginning with Rath or Bally. The
Dibbs and the Dangars have the Gubbins by
both hands, and are doing the hospitable thing
unto the pair.
One of Sydney’s prettiest damsels, Miss Ida
Cornish, is about to garner her orange-blossom
harvest. Captain Staunton, commander of the
Orient, is the happy groom-elect. The bride is
the only child of Mr. Tom Cornish, whose flocks
are white on many pastures. She journeyed with
her mother on the liner mentioned, and once
again it proved that the husband, like the merman
and the whale, is a marine product.
There was a big wedding at the Synagogue last
week, when Miss Poppy Jewell, a Sydney girl,
married a heavily-gilded Melbournian surnamed
Levy. The trousseau, which was long a-preparing,
reached as near perfection as costly fabrics in the
hands of expert workwomen might be fashioned.
That wonderful one-year-old, the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, entered its second season last
week with an afternoon concert that endured from
3.30 to 5.30. Somewhere about 70 gentlemen
assembled under the baton of Conductor Arundel
Orchard, and did great justice to Berlioz, Bee-
thoven and Co. on some 20 different kinds of
instruments. Someone in my neighborhood
proudly remarked that the players were all pro-
fessionals save one—Mr. “ Spot ” Hollander.
Mr. “ Spot ” is not a fox terrier. He’s
an amateur musician. The Chelmsford rulers
arrived in good time, accompanied by two small
offspring and a pair of carefully-tailored men, and
the whole party sat through the two hours of fiddl-
ing. oboeing, horning, ’celloing and the rest with-
out the semi-quaver of an eyelash. After all,
worse things than an afternoon of Beethoven and
Wagner and others might happen to a vice-regal
pair. They might run up against theChapzander
mission, for instance. There was a splendid
house, mostly women—very young ones and others
not so young. The threat of another concert on
July 29, when Professor Marshall-Hall will con-
duct, is already published by the young society.
Miss Florence Menkmeyer, pianist and vocal-
ist, had a good house for her first concert last
week. The years have added more skill to her
already skilful interpretation of formidable com-
posers for the piano ; but her vocalism, a more
recently cultivated gift, was marred, as her sister
explained, bv an attack of influenza. And as she
must not be judged by her singing on that occa-
sion, she will again emulate the lark on July 2 at
the Y.M.C.A. Hall.
The lady who was Miss May Yohe is still here.
She is surely one of the most numerously-
married charmers going. Since 1894. when she
espoused the heir-presumptive to a British duke-
dom,sheissaid to have faced the altar-music noless
than four times. After the rupture of matrimonial
relations with Lord Francis Hope, she threw in
her lot with Colonel Strong, of the U.S.A.
Then she became the wife of J. Newton
Brown, a business man of sorts. An
alliance with one Murphy, a Canadian lumber-
man, followed. And now she is called Mrs.
(or should it be Frau ?) xllthaus. It seems
to me that a record like that argues a truly opti-
mistic spirit. What a knack your stage person
has, by the way, of changing his or her partner
through life. A male instance of this tendency is
Lord Rosslyn, a mummer of some ability amongst
other things, and one who has battled in the
British Divorce and Admiralty Division so often
that he has earned for himself the affectionate
soubriquet of “Henry VIII.”
Miss Beryl Read, the little Melbournian whose
bent in artistry lies chiefly in the delineation of
small and graceful child life, has come to Sydney,
and means to scheme in color in this beautifully-
situated but dismally-laid-out city.
One of Melba’s afternoon pasears in this city
was with Mr. Bertie Kelly, for the purpose of
hunting up old china. Mr. Bertie is said to know as
much about the Rhodian jug, the Etruscan mug,
the Early Chelsea vase, and the Chinese porcelain
as anyone in Sydney, and doubtless Melba’s very
liberal education includes certain glorified crockery
knowledge. But somehow young Australia
doesn’t seem a likely haunt for old china. The
smallest vessel our black predecessors seem to
have had was the family cave.
The Bland Holts, with the faithful Miss
Coppin, are back at Sevenoaks, with its one huge
oak, matted greenery and hundreds of birds.
Sevenoaks is one of the prettiest homes in Dar-
linghurst, and only that I don’t like springing
unused words on you I’d describe the house as
quaint. On an afternoon last week Mrs. Holt
stayed in to see people. She viewed and con-
sidered and inspected people, in a pale pink gown
with buttons everywhere that they couldn’t
possibly be required. An attractive minor,
aged six years, with long hair parted on
the bias and tied with a blue ribbon —a
minor wearing a suit of knitted jersey and
knickers, did good mission work amongst the
guests. She converted them into ardent chocolate
eaters. The Holt’s leading man, Maxwell, is the
happy father of the rationally-garbed infant. An
elegant jet-black cat was the only theatrically-
behaved creature in the room. It posed half-
seated, half-standing, on the green carpet in front
of an amber curtain, with one forepaw laid
thoughtfully against a glossv-black cheek (as if it
were the villain holding a cigarette to the door of
his face), and meditated on which would be the
more amusing occupation—to go out and hunt
birds in the matted greenery, or to stay inside and
be admired. The cat which hesitates is lost, and
it missed the bird. Mrs. Holt had many affec-
tionate things to say about Broken Hill. All the
miners would seem to have loved her like a long-
lost sister —which isn’t wonderful.
The hotel at Kosciusko —which is, as I men-
tioned in a former epistle, in the district that the
pro-Canberra siteites alleged must be sudden
death to Federal legislators—is crammed to the
front stoep at the time of Writing with health,
rest, and amusement seekers. The Glaciarium is
a kind of preparatory school for Kosciusko these
days. The skating enthusiast learns his or her
art at the Glassy, and then departs and gives
triumphant demonstrations of the same on the
frozen expanse which Nature, in collaboration
with the N.S.W. Government, has provided
on the shoulder of Australia’s old-man moun-
tain. The more advanced Glaciarium stu-
dents have solved the mystery of how
to waltz on the ice. Their solitary objection to
Kosciusko as a skating resort is that, owing to
the absence of a band in those far regions, waltzing
is impracticable. Mr. Percy Hunter is under-
stood to be addressing his intellect to this pro-
blem, wherefore a posse of Teutons may be
expected shortly to arrive and make melody on
the mountains. Failing a satisfactory band of
Teutons, a waltz-grinding barrel-organ is to he
despatched to the scene of action, or, at the worst,
a gramaphone or two.
Hardy Brothers made Hunter-street nay,
Sydney itself —their debtor when they came down
from the eyrie where they did business for many
years, and burst forth on the street level in
carved oak, stamped copper, and plateglass. (The
new premises were devised by Robertson and
Marks on the principles which Early Celtic
architecture is alleged to have followed, and are
the only thing of their kind in Sydney.) Just
at present no European monarch seems to be look-
ing' for bridal presents, so perhaps the diamond
coronet and wonderful pearl eardrops behind
the plateglass may have to wait for a purchaser.
One can scarcely imagine any but a crowned
potentate buying them, but by the time this is in
print they may be respectively on the waved hair
and in the ear-lobes of some pure merino squatter-
ette. On the first floor are mainly silver and gold
ware and jewellery. A casket as big as an average
afternoon tea-table hugsin its white satin embrace a
silver tea outfit, with caddy and cruet circum-
stances. The mo it r.p-to-the-second ornament
Sydney has noted is what is called the
Demi Santoie ch tin. Mr. Hardy got the
inspiration at the Franeo-Britannic Exhibition.
It is a long, narrow, black watered ribbon on
which a number such a number—of be-
diamohded slides are slid. They are all
of different design. The Demi Santoie
Caprice may support a pendant. Collarettes of
wide black ribbon or velvet may also be decorated
with the cute sliding jewels. Black opals—
Australian stones, with night and fire in
their hearts—have for neighbors icicle-like
diamonds from South Africa, and emeralds—lakes
of green light. Lace fans open coyly above the
daintiest of enamel trifles, and there is a big,
square, silver box with a circle of Australian
stones, the circle centred by a big blister pearl.
It looks like a marguerite flower. Dressing
cases of crocodile leather hold the most
sybaritish of fittings. And for the private
display of any of the precious things there is the
“trving-on” room—with carven oak panels,
table, mirror, and lighting that is all brightness
and softness. A roof-garden, where the employees
may disport themselves and linger at lunch, may
be counted unto Hardy Bros, for righteousness.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


„ _A. CCf l/O
. O' ~r S '';. •'■^.'^W-^Ar'
N
:\A'.
553
; £
j.#§fl|
V
HPiT
•fffl" “
Sif
Mb
S&s*
am
V^wN.tV'V
s;‘i / fj '$
fflij'l
8-SS
HHiii
fe£
tiim
mm
m
si II
km
a.i 1
*,■ K
mm
wmw
S> Sub ' rk
\mm
m M
m
[i'wUu
M
T
<tr
<0
c
m
o
j-tf
feV'fi
o
l{
»■!
> I :
,
! VJ
\
ssag^
Mil
m
sTS?
y. *j
Ilf
/
Life
Ji'ut
I
111
ll
V. .r
i
0
&
»!§r i
ri<&£-
u
H.U .
C-O-B-R-A Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Puts a gloss
Upon your shoe,
And it stays
Upon the leather
Thro’ all sorts
And kinds of weather
Here he is
Demanding boots
With enthusi-
Astic hoots ;
“ COBRA ” is the
Stuff he uses
(Wise is he
Who “COBRA” chooses)


DUNLOP
Unsure ‘
Comfortable
®.Lasy/A'
Walki^^^kv
2 rife
1
sr~%
. Vv,
n&a
\w
NsJ.
UncQviallcd,
for Quality Si Weai—
ITo Ensure Satisfaction.Tou Must Use
['DUN LOPS". Obtainable Various Styles
All Leading Boot Stores. A
RUBBER
HEEL
■fiF
m
Thousands
of these
Bladders
are now used
by the
Leading Clubs.'
Their Quality
Warrants it~
Are free from perish and beautifully
made from the best rubber. Give a
long-way better service than the im-
ported article. Stocked in all sizes by
the leading Sports Depots. Specify
“DUNLOP” Brand when ordering.
Our Golf, Tennis and Bat Grips are unequalled
for Quality and Price. Rubber Soles a Speciality
THE DUNLOP RUE3ER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and
mm KQDia
TEA
Have you voted for the
KANDY KOOLA Com-
petition Girls yet ?
Watch the Voting
Returns.
■S &*Tf:
SNSSSiHi
Vf
m.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 28, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrie. —
The Glassy Harem, which always sported vice-
ex-Excellencies or their progeny on its ice, now
fairly wallows in the fact that a real gubernatorial
personage personally puts on the skates. The
Carmichael lady is an enthusiastic sport. She
manages to evade her business of opening things
with such dexterity that she is able to grab brisk
skating hours quite twice or thrice a week. I
have not seen Himself on yet —but that’s bound
to come. Gentleman-helps (quite unnecessary in
the Carmichael lady’s case) skate in discreet
attendance, but the lady puts Scottish vigor and
assurance into her glide. She will wear dowdy hats
—but her excellent feet are very trim matters.
The pendulum has swung in the Harem’s direc-
tion, and it is a decidedly swagger ice season.
The first big carnival of this winter (July 22)
promises well. The Very Best People are rush-
ing to get into fancy sets, and there is the far
away glimmering hope that a Governoress may
condescend to compete in one of the events for a
blue ribbon.
No one can point a finger at Queen Victoria of
Spain for not upholding the birth-rate statistics.
The one-time Princess Ena is a faithful follower
of Grandma Victoria of England in her ideas of
adding to the populace. A daughter arrived this
month. Last year, almost to a day, Prince Jaime
was born ; and the year before, on May 10th, the
heir, Don Alphonso, Prince of Asturias, yelled
his way into recognition. Even washerladies
nowadays scarcely beat such a good average,
unless they make it up in triplets.
That pre-eminentlv respectable body, the Haw-
thorn City Lacrosse Club, is sending out advance
and agitated stationery concerning its annual ball
on July 23. It will whirl with wild abandon
(carriages at 1.30) in the Mayoral Hall of Haw-
thorn, and is to be “ under distinguished patron-
age.” So far there is no hint of any special lion
having been bagged. The Hawthorn lacrossers
always endeavor to make a corner in lions, or to
rally up a sprinkling of social whales.
If I might make a humble twopenny suggestion,
offered in all modesty, and in a prostrate attitude,
I would propose, after knocking my head thrice
on the floor, that the ball should be in 18th cen-
tury dress—not for the women this time, but
because the silken breeks and tight-fitting hose
would show off the masculine lacrosse feature,
which is the lacrosser’s—ahem—legs. Much run-
ning maketh a fine understanding. This idea is
advanced with all humility, for, in comparison
with a high-class lacrosse club, I feel I am but as
the small dust in the balance.
Mrs. Senator “Curly” Keating made tracks
through muddy Melbourne last week returning
from the Southern Island. She went on to Sydney
for a spell, and is staying with the Billy Coyles
at Grasmere. Barrister Coyle has never been re-
ferred to as “Mister” in his life, except, perhaps,
by street urchins who don’t know any better.
Even the Judge on the Bench, with all the glory of
the tail of the horse on his head, finds it difficult
to address the jovial lawyer as anything but
“ Billy.”
By the way, the Senator of the curls made
haste to annex Will Dyson’s cartoon of himself.
He has placed it carefully with its face to the
wall, that his handsome young progeny may never
know their father as others see him.
Solicitor Harry Akehurst’s sister got twisted up
in the matrimonial knot last week. She married
Sydney Dobbin (Dobbin sounds strangely like a
kindly old cart horse), a Westralian of great
tonnage in railway management. He is a nephew
of Police Magistrate Dobbin of hereabouts. The
new bride is a daughter of the late Solicitor
Akehurst, a well-known Yarrawonga identity.
Brother Harry, who followed in pa s legal foot-
steps, is something particularly striped and
gold-laced and cocked-hatted in military
matters. He partners with Captain Blackbourne,
who keeps up his end of military frill
with strict discipline. Dorothy M'Crae-Perry is
a cousin of the new Mrs. Dobbin (Dobbin sounds
very like a horse, somehow), and her reverend
husband had a hand in the wedding at Advent
Church, Malvern. The doves are indulging in
three moons to their honey—they travel round
the north of this continent for a quarter of a year
I >efore returning to the train-running business in
Perth.
Francis Mason, younger son of the late State
Speaker F. C. Mason, is looking forward to
matrimony with Miss Rebecca Davies, a well-
dowered chick of the late Surveyor Davies. The
lucky man, who lives up to his six feet two, or
thereabouts, is on the State Parliamentary staff,
and is regarded in official flunkey circles as the
-Jenkins of the future.
“Billy” Honey (formerly of the Argus), the
young man of mellifluous name who made history
in amateur theatricals recently, is to be wed next
month to Miss Flo Houghton, a gem of St. Kilda.
Presumably his pretty artistic sister, whose
beauty is of uncommon type, will be among the
decorative features of the event.
Grace Watson is back from her Westralian
campaign, and is buzzing round Melbourne like a
humming-top, making catchments for the August
conference of Woman in Brisbane. Already she
has 130 fish in her net. There will be more salted
down for shipment by the Bombala. Some Vic-
torians are already in Brisbane —Mrs. South-
Yarra-Secretary Arinytage, Miss Bulivant, and
other such notables. The Weedon missus is
going, also the ex-mayoral Hughes and
Pleasance. The Quick lady from Bendigo will
lake an army in her imposing train. Argus Con-
way’s daughter and Mrs. Gordon James are pack-
ing up, and Tilley Brown’s ewe lamb is snooding
her fair locks for the fray. It’s going to be a
hummer, that conference. Fearful revelations
about the Labor party’s designs on the burial
service, or something of the sort, are being
composed.
Women of the West, it is reported, are domes-
tically right ahead of the rest of the continent in
many ways. The Biddy question, which is burn-
rig here, has almost flared out there. Biddies are
practically an unknown quantity—they are nearly
as rare as the bones of the aeohippus. There-
fore the Western women have learned to do with-
out the impossible quantity. . They use electricity
as the best possible substitute for Mary Ann.
Electric irons, electric stoves, and, of course, elec-
tric light are common. Even the washerlady—a
heavy-going relic of past ages—learned to heat
water by electricity and to run the electric iron.
This is not only in Perth. In fact, it is more general
in the far, far-back towns—the places that linger
remote from Anywhere—hot and flat and isolated,
with water brought hundredsof miles through pipes.
Everywhere one goes there are immense piles of
wood. That is for the working of the electric
plants. One woman (as an instance) in Kal-
goorlie does an amazing amount of her household
labor by electricity. A common or garden Amer-
ican alarm clock has a bit of brass rod fixed to
its catch. The alarm goes off, say, at 7.30,
and wakens the house. When the alarm
bursts forth, the rod drops and connects
with the tea-kettle of water on the stove,
and down comes milady in her kimona to behold
a boiling kettle for her tea. Every house is
excellently lighted—even to the back gate. The
deceptive garden paths and the steps to fall over
do not exist on black nights at Kalgoorlie, and
nobody stumbles about his back premises with a
dim lantern.
The considerably-wrecked Gavan Duffy son, who
tried (with others) to steeplechase in a motor car
over Victoria’s famous Closed Roads, does not
throw away any chance of maiden adulation. The
fashionable youth of this town believes in sticking
to his guns, even though sorely wounded. The
Damaged One persisted in kebbing his ruins to
the Vienna at the sacred tea-hour of 4 o’clock,
though he came straight from the surgeon’s
hands. Bandages and a limp proclaimed the
fact that he was a ruin, but he was resolved to
turn up to tea, or die in the attempt.
Occasionally even in these days a woman gets a
treasure. But even treasures are being looked
at askance since the experience of a south-side
mansion-owning dame. Her treasure left nothing
to be desired. Things were managed to the
last detail. Missus glowed in the radiance
of this jewel until officious neighbors broke
up her peace. The lady had a country
house as well, and “Maggie” was left
in town while missus was vegetating. Neighbors
told her that Maggie not only managed the house
well, but made an excellent hostess. “Ring up
the livery stables and see,” they chattered.
Missus did. The treasure was wont to give big
entertainments, with the drive electric-lighted
and everything in full swing. On wet nights she
even sent cabs from the adjacent livery stables to
the train to meet her guests. Maggie was a
treasure. Missus dismissused her, but from that
time on the “staff” became demoralised. Each
new staff seemed as unsubstantial as the last, and
the demented missus of one of the biggest houses
in a wealthy suburb has been driven into lodgings,
with hubby, nurse and baby. “If I’d only never
known!” she wails. “Maggie was worth paying
for.”
“The Melbournian Hare and Hounds ” are to
chase the midnight hour with flying feet at St.
Kilda Town Hall on July 9. That is to say, the
young men who usually trot across country in a
bare-legged condition will devote their limbs to
the giddy waltz on this occasion, and they want
Johanna to be there. Can it be that they intend
to run away with her ? Be still, my fluttering
heart !
Clayton, whose girly round eyes and pretty
curls top a tall, athletic, masculine figure which
does the hero-business in J.C. W.’s co., was one of
the ill fated “ Merrymakers.” Williamson an-
nexed the pick of that bunch. The vivacious
Betty Ohls-McQuade was a Merrymaker. Camp-
bell, who pranced with joyful Scotchness through
the last panto., was another. George Huntley
coached the Merrymakers in their show, which
was full of a delicate subtlety that rose lightly
over the heads of folk who want “ what they are
used to.”
Julius, the ever-verdant, takes up all the Block
and parades like a spring poem (or chicken).
Melbourneites have become drearily hardened to
the mud and drizzle (“just like London,” say the
people who want to show you that they know),
and Johnnydom muffles in his overcoat. But
Marcus Superbus, hardened by the frequent show-
ing of his legs in ancient Rome, walks gaily in
pale grey toggery with an ideal fit in the waist, a
heliotrope tie, and wattle bursting into spring
bloom in his buttonhole. He’s a gorgeous chal-
lenge to recent mushroom mummer beauties.
A young Australian composer is beginning to
be heard above the general hum—Mrs. Alsop, a
Melbourne girl. Ada Crossley sang one of her
songs, “The Blackbird,” here during her Cup
week season; furthermore, Crossley has placed
another on the programme of her opening concert
in London. I think it is “ A Lullaby,” set to the
words of our own Dorothy M'Crae-Perry, who is
a cousin of the composer. A joyous thing is
written to Coleridge’s “Song of Birds”—a
children’s song. “Reverie,” in still another
strain, was written for Melba. The music round
Henley’s “Sun and Stars” was also a
Crossley favorite. It is dedicated to the
Dudley lady, who heard and liked its strange,
sweet melody before it had a published existence.
Some of Mrs. Alsop’s songs are already*quite
solidly “on the market.” The Madden lady re-
marked that she heard “ Love’s Dedication ’’(both
music and words by Mrs. Alsop) oftener than any
other warble while she was in Sydney. It is what
Allans’ people call a “seller”; and there is
prospect of the fascinating others spreading them-
selves in the same way.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
All the day of the Mayor’s ball old Jupiter Pump-
handle emptied his tank on our heads. He has done the
same thing two years running', and there’s going to be a
row about it. But, in spite of Jupiter, it was a very fine
ball. Twenty thousand yards of saffron ribbon trailed
round the walls and the pillars, and giant saffron chrysan-
themums nodded at the dancers, while asparagus fern
and saffron roses mounted in festoons to the ceilinir.
Great butterflies of fairy lights and saffron flowers floated
from the roof, and a hug'e wheel of them hung
above the dais. The staircase was clothed in scarlet,
and the Navy came out and stood there with
its gun to guard us from the perils of the
deep, for since we saw the “Englishman’s Home”
we've felt horribly nervous. The hostess (Mrs. May-
field) was in a prune-colored empire frock with golden
trimming, and her daughter was white clad. Their Exes,
came —he, dressed in orders and other things ; she, grace-
ful in soft oystergrey. The tw’in Excellencettes wore white
frocks and white ribbons in their hair. The Way dame
was in purple and gold ; the Gordon dame in velvet gown
and point lace. A heavenly variety of frill was adorned
by Mrs. H. P. Wilson. It was a sequined cloud over sun-
rise silk, or something ethereal like that. Turn emerald
green frocks, that held the public eye firmly, belonged to
Mrs. Clem Hill and Mrs. Fred Scarfe.
The Mayor and Mayoress followed this up with a babes’
ball on the Friday evening, and such a riot of joy has not
been seen in this quiet town for many a moon. By seven
o’clock 800 fairies and bushrangers were clattering at the
Town Hall, and their Exes, and all the aides and the two
pretty daughters were helping them do it. Theßosanquet
twins were brown-clad that evening, and they helped
those beefeaters and flower-girls andpagesand mandarins
to a good time. Our Excellencettes don’t suffer from any
of the tired feeling.
We have a periodical puzzle over this way. A lady
walks in regularly once a year to the Supreme Court,
brushes past everybody, quietly flits up to the presiding
Judge, and says in a friendly tone “ Can I speak to you
now?” When the Judge says that she can’t she walks
peaceably off to wait another year. What she would divulge
if she could speak to him now is an exciting conundrum.
Judges are dreary and unimaginative folk, else one of
them would surely ere this have adjourned the case con-
cerning “goods sold and delivered,” and bidden her
unfold her tale at full length.
The University boys ran round the Oval on Friday
afternoon, and society watched them do it. Her Ex.
and the daughters and a few aides were there most of the
cold, bleak afternoon ; and Herself subsequently handed
out the prize cruets, grand pianos and other bric-k-brac.
Percy Bird, son of the S. H. A. Birds, of Prospect, is
dead, and there is genuine grief in a big circle of young
people. He was manager of the Gadfly during the whole
of that paper’s existence,land early this year he passed
over to fulfil a like office for the Evening Post. He was
an old Whinham College boy, and one of that school’s
most promising cricketers ; but lately be had given up
the sport on account of delicate health. He was a charm-
ing and enormously popular boy, a fine friend and one of
the straightest business men you could meet. His death
seems a senseless stroke of Fate. It isn’t many months
since the same folk lost a daughter, and very deep
sympathy is felt for them.
The Joseph Wards, of Maoriland, dropped into Adelaide
on Thursday for a few hours, and had a Parliamentary
luncheon shoved at them. They were carried off on arrival
by the Attorney-General Mitchells. Later they went to
Government House for tea, and then they fled once more
along the road to Britain.
Mrs. Alick Benson decked the Lyric Club with fragrant
herbage, the other Monda.v, and was “at home.” Ade-
laide flocked to her in its best frills, had tea, and racked
its brains in a lost-author competition. A thrilling hunt-
ing story was read, containing many blanks, and every
blank was Black, or Browning, or Reade, or somebody in
the trade of Letters. There were trophies for those per-
sons who proved to have the largest acquaintance with
British literature ; and there was music for everybody'.
Adelaide’s basso-in-London, Peter Dawson, has been
captured by the Taits, and is to come out and sing to
Australia in the train of Amy Castles. He went off to
Europe and Parnassus about eight years ago, and
authorities whisper that he’s away up on the giddy
pinnacle of that slippery Mount already. In fact, the
Taits label him as one of the two greatest bassos in
Europe.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Recently deceased R.C. Bishop Doyle, of
Lisinore (N.S.W.), was a strong barracker for a
White Australia and decently-paid labor; and he
had hard battling on both accounts in Cowville
and thereabouts. Still he stuck tight to his prin-
ciples; and when it was decided to build a new
cathedral (only St. Mary’s, in Sydney, beats it for
size), he had the whole job done by day labor
under a Scotehbyterian overseer, who had instruc-
tions to ask no man his creed, but to employ
nobody who wasn’t white.
Died at the Bath Arms Hotel, Parra-
matta-road, Burwood (N.S.W.), on June 24,
Mary Ann Jane, widow of Emanuel Neicli, aged
67 years. Emanuel came to Sydney as far back as
182(5. He was a native of Genoa. In 1830 M,r.
Samuel Terry, “ the Australian Rothschild,” built
the big house on the Rocks known as the Black
Dog Inn (it was demolished last year), and Mr.
Neich was an early tenant. In 1834 he left the
Black Dog and went to Burwood, where he estab-
lished the Bath Arms Inn, which be kept for
something like 60 years, and until his death'. The
house is still in the family. During three-quarters
of a century no complaint was ever made against
the landlords, which suggests that the family of
Emanuel of Genoa knew how to conduct the
liquor trade.
A letter from the State that was once
Bent’s :
Melbourne Fellmongers’ Union has received from
Premier Murray a brilliant sample of genial evasiveness.
Lately a Melbourne Judge, in an industrial appeal brought
before him by the Fellmongers, held that a “living
wage,” as intended by Section 122 of the Shop? and Fac-
tories Act, applied only to the person of the worker, and
did not include any provision for a wife and family. There
was no appeal against that obviously absurd interpreta-
tion, except to Parliament; and so the Union begged
Murray to legislate so as to determine that-a living wage
meant—as most people believe—a remuneration sufficient
for the maintenance of a wife and family. There wasn’t
much chance of misinterpreting the nature of the re-
quest ; but Murray did it with some success. He con-
strued the plaint into a petition that he should ask the
Court of Industrial Appeals to decide what wage a mar-
ried man shall receive, according to the numerousness of
his family. Such a ludicrous entreaty, of course, was
never intended, as it would be rather weird to adjust a
man’s wage in strict proportion to the number of his
nippers, who might be two or 10. What was asked was
Parliament’s assertion that a living wage should be suffi-
cient to enable a man to marry and risk an average
family. But Premier John Weary chose to misread it,
possibly because it looked too much like a prayer to him
to do some work—and Democratic work at that.
The Heathen in his spectacles writes :
The futile efforts of the evangelistic tradesmen to
arouse public interest in Hell and the Devil is one of the
most pathetic incidents of this wet, windy winter. I
think the indifference of the public is mostly due to the
want of unanimity that exists amongst the parsons
themselves as to the Hellish climate. The world was
very frightened of Hell whilst the old-fashioned fire idea
lasted. But inquiring people raked over the Bible and
collected together all the conflicting descriptions of Hell
contained in that remarkable work. Then the worldgrew
tired of the subject, and Hell, as an aid to religion, grew
steadily colder. For my own part, I began to lose faith in
Hell when, years ago, a boy friend—he was a pupil at a
denominational school —won a prize for an essay on
“ Eternal Punishment,” with a vivid and horrifying de-
scription of the sort of thing that awaited the unsalved
sinner. By way of preparation, he visited an iron
foundry, attended an opportune suburban conflagra-
tion, and prevailed on a religiously-inclined uncle to
take him to the fireworks. Then he devoted his spare
time for six evenings to writing a sort of literary medley
of the three. The result was amazing. I have forgotten
the little sideshows he put round it, but the central idea
has remained in my mind through many sinful years.
Hell, according to the youth, was a boundless pot of
blazes, from which, every now and then, a howling, blis-
tered soul would be shot with a deafening report and
hurtled high in the air. (He had thoughtfully put a
lofty domed roof on Sheol, so that the souls could go as
high as the Devil sent them without knocking the slates
off.) After a tremendous upward flight, the soul, still
howling and cursing something horrible, would turn and
fall back into the lake—only to be fired up again
a minute or so later. I knew that my friend
had never been officially condemned by Providence,
and I began to wonder if the numerous angry old
gentlemen of the Bible had compounded their Hells in
the same way. For me that was the beginning of the
end ; in a week I was firmly convinced that Hell was
black out. But my friend won the friendship of out-
revered headmaster with his awful production. The
gentle, kindly old ecclesiastic patted him on the head
and predicted a great and holy future for him, full of good
works and overgrown with a jungle of blessings.
Strangely enough, the bov with the holy future did not
immediately go to the Devil like most boys similarly
threatened ; instead he went on the press arid gradually
became an editor. So now the devil comes to him several
times a day and asks for copy in a re-pectful, subdued
voice.
Apropos N.S.W. Acting-Chief Justice G.
B. Simpson’s Knight Bachelorhood, the late
George Higinbotham, of Victoria, was the only
Australian Chief Justice who refused the indignity
that is handed out on the royal birthday. Higin-
botham could never understand the Zulu craving
of some white men for nose-rings and glass beads.


What Nurses Say
, T of : * •
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
A nurse admittedly ranks next to the doctor as an authority on the treatment of
general ailments and womanly weakness, and in following her profession she has a varied
experience and every opportunity to gain a thorough knowledge of the various treatments
of these complaints. She is therefore able to judge and competent to speak of the
wonderful efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills as a corrective of all complaints
originating from the disorders of the Blood,
Stomach, Liver and Kidneys, and of all
Female Ailments from whatsoever cause arising.
NURSE JOHNSTONE’S STRONG ADVICE
TO WOMEN.
NURSE JOHNSTONE, Hackett Terrace and
Racecourse Road, Charters Towers, Q., says:—“l
have much pleasure in recommending vour
splendid remedy, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
the merits of which are supported by my own
personal experience. For ten years I have used
them occasionally, and they have assisted Nature
in the fulfilment of her functions during my ad-
vancing years. lam now 60 years of age, enjoy
wonderful health, and am entirely free from ache
or pain. During the past ten years, in my
capacity as a nurse, I have always recommended
your pills, and I still do so, as they are a gentle,
hut sure and effective medicine, suitable for
young and old. lam sure if the young women
would only use your remedy occasionally, and
study their health, there would he far less sickly
and ailing wives. Again, I heartily recommend
your remedy to women especially, through the
medium of this statement, which you may publish
in any way you desire.”
NURSE M’CULLOUGH’S RECOM-
MENDATION.
NURSE M’CULLOUGH, 84 George Street,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W., states: —‘‘Having
used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a Family
Medicine for the last two years, I can con-
scientiously recommend them to all who suffer
from any of the common ailments, and also to
women for complaints peculiar to their sex. I
find they do me a world of good, and I am con-
stantly recommending them to those with whom I
come in contact.”
NURSE ROBINSON’S OPINION.
NURSE ROBINSON, 52 Rose Street, Ballarat,
Vic., states I have much pleasure in recoin-
mending Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for the
cure of Headaches and Biliousness, and the many
common ills of life. I have used them with the
most satisfactory results, and so has my daughter.”
NURSE VILE’S EXPERIENCE.
NURSE VILE, Olive Street, Albury, N.S.W.,
says : —“For over seven years Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills have been our family medicine,
and we have always found them unfailing as
a cure for all general complaints. They
act gently but thoroughly, and restore the
system to a healthy condition. At one time
I was greatly afflicted with Liver Complaints
and Indigestion, but since using your Pills I have
had no return of these ailments. I take one Pill
occasionally, which keeps me in good health, and
I always have a bottle in the house, and wherever
I go I carry a supply with me. I have recom-
mended them to hundreds of people, who have
invariably formed the same good opinion of them
that I have.”
NURSE WEIGAND’S PRACTICAL PROOF.
NURSE WEIGAND, Brisbane Street, Ips-
wich, Queensland, writes:—“For six or seven
years 1 have used and recommended Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They are a splendid medicine
for women, and all female ailments. They do not
sicken or gripe, and are a perfect laxative and
regulator of the system.”
1
I
mr
£p
b/i
a
\
If*
/A
Women at all times are more or less subject to weakness brought about by Indigestion and Pelvic Disorders, and in the
course of her profession a nurse sees much suffering, much of which could be avoided. The above strong recommendation to
young women and young wives, and also to mothers and those who are passing into the declining years of old age, is earnest advice,
given from conscientious motives by reputable persons, having nothing to gain but the goodwill of their fellow-beings.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a safe, sure, and reliable remedy, prescribed by doctors, recommended by nurses, and
praised by thousands of women who have been restored to health through the gentle aid and marvellous curative properties of
these pills. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills assist Nature in driving all impurities out of the system, ensuring a free and regular
condition, and restoring the organs of the body to health and strength.
Dr-Morse's
THE
THEY DO NOT WEAKEN. THEY DO NOT SICKEN. THEY DO NOT GRIPE.


Q
AmRDEL
If ORAM) PRIX
ATT THE
FMNCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION
Price
Post Free
OUR BATTERY BOOKLET
is QUITE FREE.
Are You Rheumatic?
Then perhaps you’ve tried all sorts of drugs, or
argue that Rheumatism is caused by the weather,
or that it’s in your family—and go on suffering'.
We have a b .tle Medical Battery that
relieves the most difficult, long standing
cases of Rheumatism —
JORDAN’S
“Home” Battery.
By sending its pain-relieving currents
right to the affected parts, accelerating
the flow of blood and displacing the uric
acid, it gives practical proof of its
wonderful curative powers, and drives
the disease from the body.
Use the “ Home ” Battery regularly—
the result will thoroughly convince you
of its absolute genuineness, and wonder-
ful efficacy.
Simply worked, easily adapted, it costs
NOTHING to maintain.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET, K,OYAL°HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
By Appointment to
S 90?
His Majesty the King.
BOVRIL
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
That is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage, so
strengthening a food, why Cooks find it so useful, why Doctors
and Nurses recommend it, why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
The Only MOUSTACHE Producer!
that is absolutely reliable and perfectly successful is
CAPILLARINE,
Price, 10/6 A JAR,
Post Free.
For 25 years it has been doinfr £ood work, and has never failed in
a single case to produce a moustache on the barest of lips.
One jar is sufficient, and the directions are most simple.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St*, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
No. GB9l9—Best Quality Silverplated Flow
Stand, £3.
No. GBsss—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Cake
Basket, Special Value, £l/10/-
No. J-292—Best Quality Silverplate.
Our own special design, at the
Manufacturers’ Price, £2/2/'
(AUSTRALIA), LTD
I
THE true value at which we buy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the
quality and value of every article, We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality—just what
they are represented to be in material, make and finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues—one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the other is our large general 112 page. Either, or all of
them, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. G4o67—Best Quality Silverplated
• Oalte Fork, 2/- each.
No. 358 A—Best Quality
Silverplated, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
m
mi
G3sso—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Sugar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand, £6/10/-
No. E 2234 —Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, 1/-
v> . Fs63—Best Quality Silver-
.ted Engraved Sugar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/2/6.
No. B499o—Best Quality Silverplated Revolving
Vegetable Dish. Each Dish can be removed
and used separately, £6/6/-
No. 3SB—Silverplated Jam Spoon, 3/-
Uutter Knife to match, 3/-
No. Glsol—Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. F6s27—The “Kins: Janies” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silverplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. F6l4o—Silverplated Butter Knife, 3/-
No. HB52 —Best' Qnalitv Silverplated Flower
Stand, £2/15/-
No. G67l4—Silverplate on Nickel Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, £l/17/6.
No. J3L4—Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2/15/-


Never Without irritation—Was Told
He Could Not be Cured—At One
Time Pain and Burning Barred
Sleep —Could Hardly Walk and
was Becoming Quite Weak.
ECONOMICALLY CURED
BY CUTSCURA REMEDIES
"It is now nearly twenty years since
I was first attacked with weeping ec-
zema on the leg, just above the ankle,
which the doctors informed me I should
never get rid of. During that time I
have never known what it is to be with-
out irritation. The last attack which
lasted for nearly three mupths was the
worst of all. I could get no ease or
sleep at night through the agony. I
underwent treatment by a doctor but
could got no relief, so left off going. The
pain was so intense toward night that I
could scarcely walk home and the burn-
ing sensation when in bed was intoler-
able. I began to feel quite weak fer
want of proper rest.
“My daughter mentioned a case of
a man v/ho had an attack of eczema on
the chest and arms and after spending
a lot with doctors, etc., was perfectly
cured after using one set of the Cuticura
Remedies. So I sent for a set (consist-
ing of Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Resolvent Pills) and after using them
the first time I had a good night’s sleep
and from that time have entirely lost
the pain. The sores healed up and I
continued the Cuticura Ointment for
about a fortnight longer and have taken
the Cuticura Pills nightly till the bottle
was emptied and the eczema has entirely
disappeared. I have at least two thirds
of the Ointment left. I can from personal
experience recommend the Cuticura
Remedies as an economical and effec-
tive treatment.
“My wife has also used the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment for chafing and two
applications have entirely cured her. I
cannot speak too highly of the Cuticura
Remedies and shall not be without them
in the house. S. C. Markquick, 90, Al-
bert Rd., Leyton, London, N. E., Eng-
land, June 16 and July 6, 1908.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants. Children and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills to Purify the Blood. A Single Set often Cures.
Sold throuehout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Austra-
lia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: U. S. A„ Potter Drug
& Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
OgrPost free, 32-page book on skin diseases.
If AT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
1 "• 1 themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THIN,
WEAK, NERVOUS. SCRAGGY,
FLAT-CHESTED, RUN-DOWN
and UN DEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES’
STYLISH SHOES.
This smart Derby Shoe is one of the
most stylish models in Glach Kid,
Purnp Soles, with Patent Caps and
Cuban Heels, in two grades.
Price, 10/6 and 12 6.
Postage 9d. extra in Victoria ; other States, 1/2.
If cleaned with Leeming’s Cazeka
Shoe Paste (6d. per tin).
SEND FOR PRICE LISTS-FREE.
LEEMINC’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
eA@
Glycerine and “ Benzce ” Scaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“ Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
liawk.es & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
OUI I VW 0, Alelbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong,
By Appointment.
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL.
Agents—Harrison Attwood , Sydney.
BY APiPOINTnEIxT TO H.M.THE.KING
226 CLARENCES! - ., SYDNEY;
Swanston St., near Lonsdale
St., Melbourne ; 10 McHenry
St., Adelaide. And at
Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
EXCESS FAT
Makes women look ten years
over their age; makes them
ugly and ungainly; en-
dangers their health;
impedes their progress;
makes them a laughing-
stock for their acqua-
intances and a stand-
ing butt for family
jokes. It also weak-
ens the heart and
makes life miserable
—as you know. 50
YOUR {]
EIGHT
‘FATCURE’
makes life worth living. It reduces the weight
permanently ; gives back the graceful curves
of a good figure; strengthens the heart and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accu-
mulated internal fat. Send a 2d. stamp for
Free Trial Sample and full particulars, or
Call if convenient. “FATCURE” is ab-
solutely harmless and is pleasant to take.
Once removed, the fat does not come back.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Messrs. Sayers, Al.port Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b' I. W. NICMOLL. Pharmaceutical Cfiemsfc
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Have Caught On!'
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover —full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia—you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Uirtles; price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage, sd.
Poor Parson, by “Steele Kudd”; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d!
Th
;*+■ 1
Duncan McClure, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two com-
bined) ; price, cloth,
3/6 ; postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection,
by “ Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, ]/- ; pos-
tage 3d.
From Selection to City,
by “ Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper 1/- •
postage 3d. ' ’
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd” ; price, paper.
1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth 3/6 *
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by
Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, ]/-; post-
age, 3d.
On the Fringe of the
Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James
Green ; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D.
Websdale; price, cloth,
1/-; postage 3d.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by A. Pratt;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
BRIAR
Pipes
Pipes
The only PIPES
That have stood
the Test of Time.
All Good Smokers Use Them
Ask: for them and see
.. that you get them ..
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E G.
(When writing mention this paper)
mmh
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
. A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN ; there are
ma,ny worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
Por sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, . v ydney. * *
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet
18.4 d. (stampsj to make 5 gallons spray. *
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
m their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLIGK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. etc., are therefore safe in
selling E-lonlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confusi'on arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Hor lick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough, Bucks, England.
/
>
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Hamer ” : Commerce, as represented by
Sydney’s York-street warehousemen and such, is chiefly
remarkable for shortsightedness. The blessed importer
views the local manufacturer with profound suspicion
having a very justifiable fear that the time will come when
he will go direct to the retailer—if he doesn’t go already
—and so cut o.it an unnecessary middleman. This dread
is, of course, one reason for his bitter hostility towards
local industry; but now that the tariff has come to the
assistance of the local man, the latter has to he recog-
nised. Therefore, the importer buys the local manufac-
turer’s goods, muttering incoherent threats about the
dreadful loss of trade that will follow any discovery of
transactions with retail houses. But he doesn’t make his
trade worth keeping. On the whole, the manufacturer
would rather deal with the wholesale man, if he could do
so in a wholesale manner. The importer, however,
merely makes a convenience of the manufacturer, and
where he would, in dealing abroad, have ordered 20 gross
of any article, he orders a dozen from the local man. In
fact, he dribbles in orders that only differ from those of
tiie retailer in the prices he expects to pay. This, of
course, drives the manufacturer to the retailer a few
years earlier than he would go in the ordinary course of
events. It is a good thing for everybody save the im-
porter ; and that short-sighted individual will have his
own niggardly treatment of local industry to blame later
on for his own destruction.
* * * *
“Dandalup”; Ostrich-farming is an industry
which should prove highly profitable in Australia, and
especially in Westralia, where unvarying weather is to be
relied upon. Several well-known residents in the Victoria
District of that State have recognised this fact, and
have formed a syndicate to ostrich-farm at once. The
Government has lent a hand by granting 4000 acres of
sand plain, and has also advanced the syndicate £2OOO to
go oil with. The Victoria District, of which Champion
Bay is the natural port, abounds in mighty plains
(I myself have ridden for days over some
of them), which stretch away to the Back o’ Be-
yond. Except for a few sheep and other animals,
which stroll aimlessly about, the plains are given up to
the emu, wild turkey, kangaroo and other cheerless fowl.
Where the emu can thrive, the ostrich should be able to
cultivate its valuable plumage. Everything exists on the
Westralian plains for the well-being of his Nibs from
Africa. _ His natural food grows in abundance, the
wpather is to his liking, and he has vast stretches of sun-
lit sand on which to dance and disport himself. If this
venture proves a success, I opine it will mean the opening
up of a valuable industry. It will also solve the problem
of how to profitably utilise our enormous sand-plain areas.
* * * ■*
Between them, the last Westralian loan and the
London Financial News introduced Australia to a new
Stock Exchange slang word—" stags.” Bulls and bears
have become familiar, but the stag is an unknown bird in
these parts ; or rather the bird has been here, but lie
hasn’t been thus classified hitherto. The stag is a person
who applies for shares in a new concern, or stock
in a new loan, intending to hold on merely long
enough to make a profit out of the deal. The stag
often turns up in the mining market. He whoops
up a new issue, makes sure of a flotation, and then
he and the rest of the herd whip in applications for
perhaps five times as many shares as they really want
Then the great owls of papers gravely announce that the
shares have been three or four times over-applied for, and
that there was such a rush that applications for
273,961 f or thereabouts couldn’t be satisfied. On
which the public smells a good thing, and starts giving a
premium; or if the public won’t start giving a pre-
mium the stag offers it when he reckons no-
body is listening. So he works up the excitement
for a few days or weeks, and then unloads. There, was a
Queensland case during the last metal boom ; it was
announced that the shares were four times over-applied
for—they had been applied for as mentioned above—and
the public rushed into the good thing that it had missed.
After the public had been filled up at a premium, shares
sagged below par, and finally got down from nearly a
pound to a few pence. It’s months since that co. has
been mentioned ; it never paid a dividend, and appears
to have dropped down a hole somewhere. But for a
month or so the stags had a great time.
“ Hamer ” : Sometimes when I have some spare
moments I read the clippings about business and how to
succeed in business with which sundry Australian journals
load their columns. It is amazing to me the serious view
taken by these articles upon business. The business man’s
philosophy seems to run in this way:—
The world was created for business.
There is but one God, and that is business; and success
is its prophet.
It is a mistake to think that business was created for
man’s convenience ; he was created to conduct business.
Twenty-four hours a day shalt thou devote to business,
and if there is any spare time left over it must be occupied
with more business.
Happiness and pleasure are a sin against business. If
you devote yourself sufficiently to business you will forget
all about happiness.
There is no particular object in business but more
business. We have no business to have any business that
is not concerned with business.
* * ¥ *
From an Australian in South Africa: Before
the Boer war the S’African farmer got 4d. and sd. per lb.
for his wool. The latest quotations from the London and
Antwerp markets show Australian and S’African wools
selling at exactly the same prices. These S’Afritan
parcels, which to-’dav equal the Australian in price, have
actually been shorn from imported Australian sheep and
their progeny. For some time past Australia has been
making sales of its best stud sheep to this country ; and
it is suicidal business. The result must be an appreciable
reduction in the value of wool, and especially of those
fine merino grades which hitherto Australia has alone
supplied. One recent shipment to arrive here consisted
of 13 special stud rams, 180 4-tooth rams and 112 stud
ewes, and 2500 high-class breeding ewes—all from J. S.
Horsfall’s Widgiewa station (N.S.W.). Private people
can’t be expected to stop this traffic ; in fact, it can’t be
stopped that way. But the Government should stop it.
And in doing so Australia will not lack precedent, as the
export of both ostriches and angora rams from any colony
in S’Africa is absolutely prohibited, the penalty being
from one to two years’ imprisonment with hard labor,
without the option of fine.
HOMELESS IN THE UNIVERSE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord Avebury, in a letter to the Daily Mail, says the
Budget proposals are unsound and unjust, and will tend
to lower wages and drive Capital abroad.— Cable item.
In every country ’tis the same,
Though some are worse than others !
The Social movement is to blame ;
All future hope it smothers !
With brutal laws, unjust, unkind
(Oft couched in language low, too),
Poor Capital may shortly find
No friendly lands to go to !
Lord Avebury ! Lord Avebury !
It grieves me to the liver
(I mean the heart) such things to see,
And fairly makes me shiver !
I do not wear a noble robe,
Yet have a hide of leather ;
So let us leave this sinful globe
And sail away tog-ether !
Save up and buy a Wright machine,
And stock it with provisions ;
And powerful lights of red and green
To obviate collisions !
This strong and trusty aeroplane,
With you and me to man it,
Will rise above this earth profane
And seek some other planet !
Yet, if we left this rolling ball
And reached, say Mars or Venus,
The folks we met might, after all,
Be of the self-same genus !
That danger we should have to face !
Best rest content, or try to ;
It really seems there’s no safe place
For Capital to fly to !
K.B.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


BORLAND'S
KALYDOR
FOR - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
itching, blind, bleeding or protruding piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to children, as it
contains no harmful drug.*
So extensive have become the operations of The
Barnet Glass Rubber 00. Ltd. that they have had to have
erected a new building to cope with the volume of trade
they handle. The new premises, just on completion, are
situated in Swanston Street, Melbourne. It is built from
plans prepared by the well-known architect, Mr. Nahum
Barnet, and is practically the only store in Melbourne
with a red tiled roof. Each spacious floor will be lighted
by electricity, and an electric lift of the newest pattern
has been installed. The porch and part of the main en-
trance is rubber tiled, these tiles being specially manu-
factured for the purpose at the firm’s Para Rubber Works,
Footscray, Victoria. It is not only as nianufacturers that
the firm of Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd. have become
such a household word throughout Australia. As agents
for the celebrated Michelin tyres, used by royalty the
world over, they are brought in contact with every
motorist of consequence. The firm are also intro-
ducing Michelin cvcle tyres, and these, with the Flite and
Daddy tyres of their own manufacture, equip them per-
fectly to supply the tyre wants of every cyclist and
motorist whatever their means. Persons interested are
invited to call and look over the new premises : they Will
be found complete in every respect.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOBLIE atuMMOIOABDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Although Webb rowed magnificently compared
to what he did in his first race against Arnst, he was
beaten by a trifle over three lengths in the sensational time
of 18min. 15sec. The record time is accounted for by the
fact that they rowed with the current, which, as the
.Wanganui was in flood, was running somewhat fast,
i Webb appears to have got away quickest, and to have
led by a length at the half-mile. Then the great long
rowing-machine got into swing, and the thing was
practically over. Although Webb rowed so well, it is said
by some non-hysterical observers that Arnst had him all
the time, and could have won by much more. The good
little man was not in the same street as the better bigger
man. So far, according to Sydney Sun, Artist’s winnings
and gate-money proceeds amount to £lBOO for his rowing
career of two and a half years. But by the time the cost
of boats and assistance has been deducted, it won’t pan
out at all a gorgeous remuneration —although it is proba-
bly more than he 'would have made had he stuck to
cycling. + «
“ The Mogul” (considerably abbreviated) on the
Baker case before the Sporting Federation The
Federation was called .on in this case (Baker’s), by a repre-
sentative of an affiliated association, to adopt a novel
interpretation of its rules—one which entirely conflicted
with the interpretation which, up to then, had been
adopted by every body controlling amateur sport, and
one which, in the opinion of the President of the Federa-
tion, and of every legal member of the Federation, was
utterly contradictory and . inconsistent with its rules.
The Federation deserves credit for the fact that it
declined to be led away by the red herring drawn over
the track, and to misinterpret its rules in the face of mis-
informed pressure from the newspapers and the public,
and the cry of domination by the Itugby Union.. .. What
is said aboutthe Rugby Union may be deserved, but that
does not excuse the cheap sneers and misinformed attacks
on a body which has the courage to follow its rules.”
It all sound? very legal and magniloquent; and
if the Federation had been unanimous, might have car-
ried some weight. Also, the remarks about the injustice
of the decision naturally did not appear till after the de-
cision had been given. The newspaper men are not gods,
who can criticise a decision before it is given. The most
that can be said for the scandalous business is that,
according to one reading of the rules, it was an act of in-
justice carried out legally. And a legal injustice is about
10 degrees worse than the other sort. “The Mogul”
carefully refrains from mentioning that the voting was
almost equal—seven to eight: so apparently there is quite
a large proportion of the Federation that doesn’t
understand its own rules. Also, it is significant
that, according to “The Mogul,” the lawyers in
the Federation were all against the disqualification of
Baker. Which damns Baker’s case at once. The lawyer,
through long association with scoundrels and villains,
becomes in time incapable of being just. He doesn’t
want to be just—only legal. Any villainy, as long as it
can be done legally according to the letter of the law, is
permissible. Like the Knig'hts of Labor, the Sporting
Associations should bar legal men from positions on their
councils—the iniquities of their trade blunt their moral
sensibilities.
The Sydney Soccer competition grows exciting.
Pyrmont, which has won eight of the nine games played,
and made a draw of the other, is leading with 17 points ;
but the formidable Rozelle is close behind with 15, and
Sydney third with 13. The Powerful and Balmain have
12each; so there is a delightful uncertainty about the
destination of the Rawson Cup. Pyrmont continued its
triumphant career on Saturday, and downed Sydney by
five goals to two ; Rozelle and Powerful drew with two
goals each ; Granville just crawled home ahead of Ultimo
with three to two, and Glebe crushed Western Suburbs
by three to nil. Garden Island forfeited to Balmain.
For a hard, tigerish match the struggle between
the Union Rugby teams representing Newtown and Uni-
versity, at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday, would be
hard to beat. It was great to watch, but none too
healthy to play, for, as an angry spectator remarked to
writer, “ Them Newtown forward blokes is cows ! ” They
didn’t very often go clear over the line between
“willing” and “tough ” ; but most of the time they were
skating right along the ridge of it. On the other hand, it
must be admitted they were fighting for their champion-
ship. They were up against it, as the ancient Greeks
said.- University was playing a heady game. Full-back
Verge was using the line excellently with his long, long
kicks, and sent the champions back again and again ;
bringing his team down always along the line to within
striking distance. It was excellent generalship, but the
luck was against the University, and the Newtown for-
wards were sharp as needles, despite their weight and
size. So when the whistle blew the blue and gold were
out and under, Newtown having won by 12 points to
eight.
The fact that Western Suburbs went under to
the formidable South Sydney team by only eight points
was a theme for amazed discussion. Western Suburbs
failed to score ; hut on paper the Southern crowd should
have stamped the Western team flat and then have
jumped on it. Glebe’s reckless crushing of Sydney was
more up to form ; the red butchers slaughtered the enemy
by 23 to three. Curiously enough, the light Sydney
forwards ran rings round the Glebe pack ; but they broke
to pieces against the back division. As interesting a match
as any of the day was that between Manly and Balmain.
Manly got off the mark with a rush, and scored eight
before Balmain realised that things had started. Then it
got going, and buzzed considerably. It was great.
Balmain was struggling to make up leeway, and Manly
threw its body aside and waded in in its naked soul to
keep the lead it had got. By hard pegging and strict
attention to business Manly just contrived to be two
points ahead at closing time —11 to nine. For the rest,
St. George beat Eastern Suburbs by three to nil, and
North Sydney had the bye.
Consequently, in the Rugby Union competition,
South Sydney and Glebe are level with 10 points each,
and the premier club, Newtown, is in the second line
alone with 15 points. Western Suburbs, University and
St. George are together with 10 each ; and after them
single figures and the deluge.
* * * *
The Rugby League “All Blacks” received
another walloping at Brisbane on Saturday in what was
described as an “exciting game” with a League team
representing Australia. Maoriland scored first with
three, and then Australia went slightly better' with five.
Australia added another five while Maoriland put on
two, and there the figures stuck, Australia winning by
10 points to five.
The premier team of the League is South
Sydney, and it has so far won every one of the seven
games played this season. On Saturday it continued on
the high and slippery track of success, and flung North
Sydnev into the gloomy depths. Bad weather and heavy
ground did not break up the perfect symmetry of South’s
manoeuvres. At half-time South led by 16 to nil, and
when the whistle finally blew the figures were 37 to nil.
At Wentworth Park, Glebe and Newtown scrambled
frantically in the slush, and Glebe came out on top of the
mullock heap made by both teams when they fell, winning
by six points to three. Balmain and Eastern Suburbs
put up the best game of the afternoon at Birchgrove
Oval, Balmain winning by 11 points to three. So South
is still head of the competition, and Eastern Suburbs and
Balmain are next with five wins.
■»*■*■*
Brisbane is an unlucky spot for Maoriland
’bailers. Last year Baskerville died there, and this year
Sullivan broke his leg there. There was no suggestion of
rough play in either case. It was just rough luck.
* * * *
Saturday’s chief Yic. League football attraction
—between Melbourne and ’Wood—was a mighty event.
The clubs were running level for third place, and, though
’Wood was expected to win, Melbourne had the advantage
of playing on its own ground. On hard ground, and dis-
playing the mathematical precision that made hacks of
their last three victims, the Magpies could have given the
Red Legs three goals and a thrashing ; but the ground
was not hard, and the methodical team that has no best
and no worst seemed nervous and excited, and couldn’t
get going. Yet the play was keen and attractive.
First quarter Melbourne kicked five clean goals;
’Wood two. Then the Melbournes added two more —
nine goals without a behind. It was wonderful
shooting. ’Wood strove valiantly, and the interval saw
the scores : Melb. 7 goals 3 behinds to ’Wood’s 4 goals 2 be-
hinds. On resuming, the Magpies seemed bushed. Time
after time the Melbourne men passed the ball down the
field from one unguarded man to another ; and twice a
forward ran in and booted the ball through an undefended
goal. By three-quarter time the Melbourne tally was
9 goals 4 behinds to ’Wood’s 5 goals 3 behinds. Hundreds
of Woodites left muttering insinuations as to “squar-
ing.” They’ missed the fiercest half-hour’s joy r a
barracker could wish. Working steadily and per-
sistently on their old system, ihe Magpies kept the ball
to themselves and scored two goals without their
opponents getting a chance. Seeing their apparently
won game being reft from them, the Red Legs flung
themselves in a last valiant dash and added a behind and
a goal—lo goals 5 behinds to 7 goals 3 behinds, and only
10 minutes to go. It seemed the public debt to the price
of a pint on the leaders, and the homeward crowd poured
out of the gates. But those flying minutes showed the
Magpies at the top of their old invincible form. Twice
the ball was swiftly marked and as swiftly passed along
—but the shots missed the bigger posts. Twice again
it was snapped, handed along straight to the
waiting forward, and booted through. Feverish hands
s'natched out watches and scanned the- seconds.
’Wood was doing as it liked and Melbourne was dead to
all intents. Again the Magpies snapped the ball; again
it shot round the wing from man to man ; again the centre
forward marked it, and, as it sailed throqgh the posts
clear and true, the yell from 20,000 throats could be heard
across the park almost a mile away. The ball was bounced,
and the ’Woodsmen sent it down again, but before they
could get the point that meant a win the bell rang, and
the hardest fought game of the season ended in a draw-
-10 goals 5 behinds all. Beside this champagne the only
other League match, the ’Varsitv-Fitzroy collision, was
the stalest of stale beer. The Students got all the joy and
most of the points—B goals 20 behinds to ’Roy’s 3 goals
10 behinds—though the kicking of neither side was of the
kind that wins premierships.
* * * *
Of the Victorian Association disturbances the
most notable were the capsizing of Essendon by Bruns-
wick—43 points to 16—and the upending of Brighton by
’Town—4s to 33. Essendon has only met disaster twice
this season, and ’Wick’s feat is understood to have fl tbber-
gasted the play’ers as well as irritated the barrackers ; but
as the catastrophe happened on ’Wick’s ground, opponents
refrained from open warfare. It is as well to be civil —or
silent—when the odds are three to one against you. P’ran,
whose new ground at Toorak Park has been top-dressed
with clay, indulged in a game of mud-ball with ’Scrav,
and naturally did better than the men from the suburb
of quarries and blue metal, the board showing 57 to 31.
Preston trod on its neighbor ’Cote with much disrespect-
-75 points to 34 being the gauge thereof; and ’North dis-
turbed the equanimity of Ports by acquiring 62 points
to 30.
The disaster that overtakes teams is often due
to vile kicking 1 , like that of Essendon (A.), whose score
of 1 goal 10 behinds ought to be boiled ; but it is hard to
explain catastrophes like that which overwhelmed Caul-
field (of the Met. Ass.) on Saturday. Caulfield isn’t ex-
actly top-notch in its class ; but neither is it bottom-rung,
yet Beverley scored 155 points to Caulfield’s one. The
case of Coburg (of the Junior Ass.) is even more hopeless ;
the lamentable eighteen did an awful lot of bogging in
and rushing around, and the board at the close of the
burlesque showed Fitzoy Jrs. 152 points, Coburg 0.
This writer has a notion of inspecting Coburg when he
has nothing better to do ; it has won just one match in
the last three seasons.
The League has considered the unpleasant
match between Carlton and Essendon, hereinbefore
referred to. The central umpire had observed nothing
unusual, but one of the boundary dittos had, and, finding
his warnings unheeded, duly reported two men—one
from each team. The League delegates were much dis-
tressed. They had no idea that objectionable practices
were being indulged in, and were determined to keep the
game clean and wholesome at all costs —so they passed
both men out for two whole weeks. These League dele-
gates would make ideal honorariums; in the matter of
telling a wife-beater he ought to be flogged and then
fining him a shilling, they could outdo the most snuffle-
some amateur beak on the Bench. After that the dele-
gates removed a well-earned disqualification imposed last
season, and told the obstreperous’bailer he might play
with his old club at his pleasure. They didn’t apologise
to the youth, but this writer wouldn’t be surprised if
they did.
* * * *
“Sr”: It’s up to Murray to appoint a Wages
Board for Melbourne League footballers. Down to witliin
the past tw'o seasons footballers were paid surreptitiously.
Smith got his 15s. exes for tlie week ; and Smith, who
didn’t know what. Brown and Jones received, took his
money in a thankful spirit, and bogged in heartily. Last
season, towards the finals, some of the “ heads” went on
strike of a ,Saturday morning, and the bustled secretary
had to promise a quid before any “head” would strip.
This year, the players have reckoned that the Saturday
half holiday will bring the clubs a few extra sovereigns,
so they have begun to assure the club bosses that boots
and hot baths and studs are frightfully dear this season.
Also Smith, who gets 15s, finds-out-that-Brown gets 255.
and Jones £2 ; and Smith reckons he is as good as Jones
and better than Brown, so Smith is causing trouble, and
is driving his club’s secretary to drink.
* *' » *
An apparently amazing lie from Waikane
(Maoriland)“ At a Married versus Sihgle match here
recently, A. Burling, aged 109, kicked off for the married
and afflicted side, and booted the ball some 18yds. He
was ably supported by his 71-year-old son. The match
ended in a draw, with three points each —which doesn’t
say much for some of the single men in Maoriland.”
“B.B.” : Thereisa wayoutof the Sydney Cricket
Ground difficulty. When the Cricket Association won its
case with the Trustees before the Supreme Court, years
ago, it was decided that the C. A. had a right to the full
benefits and privileges of the area as a playing
ground; but the C.A. sat down satisfied with the
verdict. Where the (XA. left off at that time
it now proposes to begin again; and a demand
is to be laid on Premier Wade’s doorstep for an
Act similar to the Australian Jockey Club Act of 1876,
placing the ground in full control of the Association. If
Premier Wade has the love of fair sport, he will wipe out
the Trust and allow the Cricket Association the whole
profits of cricket matches played under its guidance.
The Australian XI. had another moist week in
Bull-land, and two drawn games were the result. Wet
weather has played Aged Henry with the team so far,
and unless it clears up for the rest of the tour, the syndi-
cators will not have very large swags of boodle as the
result of their amateurism when the job is finished. The
worst of it is that the fool who barracked for the old
regime will declare that the wet weather in England is
due to the bad management of the Board of Control in
Australia.
* * * *
The Sydney cricket people made unmitigated
asses of themselves in their negotiations with the Went-
worth Park Trust by demanding that the Trust should
not, under any circumstances, hire the ground to the
N.S.\V. Rugby League through the winter. As the
secretary of the Rugby League pointed out, for anyone
connected, no matter how remotely, with the Australian
XI. Ltd. to snort about professionalism is sheer hypocrisy
and general darned foolish ness. And, anyhow, it is not at
all certain that the reorganised Rugby League is pro-
fessional. It treats its members somewhat more liberally,
in the matter of expenses, than the Union ; but, so far,
there is certainly no evidence available to prove that the
players are paid regular wages, or receive any percentage
of the profits. As far as can be gathered by an outsider,
the League of to-day and the League of Messrs. Giltinan,
Hoyle and Trumper are widely different. Even under its
old constitution, the players do not seem to have received
any regular wage, although, according to the announce-
ments of the promoters, they were to have a certain per-
centage of the profits divided among them. In which
case they were a little higher up the street than the
Australian “amateur” cricketers at present in England,
who have a very considerable portion of the profits divided
among them. So why the Cricket Association should
climb on the top of its extensive conservatory to throw a
brick through the League’s little window is inexplicable.
* * * *
A.J.C. Derby for 11)10 breaks all records with
247 entries, and £3OOO added money. Although the
V.R.C. added coin totals less, 269 animals are nominated
for it. N.S. W. owners have responded more numerously
to the V.R.C. invitation than Victorians have to the
A.J.0., although Victorians are more in evidence in the
N.S. W. Derby than ever before. But Maoriland’s con-
tribution is a revelation. The W. G. and G. A. Stead firm
has entered five of the high-class progeny of sires Martian,
Multiform and Artillery. W. and G. Bidwell are sending
Tribulation and Inspection (these names suggest the Bid-
wells were once bookkeepers). T. H. Lowry will be rep-
resented bv Koh-i-Noor and Warson, sons of Royal
Fusilier ; E. J. Watt by Multiform and Floater ; and
eight other owners will be present in various strengths.
The biggest contingent belonging to one man comes from
the stable of J. Wilson, of Victoria, who sends six by
Bobadil, two by Challenger and one by Andrea —nine in
all. What a time there is going to be !
* * * *
At last week’s Aspendale (Melbourne) Park
meeting a nag, previously named Goldwing, ran for the
first time as Reverenta. Some Moseses laid fours against
Reverenta and sevens Goldwing. Reverenta won, and
Reverenta and Goldwing tickets were presented, but
Ikey refused to disgorge on the latter, and Goldwing’s
backers are appealing to the local betting court—the
Victoria Club. Plainly, in some cases, the leather-lunged
thought they had a good thing on in laying a horse
(Goldwing) that was not entered at all, and in other
instances the better-informed were satisfied it was all to
nothing with the backer. Reverenta was not Goldwing
that day, they reasoned, and if Reverenta won they
could not be asked to pay Goldwing—at worst, a refund
might be compelled ; but if Reverenta were beaten all
Reverenta and Goldwing money would be'theirs. It isn’t
at all likely that Moses’ excuse—“ he didn’t know Gold-
wing and Reverenta were identical ” —will wash when the
matter comes before the Victoria Club.
* * * *
At Moorefield (Sydney) last Saturday J. Bren-
nan’s imported Linacre made bis first public appearance
in the Flying Handicap. Of course, he was not nearly
ready, as the big Spring handicaps are still afar, and so,
with lOst. 91b. up, started at any price. He sustained his
English reputation by deliberately placing his head where
his tail should be, and keeping it there stubbornly
in spite of spur, whip, and objurgation. Then he swung
round and went off like a rocket, fell back some, and
then came again with such dash that he and Master
Foote, the first favorite, and another importation named
Daisy Chain, rounded for-home together. Daisy Chain
just managed to beat Linacre; but the new arrival’s
showing was something amazing. He is a handsome
brute and a slashing galloper, who will probably do
things. His load in the Epsom is 9st. 81b., in the Metro-
politan 9st. 61b., Caulfield Cup 9st. 31b., and Melbourne
Cup 9st. 61b. Before leaving the Cold Country he was in
ex-Australian trainer J. E. Brewer’s stable, and was a
mighty weight carrier. '
The racecourse trophy hunter is a savage who
requires to be refined by liberal use of an axe. When
S.A. Birthday Cup winner Doughty had to be destroyed
recently, these opprobrious persons swarmed on to him
almost before he was dead, and hacked off limbs, mane,
tail, ears, hoofs, and great pieces of the skin. Looks as if
the racing authorities will have to keep a Maxim gun on
each course to wipe the ruffians out.
* r » »
Cognac Frenchman Hennessey should remem-
ber Australia gratefully. During his visit here five years
ago “ Jimmy ” had remarkable luck at punting. Also,
before departing homeward he bought a Wilton Park-
bred youngster by Perth from Haulette, sister of Caul-
field oup winner Sweet Nell, which he named Hag-to-
Hag. Now there is news to the effect that last month’
the horriblv-named colt won easily the Grand Prix de
Bruxelles (ljm.) of £3922 for three-year-olds from all
countries. Hag-to-Hag and a stable chum, Durfurt, were
bracketed in the betting—9 to 4 each—and finished first
and second.
* # ■» *
Some racing gossip. Gelding Radiant’s recent
win of the Port Adelaide R.C. Trial Stakes and Chelten-
ham Park Handicap double was a most unusual case of
patience rewarded. The horse is eight years old and
these were his first wins The profits of Canterbury
(M.L.) J.C.’s year, which closed the other day, easily out-
stripped those of any previous season in the club’s
history. Much of the success was due to the fact that
bookmakers’ license fees totalled £6335 XOs. ; which
should be enough to scare the punter to marbles,
but it won’t. .. . The 431 entries for the V.R.C.
Grand National meeting which begins next Saturday, are
a record for the event. ... As far as is known, M.L. has
the oldest thoroughbred gee-gee in Australasia, the
almost toothless gelding Robin Hood being in his 38th
year.... The long arm again : A syndicate dubbing
itself “True Blue” drew the True Blue-sired nag Blue
Garments, which ran third in the recent A.J.C. Prince of
Wales Stakes. This time the long cheque of coincidence
was for £750. ... That once forefront hurdler, St. Swithin
gelding Florin, now' follows the hounds in S.A. As Wilde
said, he has become part of the equipment of the un-
speakable chasing the uneatable.
* * * *
A first acceptance of 35 for the big Hurdle Race
and 34 for the Steeplechase promises a fairly large field for
each of the V.R.C. Grand National events. The three
days’ meeting starts next Saturday (3rd), when the
Hurdle Race will be the chief attraction. The going is
almost certain to be heavy, and in favor of , the light-
weights ; nevertheless, Ataahua (list. 71b.) is talked of as
a “good thing.” All going well, the son of Mahaki-
Basilislt will carry the Manifold colors, and a lot of the
squattocracy’s cash. His one impressive venture over the
sticks was in the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield last
August, a 3£ miles’ race, which, seemingly, he would have
won easily but for a mishap that unseated his rider.
Judged by that performance, Ataahua looks likely to beat
Dagoba (list. 51b.), who was first past the post with a
human freight. But the Flemington course is a soft road to
travel these wet times, and one of the younger candidates,
leniently handicapped, may do the trick. Vernier’s
weight is only 9st. 91b., including a penalty. The Win-
nower, at lOst. lib., has a chance, and Insolent, on the
9st. mark, is a useful-looking son of Portsea. There is
nothing with a better chance, on public form, than
Vernier, a five-year-old, who is no novice at the game.
“ L ” : Thank the Lord, the Cup weights are out,
and the race will be over soon, for I’m d —d if I know what
year Anno Domini it is! I reckon in the Australian
fashion. I know the Poseidon year, the Blue Spec year,
the Lord Cardigan year, the Newhaven year, the Carbine
year, and so on ; but what the dickens this year is I won’t
be able to say till November. It’s the twentieth century ;
that’s near enough in the way of figures.
* * * *
Frank Watson, the League cyclist whom this
paper recently advised to “chuck it,” ignored the
warning. Now comes news of a complete smash-up, by
which he permanently loses the sight of one eye and
suffers in other ways, perhaps more painful but not nearly
so serious. The League of Wheelmen should shut out a
man like Watson, who was, although game as they make
’em, obviously unfit to train for any sort of race except a
soup-drinking competition.
Major Taylor’s . Sunday cycling career began
badly on May 16, when the negro was disqualified for
“boring-,”and got generally biffed. From Sunday racing
to illegal tactics in one day suggests that Taylor’s back-
sliding is really rapid. Said that a local syndicate is still
nursing the idea of bringing Taylor, Kramer, and a few
other stars to Australia with a view to reviving bike
sport here.
. « * * *
Francis Birtles, well known as a long distance
cyclist, is anxious to float over Australia in a balloon. If
someone will kindly supply the silken sack, Francis pro-
poses to drift from Port Augusta across the great North-
West of the continent and finish the map of Australia by
filling in the blank spots on the border line between the
Northern Territory and Westralia. If Francis is well
advised he will tie himself to the leg of the table when he
feels this paroxysm coming on. It’s loaded.
* * * *
Sam Langford, the extraordinary little negro
heavyweight whom Brother Johnson so
resolutely, “put it all over” lan Hague, Eng-
land’s champion, on the 24th of last month. Hague
is four inches taller than Langford, and he entered
the ring weighing over two stone more. Yet sporting
files just to hand show that the black simply played with
his big opponent for four rounds, and then knocked
him out. Thus vanishes the claim that was made
on Hague’s behalf when he outed Gunner Moir
so swiftly a while back, that in him England had un-
earthed a world-beater. Hague, like Moir, wpuld seem to
be a slow and middling-class performer, and it is
Britainls fistic trouble just how that that'is the only sort
of heavyweight who is showing him Self.
■* » -r «
It seems that if Jeffr ies should ever get himself
thin enough to fight Massa Johnson, the negro will probably
be too fat to fight Jeffries. When he boxed six rounds with
O’Brien the other week he had “ wrinkles of flesh showing
on his neck and at his elbows,” and before the first round
was over he was “puffing like a bellows,” and his colored
cuticle was “ perspiring very freely.” These professors
of the Noble Art appear incapable of keeping themselves
in good condition for.condition’s sake. They lack the
profound disrespect for sturhmick which is expressed in
the figure of a physical culturist. Any other kind
of muscular public performer has to be pretty
“fit” all the year round, but these overpaid
exponents of fisticuffs make a tremendous to-do
of being fit once a year, or so, and spend most of their
time in putting on flesh. The exercise of a little self-
restraint would keep a boxer always within 101 b. of his
fighting weight,' yet he never enters into an engagement
for a “ great” fight within three weeks of the time when
it is to happen. There is bound to be a long period of
training and skiting and “ piling up the agony ” before he
finally gives his precious show. Then his body is fit.
After which he resumes his contemptible pastime of meat-
heaping.
“Snell”: There is a marked improvement in
novice and amateur boxing around Vic. centres lately.
If T. Burns did nothing else, he encouraged the beginners
to get in and keep busy. Ballarat amateur contests of
the other week have produced some pluggers who should
mix it with excellent effect when they face Melbourne’s
pride next week. W. Robertson, who took the feather-
weight laurels of the Garden. Cityrfrom the brow of
Copperwaite, is an extremely nimble little boxer. He
won out among the bantams, too. O. Jacobs, a St. Hilda
heavy, scooped the honors in his department, but had a
knotty problem in the shape of W. Bailey, who had just
landed middleweight glories, and wanted the heavy-
weight cake, too. He had bitten off too much for one
evening,'however. M. Pie'rce landed the welter champion-
ship, and E. Sutherland scored over the pen of light-
weights. Val Quirk, the most professional of Melbourne’s
amateurs, had his barrel, severely damaged by the dull
thuds of a Bungaree middleweight, and retired to be
coopered up.
“H.G-.”: How many followers of the game
know anything about the Queensbery rules under which
fights are supposed to be conducted? What a howl there
would be did a referee order a contest to go on after one
of the pugs had been on the floor 12 seconds. Yet he
would -be quite within his rights in so doing, did he
regard the flooring of the horizontal gladiator as the
result of a chance blow. The rules bearing on a knock-
out state that when the defendant is down the count
shallbe recorded, and, at the expiration of 10 seconds,
the referee may award the fight to the plaintiff. There
is no obligation for him to do so, and, as a matter of fact,
there are many instances in Australian pugilism in which
a man has stopped a heavy blow at the beginning of a
contest, and been counted out; whereas, had he been
allowed a few seconds more to recover, he might have had
an excellent chance of winning. In some cases, the like-
lihood of such a termination has been proved by subse-
quent fights between the same contestants, wherein the
man who was hurriedly knocked out on the first meeting
has proved his indisputable superiority.
Stevenson is now so certain of himself at bil-
liards that he has offered the world one-third of the game
start in 30,000 up. John Roberts, who reckons himself to
be not quite such a back number as that, is anxious to
take on the match, but wants all the three weeks’ gate-
money to go with the £2OO stake, and to that the other
objects. An ingenious way out of the difficulty has been
suggested—to have Stevenson tickets, Roberts tickets, and
just Tickets. All would be the same price ; but the in-
tending patron could direct his bib of gate-money in
whichever direction he pleased, or leave it to be divided
if he had no favorite.


THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT—
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2£ hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from —
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
A NAGGING WIFE!
—a jibbing horse and tight boots are terrible things to possess.
But a first-class cycle is one of the good things of this life.
THE B. and B. MODEL 3
is that sort. We fit it with first-class tyres, and keep it in full
running order for full 12 months after you buy it.
MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
New Catalogue Free.
Price £ll,
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
Largest Ovcle-building'
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“MONDURE” ESTATE
Wondai-Kingaroy District*
The FIRST SUBDIVISION of this famous Estate, comprising about-
-12,000 ACRES, will be offered by PUBLIC AUCTION AT WONDAI, on
WEDNESDAY, JULY 21, 1909, at 2 p.m.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET AND LITHO.
WEAVER & QLASSON, LIMITED
Stock and Station
Agents,
289 QUEEN STREET (next G.P.0.), BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The Bulletin Post Cards,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve 6d
Packet of Ten 5d
tkPeero Peerless Pill
Admitted by experts to be the Stomach and Liver Pill of the
Age, and invaluable for the cure of Anaemia in Women, Debility
in Men, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Flatulence, Gas-
tritis, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, and Costiveness.
“PEERO”
PILLS are
beyond value to
persons living on
farms, shearing-
sheds, cattle-runs,
sheep-stations, or
mining camps.
They are the best
doctor for the
home, because
they save life and
promote health.
Will clear the Complexion
Cure ConstipationvDizxincss. In
digesfion.Headache.and all
Liver Affections.
Price Is.perbox.
DOSE-1 2 ro3Pilisaf
.e Bedtime.
Mr. Gr. NTELL,
commercial tra-
veller, writ i n g
from Hotel Met-
ropole, Sydney,
Feb. 20th, 1909,
says : “Your
‘PEERO’ Pills
are a grand nerve
and appetite
maker. I swear by
them. Theyarein-
valuable for men.”
Australia is noted for the prevalence of serious stomach and liver diseases, caused
by the continuous use of heavy meat foods, and carelessness of diet and eating.
The most serious diseases spring from stomach neglect, leading to expensive
operations. The timely use of “ PEERO ” Pills corrects and strengthens the
stomach, makes new blood, gives nerve force, and keeps the liver healthy, curing
the most chronic cases of constipation rapidly. It is the advance agent of Health,
and should be in every home. “PEERO” Pills preserve and prolong life
A SURE CURE for INDIGESTION $ CONSTIPATION.
AN ATHLETE’S TESTIMONY.—MR. W. BARKER,
of Kin<r Street, Newtown, writes: —“ I was a
sufferer for years from Constipation so serious that
I looked upon myself as dead. I could never enjoy
a meal. -I todk'* PEERO ’ Pills for four weeks, and
they have made me a new man. Your pills are, in
my opinion, the best for constipation known.”
MRS. W. RUSSELL, Victoria Street, Darling--
hurst, says:—“l was known as the walking ghost
of Darlinghurst, I was so pale and bloodless. I
had anaemia for years, which threatened decline.
Your pills are for women worth their weight in
gold. I HAVE TAKEN A NEW LEASE OF LIFE
since taking ‘ PEERO ’ Pills.”
“ PEERO ” PILLS may be obtained all Chemists and Grocers, Is.
per box, or direct from the proprietors post free on receipt of price.
The ‘RAY’ CHEMICAL CO.
70 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Missing: Friends.
SIMPSON. —Will whoever advertised during
Boer War for THOMAS SIMPSON, who
left South Australia 40 years ago with wife, son,
and four daughters, please communicate with
MRS. SIMPSON,
c/o Miss L. Prior, Springfontein,
0.R.0., South Africa.
AMES NEWITT, last heard of at Mr.
Woollam’s Temperance Hotel, Kimbolton,
New Zealand, three and a half years ago. His
mother would like to hear from him. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate
with
Mrs. M. A. CHAPMAN,
c/o R. Newitt,
Baines Street, Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Lega.l Notices.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
IN IRELAND.
KING’S BENCH DIVISION-(PROBATE).
The Principal Registry, Dublin.
IN THE GOODS OF JOSEPH BUTLER
DOBBYN junr. formerly of Leoville Waterford
in the County of Waterford Ireland and last
heard of from Australia. Supposed deceased.
To the said JOSEPH BUTLER DOBBYN
jun. if living or if dead to his wife child executors
administrators or assigns. Take notice that
MARY J. AGNEW wife of ALBERT AGNEW
of 8 Victoria Terrace St. John’s Road Sydney
Parade in the County of Dublin Ireland married
woman a lawful sister of the said JOSEPH
BUTLER DOBBYN jun. has applied to the said
Division for Letters of Administration of the
Goods of the said JOSEPH BUTLER DOBBYN
jun. as of a person who has died intestate and
uidess you or one of you communicate with Mr.
G. A. HOWE of 17 D’Olier Street in the city of
Dublin the solicitor for the said MARY J.
AGNEW within one month after the last insertion
of this advertisement such Letters of Adminis-
tration may be issued.—JACOß T. GEOG-
HEGAN, Assistant Registrar. G. A. HOWE,
17 D’Olier Street, Solicitor for the said M. J.
AGNEW.
“Australasian Traveller”
Literary Competitions.
Short Stories, Poems, Sketches, etc.
PRIZES, £lO, £5, etc.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST 2nd, 1909.
WRITE AT ONCE for particulars to
EDITOR,
Australasian Traveller,
190 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Any
O' 0
TOE
SLimm
w
-
STOKE
FROM POINT TO HEEL
Or Heelto Point
£2
ISMS
jyfc|
Podvrible
Only
Witkihe
ENDS ALL TROUBLES OF.SHAVING
URLEYiDEM!^ 2OII
GET A CURLEY SAFETY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
self! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post Free.
Denyer 8r05.,281 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Rovers on Top.
BEAT THE WORLD.
ALL BRITISH v. ALL NATIONS.
The “ Albert Brown ” Trophy,
Reliability and Fuel Consumption
Trial,
WON BY 20 H.P. ROVER
with an
8 H.P. ROVER THIRD.
All large and small cars were
put on an equality in this test.
Horse-power was not considered.
Most perfectly arranged trial.
Cars of All Nations entered.
The test took place in England, and
ROVERS BEAT ALL.
SOLE AGENTS
TARRANT
& MOTOR CO. 6
106 RVSSELLST MELBOURNE.
ALSO 50LEAGENT.5 FORFWTS, DE DiOYS. FNs,
Rovers, Fords
TeX5 2942-3030
£<3 w Points
£o* Inventory
by LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all'matters con-
cerning' the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it
(including drawings, etc.). No charge made for such re-
port, and allcommnnications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
“ Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne^
Victorian
Cycle Traders’ Association
THIRD ANNUAL
Gs! Road Race
OVER THE 100 MILES COURSE
WILL BJS HELD ON
Saturday, August 28, ’O9
pram ..*£2oo
First Prize—£3o in Sovereigns, pre-
sented by The B.S.A. Co., Birmingham
Second Prize—Stanhope High Grade
Bicycle and £5 ss. cash
Third Prize---Turner High Grade
Bicycle and £5 ss. Medal
Fourth Prize—£4 4s. cash.
Fifth to 10th Prizes—£2 2s. each
Eleventh to 18th Prizes—£l Is. each
Nineteenth to 24th Prizes—lo/6 each
SPECIAL PRIZES include—
Hercules High Grade Bicycle.
Barb High Grade Bicycle.
Five extra Prizes of £5 ss. each.
Two extra Prizes of £3 3s. each.
Four extra Prizes of £2 2s. each.
Two extra Prizes of £1 Is. each.
And others including
Handsome Medallions to All Riders
completing the course inside
Seven Hours.
2/6 Entry Fee.
Entries finally close MONDAY, JULY 19
to C. D. HENDERSON,
140 Rathdown Street, Carlton, Yic.
The Race of the Season.
HALF PRICE.
Japanese Hand-farmers.
GnEy 1 Each.
Now’s Your Chance! "Wi
Winter Comfort for 1/3.
.A 1 though we are selling thousands of out-WONDER-
FUL JAPANESE HAND WARMERS, we want
every body to have one, and as a means of fretting
them universally known, ssi'O sacrificing them at
HALF PRICE for two months only. The WARMER,
when in use. gives forth a delightfully soothing and
spring-Hke wamithof shotf-t 120 degrees. Tlieheating
power is produced by a Japanese preparation, which,
when Itt. smoulders very gradually away, giving out
the waixnth through the MetN.l Case of the Warmer.
The File: is maae up in cartridge-shaped packages,
each com.ulnmg sufficient for about four hours’
.warmto. One of these is Ist, put in the Warmer, and
the lid replaced. I'PerO is up smoke nor smell. The
Fuel oniy smoirjuers. so there is NOT THE'SLIGHT-
EST DANGER OF NiRB. We positively guarantee
this, amt assure you that our JAPANESE HAND-
, WARMERS can be placed amongst the flimsiest
materials, or in any position in tne pocket or else-
J where with aosoluti safety.
They are a sure protection against colds, chills, <xc.,
and a priceless boon to sufferers from pneumonia,
bronchitis, neuralgia, headache, toothache, chil-
blains, &e.
Doctors Recommend Them.
Can be carried in the pocket, muff, or other con-
venient part of the body,or used as a Foot. W-~ or.
Measure only Sin. x3iu, x lin. The Metal Co.w Is
protected entirely by metal. The usual price is 2s. 6d.
each, but if you send in .vour oilier no later than two
months from tne date of this paper, we "ill supply
them at HALF PRICE, viz., ONLY Is. 3d.. Post free
anywhere. This price includes a packet of 10 Cart-
ridges of the mel (sufficient for 40 hours warmth),
and extra supplies of the Fuel can be, had at 4d. per
pecket of 10. .post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter St.,Sydney
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds. - -


This is THE STORE that is ALWAYS BUSY
And we are looking forward to more business; and, what is more to the point, we are preparing for it. Recently we opened up a New Showroom, enabling
to serve more customers and give better service. You’ll find our prices are as low as it is possible to make them.
A. SAUNDERS.
OPERA BAG. Light Seal
Grained Leather, with
Mirror at bottom, j. 1> / If.
Other styles: Real Black
Seal, 17/6. Fancy Leath-
DO YOUR SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
Our facilities for taking good care of coun-
try customers were never better, and we
guarantee prompt and satisfactory service
through our Up-to-date Mail Order Depart-
ment. We’ll send you any a’ti le on this
p ige, carriage free to your address.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S COMPANION, Nickel-mounted
Tobacco Jar and Glns r ' old 4 pipes, mounted
on Cedar Base. 20/-
Other Styles, j-o/0, 27/6, 30/.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Cedar PENCIL, Hand-chased, Superior
Quality, 4/0-
Other Styles, 5/8, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, up to 12/6.
1
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-mounted HAIR BRUSH, Richly Embpssed, Good
Quality Bristle. 5/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6. Extra Quality, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PATENT CORK, to Fit Any
Bottle, best English make, (>d.
Porcelain Cap, with Brass Screw.
1/3. With Silver-plated Cap and
Screw, Extra Quality, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bushmen’s Field BINOCULAR,
High Range of Power, with Clear
Definition, Black Morocco Covered,
Solid Leather Case and Straps,
35/
Higher Powers, 40/, 45/, 50/, 55/,
60/, 70/, 80/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ebonised Nickel-mounted MILI-
in Real Ebony, fl/'S, 10/6, 12/6,
TARY BRUSH, 8/6. Other Styles,
15/, 17/6. Oases to hold 2 Brushes,
2/6 extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
ANEROID BAROMETER, carved
Walnut Case, Highly Finished,
Sensitive Movement. Guaranteed
Correct, 207-
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Rectangular READING-
GLASS, Suitable for All
Sights, 2/6, 3/6, 4/, 4/6, 5/6,
6/6, 7/6. In Round Lense,
1/6, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Torpedo Collapsible COL-
LAR, BOX, in Real Pigskin,
6/6-
Other Styles, in Seal, 7/6.
Half-registering Ther-
mometer, metal case,
8/6, 10/6; wooden case,
3/6, 5/; ordinary styles
9d, 1/, 1/6, 1/9, 2/,
2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
i y'' 1 ; ;'vij
i
fIS
t. 1
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S PIPE RACK and TOBACCO JAR, made
in Oak, 2 Plated Ash Trays, to hold 4 Pipes, Fancy
China Tobacco Jar,
21/-
Otlier Styles, 14/0, 15/, 20/, 22/6, 25/, up to 55/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION INKSTAND, Finest English Oak,
with Drawer, Riclrly Polished, Pure Silver-plated
Mounts, Plain Crystal Glass Bottles, £4/10/*
Smaller, £3/10/. Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/,,
50/, 55/, 60/, 70/.
YOU NEED OUR ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOGUE
if you want to make a wise selection. It
illustrates all the Newest Designs in Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery, Silver-Plate, Leather and
Optical Goods, and is yours for the asking.
Write for a copy to-day. You’ll have a copy
by return post.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA
GLASSES, Highly- Finish-
ed, Achromatic Lenses,
Clear Definition, in Lea-
ther. Case and Sling,
20/-
Higher Power, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco PEGGY RAG, Extra Well Finished,
Silk Sewn, Strong Frame, 7/0:
Other Styles, S/C, 12/0, 15/, 17/6, 20/, to
55/, in Calf, Crocodile, Seal, Pan Calf, and
Beaver Calf.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-plated NUT-CRACKERS, Strongly
1/6-
Other Style in Bright Steel, 1/.
Made,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ebonized Nickel-riiohnted CLOTH BRUSH, 12in lon
with Best Black Bristles, 1 0/(»-
Military HAIR BRUSH to Match, S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PUCK FOUNTAIN PEN, Vulcanite Handle, 14ct Gold Nib, broad, medium, and fine pointed nibs. A regu-
lar flow of ink. No leaking. Always. ready. 4/(>. The Tatler, 4/6; “Red Cross” Stylo, 4/; .“Red Cross”
Fountain Pen, 4/;' Keystone Fountain Pen, 4/6; Paul M. Wirt Pen, 8/6; Olive Branch Stylo, 3/; Olive Branch
F. Pen, 4/6. Silver-mounted, 15/. All Silver, 20/. Gold-mounted, 20/.
GEIVIVS OUTFIT, Straight-grain Leather, Superior
Finish, Best Quality Fittings, Suitable for Presentation,
£5/5/.
Other Styles, £3, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6, £7, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated Nickel TEA-
STRAINER, 2/6- Other
. Styles, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO.POUCH,
Sterling Silver Shield,
Rubber-lined, 4/G-
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6, 10/. Better Grades,- with
Gold Shield, 12/6, 15/, 'l7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP, Solid
Silver* 2/6- Extra Heavy,
3/6.
m
A. 'SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Solid Silver,
Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, to
hold 10 Cigarettes,
15/6-
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/,, .40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CUTLERY CANTEEN, in Oak, Best Sheffield Manufacture, lined
Cloth, containing J-dozen Xylonite Table Knives, A-dozen Xylonite
Knives, Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel, with Sterling Silver Ferrules,
plated Knife Rests,
£3/0/0-
Other Styles, 65/, 80/, 90/, 100/, up to £2O.
in Blue
Dessert
l Silver-
Sol. Silv. -plated
Chatelaine Spec.
Case, 10/6, 12/6.
Leather case, Sil.
Mtd., 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/. Elec.-
plate Mts., 2/6,
3/, 4/, 4/6, 5/,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco MUSIC-CASE, London Made, Well Finished,
8/6-
Other Styles, in Rolls and Cases, 5/, 7/G, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PIPE RACK, in British Oak, to hold 6 Pipes, Silver-
plated Shield, 7/6- To hold 4 6/- ,
Other Styles, 8/6, 9/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 22/6, 25/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


A Premo is the Camera You Want
We briefly describe here a few of the famous Premo Cameras, They are compact, simple and durable, give wonderful results
on all classes of work, and are so made that they will accommodate the Premo Film Pack as well as plates.
This is a marked advantage to the owner, who practically has the equivalent of two cameras —plate and film. Made by
the Eastman Company, the Premos are thoroughly reliable, being built to give lasting and good service. For other styles than those
we mention, we refer you to the Premo Catalogue, which will be sent post free on request. Call on us if you possibly can.
■
0
Pony Premo No. 1
Absolutely the best value in a 4 x 5 plate
camera ever offered at the price. It is
strongly made, all metal parts are nickelled,
the lens is an excellent R.R., and the
covering of grain leather.
It has rising and falling front, reversible
brilliant finder, single valve automatic
shutter, and weighs but 240 z.
The price of the camera, complete with
case and one double plate-holder, is
£2 Ws.
Pony Premo No. 3
This camera has all the advantages’ of the
preceding models, with the addition of rack
and pinion focussing attachment, longer
extension, and double valve automatic
shutter.
These advantages make the instrument a
very desirable one for those amateurs
wishing for a camera with broad scope of
work at moderate price.
Made in two sizes, with case and 1
double plate-holder :
5x4
<£4 ss. £5 lOs.
Pony Premo No. 2
This has the same general characteristics
as the Pony Premo No. 1, but has the
additional advantage of reversible back—
an important consideration to many
amateurs. The back can be instantly re-
versed for horizontal or vertical pictures,
so that it is not necessary to change the
position of the camera itself for either style
of pictures.
This model can be supplied in two sizes,
as follows, complete with case and 1 double
plate-holder :
5x4 J-plate
£3 £3 17s. 6d.
Pony Premo No. 4
This camera is designed for a wider range
of work than its predecessors. It is pro-
vided with additional equipment of swing
back, planatograph lens and the new auto-
matic standard clamp. The lens is the
best obtainable outside anastigmats. The
camera box is of leather covered mahogany,
with rack and pinion on the bed for fine
focussing. It has the rising and falling
front, a hooded brilliant reversible finder,
and two tripod sockets.
Made in two sizes, with case and 1
double plate-holder:
5x4 J-plate
£5 £6 13s.
The postage on any of these Cameras will be 1/9 in the State ; 2/8 Inter-State.
oi*
m
23 ?
m
‘V'it'j
mz
~'A* V v
5a
s§
BaKer & Rouse Propty. Ltd.
Sole Agents for
Australian Kodak Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
375 & 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. 6 Mercer Street, Wellington, N.Z. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
HOW TO EXPAND THE SPAN OF LIFE!
AVOID CONSTIPATION.
DY neglecting irregularity of the bowels the victim is inflicting on himself or herself untold
agony for the future. Permanent relief from this baneful disorder is easily obtained
by using Kutnow’s Powder. And why ? Because Kutnows Powder is Natures own
remedy, m which are incorporated certain health-giving properties of the most famous
European spas. It acts gently, speedily and efficiently. Try it at once.
Mrs. L. MARTIN writes:
“ Cornfield, Lavagh, Ballymote, Co. Sligo,
“30th March, 1908.
“ Gentlemen, —I got a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder lately for a boy
of ten, who suffered from biliousness. He is. wonderfully improved since
taking your Powder ; his health is now quite good. You may make what
use you like of my letter, as it may be the means of curing others.
“ Faithfully yours,
“Mrs. L. MARTIN.”
How to Guard Against Fraud l
There is only one genuine Kutnow’s Powder. All conscientious
Chemists supply it throughout the World. Be careful to avoid spurious
substitutes which often cause irreparable injury to health. See that the
fac-simile signature, CI S. KutllOW & Co., Ld., : * and the registered
trade mark, “ HirSChetlsprung or Deer Leap/’ are on the carton and
bottle. You now know
How to Get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
THE ONLY WAY
When you have obtained a bottle of Ivutnow’s Powder, take a
dessertspoonful next morning before breakfast. Put the Powder in a
tumbler of water, which may be cold, tepid, or hot, allow it to effervesce,
and drink slowly. About 10 to 15 minutes later take a hot cup of tea to
hasten its action. After Kutnow’s Powder has acted, note the immediate
beneficial effect. You will find that you feel ever so much better, ready
for hard work, brighter and clearer in mind. It will make you eat well,
work well, and sleep well.
W. ROUGH AN, Esq., writes:
“ 106 High Street, Southampton,
“28th April, 1908.
“ Dear Sirs, —I beg to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of a
bottle of your celebrated Kutnow’s Powder. I may say, even by so small
a quantity, I have derived much benefit therefrom, thus testifying to its
excellent qualities.
“Yours faithfully,
“ W. ROUGHAN.”
sole proprietors : s KUTNOW & CO. LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, EC.
fg


You can’t judge a book by its cover,
Although you may guess now and then.
You can’t judge a girl by her lover;
The best love the stupidest men !
You can’t, tell what a man may discover,
In wonders of science, nor when ;
But for coughs and for colds you can always be sure
There’s nothing to equal Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
The first subdivision of the famous "‘Mondure
Estate,” comprising an area of about 12,000 acres, free-
hold, will be offered by public auction at Wondai, on
Wednesday, 21st July, and attention is directed to
the advertisement appearing in this issue. This estate is
situated in the Kingaroy-Wondai district, four miles from
Murgon railway station, six miles from Wondai, and 14
miles from Kingaroy. It has been in the hands of one
family for about 35 years, and is known far and wide for
the excellence of its soil, its rich fattening capacities, the
permanent water supply provided by the Barambah Creek
and an average annual rainfall of 31 inches. Almost
every acre is fit for the plough. Inspection is confidently
invited ; and an}' other information will be supplied by
Messrs Weaver & Glasson, 259 Queen Street, Brisbane.* '
Terrible Fate.
It s a terrible fate to suffer from serious lung
trouble. Ward it off .with Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
There is not the least danger in giving
Chamberlain’s. to children, as it
contains no harnifnl'mlrg 1 . *
“You can't beat
Finney’s” any time,
and tbis is
SALE TIME.
The Sales of Sales begins 2nd July.
It is the time when your shillings
will do double duty, and you will
do well to get a Sale Catalogue.
The book has 48 pages chocked full
of bargains—the best and biggest
we have ever offered—and we’ll
gladly send you a copy —free.
Will you send your address on a
post card ?
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
The Queensland Education Department
shows amazing' energy in its pursuit of the young
idea. Here, for instance, are a couple of "chips
from the recent reports of itinerant State teachers :
These children, unfortunately, have no instructor;
their father is unable to assist them, as he is almost
blind. They wijre, at one time, given a little instruction
by their mother, but she has been dead for some time.
A neighbor, five miles away, has promised to look at their
work about once a week.
This family lost their all in the drought, and are
gradually getting their flocks together in this wild,
desolate country, having started afresh with only a few
pet sheep. The children have to shepherd the sheep all
day long, and it is only, at night that they can get their
lessons. I went out with them in the day, and we had
lessons while minding the flocks. They are a grand, self-
reliant family, and deserve all the help that can be given
them.
“ I went out with them in the day, and. we had
lessons while minding the flocks.” The Educa-
tion Department that gets beyond that would be
worth hearing from.
Some Bananaland J’s.P., who have been
making their “ dignity ” earn an occasional crumb
for them, met an ugly spectre in the gloaming the
other day. In a hoarse voice it whispered some-
thing about a year’s gaol. The thing hap-
pened this way: The patent-medicine man
who sells Boiled Pills for Fried People likes
to have some testimonials to prove that the Stewed
Pills have snatched doomed men and women from
the brink of the grave, or even from under the
tombstone. These witnesses’ yarns have usually
been sworn before a J.P., or somebody in the
affidavit business. But the Justice Department
has discovered tha.t a common J.P. has no
authority to administer an extra-judicial oath,
and it explains that the penalty runs to a year’s
dungeon for the misdemeanor. So the “taken
and sworn before me, Fergus Bloggs, a Justice of
the Peace ” business has slumped horribly.
• J. D. Campbell, who died on the day
when an election was taking place to fill the
Moreton seat which he had resigned, wasn’t m hch of
a politician but he managed to leave one fine
memorial behind him —-the most attractive ware-
house in Brisbane. There are bigger places ; but
when Campbell set out to put up his new four-
storey shop, he made up his mind to show just
what effects can be got out of Queensland timbers
(he had been in the timber business most of his
days). Silky oak, cedar, bean, elm, rosewood and
the rest were worked up and polished until Bris-
bane wondered however it came to allow so many
millions’ worth of these timbers to be sacrificed to
the firestick. J. D. Campbell had the satisfaction
of seeing one section of the warehouse finished ;
and the second half was just about to commence
business when he died.
The Ass’s Grave.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE journeyed once i’ the East a certain
Abdul,
Well noted as an upright, godly man,
And he was troubled on a burning noon-tide
To find his ass. a beast of Ispahan,
With broken breath begin to lag and fail him,
And naught could Abdul’s kindly words avail him.
In short time died the ass—and Abdul, fearing
That travellers on that much-frequented way
Might call him cruel—say he’d overloaded
And killed his servant there in open day,
Stooped down and dug a grave beneath the
grasses.
And buried there that faithfullest of asses.
And just as he his weary task was ending,
There came a holy pilgrim, bent and grey.
“ What dost thou, brother, digging in the noon-
tide?
Hast found a treasure in the stubborn clay ?”
“I bury here the father whom I cherished—
A holy saint he lived, and drooped and perished.”
“If that be so,” the other cried, “ ’tis fitting,
So that the godly may he edified,
That in this place the faithful raise a temple
Above his bones in sanctity who died.”
He went abroad, with prayer and great be-
seeching,
And raised a noble building by his preaching.
And once our Abdul chanced to meet a kinsman.
Whose father also slept beneath a shrine.
To him he told his story, naught concealing,
And asked: “What bones are ’neath that
mosque of thine ?
'Twould ease my conscience wouldst thou just
befriend me,
And half a dozen genuine relics lend me.”
The other smiled: “Now, Abdul, hold thy
counsel,-.
Thy case, my friend, is better far than mine ;
For, though they’ve built my sire a noble temple,
r i There’s not a bone at all beneath the shrine.
The people look for lies and fain believe them,
And tear the man to rags who’d undeceive
them ! ”
Ye Moral.
The moral’s fairly plain. In ev'ry land
’Tis safe to plant your donkeys in the sand ;
But ’tis a piteous sight when mortals slave
To raise a shrine above an ass’s grave.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
The Brisbane Shop Assistant.
The Queensland workers put up a successful fight
a while ago for Wages Boards; and the shop
assistants got one appointed to fix up conditions
in their sweated business. This Board has been
sitting off and on for just six months, and hasn’t
told the press anything ; but it has about reached
the end of its work now, and the results can be
stated with a fair degree of certainty. In fact,
even the Courier has had some information about
the matter. In general, Judge Hevdon’s Sydney
award has been taken as a basis. There is to be a
minimum wage for assistants up to the age
of 24, at which age the men will get 55.,
and the women 2s. 6d., a week above the
Sydney rate for assistants aged 23. But that
reads a great deal better than it really is.; for it
means that the senior male assistant in the
drapery business will still get only 50s. a week,
while in the grocery trade he will have to struggle
to keep a wife and family on 455. Naturally, under
the circumstances, he will run his children into
the shop at the earliest possible moment; for
though the youngster of 15 will get no more than
ss. a week, even ss. is a consideration when the
boss of the household only brings in 455. to feed
and clothe the entire Jumper family. And when
Jumper, jun., has arrived at the age of 19,
and brings home a healthy appetite and what
there is left of 255., the senior Jumper
will begin to grow nervous. For though the
Board has done a good deal for the assistants, it
hasn’t cut down the permitted proportion of
juniors to seniors below about one to two. The
result will be that the juniors will steadily crowd
out the seniors ; and then the perilous provision
relating to “inexperienced and old ” workers will
get in its knock-out blow, and Jumper, sen., will
probably be driven to take something less than
the minimum of 455., or 505., if Jumper works in
the I luff emporium. However, so long as he can
keep the 50s. he will be on the average about
ss. 3d. better off than he has been lately;
TOO MANY COOKS SPOIL EVERYTHING.
WAITER (after a tip): “Trust you have dined well , sir?”
COLONEL (irately): Dined well! Dammit , I haven't dined at all. Ere only spoiled my appetite."
and . already it is figured out that this
and other changes will cost Fluff and his
fellows from £6OOO to £7OOO a year. “Prices
must go up,” Fat cries already—“ that is what
your Socialism means.” Well, prices probablv
will go up ; though when £6OOO is divided into the
total amount of the Fluff turn-over, it will be
pretty hard to see the proportion of extra cost
that a yard of calico ought to carry. If, however,
existing prices won’t allow married and experi-
enced male assistants to get more than 40s. a
week, then it is time the prices did go up. The
real trouble, however, lies deeper than that. Most
of.it springs out of the fact that there are about
three times too many shops, paying three times too
much rent in the aggregate, and mopping up three,
times’ too much in miscellaneous expenses. And
if the law protects the assistants from themselves,
and raises their wages to such a respectable level
that the shutters must go up on scores of shops,
it won’t be a bad law ; on the contrary, it will be
a good law that will stop some of the prodigious
waste that is n.ow going on. But when it stops
that waste, and puts up those shutters, and drives
men out to make a living at something else, it is
certainly up to the law to provide the other
necessary opportunities for earning a living, by
shutting out foreign manufactures, or opening the
locked lands, or otherwise.
— ;
Director of Education Ewart, for 30 years
in Bananaland’s service, has said a rather pathetic
“so long ! ” to the Department. Only two officers
remain in who were there when he joined. Old-
man Barlow, the perennial Minister, has eulogised
Mr. Ewart, and Mr. Ewart has eulogised the
Minister ; and the old head of the Brisbane
Grammar Schoxil steps up into Ewart’s place.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 26, 190!).
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Melba, of the golden note and the uncertain
temper, arrived on Friday evening. Her corning
was not exactly brilliant, for the electric in-
stallation in the State car, which was placed at her
disposal by a thoughtful and admiring department,
went on strike, and the four presswomen—Agnes
Murphy and three eminent local authorities —-were
ushered into an atmosphere murky in the ex-
treme, and surcharged with electricity of a non-
illuminant variety. The great soprano was cross;
she was tired ; she had an expression of “damn ’’
all over her. She looked as if she might at any
moment clothe herself with cursing as with a
garment (Psalm cix., 18). Her only thaw was
for Miss Janet O’Connor, who is her hostess at
Dnporth. This lady joined the train at Ipswich.
Clutching a variety of vegetation, including holly,
lilies of the valley, violets, and roses, Mrs. M.
maintained a silence that would have supported a
sinking empire, and the interviews printed next
morning were largely efforts of composition.
At the central station some thousands of excited
citizens rocked and surged while graceful Mayor-
ess Wilson added more flowers to the pile and her
Mayor said “How do” in the name of the city.
Mrs. Melba said “ How do ” also—rather hur-
riedly, and with never a smile until she caught a
glimpse of the big motor (her latest pet) panting
in the offing.
Among tlie musical crowd in the enclosure I
saw Mrs. Gilbert Wilson (just back from the
North), Lena Hammond, Percy Brier, Ernest
Toy, Liedertafel Harris and his president (Dr.
Byrne), also pretty Hilda Roberts. Freddy Ship-'
man and his attractive missis, and Rosin a” Book-
man were there also.
A sensational elopement is furnishing a topic of
conversation at local tea-parties. The absentees
—well, he is a horse doctor, and she the daughter
of a person of some importance. Curious how
rich in bidden charm the average vet. appears to
be. It was a man of the same profession who
once got engaged to a local mature damsel, and
persuaded her to deliver over to him her deeds
and power of attorney while she went to Ireland
for her health. The rows began when the absent-
minded lover neglected to forward drafts
sufficient for the mere board and residence of his
beloved. • Lawsuits ensued, and the lady event-
ually managed to rake the small remains of- her
fortune from the fire of love. Incidentally, the
case resulted in the retirement from city life of a
promising young advocate.
Jas. Blair, in whose hands some of Queensland’s
future destiny may lie, has got his nose in a sling.
I don’t mean that he has been arguing with a per-
son of more than his own size; it was some nasal
trouble which necessitated two small operations,
and laid him low for a week at the Hotel
Daniell. He will emerge when the conversation
shop opens.
Mrs. Lieutenant-Governor Morgan, in charge
of A.D.C. Claude Foxton, attended the prize dis-
tribution at the Institute for the Blind, and
handed over the spoils to the winning infants.
There was a big roll up, and tea in the committee
room afterwards, where the noise was as of a hun-
dred thousand bees on the warpath.
The South Brisbane Mayor, who began his term
by making rash statements as to the proper num-
ber of hours in a day’s work —I fancy, if my
memory serves me, he favored two—-has got into a
fresh boiling of very hot water over a famous-
establishment on the south side, the removal of
which the inhabitants have long been demanding.
A.t last the stream of petitions screwed from
his Worship the promise of a surprise inspec-
tion. When, however, the city inspector hap-
pened along, he found the numerous lady boarders
down, although at a later hour that day they ap-
peared to have returned. Now the inspector and
the other aldermen and, of course, the peti-
tioners accuse his Worship of sending along
a friendly note of warning, which is a base
aspersion, and exhibits a narrow mind and
a soured spirit.
Betty Ohls lately met a dragon, and even in
the midst of her righteous indignation couldn’t
resist chuckling forth the story. Arriving in town
with the Jacks and Jills, she cast about her for
where to lay her poke bonnet, and settling upon a
fashionable hostelry, she accosted the proprietress.
The dialogue that followed was built somewhat on
these lines:—
(Time, 9.30 p.m. ; scene, hotel vestibule.)
8.0. : Good evening, madam. I want the very best
room you can let me have.
Lady Proprietor {Looking over the small, highly-colored
person in scant skirt, coatee and poke bonnet) : My best
room is engaged.
B.O.: Well ! Well! I’ll have your next best.
L.P. {still more stiffly) : That’s gone too.
8.0. {desperate and sleepy) : Well, what can I have ?
L.P. : Only a small, single {much emphasis upon the
“ single ”) apartment on the top floor not well lighted.
Betty {still more desperately) : Well, when will your
good rooms be vacant?
LP. : Don’t know. We don’t ask our people when they
are going to quit.
Betty (furious) : Oh, well, you- seem anxious for me
to go elsewhere. Good evening.
L.P. : Certainly {aside) Baggage {aloud) and
please remember that this is a res {The rest is lost in
a whirl of indignant skirts precipitating itself into its
cab again.)
An hour later a pal of Betty’s, who resides at the
same palace, explained the situation to the pro-
prietress with tears in her voice, and threatened
to leave because of the affront placed upon her
friend. Moral: Don't wear poke bonnets when
you apply after dark at a strange hotel. The
poke bonnet is a discredited top-dressing.
Edith Anderson, a promising Queensland artist,
comes back to the land of her birth per P. and 0.
Moldavia. Miss Edith, who looks the part
with her Titian hair, rose-leaf complexion, some
becoming freckles, and scarlet lips, has been
studying art in the South Kensington (London)
schools for three or four years, and has done it to
some purpose.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.
Engineer Phillips is back in Brisbane
after taking a professional look at the country
between Cloncurry and the Gulf, the idea being
that it might be worth while to push the ’Curry
railway up towards the crocodiles, Phillips
bubbles over with enthusiasm about the possi-
. biiities of that vast territory. The mineral belt
he glanced at is 120 miles by 80, mountainous and
rough. To the west lies a belt stretching out for
300 miles, excellent country for sheep. For from
80-to 100 miles south of Burketown there is water
available to irrigate the ..whole fertile track, if it
wants irrigating. Yet there is no sign of life in-
the .place. Even Normanton, the only town on!
the Gulf, is fast asleep, arid only wakes upnowar.d
again when a rare squatter blows in from the back.
Some day this country will support millions of
people, and it is a fine tiling to know that it’s there ;
but, meantime, instead of spending the necessary
money to open it up, it would probably pay.
Queensland a lot better to look round and see if
its existing railways don’t serve large areas of
just as good.country,.of which little or no use is, so
far, being made.
Some good cotton-picking records were
lately put up at Capella (Central Queensland) by
eight boys, whose ages averaged 12. In 2J hours
they picked per boy over 301 b. of cotton, for
which they were paid the standard rate of id. per lb.
They thus earned at the rate of 4s. per day of eight
hours. The swiftest boy (aged 14) picked 431 b.,
and the slowest (aged 10) 271 b. Most of them had
never set eyes on a cotton bush before : and they
were hampered by working with small bags which
required to be frequently emptied, and some time
was wasted in weighing. Also, the crop was not
more than half matured. Mr. Mullen, who
organised the trial, thinks that with experience a
boy could make £2 per week in a good field. This
is the game which, according to the preachment of
the incurable Tory person, can’t be carried on in
Queensland by white labor.


TAPPING THE INTERIOR.
The Queensland Railway system does not centralise
traffic in the capital city.
There are three separate main trunk systems, con-
necting the great western interior with the
eastern seaports.
By thus connecting the west with the ports in a
direct line, the choice of the immigrant is
rendered easier.
The further north he settles, the nearer he is by sea
communication to the great markets of the
world.
Queensland’s railway policy is the most active and
progressive of all the Australian States, and
in railway communication Australia leads the
world.
Though the population of Queensland is only one-
third that of its great neighbor, N.S.W., the
railway mileage is almost equal, while the train
miles, run annually, are as follows : —
N.S.W. 12,949,068
Queensland 6,126,136
If Queensland’s riches and resources were as highly
developed as those of the United States, it
would have
62,500 miles of railway.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXVI.
THE RAILWAY SYSTEM.—II.
By J. D. FITZ GERALD.
Queensland is the only one of the Australian
States which has not centralised its railway sys-
tem. In the other States the capital city is the
terminus of all the railway lines. This policy has
in many cases been felt to be an inconvenience, as
it has a tendency to unduly bloat the capital at
the expense of the rest of the country. In some
eases the application of differential and preferen-
tial freights has been used in order to drag trade
to the capital, often hundreds of miles away from
its proper market. Powerful interests in certain
seaport towns have been able to effect this. But
in Queensland the natural territorial divisions were
respected. That these exists a natural and com-
mercial division of the State of Queensland into
three is obvious. It was, therefore, a wise and
statesmanlike provision which settled the con-
struction of three main trunk lines, running from
the principal seaports to the west.
There are now (as will be seen by the map pre-
sented herewith) seven Government lines running
from the coast to the interior. The main lines
begin at Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville,
and run westward. The Brisbane system climbs
the ranges on to the tablelands at Toowoomba,
passing through the famous Darling Downs—a
territory as rich as the Valley of the Nile, and
still awaiting millions of people to develop its
riches. Thence the line splits, one branch running
south to join the Continental coastal system on
the N.S.W. border—a system which enables the
traveller to pass by rail from Rockhampton to
Adelaide—while the other runs westward through
Dalby, Roma, Mitchell, and Charleville, changing
southwards to Cunnamulla, This line thus passes
through and taps arich province, teeming with flocks
and herds living on the rich natural pastures. On
these pastures are fed and developed the splendid
A BIT ON THE BRISBANE-ROCKHAMPTON
LINE , WHICH, AT THIS PLACE, GOES
THROUGH DENSE RAGLAN SCRUB.
Photo, by Wham, Mount Morgan Mine.
carcases which load up the freezing cham-
bers of huge ocean tramps at Pinkepba.
The magnificent meat which is produced on these
great pastures is shipped in the carcase abroad, as
a result of the discovery of cold storage ; but, on
its way, it is sometimes retained for' a while, and
converted into those delicious soups, tongues, and
brisket beefs which are the staple of the picnicker-
all over Australia, and are found on the tables of
rich and poor alike in many countries outside
Australia.
The Central line begins at Rockhampton, and
runs through the splendid Central District of
Queensland, that rich district which lies just in-
side the Tropic of Capricorn. This main central
line runs westward to Emerald. From Emerald
an intersecting line runs north and south—to
Clermont on the north and Springsure on the
south—thus opening two rich districts. Continu- ,
ing westward from Emerald, it passes through
Alpha and Barealdine to Longreach, the terminus
at present. From Jericho, near Alpha, a branch
runs south-west to Blackall. This railway also
runs through a rich district which pours -forth its
wealth to the world through the agency of the
“ iron horse.” The railway has brought with it
settlement and has found a field for the invest-
ment of capital. Thanks to it, unemployed labor
has been put to profitable use, and the blessings,
comforts, and even the. luxuries, of civilisation
have been brought to thousands. Where merely
a rude plenty existed before, because transport
was difficult and costly, luxury is available to-day.
Where isolation made the training of the young a
haphazard affair., now, by the agency of the rail-
way, the resources of the Education Department
are brought hundreds of : miles further out
than they would possibly have been had it
not been for the railway. Thus this
one great service of State 1 assists
every other.
The third great trunk line leaves
the seaport of Townsville and runs in a
south-westerly direction ; ' fifkt to
Charters Towers, the famous gold-
field ; thence to Hughenden, Rich-
mond, to far-distant Cloncurry—the
most westerly point yet reached by
the Queensland railways. On this
line, at Ravenswood Junction (a few
miles from Townsville) a branch runs
to Ravenswood. Here we are in the
thick of the auriferous districts. From
Hughenden a branch swings south-
wards through Stamford, Whitewood,
andCorfield toWinton, passingthrough
a splendid sheep district, where
CENTRAL RAILWAY STATION , BRISBANE.
Photo, by C.E.S. Fryer.
the flocks run into hundreds of thousands. At the
terminus of the line a short branch is projected
along a route running due south, but it is not yet
begun. This line is built along the watershed of
the northern and southern rivers. Those which
run north empty themselves in the Gulf of Carpen-
taria —“ the grev gulf water,” with all its mystery ;
its traditions of the prehistoric navigators—the
men who discovered Australia from the high poops
of Chinese junks; and the. others, vylio .landed
in light tatnbangans from Malayan proas, in
search of trepang.: On the south run the streams
—not always change their names
so- often- that the student is bewildered —-the
Thompson River, the Diamantina, the Georgina.
Some of these lose themselves in immense reed-
fringed meres and lakes in South Australia.
These slow streams, crawling lazily through their
reeds and over their sand bars, are soon outpaced
by the rapid locomotive. Paterson’s description
of those which run north is now classical: —
Slowly and slowly these grey streams glide,
Drifting along with a languid motion,
Lapping the reed-beds on either side,
Wending their way to the Northern Ocean.
-Grey are the plains where the emus -pass
Silent and slow, with their staid demeanor ;
Over the dead men’s graves the grass
Maybe is waving a trifle greener.
And up in the heavens the brown lark sings
The songs that the strange wild land has
taught her;
Full of thanksgiving her sweet song ring's—
And I wish I were back by the Grey Gulf
water.
Besides these main trunk lines there
are several small systems; and at
Cairns, in the beautiful tropical
scenery so famous now —scenery
which is known and praised from San
Francisco to Tokio, and from Mel-
bourne to Calcutta —-an ambitious
scheme is under construction. This
district is not only a famous tourist
district, being the region of the Barron
and the Stony Creek Falls, but .it is *
the very centre of a great mining
district —one of the most promising of the
mineral districts, noted for large deposits of
copper and tin. On the country Opened by
this railway tlie richest tropical culture of cane,
coffee, cocoa, rubber, bananas, pineapples, to-
bacco, etc., supplements the mining pursuits of
the fortunate inhabitants. The emigrant might
search the world and find nothing which can
show such opportunities for the settler with
energy and a desire to better his condition. ine
influx of tourists from the bouth, during the
winter months, is making this part of Queensland
known abroad ; and the more it is known, the
greater will be the desire of the settler from
abroad to get a share in the work of development,
which, in a few years, may yield to him compe-
tence if not fortune.
I have constantly endeavored in these articles
to assist the reader in Europe, whose eyes they
mav meet, to realise the enormous, extent
of Queensland’s territory. In connection with
its railways one more comparison may be made.
Without being invidious, it may fairly be claimed
here that, taking climate, soil, coast line, mineral
wealth, timbers, pastures —in short, all that a
statistician would sum up as natural wealth,
which existed in an undeveloped state before
capital and labor were applied to it—taking all
these in the two countries, Queensland and the
United States of America ; or even taking only
the southern parts of the latter, where the
climatic conditions approximate to those of the
former, Queensland is as rich as is the United
States, or any part of it. To-day, the United
States is a highly-developed nation, and in addi-
tion to magnificent natural water communication
between the interior and the sea, it has 250,000
miles of railroads to deal with its commercial
transport. If Queensland were in the same stage
of development as the United States, it would
have 62,500 miles of railway. .
The total length of the Queensland railways in
1907 was, approximately, 3400 miles. The total
mileage of the Australian railways is 15,000.' In
comparison to its age and population Queens-
land’s railway policy has been the most progressive
of all. Its population is but a third of that of
N.S.W., yet the latter State has but a couple of
hundred miles more of railways opened for traffic;
and its building programme is not more am-
bitious than that of Queensland. Taking the
train mileage run as a better test, it will be found
that Queensland, though its population is only
one-third that of N.S.W., runs its trains a mile-
age approximating to one-half that of the Mother
State. The figures for all the States of the Com-
monwealth Were, in 1906-7 : .
State Train Miles Run.
N.S.W.' 12,949,068
Victoria .. .. .. •• 10,035,914
Queensland .. .. .. •• 6,120,136
S. Australia .. .. .. •• 4,334,243
Westralia .. .. 4,180,796
This will give a good indication of the energy
which has been applied to the development of the
country through the opening and the active work-
ing of railway communication.
Again, a moment’s reflection will show how
valuable to the “ back country ” the plan is which
runs the main railways due east to the nearest sea-
ports. The future market for Queensland’s
products will be Asia. The further North,
therefore, the products may Vie shipped, the better
it is for the producer. When, therefore, the
settler is deciding upon the district in which he
proposes to settle, he must not get the notion that
he is cutting himself off from markets if he goes
west of Rockhampton, Townsville, or Cairns.
The railway links him up, not with Brisbane—as.,
the railways of N.S.W. do with Sydney—but with
the nearest port on the direct route to Java;
Singapore, Burmah, China, Japan, India or
Europe. But if he wants railway communication
with Brisbane, that, too, is a possibility of the
not remote' future, as the three systems will,
doubtless, be linked together within a few years'
by a long coastal railway which will enable the
traveller who prefers the land journey to go right
round from Cooktown to Adelaide by rail.
The last consideration of all is that the Com-/
monwealth Government is pledged to the build-
ing of a transcontinental railway, to emerge at
Port Darwin in one direction. If, as the writer
anticipates, a great trade in foodstuffs—meat,
flour and butter —springs up some day from Aus-
tralia to the yellow and brown populations of the
north-west of the Australian continent, then
all the “back country” of Queensland will
turn out a bonanza, to those who have ac-
quired land there. For the inevitable connec-
tion between the eastern Australian coastal
lines and the northern outlet must tap the
Western Queensland country. Thus whole terri-
tories, which now suffer from difficulties of trans-
port, will be brought into communication with
CROW'S NEST WATERFALL, DARLING
DOWNS.
the* open.sea and the shipping at Fort Darwin
within three days’ steam of Java and Manila,
with China and India, containing nearly a thou-
sand million human beings (who are developing a
taste for flour and meat), a few days’ steam
further on. There is one other important side to
the railway policy of Queensland, viz., that of the
co-operative ownership of the enterprise through
the State. As that crystallises a phase of Aus-
tralian political progress and development, it will
be dealt with in my next. It will be found to be
of the highest possible interest to the emigrant
who is embarking his fortunes and those of his
descendants in a country whose political institu-
tions, though based upon those of Britain, have,
in some vital respects, departed from the model
originally copied. Much of the description of
this phase of the railway policy will be common-
place to Australians; but to an Englishman it
ought to have many novel, if not interesting,
features.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN AfJD STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney. ,
Mkmio'Jlikk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11] William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Iflutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
llhad Officii :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assurin';; £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
On iff Office for Nf.vv South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Ilor.. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J I’. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731,601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Offioe: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and throughout the Wm-H
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
(DontdepieteO.il. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham <fe Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘ LINSEED CO 'WPOUE’D ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
N ord D eutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710,998
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Cami'ISKLL-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Ali,kn, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY, i
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 4.
AFRIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
FARES—Capetown or Durban jfclo 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
~\V
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. N
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pa,mphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS RANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. ( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during are payable half-yearly.
currency of lcan - (e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS* DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
Banking, &c.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,488,590 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,260,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,248,590 12 6
DIRECTORS:
6. J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant : W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Don. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . •
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
THE STRONGEST AND CHEAPEST.
20 Per Cent.
Former
Send for Price List.
Reduction on
Prices.
GIANT FENCE CO.,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Quaensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
s.s.
Yong-ala, July 3 and
and Julj’ 31.
S.S. Innaminclca, July 3.
S.S. Gran tala, July 24.
Best arte/ Cheapest Route to Go/c/fielc/s.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION line:
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles °f the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing, the new twin-screw steamer, “TOFUA,”
duly 20, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
LAND, transhipping at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ ATUA,” leaving
Auckland on July 20 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” July 6,
thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from the latter port to Wellington per
“ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 20 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, July 7,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 28 days, arriving at
Auckland August 26.
For further information to the various offices
and descriptive booklet in Australasia of
applj’— the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
+
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
j£? INCLUDING HOTEL f/in
EXPENSES. dLU O
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET/*
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 13th July
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 17th July
For Port Said Direct.
The saloon accommodation consists of ail two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
UvStPOOL 1 ! £49 10s ‘ £IS 13s ' £is 15s> £l7 l7s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
!When Mosquitoes annoy you
i remember how useful, either for pre-
> venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs mid Colds,
llelieves Asthma and difficult breathing.


ANDREW McGEE
®«r- THE RAZOR THAT LASTS A LIFETIME.
The McGee Celebrated “Thistle” Brand Razor
The stiffer your bristles —the more tender your skin—the
more you’ll appreciate the keen, durable edge of the
“Thistle.” You can shave as close as you like with it.
Let the “ Thistle” be YOUR daily shaver.
Sydney’s Leading 1 Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 8 7 Castlereagh Street, cor. Hunter Street, Sydney.
saloon open all day Wednesday. Other Hollow Ground Razors, from 3/6 each.
Black Handle, 10/6
Ivory Handle, 12/6
Pairs in Cases, 21/- and 25/-
THE FASHIONABLE
from 6/6 to 12/6
per 100.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, G/G per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
STEVENS
.25 Caliber Repeating Gallery Rifle No. 80
w
“THE BULL’S-EYE KIND.”
Made to take the famous .25 STEVENS R. F. CARTRIDGE.
The only .25 Caliber Rim Fire Repeating Rifle on the market.
Ask your Dealer for STEVENS ARMS and ACCESSORIES.
160-Page complete Catalogue will be mailed on demand.
J. STEVENS ARMS (EL TOOL COMPANY,
546 BROADWAY,
CHICOPEE FACES, MASS., U.S.A.
r\f
O*
k
Alcock’s
Billiard IMo
The “BIJOU ” BILLIARD
TABLE, fitted with slate bed and
fast=running cushions, covered
in superfine billiard cloth, 6ft. x
3ft. £l9 ; 7ft. x 3ft. 9/ 2 in.,
£22; Bft. x 4ft. £2s ; 9ft.
x 4ft. £3l 10s. Easy
terms if desired. By a simple
adjustment of leaves these tables
can be immediately used as
dining tables.
o
ain
Aid
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and
397 George Street, Sydney.
BILLIARDS LIMITED.
TEL. 1338
CITY.
PERPETUAL TOURNAMENTS FOR BONA FIDE AMATEURS.
ALL COMPETITORS TO BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF COMPANY.
Prizes every fortnight, or as soon after as any Competition is won.
BILLIARDS: Break of 50, or biggest over 50 .. ... .. .. .. Order, value £2 2s.
Break of 51, or biggest over 51, off red ball .. .. .. Order, value £3 3s.
SNOOKER: Break of 30, or biggest over 30 .... ... ... .. ... Order, value £2 2s.
PYRAMIDS: Break of 8 or over ... ... .. .. .. •• £2 2s.
BILLIARDS LTD. NOVELTY SNOOKER to be run monthly.
Three prizes—Orders value £4 45., £2 25., £1 Is., for the largest breaks made during the month. Entrance fee, 3d.
All Competitions started MONDAY, 7th inst. Morning, Afternoon and Evening Sessions.
Full particulars from HARRY GRAY, Manager, 630 George Street.
m
-or
iV.
sa**-
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
8-HOUR ART union
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorwioosk, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in.alL
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
Here's a Bargain
This Nkw
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, "
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
ID* - Write early if you wish to secure one.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L O U I S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained /rorn
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
WA
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise § Joke
THE “ NEVER-STOP” HUMMING TOP.
TKi
MuiieAt;*piN*
tap
wtea
This new metal hum-
ming- top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and hand-
somely painted in five
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top ;
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal and the spring
of tempered steel, is
practically indestruc-
tible. Spins about
three minutes, hum-
ming all the time.
Price 9d. each post
free anywhere, o r
three tops posted free
to any address for 2/-
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff h o r 4 n
handles, spring-
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open,
use, also a superior
directions, 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s knife. Price; with full
free anywhere.
©ic —
U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
\V\
iiffis
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watch me n, and
others. 0a n b e . ,
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of ttie
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
IMo. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
CURES
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has been the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by all Qdemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland—Elliott Bros., Sydney & Brisbane.
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford,
writes“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED ' was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubles,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years;
I take that when nothing else will give relief. One
or two bottles invariably set me up. It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bottle to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You may make what use of this
you like.” —December nth, 1907.


The Oldest Inhabitant, quitting ancient
pubs and churches for a spell, remembers some
vermin :
Apropos G. H. Greene, of landra, Grenfell (13. 27/f>/’OD).
The eldest son, William Pomeroy, so named after the
original Australian Greene, is now managing for his
father at landra (N.SAV.). He has been in the Imperial
army, and has brought out a lot of English notions.
Among them he is said to he breeding English foxes for
huntings purposes. If so, he is also breeding'the hear, y
curses of the farmers with whom he to-day “ shares.” It
was in the same spirit that John Austin, of Barwon Park,
Geelong, introduced rabbits for sport. No one has raised
a statue to Austin yet. Then as to hares, this writer
heard one of the Werribee Chirnsides boast, at a banquet,
that he considered himself a benefactor to trie country,
as he had introduced these animals at a guinea a head.
Yet nobody has suggested a statue to trie hare-raiser.
Evidently young Greene doesn’t want a statue either,
though the day may come when harassed cookies will
think that he should at least have had a clod or two in
his lifetime.
The coming land-tax got a shove along
f'om an unexpected shoulder the other day. Dr.
Osborne. Professor of Physiology in Melbourne
University, was lecturing about things, and
mentioned that already Australian soils wore
notoriously weak in phosphorus, and were
getting weaker and weaker in that essential
of plant and animal life through the whole-
sale exportation of animals. In one quarter
(July to September, 1907) rabbits equal to
M 5 tons of pure phosphorus, or 440 tons of super-
phosphate, and sheep and lambs equal to 12£ tons
of superphosphate were sent away from Victoria,
not to mention the loss in cattle, horses and pigs.
From these he draws the conclusions that if we go
on like this the Australian soil will presently
become unfitted for rearing stock at all—the
animals will become poorer and poorer, and
eventually unmarketable altogether, ltisadreary
outlook, but the Professor suggests a remedy :
inasmuch as the grazier is continually impoverish-
ing his land and seldom, if ever, manures it, while
the farmer does manure it, the threatening trouble
can be averted by breaking up the big grazing
estates and forcing the land into cultivation.
By the Oldest Inhabitant :
The rush to Kosciusko creates renewed interest in the
explorer who so named the now famous mountain.
Edmund Strzelecki was a native of Poland, and was
educated at trie Edinburgh High School, his father being
a refugee. Before lie was 35 years of age lie had visited
North and South America, the West Indies, the South
Sea and Javanese Islands, China, India, Egypt, Tasmania
(or Van Diemen’s Land) and New South Wales. Count
Sr.rzelecki was r.he first to discover the auriferous nature
of the Australian soil, but on communieatitig the fact to
the'Goverriment he was instructed to keep it secret. The
Government of that day didn’t want to be wakened up
and bustled by a rush of settlers. In the early’forties he
led an expedition, organised by one of the Macarthurs,
which started from the Upper Murray and clambered up
the main Snowy Mountain Range to its highest point,
“ where on a bleak tableland rise a number of hummocks,
no one much higher than the others.” Picking out the
one that seemed the highest, he named it Kosciusko,
after the individual'who fell when Freedom shrieked.
Later on a higher point was discovered. All the geography
books described Kosciusko as the highest Australian
mountain, so a lot of trouble was saved by shifting the
old name to the new peak. Strzelecki died in London,
October, 1573, aged 77 years.
The claims made as to the composition of the
well-known Cerebos Salt are borne out by the report
1 tely made by the British Analytical Control. The
i :sult of their analysis shows that the article consists of
a well-prepared salt containing’a small percentage of
inixed phosphates entirely soluble in the g'astric juice.
1 erebos Salt is entirely approved and recommended by
! le British Analytical Control as a genuine product of
good quality. It is important to note that articles
improved by theßritish Analytical Control are subject to’
t.ieir periodical scientific examination, in order that the
original character and quality as guaranteed may be
assured to the public.*
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes :
Apropos the Mayoralty of Adelaide (B. 17/6’09) a notable
occupant of the chair was John Lazar (1854-5-6). He
was resident in Sydney in 1838, where his son Sam was
born. They were Hebrews, of course, and were intimately
connected with theatrical matters in Sydney. In 1838,
when Joseph Wyatt opened the Victoria Theatre (Pitt-
street) witli a company from Hobart, Mr. and Miss Lazar
were of the company. John Lazar, who afterwards leased
the Victoria Theatre, produced opera for the first time in
the State, with Madame Bushell (sister of Wallace, the
composer), the Howsons and other well-known singers of
the time. In Sydney, John Lazar was contemporary with
many plaj'ers and singers whose names have come down
to us as favorites in their day—among them Mrs. Guerin
(mother of Nellie Stewart), Miss Winstanlev, who had
afterwards a long engagement at the Princess’s (London),
with Charles Kean, Joe Simmons, Nesbitt, McCron, Morton
King (afterwards known in Melbourne as Mark Last King,
merchant and M.L.A.), Arabin, Gordon Griffiths, Spencer,
Willis, G. LI. Rogers, the Carandinis, and George Coppin
(who in 1844 kept the Clown Tavern, right opposite the
theatre). John Lazar then removed to Adelaide, where
he held several appointments under the Government,
amongst them that of Commissioner of Waterworks. He
became one of the pioneers of Hokitika (M.L.), where he
died. His son Sam was an enterprising man. He built
a theatre in Adelaide, and was lessee of the old Queen’s,
in York-street, Sydney, where he first introduced Maggie
Moore and J. O. Williamson in “Struck Oil”; and of
the Prince of Wales Theatre, in Castlereagh-street. ' He
became insane, and died in retirement.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Prise 2/-. Or hv post from
Proprietors, 44-3 BJurke St., Melbourne.
_ fhe Rev. J. CTLove, Kew, Vic."' writes tnat fori
y 2B years a weak digestion was a fruitfal cause of
suffering He is deeply grateful to a number of
doctors who prescribed palliatives, but nothing
proved so efficacious as Orange River Herbal Syrup,
jlt afforded immediate relief; nothing he had tried
[stands comparison with it. Send twopence as
I postage to the Union Manufacturing Co, 299
'Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, for a sample bottle^
"AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(AM, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., witli a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
(repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc,, it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICK—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles— l bent, 1 straight— l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras : Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
RETURN OF NELLIE STEWART
in David Belasco’s Costume Comedy Drama,
SWEET KITTY BELL AIKS
Supported bv her own Company, including- MISS
KOSSLYN VAYNE and MISS MARJORIE CHARD,
MR. LANGIIORNE BURTON, MR. FREDERICK
MOYES and MR. CLAUDE KING.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
CANNOT BE DESCRIBED. MUST BE SEEN.
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
IN
THE GREAT RESCUE.
A Play the old folks love and the young folks enjoy.
Australian Life and Character Admirably Portrayed.
Box Plans at Elvy’s.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. No Extra Charges.
-|*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, Clyde Mevnell & John Gunn Season.
Evenings at 8. Wednesday at 2.
FA It It WELL P lilt FORM A NCES.
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
in STRUCK OIL.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 3,
The Great Comedy Drama,
THE GAMBLER’S S WEETHEART.
Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICT [JIIES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, .Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 25.:
QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.m., 3tosp.in.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 25.; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
onlv, Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbaii Poolk, Manager.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Hr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
MERTIN and RYDON, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
i.OSINA CASSELLI and HER'MIDGET WONDERS,
CHIHUAHUA DOGS OF MEXICO.
THE THREE LAURELS, Leading Specialty Artists.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN. Artistic Musical Experts.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE. Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
GRAHAM AND DENT, Popular Comedians.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor <fc Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Greatest Juggler Living.
BOVIS and DARLEY, Musical Sketch Artists.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTEKS.
LAWSON and NAMON, Trick Cyclists, Ball Punchers.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
Mr. CULL PITT, a Droll Deceptionist, assisted by
Mdlle. ADELE, in a Pot-pourri of Tricks, Talk, etc.
THE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Comedienne Dancers.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
Plan at Allan's. J-2T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
T H
EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THE MOST IMPORTANT DRAMATIC EVENT
OF THE YEAR.
MEYNELL <&. GUNN’S NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
IN
THE HYPOCRITES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
The Romantic Musical Play,
THE KING OE CADONIA,
BY A NEW COMPANY OF EXCEPTIONAL
EXCELLENCE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
GREAT ENTHUSIASM EVERY EVENING.
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT and MISS BEATRICE DAY
—IN
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
PRICES—3s.,
Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
.Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Great Australian Drama,
WHITE AUSTRA LI A, or
Written by Randolph Bedford.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
THE “ALWAYS KEEN EDGED” RAZOR
is difficult to get—unless you invest in the “ PLUM
—with its extra hollow ground blade that gives
clean shave always.
We guarantee the PLUM and keep it in order
two years free of charge.
Price 10/6,
Post Free to
any part of
Australia.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Singie Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
i y
m
Fig. 5611
GOULDS
“PREMIER” & “BORDEAUX”
Brass Garden Spray Pumps
For spraying, sprinkling, wash-
ing wagons, windows, and white-
washing: Light in weight, strong,
durable and easy operated. These
sprayers are used with a pail or
bucket. Cylinder, plunger, plunger ■
rod and gland are all brass, and the
air chamber contributes to the even
steady stream from the nozzle. A
strong iron foot-hold enables one to
pump with one hand and hold the
nozzle with the other. We manu-
facture a very complete line of pumps
for spraying and other purposes and
would be pleased to send a copy of our
Spray Catalogue to those interested.
THE GOULDS MFG. CO. '
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S. A.
AGENCIES IN AI L PRINCIPAL CITIES.
m
1-in- 11.9
Amusements
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL. Everv SATURDAY Night.
ATHENAEUM HALL, THURSDAY & FRIDAY Evenings
THIS WEEK. Change of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. Plans at Allan’s
■ CE SKAT ING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM,
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
GRAND FANCY DRESS CARNIVAL,
THURSDAY, JULY 22.
w
R T H ’ S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES IHEB 0 ?T LL .
ALT. THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
The New
Four-Minute
Amberol Records
Twenty-four new records have just been
added to the Amberol list of selections,
and there are some splendid ones offered.
The Edison Concert Baud gives an
admirable rendition of a selection from
“ Aida ” ; the introduction and Bridal
Chorus from Lohengrin, and a descriptive
fantasy as well.
There are also some beautiful ballads,
several sacred selections, and some rattling
items of lighter vein.
Will you call on your nearest dealer and
hear them ? We’ll send you his address
and a full list of the Amberols on request.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
~ ‘COAGULINE,’‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Oeuients for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE BULLETIN POST GARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
fid. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
"w'STO
Custard Mi! fruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when Stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
cither hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The “ Grand ” Musical Clock
This Clock is a Music Box and Alarm Clock com-
bined. And a rattling- g-ood Timekeeper too.
IT PLAYS TWO TUNES FOR A QUARTER-OF-AN-liOUR
Very Elegant appearance.
The “Grand ” Musical Clock is one of the prettiest and most Novel Clocks
procurable. We positively guarantee every one for twelve months to be perfectly
reliable and to keep accurate time. It has a very solid and handsome appearance,
and, being made of Nickel Silver, with Brass Front, it does not discolour and al-
ways looks nice and bright. Instead of being awakened (and, incidentally, the
whole houseful') by a noisy Alarm Wong, you are effectually called out of your
slumber by the sweet strains of “Blue Bells of Scotland,’’ Last Kose ol Sum-
mer,” “ Sweet Marie,” “ Home Sweet Home,” or any other such like tunes, each
clock playing two airs and playing about fifteen minutes, or you can set the Music
going at any time you like. The tunes are very pretty indeed. If you get this
clock you can have music at yoar meal-time, you can always entertain your visi-
tors ; it will tell you the correct time; it will call you when required pit will amuse
Vou whenever you feel inclined, and you need never feel lonely. Neaily every-
one who has purchased one has written us specially to say how pleased they weie.
The Price is only £1 ; postage —N.S.W. 1/- extra, other btates and N.Z. 1/b extri..
fl. J SMITH & eo- 14 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
r, t o <0 (o;ul e l..|nlo 1 -|
N
N


A man who lurks behind the cognomen of
“ Anti-Shout ” sends this :
The “Cutnanavadrink” monster has been spreading
his tentacles over such an area lately that a determined
effort is to be made to strangle him. Travelling in one rail-
way compartment between Melbourne and Sydney a few
days ago were gathered a number of theatricals, some of
them managers, and the “ shouting” curse, so peculiarly
Australia’s own, came up for discussion. Instances of its
evil effect, physically, socially, and from every view-
point were given, and so emphatic was the condemnation
that it was unanimously resolved there and then that
“ shouting,” being a curse, should be suppressed. An in-
stitution, to be known as “ The Anti-Shouting Society,”
was then formed, and officers pro tern, were elected. The
matter was dealt with in a serious vein, and though some
of the suggestions which were made for incorpora-
tion in the rules may tickle the fancy, there is a
fixed determination to carry them out. The officers
who were elected in the train are: Patron (a
prominent journalist yet to be selected); president,
Edwin Geach ; vice-presidents, E. J. Kilpatrick, G.
McMahon, Randolph Bedford ; committee, H. Gee, Jules
Grant, Harold Parkes, Harry Musgrove, jun., L. De Groen,
Targett; hon. secs.: Sydney, Harry Musgrove, jun.;
Melbourne, Jules Grant. Rules will shortly be drawn up,
and provision will be made that members of the society,
on meeting anywhere, may “suggest ” that the gathering
should refresh, and not extend a general invitation to
“ Cumanave. ..” Members may then invade the bar,
and, on being-served, each shall tender his sixpence in pay-
ment. This individual “shout” will obviate the necessity
for each and every one having to declare “ Now' have one
with me.” Thus much time will be saved, and the con-
stitution will not incur the risk of being impaired. The
formation of the society was celebrated with great
solemnity by the initial members in Melbourne. All met
in the vicinity of the King’s ; someone suggested a drink ;
a, general acquiescence followed, and each tendered his
humble “ sprat ” and felt proud of himself. There was
general consternation in the bar, and the incident was
considered so unique that the landlady was summoned
and informed. The good lady hoped that the society
would not take deep root, for to her it would mean bank-
ruptcy. That, however, is another pair of sleeves, as the
Bench would say.
44 DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New YVayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
1
ITo
'Jjnlis
Wade
“KING’S
NORTON”
CARTRIDGES
Purposed for .22 calibre Riflt
Shooting, these British-made
cartridges are of the very finest
shootiug quality. The hollow
point bullet is recommended for
sporting—the long and short solid
point for rifle practice. Specify
‘King’s Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealer. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES’ PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2|d.)
6. Arthur, 6 Passage Orana, Monte Carlo.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, Ac,
Midge
fung Tonic
The enormous Success of Owbridge'S
Lung Tonic could not Have been
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in*
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “ OWBRIQGE "
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold every where
in bottles at Is. lid.,
2s. yd.,4s. 6d.*&ils.
COPYBIQHT.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Beniamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.F.A. F S S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. , ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks. — Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
£2OO HHHraBKHBSHI
GAN YOU
HIT THE
WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
intend to give away for correct answers to this
puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
words that the picture represents, write us at
once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
are right we will at once send you the prize.
If more than one correct answer is received
the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
for reply. Only one reply from a- family
allowed. National Publishing Co.,
89 Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
sffoi
STRONG PARENTSSTRONG CHILDREN
The good effects of PLASMON COCOA are never lost
to you. There is none nicer, none so good for you.
PLASMON COCOA
11 5 s 1 O times more nutritious than ordinary cocoa.” — Lancet.
PLASMON builds you up from strength to strength, from generation to generation.
Of all Grocers, Stores, Chemists, etc.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
PLASMON) LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., SYDNEYa
£9
=<c
'//
DON’T
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
OR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble.
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning 1 or
blistering 1 , and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£.500 REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can he instantly felt, and we will forfeit JBSOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your
name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
3
Joseph r. corcohah OFFICE HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the mclaughun co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address...
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.iS.W.
&f>e LEADING
HOUSE »»*
Goods
Fishing' Tacßle &, Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
WINCHESTER
Just landed 1906 Model Rifle, Improved; handles -22 short,
long or long Rifle Cartridges, mixed or separately,
POSTAGE—2/3, N.S.W. ; 4/2, Inter-State—EXTRA.
42(6
Send for Illustrated Sports and
Fishing Catalogues FREE.
CANT
B
BEAT
MICK SIMMONS,
Hay market, Sydney, and
Hunter Street, Newcastle .
Branches: Church Street, Parramatta; 197 Oxford Street, Sydney;
113 King Street, Newtown; 273 Darling Street, Balmain.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
graving's, new 19Q8 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merkif,
England, 9d. Howto Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tinu’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is ‘2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating this
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
.Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is Gd.
Joys of Life, is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handy book, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. AllTuE ßulletin series. Drl Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price is ; post, Is 3cJ. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rpo (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Gd.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ss
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s,
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’- Handy-book, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is fid. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |j*“ Established S 3 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street* Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
<»
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks wmi Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d oost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook,.. 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Whiter, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. IIOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget SoNg
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus. , leather
bound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Tire Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and’to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become D chromc/nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken, at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
■I PILLS ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine oil the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five v<*qr«.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Hway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of exoense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE) MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up bv a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLQ=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO„ Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, JI.S.W.
Ufye BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6U. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Sena Stamp (or Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficnlty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIIIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
KTTFS. Sold bn nV OiW«.


Raw, Chapped Hands
Redness
Soreness
and
Painful
Cracks
Cured.
m
Zam-Buk Soothes and Heals.
Chapped hands are painful, annoying,
and inconvenient alike to the woman
in the home, the man in the office or
factory, and the manual toiler on farm
and station.
First, the fingers become inflamed and
swollen, and immersion in water produces
a severe smarting pain which makes manual
labor of any sort an absolute torture. Then
the swollen flesh cracks, and the agony is
intensified by the danger of blood-poisoning or
festering.
Your hands may already wear that rough “feel”
which first indicates the approach of the “chapped”
condition. If so, dressings with Zam-Buk speedily
restore them to a sound healthy state. Should the
skin be already broken, Zam-Buk will at once soothe
and relieve the pain, fortify the raw flesh against the
attacks of disease germs, and rapidly heal the painful and
dangerous cracks in the skin.
frr>rJ^[ S ’ Toorak Road, South Yarra, Melbourne, Victoria, has suffered
hal ? ds and I ■>ps, and writes “I always keep a pot of Zam-Buk by me, as
u r , ’ invaluable for the hands during the cold winter weather. I suffered from
i' lnc s and I'P B ’ Jmt a few applications of the Balm soothed and healed the
smarting chaps very quickly. ’
Inflamed and Broken Chilblains.
are a mild form of frost-bite. The affected toe, heel, finger,
nose, or ear is always much inflamed, and there is generally swelling,
redness, heat, tingling pain, and often an almost maddening irritation. Gentle
applications of Zam-Buk will quickly banish these discomforting symptoms,
and, if the swellings burst, leaving the surface of the skin raw, ulcerated, and
exposed to the attack of disease-germs, Zam-Buk is doubly valuable, because of
f its unique healing and antiseptic powers.
Zam-Buk is an invalu-
able Winter Skin-Balm
for chapped hands, chilblains,
chafings, cold sores, winter
eczema, festering cuts, and all
red, rough, or raw conditions
of the skin so prevalent at the
present season. Cuts, burns,
bruises, sores, piles, poisoned
wounds, rheumatism, sciatica,
and similar deep-seated pains
fly before Zam-Buk’s wonderful
healing and curative virtues.
Obtainable from all chemists
and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 a pot,
or direct, post free, from The
Zam-Buk Manfg. Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Mr. William Bacon, of Verner Street, Goulburn, N.S. W.,
says :—“During the winter we experience very cold, frosty
weather, and nurse the fire closely. The result is chilblains. I
suffer considerably in this respect, having had chilblains on the feet,
hands and ears. I tried many ointments in the hope of driving out
the irritation, but with scant success. I applied Zam-Buk, and the
first application drove out the irritation and soothed the chilblains.”
the winter SK/N.
WANTED
Every Reader of “ The Bulletin ” interested
in Nerve Affections or Brain Exhaustion
(Neurasthenia) to know that Two Valuable
Treatises on “The Brain and Nervesas
well as a Trial Supply of ANTINEURASTHIN,
Neurasthenia’s only antidote, will be sent
upon application .
Sufferers are now given the opportunity of
. learning why the newly-discovered “Anti-
neurasthin ” treatment never fails.
“ Antineurasthin” succeeds where doctors
and all other methods
have failed, because
it FEEDS the nerve
and brain tissues. It
is to the brain and
nerves what ordinary
food is to the body.
Just as drugs and
medicines are in-
capable of feeding
the body, so are they
powerless to streng-
then nerves and
brain.
“Antineurasthin”
is a brain and nerve
food—,the only food
yet discovered that
directly' feeds the
nerve and brain.
90 per cent, of
“Antineurasthin” is
used up by the brain
and nerves —and by
the brain and nerves
only. Only 15 per
cent, of ordinary
food is actually used
up in the body, about
85 per cent, being
waste matter.
The treatises al-
ready referred to
contain information which every sufferer
should know—in fact, must know, if he (or
she) desires to recover nerve and brain health
and power.
The trial supply of “ Antineurasthin ” itself
is amply sufficient to demonstrate that the
nerves only need to be fed with it to quickly
■recover their strength and power.
It is open to
readers to discover
for themselves how
quickly “ Anti-
neurasthin ” changes
nerve weakness to
nerve comfort and
power. With the
restoration of nerve
strength the brain, as
the chief centre of
the nervous system,
becomes str o n ger
and more able to
fulfil its manifold
duties. Nerve sen-
sitivenessand mental
depression—and that
lack of energy which
is its physically ex-
pressed counterpart
—fades into nothing-
ness. The sum of
strength imparted by
“ Antineurasthin
the brain and nerve
food—banishes t h e
clouds from mind and
body alike, and your
whole being will
rejoice in the joyous
sensation of healthy
life.
Forms of application for the two treatises with
trial supply, should be forwarded to the wholes de
distributor for Australasii, H. A. GODDARD
Ea-rle Street, Brisbane, with eightpence in stamp's
or postal note. '
This Treatise is
especially helpful
to the neuras-
thenic or nervous.
1,
2.
Here are illustrated
the contents of the
parcel that will be
sent in answer to
every application.
FORM OF APPLICATION
Copv of “ ANTINEURASTHIN,*’ by Dr. A.
KUHNER (Nerve Specialist).
Copy of “NERVOUS DISORDERS : Their Pre-
vention and Successful Treatment bv
Natural Nutrition.”
and Trial Supply of “ Antineurasthin.”
To MR. H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street, Brisbane:
Sir, —I enclose eig’htpence in stamps or postal note.
NAME .
ADDRESS • .
A Matrimonial Sailor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
QAILOR, 42, widower, some property, wishes meet
■ middle-aged Widow, with small home. Gl7, this
office.— Brisbane paper.
HE’S forty-two, and the ocean blue
He has sailed the wide world over;
From Plymouth Sound, in an outward
bound.
He has wallowed along past Dover.
In a clipper ship he has made the trip—
: He has worked in a leaky whaler ;
And doubled the Horn, on a frosty morn—
It’s the way of a deep-sea sailor.
With heart elate through the Golden Gate
He has gone to the piers of ’Frisco ;
In lovelit dells with ’Frisco belles
From rivals run many a risk, O.
On the Bowery side he has done a glide;
He has dallied behind in Rio ;
Praised the shining curls of Cuban girls,
And danced with the maids of Clio.
In Gay Paree he has made quite free
; With the maidens with love to barter ;
He has bought a kiss, and thought it bliss—
Both to love and the sea a martyr.
To the frail grisettes, and the gay Lisettes,
i He has told the old, old story—
A parting cup, the anchor’s up—
-11 Then away to lands of glory.
The maids of Spain he has left with pain ;
Said good-bye to the Roman donnas ;
In German ports met various sorts,
And dined on the best Bolognas.
The Geisha girls he has strung with pearls ;
And the beauties of Honolulu—
Those dusky belles, in their tropic dells ;
He has tripped with the jet-black Zulu.
Love’s burning lay, in Mandalay
He has sung in the fashion olden—
That wondrous tale, borne on passion’s ga'e.
Is surely the Legend Golden.
While the heart of man, on the ancient plan
Is fashioned and framed and builded,
And maids are fair, having red gold hair,
With Love shall man’s life be gilded.
The sailor lad is oft wild and bad
He comes and he goes for ever ;
He’ll be outward bound, while the world goes
round,
And sweethearts the sea must sever.
Short time to stay, and less for play,
It’s seldom he lives in clover—
If, in all world ports, he has wives of sorts,
Who shall blame him, the ruffling rover?
At forty-two the ocean blue
Is not what it was at twenty ;
And Sailor Bill has had his fill
Of danger and work in plenty.
Ijn Brisbane town he settles down,
And looks for a moneyed lady,
With a small, snug home—say with porch and
dome
\ And a garden cool and shady.
QUEENSLAND.
AUSTIN DODD.
The Ancestor who Should Have
Made An Effort.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE lazily crawled into his hole, creeping to
the farthest corner of it, squatting down on
his few miserable dried bushes and ferns,
shivering, and trying to fancy he was warm.
By this means he further damaged his fur, our
fur by inheritance, not only rubbing it off those
parts of his body that he rested on, but more
seriously injuring its vitality and capacity for
renewal by keeping the air from it with such
habitual coddling, such artificial aids and super-
incumbrances.
Our ancestor did not stop to think—if he could
think—that good thick blood is generous to the
whole system, good for hair-growing as for all
else, and that the best way to keep his coat of fur
thick and warm was fresh air and a smart run in
the cold wind. Above all, he didn’t think, and
didn’t care what it meant to us, who in conse-
quence were to be sent into the world with
nothing but our bare skins between us and wind
and weather.
Laziness really was at the bottom of it. Pure
laziness and dolce far niente were the cradle of
the human race, as they have ever been its donkey
cart, and as they will be its Coffin. That is how
the tail went. The prolific l earth, bursting with
toothsome delicacies at his very feet, what need
for him to climb trees any longer, and spring from
limb to limb for a living ?
It took him some thousands Or millions of years,
no doubt, ‘to see this. He was never fulsomely
strong in the head—our ancestor. But when he
did see it, away in one act went the healthful pull
up to the tree top that had kept our muscles in
training, find the healthful inspiration of the air
up there. .And, of course* away went the trusty
tail that used to hold us suspended as we gaily
swung with it in those joyous times, from one tree
to another, hundreds of feet high, dancing over
half a county without once touching ground.
!| Skulking around down below, in between the
'draughty tree trunks, was no substitute for that
grand old exercise. Of course, he got to feeling
Aold* r and that brings us again to the question of
our Great Fur Loss ; and the reason why to-day
we shiver when Heaven blows on us, even
through six or seven thicknesses of artificial
coverings, because none of these makeshifts can
ever make up for the loss of that serviceable hide
and fur we had.
"I here was no starting forth then on a fine day,
and later on finding we were out in a blizzard
with a silk coat on. The fur coat was cold proof,
rain proof, and armor all in one, an ever-present
need in time of trouble and not absent in joy,
with no possibility under any circumstances of
making the wearer feel out of place because he
hadn’t the wedding garment.
The foundation of the tweed business, Jaeger
underwear, and collar and stud trade was when
our great progenitor forsook the tree-top. His
troubles began directly.
The grpund was infested with fierce animals,
and he had to take to his cave. There his fur lost
its first great cold-resisting quality, because what
was good enough for outside was unnecessary for
the cave. This was coddling, and pure air
became too cold for him, and then came the dried
ferns and leaves and pieces of bark and other
open confessions of sin that have carried their
own punishment with them. There is nothing
more pathetic in the whole story of evolution
than the dismay that must have been our ances-
tor s vvhen he first made the horrible discovery
that his fur was going.
At first he would not notice it much. He pro-
bably pooh-poohed it. The trouble would soon
pass ! It was just a temporary falling out, owing
to some indisposition or something. The cover-
ing would soon grow again ! Meanwhile here
was a patch of bark that was just the size, with a
nice bend in it that would fit the place. He
would clap it oil for the present and tie it with
some of those creeper stalks he had seen about.
Of course, the bare spot never got any different
—only larger and barer as he got older and colder
he was in a parlous stale. No weaving or
spinning arts had yet arrived —only the need for
them.
Looked down upon by the energetic and healthy
stock of the treetop that he had backslid froin,
and fiercely chased about from cave to cave by
those below, he must have been hard put to it for
rest for the sole of his foot.
Besides, it ran away with a lot of time and in-
genuity—all this fitting of leaves and bark. It
was all tinie taken from the first great work of
life —the getting of Food.
Any time taken from that in those days meant
a going to the wall, and our poor forefather was
doubly handicapped, and both himself and his
often had to go ill-nourished, to the injury not
only of himself and them, but also of his posterity
—curse him.
Nor was that all. The new order of things
seriously hampered his movements ; and many
Missing Links of both sexes were caught and
devoured in those transition times because they
forgot they were no longer free, but were encum-
bered with a barrel of bark or a petticoat of
branches, and in that forgetfulness they didn’t
leave time enough for the sprint to the cave.
The state of affairs in the history of the
race at that time can be likened to a sort of
lull before the revolution—a revolution that was
to bode ill for humanity, and forge a bond that
was a forfeit—the forfeit of our hairy rights.
Morose with enforced life in the cave, from
■which the shedding of his fur forbade him long to
roam, and sharpened by cold and necessity in his
furtive sallies for food, he suddenly developed
the Blood Hunger, and learned to strangle and
to slay ! It was the great Leap in the Dark !
From the first day that he found that the skin of
his murdered victim was warmer than the leaves
and bark to tie around him, his and our doom was
sealed !
He soon sweated off his few remaining hairs,
and the modern nightmare of wool and cotton,
silk, leather and buttons had begun.
And on his score there is no more to be added.
We have done, and are doing, all the rest. We
never expect our fur back now. Indeed, by over-
garmenting, we are making its return more and
more impossible. And in a sort of tailless fox’s
advocacy w'e are sending missionaries to preach
the philosophy of clothes to every corner of the
earth.
There is little consolation to the reflective mind
in pondering on these things at this time of day
—that is, to the deeply reflective mind. But lam
sometimes roused out of myself almost into
enthusiasm when I see some of those hairy men
you come across occasionally in the baths, or
stripped on the sea beach. Such a one I saw last
week, with hair all over his forearms and chest,
and on places where we have been smooth for
centuries—all thick, healthy growth, close to-
gether, and black everywhere, so that he looked
better even than he actually was. I could have
shed tears over him. I rushed up to him, as I
always do in such a case, and as I cannot refrain
from doing, grasped him by the hand and wrung
it fervently and long, veiling my presumption in a
pretended mistake of identity or some such trifle.
I like to look into die eyes of such a man and
try to read in them some inherited traces of that
superiority of will and effort and mastery that
made his great ancestor first put his foot, or
hinder hand, down, and say: “No! I, at all
events, will remain firm, and live the life, and
hand down an unimpaired inheritance.”
As I am shivering in my parchment-colored
nakedness before him, I long to do more. I
would like to pass my hand down over his
hide, and tell him he is the salt of the earth, the
real aristocracy, and worth all the dukes, duke-
doms, and castles in it.
By that time my knees are knocking together,
and my two rows of teeth are smashing
each other out of my head with chattering,
seeing I have been more than two minutes
divorced from my artificial skins. Yet I hate to
leave him, and long to say further to him ?
“ Make an effort ! You, who are so far ahead of
us, lead us ! You are young, and have enough to
go on with. Make an effort. Don't put 'em on
again 1 Look at me, at them, and take warning.
Stand up before the world unashamed —a man !
Remember your great forebears who were
tempted and resisted ! You resist, and who
knows but humanity can yet be saved ! “ Who
knows,” I would ejaculate, brightening up and
glancing along his backbone, “ but that evert the
tail may return in time ! ”
And I long to go into his bunk and pitch his
duds into the sea.
G. BRON.


KIDNEY DISEASES
Creep Quietly to the Attack. Do not Mis-
understand the Symptoms—Backache,
Tiredness, Broken Sleep, Depression,
Urinary Troubles, Pains in the Limbs.
p
>1
“Every
Picture
Tells a,
Story."
Do you know that
Rheumatism, Dropsy,
Gravel, Stone, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, are all
kidney diseases ? The
kidneys when healthy
filter the blood ; when
weak or diseased they
cannot do their work,
and the whole body
suffers. Only a special kidney medicine can cure
them. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a kidney medi-
cine and a Kidney Medicine only. They keep the kidneys
well, and the kidneys will keep you well. Neglected
kidney disease is fatal.
Sydney People - Cured.
A Sydney Man.
Mr. W. R. Francis, plasterer, 111 Arundel Street, Forest Lodge,
Sydney, says : —“ I suffered with severe backache ; the pain was just over
the kidneys. I was so bad that when I managed to stoop down, it was
almost impossible to get my back straight again, and every movement
increase* the pain, and I had to knock off work. A friend advised me to
use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, saying they had cured him, and he was
so earnest that I got some. I used two boxes and can safely say that lam
cured. I advise all who suffer with backache to get Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. I feel no pain now, and can stoop without any trouble.”
Six years later, when asked about his cure, Mr. Francis says : “ Yes,
I am still free of backache, and have never suffered since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me, four years ago. It’s no fool of a medicine that will
cure like that.”
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road, Artarmon, Sydney, says “ I
suffered for a long time with severe pains in my back. They were so bad
that I could scarcely move about. Rest was out of the question. I would
be tossing about all night, moaning with the pain. I could not bend my
back, and I had to neglect my work. I was really very ill, and would be
confined to bed for days at a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
advertised as a cure for backache, and procured a box. After a few doses I
got relief, ahd then gradually I got better, until I was quite cured.”
Four years later, Mrs. Bruce says : —“ Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache four years ago, and I have been free of this ailment
ever since.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists antf
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted
on receipt of price by Foster=McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
ECZEMA.
A LITTLE GIRL’S LASTING CURE.
Mrs. A. M. Horwitz, 48 Baptist Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says “ I sent for a pot
of Doan’s Ointment, and used it for Eczema
on my little girl’s forehead. The rash cov-
evered the brow completely, and it was round
the eye as well. The itching was frightful,
making her very fretful, and keeping her
from sleeping, which made it hard on all of
us. I had used several preparations previous
to getting Doan’s Ointment, but none of them
gave more than passing relief. lam pleased
to tell you that Doan’s Ointment cured her
completely. We have since used it on
another little girl with equally good results.
Doan’s Ointment is splendid, and I advise its
use in all itching skin diseases. It gave in-
stantaneous relief, and healed rapidly.”
Six years later, Mrs. Horwitz says:—“My
little girl is still right. She has been cured
six years now. The doctor who treated her
said the Eczema would return every winter ;
but he was wrong, as time has proved. Since
I made the above statement a lady visitor
from New Zealand used Doan’s Ointment for
Eczema on her hand, and it cured her also.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
When the Drum Beateth.
(A Palm of David upon all Instruments.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BANG upon the kerosene-tin, and let all the
gum trees of the forest rejoice !
Let everyone who hath meat upon his
ribs clash together the loud-sounding
jam-tins !
Let the kids make music upon a paper trumpet
yea, let them play loudly upon a whistle of
tin!
Let them wave many flags of cotton while they
shriek “ Gor’save ” in the market place ;
Let the children of Hempire rejoice while the sons
of Australia say “Damn” in their own
hearts.
Who is he that weepeth amid the shadows, whose
tears fall upon his beard and run down upon
his moleskins ?
His sorrow is as the rivers of water, and the sound
thereof as the bursting of a dam.
Yea, as the bursting of many dams which are as
the damnation which proceedeth from his
mouth,
For, behold, he damneth exceedingly and he
curseth with many strange curses.
He sorrowetli for his country, and in the name of
Australia maketh a loud swearing,
He hangeth his harp upon a wire fence, and he
leaneth his sorrow upon a gate-post;
Therefore shall his tears not cease, nor the words
of his language have an end ;
His billycan shall be full of sorrow, and in his
swag shall he hump wrath.
Behold one that beateth upon the nakirs, and of
his thumpings maketh them to cry “Aus-
tralia ! ”
His hand is set to the drumstick, and his soul to
the beating thereof.
He taketh no heed of the rejoicing ; he hath scorn
of the damnful sorrow.
His eyes are set upon an hill afar off, and his
bluchers turn not aside from the straight path.
He maketh a devil of a row, but he vvakeneth
many from slumber;
He destroyeth the music of Fat; he drowneth
the tears of him that leaneth on a post.
Many there be that curse him, but some who say
that he will Get There.
Wherefore he beateth the harder upon his drum,
and turneth him about to kick Fat upon the
rearward parts.
Bang upon the oil-tin till there be not a gum-tree
left to rejoice !
Let everyone who hath Fat about his soul keep on
hammering like the deuce !
Lo ! The drum drowneth their clamor, and they
sing of Hempire to no purpose.
The kids howl aloud and cannot be comforted
with buns.
Yea, they will not sing “Gor Save” for many
stale buns.
They will not make wavings of the cotton flags,
but their souls shout with the thumping of
the sheepskin instrument.
He that leaneth upon the post heareth and
gathereth up his swag in haste.
For the drum beateth, and there is no other sound
heard.
The drum maketh a devil of a row, and the word
of its row is “ Australia ! ”
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
Good Beds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE belated Casual sinks wearily into
a chair beside a “cleared” table, but,
the finger of the offended waitress peremp-
torily beckoning, he meekly obeys, and drifts to
the place she indicates, where he makes a death’s-
head at an otherwise sociable party of four. He
ignores, through sheer dejection, the “girl’s”
smiling advances, and promptly makes an enemy.
She presses his foot significantly, mistaking it
for the high-heeled deformity of the larrikin
seated opposite, to whom she wishes to convey
her scathing opinion of the Casual. Discover-
ing her blunder, the Casual is reprimanded for not
keeping “his trotters to hisself,” and is further
alluded to as “ no gentleman.”
Moodily trying to masticate what appears to be
a paving-stone, he apathetically observes the
manoeuvres of the waitress as, in lulls of business,
she partially conceals herself behind a wisp of
curtain and prepares for her “ night off.”
Whisking into complicated garments, not in-
tended for the public eye, she always contrives to
emerge just in the nick of time to snatch “ Plum ”
from the “shoot,” or to bellow “Mince” down
the red hot throat of the kitchen.
The fourth diner, gleefully trying to eat soup
with a fork, is drunk. He makes merry over the
“Menu,” and mixes himself poisonous cocktails
from the cruet.
Passing rapidly from hilarity to rage at the item
“ Shtewapple an’ boil’ rice,” he rears indignantly,
•demanding to know “if he is taken for a China-
man. ” Then he spitefully spills tea over the un-
offending Casual, and with chunks of chop
adhering to his whiskers, staggers blindly into
the interior.
Enticed by “Good beds, sixpence,” the Casual
■decides to stay the night, and is escorted upstairs
forthwith.
The advantages of room No. 7 are emphasised
by the lean forefinger of “The Boss.” “Ver’
cl-lean,” he says, pointing to the bed, “ an ’ere
;y o n can’ave de schaafe or d-r-ress de ’air.” He
.displays an absolutely toothless comb and an
ancient razor like unto a crosscut saw. These
luxuries being shudderingly declined, a spring
within “the Boss” works. He grins mechani-
cally, makes spasmodic passes with his fingers,
expressive of rest for the weary, calls down
pl-leason’ dreams, and descends to his lair.
The Casual's room is but a thoroughfare—one
link in a chain of many others. There being no
passages, lodgers returning to No. 14 from a game
of “two-up” in No. 1, tramp by perfect right
through all intervening apartments; and as the
partitions are little more than head high, the
dropping of “ ironclads ” and other sounds inci-
dental to their disrobing are painfully audible.
In the bed alongside that of the Casual is a
shrouded, motionless form. A gigantic pair of
hairy feet protrude from the skimpy bedding, and
from one dangles a black billy hung there by some
passing wag. The toes of the other hold an
obscene conundrum, written on the back of a bill,
presumably the work of the same humorist.
The Casual reads the obscene conundrum, sighs
profoundly, and overcoming his natural modesty
sufficiently to undress in public, counts his meagre
cash, and, dog-tired, essays sleep.
To sleep on a bed stuffed with brickbats requires
long practice. The Casual does not make a
success of it. Dodging the bricks, he becomes
hopelessly involved with the bedding, which
twists round his neck and seeks to strangle him.
Hopelessly wide awake he counts the snores of
Mooney, and listens to Gems of Irish Minstrelsy.
Later on a whole set of Casuals arrive—a family
of foreigners, “off a boat.” The father is a
countryman of the Boss, and as they haul heaps
of iron-bound luggage up the stairs, they converse
excitedly in their mother tongue—the language of
sweet Italy. Clad in every variety of travelling
wrap, like so many bad dreams they file past the
fuming Casual.
About midnight, a surprise party of elephants
takes possession of “next door,” where, accom-
panied by shrill squeals and a sobbing concertina,
they bump through the mazy dance.
These frivollers prove the last straw. The in-
furiated Casual curses deep and low. The
“regulars” become restless also. They light
their candles and look openly for things that
should not be there. They wander round boldly
pirating chews of tobacco, join derisively in the
elephants’ chorus, and shout for “ Onkores.”
Suddenly the drunken lodger—with meat still
hanging to his features—bounds from somewhere
on to the landing, and there dances the “Can-
Can ”in his shirt. He is pelted with anything
that comes handy—boots, petrified soap, the
Casual’s hard hat and whatnot—till, making a
false step, he disappears with a deafening howl
down the dark staircase. No one worries, how-
ever, and his probable fate is soon forgotten.
Mooney, with the billy on one foot and the
obscene conundrum on the other, alone takes no
part. Not even the united weights of “The
Dazzler” and “Bogong Billy” distributed about
his person elicit more than a grunt. By stages,
all sleep but the Casual. With a throat dry as
chips, like a restless spirit he wanders in search of
water.
Bruising his feet for the fiftieth time on a pair
of bluchers which seem to follow and trap him at
corners, he finally weeps childishly as he journeys
downstairs. He falls over the prostrate dancer en
route, and damages his ankle in a kerosene tin
cunningly left outside the kitchen door; but
thank God, he finds water. Back again, palsied
with cold, he finds his bed bereft of blankets.
He is almost in time to surprise a muscular arm
replacing his trousers. As it is, however, Mooney
is motionless. He still snores, a little louder if
anything.
Reduced again to tears at his loss, the Casual
thinks wildly of vengeance ; but, recollecting the
size and number of the “ regulars,” he swallows
his anger, and, in a state of mind bordering on
insanity, freezes in an Arctic temperature the
remainder of the night.
Long ere it is day, a tornado seems to break
loose downstairs. The clanging of the furnace
door, jangling of buckets, shouting of orders and
crashing of coals denote that the Boss is leading
the strenuous life. There is an incessant under-
current of wailing baby, and an upper current of
cockatoo. Everywhere is a whirl of noise and
dirty work. From all points of the compass, the
“ regulars ” tramp past the Casual on their way
to breakfast, the only sleepers being the out-o’-
works.
These latter are avoiding an explanation with
the Boss. He has already condoled—has threat-
ened—and is waiting to eject. The “toss” is
inevitable. They but put off the evil hour.
Being “emptied out,” they will disappear vaguely
“up the country.” Bearing no malice, next
season will see them back again, condescending
recipients of the Boss’s servile deference.
The “girl,” with face of morning sourness, now
licks the stairs with an almost hairless broom.
Later she storms the Casual’s room, causing that
timorous person to duck ’neath the sheet. She
commits an unprovoked assault on Mooney with
her vigorously-wielded broom.
“Come on,” she snarls. “Git up, Mooney.
The Boss ses yer beddin’s to be took off yer this
mornin’. Loo’s not takin’ yer order for breakfuss,
neither. Yer got ter git. I’ll give yer five
minits whilst I rous’ up the Dazzler. ’E’s over
th’ margin, too. An’ you better git up.” (She
turns on the frightened Casual.) “ Yer didn’t ’ire
th’ bed fer a week. Sheets is wanted, too —it’s
washin’ day.”
She goes. A wild, grey head emerges from
Mooney’s blankets. A cavernous mouth yawns.
He gets into his ragged coverings and takes money
from a hole in the mattress. “Not so shtony as
they t’ink,” he says. “Oi’m not a mahn wid
empty pockets. Oi can shtand adrink yit. ’Ave
wan ? ”
As his eyes have been fixed on vacancy, the
Casual only now realises that he has been ad-
dressed.
“ N—no,” he says, with hesitancy ; “ I—l don’t
drink.”
“ More fool you, thin,” interrupts the tempter.
“ So-long.”
Presently there are sounds of terrific combat at
the front door, in which the whole house partici-
pates. Evidently Mooney would fain linger.
His heel-plates ring upon the stone floor. His
fluent profanity mingles with the foreign oratory
of the Boss, the scraping of wooden chairs, the
clatter of broken china, and shrill cries of
“ Pleece ! ” But the Italian is a deadly fighter at
close quarters. In the end there is a rushing
sound, a whoop, a bang, a yelp—then silence.
Mooney is “ emptied out.”
Upstairs—sick, mentally and physically—the
Casual determines to seek fresh fields. He hurries
into his garments, sarcastically assures an imagi-
nary Boss that he has passed a “ pi—leason night,”
and feels for his coin.
Horror upon horror! He, too, has been
“emptied out.”
WEEROONA.


“Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A, Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S 1 arsaparilßa
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do yoa auffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
of our perfectfitting
Automatic Air Cushion Appliance
The BtsT Rupture Appliance of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Free
WINSLOW COij 261 CollinsSt. a Melbourne,Vic
* LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price. 6d. The Bulletin Office.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
m
Tlw Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centune*
SM6LETONS EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 169«.
a
CURES ' •
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weair Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Wearne 8 Breaks pear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES. Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
I THE ‘DAISY
FLY KILLER
destroys all dies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where dies
' ' are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything, one
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
rug gists,
Groce s and
i Hardware
Dealer a,
g whom are:—
Sydney — Anthony Hordorn ASoob ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.*
O’Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connoll St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.j
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., CJ.S.Ak
a*'
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ T*e ‘Stockport
Remedy’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 yea > f’proven fficacy.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in doth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
ou.muao */u 0 pun fnuifSrjQ a«/i
saNMoaa smoo r aa
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I}, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific .n CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
SOLARINE METAL POLISH
HOUSEWIFE’S
FRIEND.
ft©
' V-
ev
©
f%SSgfF>
&
THE HOME
BRIGHT.
MANUFACTURED BY
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manivi.factu.rers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Yon Know What To Cxpect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news: and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments 1 There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every ease of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When Yon Use
Beeeham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you—or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy—to know that all you require is a course of
eduitt’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels , Liver, and Kidneys .
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/14 (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
*r—_
8
I
it ;. 1
.
ies
IS#
v:
I
/Vitchley Parker’s
V Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £i Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Tiiibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry, ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
P. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
k N THE HOP ’’-Cheap Edition Now On
f Snm.lp —9 /(\ • pAQf.no’P I\T Wf 7r\ • ntihpr
—, i . k?. *» < u. 9 yjiiiivzi
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
British’ flwsfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBGRN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G,
Price
Irrigation
is
the
Watchword
in connection with the future prosperity
of N.S.W., and it is now economically
possible for the Landholders of ,this
State, if they instal
“Steel Wings” Windmills,
which are built in large sizes, and give 50
per cent, more power than any other type.
Irrigation increases the yield of the
land four-fold, and is a success when water
is supplied in big and steady quantities.
The “ Steel Wings ” will do this.
Picture books and price lists posted free
on application to Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO.. LTD..
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
We also make a fixed tower mill, the “Little
Trojan,” lower in price than “ Steel Wings,”
and built in small sizes.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring-this business
™ to a close, they have decided upon the compulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear -
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 8
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine andcleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or'Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
he Bulletin
±
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. y. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash."
Foxwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - 6d.
Packet of Ten - - - - sd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street, Sydney.


Australian Packings.
m
II
sV .
m
At our own factory we produce
many high-grade varieties of
Engine Packings and Jointings.
They are made of the finest
materials by the most modern
processes, and you will find that
they give the best of service and
are decidedly economical. For
the convenience of men in-
terested in machinery, we issue
a Catalogue, No. 20, which is
exclusively devoted to goods of
this character. Ask for a copy
to be sent you, and keep it by
for reference when needed. It
shows the way to effect real
savings on many lines. Samples
will be sent you when required.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO,, LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
STEANES,
Pull
Particulars —
m
its®
■M
nammK&S
WILLANS S ROBINSON Surface Condensers.
39 Pitt Street 9 Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
o
<
o:
h*
BE
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT .vet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
9
Buy Whole
Bottles.
Its Action on the Secretive Organs
is at once Stimulative and Curative.
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven.——For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
r o r Prices apply-J. WILDRIDGE & SIECI.AIB., Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
qk • 5
iti
T
r« :
M- '
. . S -'. ' ‘
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S.&A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
along for
ORDERS
SPARE PART
' • •
■
ement
■7 * *"
■
s Engine Units.
TEL {323®
TEL. { 5221
■ ': "" 11 " 1 'I mmmmmmmmHmmam
MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANK I & CO
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
m
THE WISE ADVERTISER
Will notice the increase in the number
of advertisements in tHe June issue of
THE LONE HAND. B'fagazine
is a new thing in Australia. See what it
Has become in America! And tHe pre-
eminence of THE HONE HAND—its steady
improvement in maKe-up and contents—
maKes it tHe ideal advertising' medium.
It goes into tHe Home. And its price
ensures tHat it is bought by tHe people
you want to reach.
GET THE HABIT !
# v . v,/ ■'£ l** ; ‘ * / , tt* j\ v v fi > * s * * 1 ■ * • ■ "
Even the best magazine-agent is not
always able to judge bow many copies of
Y2i 12- LONE HAND will be boug'Kt in any
given month. It is annoying to miss a
number; especially now tbat eacb issue is
a feature number devoted largely to some
Insistent topic of tbe hour. Tbe safest way
is to become a subscriber. For 12s. THE
LONE HAND will be delivered for twelve
months post-free in your borne—tbe place
where THE LONE If AND is appreciated.
K
A Perfect Sizer of Great Capacity.
Three Products in One Operation.
Substantially constructed, no wearing parts except screen
cloth, which is quickly replaced. Will not dog.
SOLE manufacturers — SEND FOR BULLETIN.
■
N. CUTHRIDGE LTD.,
213 George St, Sydney; 486 Collins St, Melbourne.
