

h '—‘ ™ " g "" T ** T " ** rrrr-r ■..■amninc qi acm am m njnu Ml
•9
10*7 Kent st reet, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Machinery^ Mining Requisites
BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY wtcw auh SECOND-HAND — —
SP
1
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt's Electrical
Machinery.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
m
85ZESSIH
LEATHER
iELting
m
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son. Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
Take it back,
I must have -
UTTON’ 5
finc-Applc Brand
MAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
A Paying Investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
BY THE WAY
xc
v
xcxv
Contractors for the Erection and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and
Manufacturers of Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Gables, ■ ■■■■»*■rr*
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
(THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.), evnVIPY
279 GEORGE STREET
DRINK
unite
TABLETS
HANS
unke
The roofing that has
satisfied the leading
architects of the world.
THE
PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The roofing that has
surpassed in fame and
popularity all others.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
cxv
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TO
Locomotive Builders,
General, lining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders,
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
f*
i
SIMPLICITY
C. A» Mac DO NALD.
63 PITT
> -*-- :u—^
STRSJST, SYDNEY
HELIDQN SPA WATER
The simplest remedy is often mast efficacious,
also most permanent —HE LI DON SPA*
GOLLIN & CO,
Agents.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 30.—N0. 1510.]
[Thursday, January 21, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd..
71 CASTLEREACH street,
SYDNEY.
New Books,
reviewed on this Page.
Barker, France of the French, iilus., 7s, postage 8d
Maxim, Artificial and Natural Flight, 6s, postage 6d.
Young, A Plain Guide to Investment, ss, postage @d.
Wm. Morris, “English Men of Letters ’’Series, 2s 6d p id
Border, The Other World, 3s €d, postage 6d.
Spoonor, Machine Drawing, iilus., 3s 6d, postage gd.
Secret History of fehe Court of Berlin, Is, postage 4d.
Winston Gfeurehiil, My African Journey, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Praetical Psychical Instruction, Bs, postage Bd.
Spence, Budgeree Ballads, wrapper Is, postage 3d.
Hardy, The Dynasts, 3 volumes, each 5s 6d, postage 6d.
Gunn, We of the Never Never, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d '
Feldmann, The Revolt of “ The Potemkin,” 7s, post 6d.
Baker, Life of Sir Isaac Pitman, 7s 6d, postage Bd.
SaJeeby, Health, Strength and Happiness, 7s, postage Sd
Knowles, Roht. E., The Web of Time ; a novel, 3s Sd p @d"
Sqtnros Companion fc® the British Pharmacopoeia. isth
Hflitaon, 1988, just iss«ed, 16s, postage Is.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
udson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
vcx
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing' No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Tub Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
nave a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
y All Chemists, or
Free on Receipt ef
1/6 «»» Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
The RED PAGE
Our Territory.
Australia is discovering h
Northern Territory. It is th
only place in Australia that
not like Australia— probably because
is Australia—the Australia of the futui
To Mrs. -<33neas Gunn, author of Tf
Little Black Princess , is due the credit o:
first thoroughly picturing life in th
Territory; and We of the Never Neve
(Hutchinson, per Roycroft Library, Syd
ney) is a that is cordially recon
mended to all good Australians. No
that it is an exciting yarn, a well con
structed story, or a charming romance
it is the simple, gracefully recordec
account of one year in the life of th
Territorians—a year spent by the autho
upon the homestead of “ The Elsey,”
great cattle run three hundred miles frorr
a town, somewhere on the track of the
overland telegraph. To that station the
author, the wife of the new boss, went fresh
from the ignorance of the South, anc
there, by the cordial and, at times, almosi
unkindly assistance of the staffs she gradu-
ally “learnt things.’' But she brought
to that exotic life a ready tact, a generous
sympathy, a fierce energy, an over-brim-
ming good humor, and a graceful pen.
And herein she sets down the events of
her crowded year, giving clever character-
sketches of the men, and telling many a
simple story of kindness or of fun. There
were, for instance, the strenuous efforts
of the whole station to block the new
wife from coming to the station—women
in that portion of the Never Never being
rare and therefore to be feared. Another
delightful chapter details the difficulties
of travel to her new home, at which
she ultimately arrived minus most of
her wardrobe. Her luggage she had to
wait months for till the waggons could
get through. Arrived at the homestead,
she had to conquer the instinctive anti-
pathy of the bushmen to the feminine
species ; but she soon learnt how to win
their regard.
Bushmen will risk their lives for a woman
—pal or otherwise—but leave her to pick
up her own handkerchief.
The run was unfenced, and it wa
forty-five miles from the front gate—th
telegraph line—to the homestead. Anc
the homestead, when reached, was founc
to be “ mostly verandahs and promises ”
but before the year was out most of the
promises had been made good. The
freight for cartage to the station was
a ton, and upwards of a ton
for “ inside,” and the teamsters earned it
And “The Elsey” got just eight mails
year.
W
The most interesting chapter is that
devoted to “ the Fizzer,” the bush mail-
man, who does his thousand miles on
horseback, alone, with his pack-horses,
into the interior and out again, travel-
ling twice over three long dry stages and
several shorter ones, and keeping strictly
w-ithin the Government time-limit, making
his eight trips a year. °
“So long, chaps. See you again half-
past eleven four weeks,” was his invari-
able farewell at “ The Elsey,” as he set off
into the heart of Australia; and punctual
to the hour he would reappear a month
later on his outward way. And one of
his stages is a “ seventy-five mile dry,”
with not one drop of water in all its
length for the horses.
And yet at Powell’s Creek no one has yet
discovered whether the mailman comes at
sundown, or the sun goes down when the
mailman comes.
But the worst stage is the Open
Downs, one hundred and thirty miles of
sun-baked, crab-holed, practically track-
less plains, and only one Mrink for the
horses at the end of the first eighty
miles. J
Sixteen days is the time limit for those
five hundred miles, and yet the Fizzer is ex-
pected because the Fizzer is due j and to a
ini an who loves his harness no praise could
be sweeter than that. Perhaps one of the
bughtest thoughts for the Fizzer as he
along those desolate Downs, is
the knowledge that a little before eleven
o clock in the morning Anthony’s will come
out, and, standing with shaded eyes, will
look tlirough the quivering heat, away into
owns f° r that tiny moving speck.
When the J izzer is late there, death. will
have won at the dioe-throwing.
But quite another picture is given of
the station. Here is a paradise—ever-
flowing streams, a plethora of bird-life, 5
good feed for cattle and horses, a fine
climate, and, as Mrs. Gunn has proved,
the possibility of a comfortable and
rational white-man’s life. The run com-
prised a couple of thousand square miles
of scrub and open timbered country, and
at the homestead lived a colony of White
Men. And the friends in the South
wrote asking, “ Whatever do you do with
four time ? ” Mrs. Gunn fully explains,
fhere is no room for monotony in the
Perritory. But it needs populating ; that
s evident from the talk of the “Man
rom Beyanst ” :
“Ain’t seen cabbage, ma’am, for more’n
ive years ! ” he said, leaning back on to a
alien tree trunk with a satisfied sigh (cab-
IR ge and tea being inflating), adding, when I
ympathised, “nor a woman neither, for
hat matter.”
Neither a cabbage nor a woman for five
ears !—with the cabbage placed first. I
onder which will be the longest remem-
ered.
“ Came on this, though, in me last camp,
ist there,” he went on, producing a hairpin,
ith another nod eastwards. “ Wondered
>w it got there. Your’n, I s’pose?” then,
leepish once more, he returned it to his
>cket, saying he “ S’posed he might as well
sep it for luck.”
“You didn’t expect to find hairpins and a
)man in a camp in the backblocks?” I
id.
“ Backblocks ! ” he said in scorn. “ There
1 1 no backblocks left. Can’t travel a
ndred miles nowadays without running
;o somebody ! ”
f
But through this isolation the wire
etches a friendly hand from the world
fcside.
Che telegraph wire in the Territory is
:h a friendly wire. Daily it gathers gossip,
1 daily whispers it up and down the line,
1 daily news and gossip fly hither and
tlier; who s inside, who has gone out,
om to expect, where the mailman is, the
:t arrival in Darwin, and the latest rain-
at Powell’s Creek.
)aily the telegraph people hear all the
rs of the Territory, and in due course
i the news to the country public, when
travellers gathering it carry it out to
bush-folk, scattering it broadcast until
rybody knows everyone else, and all his
ness, and where it has taken him ; and
tuse of that knowledge, and in spite of
:e hundreds of thousands of square miles
ushland, the people of the Territory are
. together in one great brotherhood,
o there is this great empty section of
continent waiting, waiting
The Battleship that Ran Amok.
How exciting it would be to run away with
a battleship ! None of the dreams of boy-
hood could give a thrill of delight comparable
to this adventure; and yet, as we learnt
from the cables from Odessa, it actually hap-
pened not four years ago. And now one of
the revolutionists who ran off with the
battleship tells in a deeply interesting narra-
tive of The Revolt of the “ Potemkin ”
(Hememann). Constantine Feldmann was
not a sailor, but a student leader of the
revolutionists of Odessa; but he was
drawn into this astonishing mutiny, and
voyaged on the Black Sea with this
enormous modern warship, navigated by
her sailors- and flying the red flag.
He did not see the surrender of the
“Potemkin ” in JEtoumania, but was captured
at Theodosia, languished awhile in prison
waiting for the gallows, and after many
attempts managed to escape and cross the
frontier to freedom. This part of the nar-
rative is as exciting as a boy’s adventure
book; but the general reader will be more
interested in the account of the remarkable
mutiny.
There had been fierce rioting in Odessa
for days, and the Cossacks had practically
beaten the unarmed protelariat, when, with
a dramatic unexpectedness, the revolutionists
learned that an ironclad had steamed into
port, the crew of which had mutinied and
killed their officers. Feldmann at once made
his way to the big warship flying the red
flag, and there learnt the genesis of the
mutiny.
i Revolutionary agitation and propaganc
had been active in the Black Sea fleet
several years ; but in the “ Potemkin,” tl
flagship of the fleet, the spirit of revolutio
was practically absent. To the Black Se
fleet the Social Democrats looked for th
coming of the Russian revolution. A risin
among the soldiers could always be crusher
with the help of loyal regiments hurried froi
some distant region ; but the success of
rising among the sailors would depend upo
i comparatively small part of the forces o:
Russia, the Black Sea fleet. Every mutinoti
man-of-war would be a powerful fortress
ivith an immense store of war materials. N
and forces could deal with it. It was con
idently believed that not one loyal shi
:ould be found to act against the mutineers
file Social Democrats therefore planned
imultaneous rising on the part of the sailor
>n all the ships.
“11 was to have broken out at Tendro, an un
nhabited island, which the squadron visitec
very year for the manoeuvres. At night, a
n hour fixed beforehand, those who were in
he plot were to fall on the sleeping officers
ind them, tear off their Epaulettes, and pro
laim a republic,”.
But the chief obstacle to the accomplish-
lent of this plan was the “Potemkin.” It
as the most powerful ironclad in the fleet,
nd its crew was considered the least revolu-
onary of all. But before leaving Sevastopol
ie sailors indicated to the Sociai Democrat
ommittee their intention to mutiny, and
ily on the advice of the revolutionary com-
uiittee decided to postpone premature action.
But the sailors had not reckoned with the
soup. The life of the sailors was a long
purgatory on all the ships, but here to curses
and persecution were added maggoty meat
and putrid soup. An officer gave the order
to a sentry to shoot a group of sailors who
refused to eat the soup. The sentry stood
motionless. The officer snatched the rifle
from him. “Wait, I’ll teach you to
mutiny ! ” But a cry rang out from the
sailors. ‘ ‘ Lads, take the rifles ; why are we
standing looking at the damned brutes ? ”
And the mutiny began. The officers were
shot down or flung into the water. Only
one, a midshipman, died bravely. The rest
cringed to their murderers. A few were
captured, stripped of their epaulettes, and
kept prisoners. A committee of thirty sailors
was elected to take control. But its autho-
rity was evanescent. All important ques-
tions were decided at noisy mass meetings of
the crew. And here appears the cause of the
abortive ending of this mutiny. The Russian
sailor cannot act on his own responsibility.
When the Man was wanted to take control
no Man appeared. The sailors elected the
navigating lieutenant, Alexieff, their cap-
tain ; and he took on the contract, a delibe-
rate traitor to the cause he, to save his life,
had enthusiastically embraced. And this’
despite the fact that the sailors were quite
accustomed to navigate the ship themselves.
The Russian is not yet ready for revolution.
The sailors decided to lend their aid to the
Odessa revolutionists, but on arrival they
suffered from their usual indecision. Eeld-
mann tried to prevail on them to land, join
the rioting workmen, take the town, and set
up a republic in Odessa, then to create out
of the workmen an army and extend the field
of insurrection. But he was speaking, not to
an organised body of revolutionists, but to a
crowd of weak wills, paralysed by their stu-
pendous success, unable to act. However,
the sailors knew enough to take in coal in
preparation for the arrival of the rest of the
squadron. A small naval vessel, entering
the port unsuspicious, was easily captured-
by the device of signalling to the captain
and subsequently to all the officers to come
aboard the flagship. They were at once
taken prisoners. Meantime the Cossacks
were massacring the people of Odessa. The
sailors replied by a threat to bombard the
city. Two shells were fired at the army
officers’ headquarters, but the gunner (pur-
posely, it was afterwards learnt) missed his
mark. And then, for no purpose, the sailors
ceased firing.
The squadron arrived, sighted the red flag
of the “Potemkin,’’and promptly fled. The
vessels returned, and the “Potfemkin” moved
to meet them. No guns were fired at her ;
the only sound as she steamed through the
fleet was the cheering of their sailors. But
though one ship, the “ George,” signalled its
desire to join the mutineers, the'“Potemkin,”
fearing her torpedoes, would not let her ap-
proach. At last, by a torpedo boat, the
junction was effected ; but in the meantime
the rest of the squadron had got away,
vf/
But the mutiny on the “George” was
short-lived. The “conductors,” seamen
who voluntarily remained at sea after their
time was up, organised a "successful coup,
and the ‘ ‘ George ” raised her anchor fqr r tht
open sea. But, covered by the'guns
“Potemkin,” she backed to her place—an)
suddenly moved to the mole, thus, by placing
herself in contact with the shore, allowing
soldiers to be embarked by the authorities.
Prompt action could have nullified this
move, but, again, the inability of the Russian
sailor to act on his own responsibility ruined
his cause. Some one cried “To Rou-
mania ! ” and the leaders of mutineers lost
their heads. The “Potemkin” weighed
anchor, and, picking up her men from the
mole by a torpedo boat, set out for Ros-
mania.
On arrival at Constantia the battleship
fruitlessly attempted to get coal, and was
forced to leave, short of fuel and of food.
They next tried a Russian port, Theodosia,
and in the attempt to capture a coal-ship,
Feldmann and a party of sailors were sur-
prised by the military, and most of them
killed, Feldmann being captured. The iron-
clad, in a panic, slipped anchor again for the
open sea. And the mutiny was at an end.
The mutineers surrendered to Roumania ;
butof their subsequent fate Feldmann gives
no information except that at least a propor-
tion of them were surrendered to Russia.
And Feldmann disappointed the gallows by
a wonderful escape from prison.
It is a book of thrilling adventure, nar-
rated by a brave man, and it actually hap-
pened. But one wonders what a mutinous
Australian or British crew could do if they
took charge of a battleship. The failure of
the Russians was due to the fact that they
had no previous experience of combined
action ; and until there is a concerted move-
ment on their part, the Russian republic
will not come.
• —i +
“Reader”: Glancing over Hardy’s
Dynasts, and attracted to it by The Bulletin
Red Page, one cannot help being struck
by numerous evidences of a power not sus-
pected in the novelist. In some degree, but
in a far from sufficient degree, it has been
the work of his life, like Goethe’s Faust.
You feel that the necessary calibre-is there,
or has been there. Yet Hardy has not suf-
ficient reading, and, what is more important,
has not devoted sufficient thought. The
drama does not bubble up within him. It
is a mighty sketch- Some genius will profit
by it, as Shakespeare did by his materials.
Coming down from Shakespeare to Goethe,
Milton or Cervantes, we find the bonfire has
to be very carefully laid. The Dynasts
funnily revives in my mind having seen in
Melbourne about the eightieth part, lasting
three hours, of the Chinese play acted in
Canton, and lasting six weeks, day and
night. There is no reason why The Dynasts
should not be as long as it is. You may re-
gard it as Balzac’s Gomedie Humaine.
Unfortunately, it is desert and oasis. I
cannot get the hang of the supernatural part,
but may do so. The practical part has much
skill, originality and actuality. Whether
this gets beyond the stage of pleasing, I
don’t know—yet. The poetry is terribly
lacking.
Thomas E. Spencer is not a condenser of
stanzas and words when he’s out for “space-
rates.” His great capability of fluent
facility gives a lingering air to tile yarns he
relates ; but he’s neat and he’s clever—his
utmost endeavor appears just to lighten a
little Life’s drudgery. So if you are willing
to venture a shilling, you will possibly say
that his Ballads are Budgeree. (N.S. W. Book-
stall Co.).
Illustrating the careless temper of the
Elizabethan dramatists, Swinburne, in his
Aye of Shakespeare, quotes these delightful
stage directions : “Enter Forester, missing
the other taken away, and exit ” ; and (in
King Edward IV.) “ Jockie is led to whip-
ping over the stage, speaking some words,
but of no importance.”
The English are incurable. A cheap
edition of the letters of Victoria and some
ordinary photographic snapshots of ordinary
royalties by Alexandra were published—
and immediately they swamped the London
book-market. A pained, but perfectly re-
spectful, writer protests in The Atheneum
against the royal publications. These two
books, he asserts, have ruined the publish-
ing season more effectively than a pan-
European war. He has talked with book-
sellers, publishers and authors, and from all
lie heard the same story. One of the largest
booksellers in London refused to stock
another novel after the date of the Queen’s
book. Novelists tell of sales only one tenth
of that of former years, and publishers are
confronted with serious losses. And there
is practically no profit to the trade in hand-
ling the royal books. By the way, we
wonder if any Australian has seen either of
the books ?


xvxcxcvc
ANSONIA CLOCKS
... and BRONZES
&
12
a
1
<#>
The Auber. Eight Day Marble Clock ; Half-hour Strike;
Cathedral Gong; height, 9£iu. ; width, 10|in. ; Dial, Sin, 35/-
Wai’rior Bronze Figure
height 15in., 22/- pair.
If you have
not received
or r Price
List of Ken's
Hatters,
send for a
copy ; post
free any-
where*
m
%
SR
SR
'ihe King'. Black Walnut; Ejght Day ; Half-hour
Strike ; Cathedral Gong; height, 24in. ; Dial, 6in.,
with Alarm, 20/-, without Alarm, 18/6.
The Monarch. Black Walnut; Eight Day ; Half-hour
Strike ; Cathedral Gong ; height, Dial, 6in., 27/-
The Venice. Eight Day Iron Clock ; Half-hour Strike; Cathedral Gong; height,
} lOJin.; width, lGJin. ; Dial, s Jin. ; with Visible Escapement, 37/-
The World-Renowned Ansonia
sets the Standard of Accuracy.
The Ipswich. Cabinet Clock; Black Walnut;
Eight Day ; Half-hour Strike; Cathedral Gong;
Height, ; Width, llfin.; Dial, 6in., 18/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS
Only
Universal
Providers)
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
CO
CO
At Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices.
The Beal. Eight Day Marble Clock; Half-hour Strike;
Cathedral Gong; height, Min. ; width, llin. ;
Dial, ; 50/-
Send for our
Illustrated
Price List of
Jewellery &
and Fancy
Goods, post
free on
application*
w arrior, Bronze Figure
height, 15in., 22/- pair.
1 17
Black Walnut; Eight Day ; Half-hour Strike ;
Cathedral Gong ; height, 22|in. ; Dial, 6in., 12/6. Eight Day
Wood Clocks, in a variety of designs, from 11/6 to 27/-


VIOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
X-at;cfL«
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
re carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing;, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
. -Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
tneir grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS
If you would
Box like
TOMMY BURNS
buy his
Wonderful Book,
which contains over
40 SPLENDID
PHOTO-ILLUSTRA-
TIONS,
3[- f Post Free 3/6*
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, ]/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
&gr~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing- Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted. 2/-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Pries Sfl.; pest
free, Bd.
Tit 1 ’ A 20 ve Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
cx
You inil&Pifti
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
l
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3, sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
f
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN ff CO., Ply. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong,
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO • DEFY compjgtitiow.
WINES
The Best, Brands Only of
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CD TAILOR-MADE
• CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
C.B.
/ j
TMUI*
coasts
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
cdrsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
)
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STOREB.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J.ti. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
»< »» „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
çx cx
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
dinneford!
magnesia
The Physician
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel;
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
A
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Fu 1 Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor 1 Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
ydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
ST. VITUS’
DANCE.
A Marvellous Cure.
Thirty-one years have elapsed since Mrs. Ann
Griffiths, of No. 2 Garden Avenue, Glebe, came
to this country from Shropshire, and five years
since the experiences contained in this report were
encouritered. “I could hardly crawl along,” Mrs.
Griffiths went on to explain to our representative.
“I was so terribly weak, and the whole of my
physical misfortunes arose through bad digestion,
so it is a more important matter than most people
think. For months previously, I had been right
off my food, and I was kept back by the fact that
I was unable to get my rest. Then I discovered
what a dreadful thing it is to have nerves that are
unhinged, for mine certainly were. Why, if a
person spoke to me at all unexpectedly, I would
almost jump out of my skin, and if I happened to
be walking along the street I would be in con-
tinual fear of being run over. Good gracious ! how
I tiffed to start if anything dropped on the floor;
but this was not the worst feature of my nervous
breakdown. I was for ever dreading something
that I knew not what. Somebody was going to
die, or be injured, or a fire was going to take place,
and I couldn’t get these ideas out of my head, no
matter how I tried. In bed at night I would find
myself fairly shaking, with perspiration breaking
out upon me, and I would be afraid to move. I
was full of trouble and felt as if I were gradually
sinking into my grave. A suffocating sensation
in my chest, acute aches down my back, a vile
taste in my mouth, and a tongue white with fur—
those were some of the symptoms that showed I
was not in good health, but the falling-off in my
weight was more eloquent testimony still.”
“ What weight were you prior to your illness?”
“Fourteen stone —a big weight for a woman—
but I got down considerably. Indeed you wouldn’t
have known me, I was so pale and thin, and it
wasn’t because I didn’t try to get well, Heaven
knows ; for I tried all manner of things without
any good resulting. I suffered most unmercifully
from headaches and giddy feelings, and was aw.-
fully despondent at not getting relief from the
physica l had taken. I used to wonder what to try
next, and presently I struck the idea of buying some
Clements Tonic. Well, I could not have expected
so much as I realised from that medicine, though
from what I knew of that remedy beforehand, it
is a wonder I did not use it earlier, only the pre-
vious experience was in an entirely different case,
about whieh I’ll tell you. In my case, though,
Clements Tonic was wonderful. It strengthened
me throughout and cured my indigestion, even
when all else failed. But its effect on my son
may reasonably be regarded as one of the wonders
of the age. When a child, he received a great
shock, whieh gave him St. Vitus’ dance. He was
treated at the hospital, and took no end of medi-
cine. Poor chap ! he was almost demented, and
hardly, able to walk. It was pitiful to see him
quivering in every nerve, hardly able to drag one
leg after the other, with fearfully hideous nights
in front of him always—no sleep very often, and
when there was, dreams that made him call out—
a poor appetite and weak digestion; really no-
thing but a shattered wreck that would bring
tears to one’s eyes almost to look at. And he was
like that for years, with never a hope of being
cured, as the doctors could do nothing for him, yet
Clements Tonic set him up and made him so
active, and as sound as any man in Sydney.
People marvelled to see him cured, and anyone
about here will corroborate what I have said.”
‘‘They can see your statements in print?”
“ I he-whole world should know what Clements
Tonic can do for suffering humanity, and I am
only delighted to be able to tell you what that
remedy has done for me and mine. And you can
form an idea of what a mother’s'gratitude should
be, and is, when she has had her son transformed
from a tottering, quivering cripple to a lithe-limh-
ed, sound and robust man. Yes, publish this
news throughout the land in any manner you
desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
. f, MARY ANN GRIFFITHS, of 2 Garden Avenue, Glebe,
m the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true anafaithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this eleventh day
of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight, before
me.
12]
4
HENRY W. WILLGOSS, J.P


«
w
//
r A
-
m
There’s nothing so
bad for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
I ine cold or a
' hard cough,
' or when there
is inflamma-
relation in tho throat or lungs, then
you need
yliier’s
'Cherrii federal
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind,
ftopared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Go.. Lowell, P/lass., U. S. A,
sdf
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an< one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade HEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port In the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each dis-
trict. Lari?e firoflt,
easily made. Write n. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine. <
MEAD CYCLE 00., m aso LIVERPOOL.
nORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
cx x c
; Important Notice.
I Attention is drawn to the fact
: that Horlick’s Malted
I Milk has been analysed
I by the Board of Health and
: admitted free of duty.
{ Chemists, etc. are therefore
I safe in selling Horlick’s
i and parents are guaranteed
I a suitable food for children
from birth, which contains No Starch.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
ike., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Corlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
[2
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH=FOOD”
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and. sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Svdney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
D
$
(®\
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
•snss^Jsr^sniss
sracn
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
mmm
&
S. Hoffnung &
G. Wood, Son
Sole Makers
Have you seen the new
Prana” Sparklet Syphon
for making or any sparkling
•mineral waters, just when you want
to, wherever you may be ? It's done
in a minute by using
“Prana” Sparklets
which can be obtained of all Stores#
Ironmongers, &c., throughout Aus-
tralasia*
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms, who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
:0., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tompsitt & Go., Melbourne;
& Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Fremantle;
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Aerators, Ltd., “ Prana ** Sparklet Works, London.
Made in
England
ini'
Underwear
AR
3avdJ.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK * ME UNO UNDERWEAR
M,
C 3 CO* S^.^S.'BIVEE.
l-atron
Dread of indigestion
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
and —chronic dyspepsia. It is the greatest mistake in the world.
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
Pills thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system.
They ensure natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised 1
this for the last century.
6
Q
l
K
s
'O
■fl
PILLS.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
at
t* * t
0
** 9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps,' Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents—Elliott Bros.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Qrlmwade & Co., Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cynic Sea.
The winter seas now sweep the rocks wherein the
days of yore
We sat in the breeze and murmured “Dear!”
and stared at the golden shore,
When now and then we clambered down to the
yellow sands to dry,
While girls and men of a sober sort on the crimson
cliffs went by;
Or when, in bliss, we swam through seas of broken
amethyst
(And games like this quite often end in nice girls
getting kissed !)
And, as the slaves with their frocky girls crawled
by on the cliffs above,
The summer waves came tinkling in with a cynical
song of love.
Gay afternoon and silvered eve we played on the
beaches wide,
Under the moon and smiling stars we lounged on
the lazy tide;
Great times they were, those summer nights,
when the tide was full, and she,
With her gorgeous hair all tumbling down, would
swim to the rocks with me—
Would swim, and laugh, and talk 0f... things.. .
as we clung to the ledges green,
Though more than half of her charming speech I
find she did not mean ;
And, good and bad, the pairs went by on the
beaches—stout and slim
Men-slaves, full clad, with their frilly girls who
would not let them swim.
And, later on, when our swim was done and the
birds had gone to bed,
When the full moon shone through the boughs
and made a glory about her head,
We’d sit, warm nights, where the pig-face climbed
on the ti-tree-shaded slope
And the seaward lights went staring past; when
the world was bright with hope,
And our love was bold in the summery way that
is easy, but not too wise,
She’d let you hold her lovely hand, and a light
would fill her eyes.
And it seemed to us, those dreamy nights, that
the wave-songs hummed with love ;
But—we missed the ’bus, though the cynic sea did
give us a friendly shove.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
The Old King.
The old king sat upon his throne amid his courtier
throngs,
But not a sound came up to him of all his people’s
wrongs ;
They spoke of things of pomp and pride, and high
affairs of state —
He knew not of the hungry hinds that hung about
his gate.
For ever when he journeyed forth to breathe the
wider air
He saw his parks were gay with blooms and all
the world was fair ;
Nor knew he of the lictor-loons who went before
with staves
And drove the paupers to their dens, the lepers to
their caves.
He passed along embellished streets where all the
world acclaimed
Ah, had he seen the slums behind, his manhood
had been shamed !);
For ever as he went and came his minions passed
before
And swept the bones from out his path, and
closed the brothel-door.
Within his halls hung tapestries and triumphs of
the looms,
Rich velvets of the portieres, and wondrous woven
blooms;
Wrought brass embraced the splendid bulk of
marble columns white,
And mullioned windows to the lawns let in a
mellowed light.
As ’twixt the carven balustrades and down the
massive stair
The old king tottered to the feast, like silver
shone his hair;
He smiled upon the sprightly dames, and on the
lordlings fine
Who pledged him in extravagance of words and
wit and wine.
As white as snow the naperies, and delicate the
fare
Of lavish fruits and sparkling wines in gold and
crystal ware; *
He heard the high ambassadors their lofty views
unfold —
Nor recked he of the squalid want that shuddered
in the cold. .
O, brilliant were the ladies’ breasts with many a
dazzling gem.
And comforting the prelates sleek that kissed his
regal hem ;
Ennobled statesmen bowed and smiled, and cap-
tains stalked in pride—
Yet scarce a bow-shot from his walls half-naked
children died!
And when the old king came to die upon his costly
bed,
He called his first-born son to him, and raised his
hand and said :
“ Lo, take the sceptre of your sires and be you
wise and strong,
And rule as all your line has ruled, and guard the
land from wrong.
“I leave to you a happy state, where all content-
ment springs.
Then hold your people to their faith in God-
appointed kings;
So they be true to Church and Throne the
Kingdom shall be blessed.”
So spake the old king to the new, and ceased, and
sank to rest.
The new Icing sits upon his throne amidst his
courtiers bland:
The nobles bend, the prelates kneel and mumble at
his hand ;
They speak of lofty circumstance and high affairs
of State ;
Nor knows he of the hungry hordes that starve
beyond his gate.
VIC.
O G. A. COLLES.


Tlic
ARCHITECT
SPECIFIES
o
£
c
Pl
T. he “P.-'o-date architect's practical experience has taught
* ha * ! he Wunderlich Designs embossed in Metal are
the Ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
They looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms;
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.O.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms;
243 COLLINS ST.
PIM:
II ■ ,v*t>
B-W
t 2Zhe*E&sence of ty
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
A n k. r , V
SUPPORTS
MILLIONS
Most men say shaving
is a nuisance—until they try the Auto Strop
Safety Razor. Then they readily admit that
this wonderful little razor makes shaving
agreeable and easy. With the
Auto Strop
Safety Razor you can restore the
k. original keenness of the blade in a moment—
without taking the razor apart. This guarantees
a clean, smooth, comfortable shave
every time you use the Auto Strop
Agents for Manufacturers:
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
x
This shows how the
Auto Strop strops itself.
:
Bin I
KlflfSlS;
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartment 3
may bo secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
ATTRACTIVE CHEAP QUEENSLAND FREEHOLDS.
5 MILES FROM BRISBANE. —508 acres, 200 acres being splendid agricultural land, balance first-class
grazing land, permanent water, well improved, fenced, subdivided, 40 acres cultivation, 40 cows in
profit. 755. per acre.
5 MILES FROM CITY, FREEZING WORKS, Etc.— 15,380 acres freehold, rich alluvial soil, well grassed,
black soil and ridges, river frontage, lagoons, fenced, good house, would fatten 600 to 800 bullocks
annually. 40s. per acre. Good terms.
13 MILES FROM SOU 1 HERN AND WESTERN LINE. —2230 acres, 1000 acres light scrub, balance plains,
frontage to creek, also well, windmill, fenced (new), five paddocks, 1800 lambing ewes given in. 70s.
per acre. Freehold. Good terms.
3 MILES FROM DALBY. 4028 acres, freehold, rich black soil, box and myall, permanently watered by
wells, with mills and reservoirs, securely fenced, good residence, yards, woolshed, etc., splendid
property, recommend inspection. 84s. per acre.
For further particulars , apply to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD.,
Stock, Land and Property Salesmen, BRISBANE.
The Carrington Hotel,
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Bs. to lOs. per Day.
£2 ss. to £2 lGs. per WeeK.
Ideal Climate. Matcl\ less Scenery.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
DOES NOT BITE THE TONGUE.
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plug's, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs. and 4oxs.
"C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
fPriaeo Medals..
Works : Birmingham, Englandc
xx
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.oiting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an \
assorted Sample Box.
U/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Is.
PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
rtj
I English Watches
Prize Awards- London 1851. Paris 1889,
London 1862. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892.,
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, j
ROTHE RHAMS
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
‘•mSL»
S
m
#g
i
RUBEROID
Z. Rich &c? L TP sSfJtey .C< dfftb'WP
REINFORCED
ROOFING.
RUBEROID
Reinforced
ROOFING
Makes the Cheapest
and Most Durable
FLAT ROOFS.
E. Rich &. Co. Ltd.
Sydney &, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1510
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1909.
Pkiok 6d
N.S.W.’S NEW IMMIGRATION AGENT.
Here you see the Sal. Army gentleman gathering in abundance of desirable immigrants for N.S.W. (Desirable immigrants running behind.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
I Tinted and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
ihk Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUB SCR T R ERS.
(In Advance, Only)
ler Annum ' ... £l6 0
naif-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
Jvsmding fired to Tine Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
stallings sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a. year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
ohe addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Jloir to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paver
{ana, to an extent, themselves) by takina some care as to
methods of address.
Dimness letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, dc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there: the official
always is.
Special A' ofiCC.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
} .T^ e c °ntents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge,in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social; or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, .WOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nmfeurs in lHock and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
V ancou v kr. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C. ;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. E. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6'jin. x Iffin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1909.
AURTRALIAN DEFENCE AND THE
BLUE WATER (OR BLUE RUIN)
SCHOOL OF THEORISTS.
The people who cry peace when there is no peace
were bitterly angered by a recent speech of
Earl Roberts in the House of Lords re the urgent
need for better military defence of the British
isles—so bitterly angered that they haven’t
finished denouncing even yet. These are the
tame folk who drift into a state of raving lunacy
when any mention is made of adequate land or
sea defence for Australia—the folk who inveigh
against universal military training, and call them-
selves “anti-conscriptionists,” and such-like. The
inscrutable ways of Providence having caused
them to be mentally afflicted, such persons set up
“voluntary service” as their idol, and quite a
number of curious results follow from the worship
of this idol. In the first place, the idolaters have
to belong to the Blue Water (or Blue Ruin) School
of British theorists—the crowd which says (in
England) that naval defence is sufficient for
England, and which alleges (in Australia)
that British naval defence is sufficient for
Australia. The biggest navy in the world—
that of Britain —only requires the services of
128,000 seamen, while 128,000 soldiers wouldn’t
be reckoned half an effective land defence even
for little Bulgaria. Because sea defence requires,
by comparison, so few men, it can be run on
voluntary enlistment principles, while effective
land defence can’t; consequently, the “anti-con-
scription ” person is a whale for sea defence. Being
that kind of whale he is naturally much embittered
by Roberts’ statement that it would be quite pos-
sible for Germany to put 200,000 or 300,000
soldiers quietly on shipboard, and drop them
in England, only a few hours distant, before
Britain’s sea-defence even knew that anything
unusual was afoot. That sort of statement
reflects on sea-defence, and as a natural re-
sult it reflects on the voluntary enlistment system.
Also, it reflects on the comfortable theory that
everything is so right with Britain that Australia
weed not worry about anything. Hence we run
against tales like the following—an item selected
pretty much at random from Sydney Tkie-
GRAPH: —
. VoN Mowkb, the greatest strategist of modern times,
is reported to have said that he could see ten wavs of
petting- an army into England, but notone way of getting
it out again. And that drawback would be just as fatal
to any scheme of invasion now as it was then. For even
though the transports succeeded in evading capture
during the first raid, the invaders might just as well burn
them when they got ashore, for they would never get a
chance of going back in them. But if Germany could in
a war with England overpower the British fleet, there
\vould be no need to stake the army of invasion upon the
chance of slipping through the lines, and we may be sure
that no such risk would be incurred. She would establish
her supremacy on the sea first, and then make arrange-
ments for invasion on a larger scale, that is, if too im-
patient to proceed by the safer and more effective
method of a blockade. If she could not obtain
sea supremacy before attempting invasion, she could
not do so afterwards, in which case sending any
such army as could possibly be transported to
England would be sending it to a trap with no exit.
To divert from the all-essential navy money and energy
that went to equip a superfluous land force would be a
suicidal mistake, and if as the result of it the British fleet
went under, the whole Imperial structure, which rests
upon its supremacy and nothing else, would come down
With one sudden crash. That is where our vital interests
in this matter lie. Germany is not building battleships
to convoy transports to England ; the transports will
never start until the battleships have first cleared the
way. And should that ever happen, the way will be made
equally clear to Australia. Our plain interest, therefore,
is to do all we reasonably can to strengthen the navy,
which, while it remains in command of the sea, renders
invasion obviously impossible.
* * * *
Somehow comforting assurances of this kind
are less conclusive than they might be. Suppos-
ing the Germans raided” England—with the
shipping at their command a big army
could be in England a few hours after the first
German soldier embarked. The British fleet might
close the way against the arrival of any more
Germans and also against the retreat, supposing
things went wrong with them, of those already
on the spot. But if the Germans scattered the
comparative handful of troops in England,
captured the principal arsenals, severed the
principal railways, and cut off London’s supply of
food by putting up land batteries which would
prevent the entrance of shipping, they might
reduce London and other cities to such straits that
Britain, despite its great fleet, would be driven to
make peace on terms very unpleasant to some-
body-—perhaps to Australia. Then the Germans
would be guaranteed a safe passage out of the
trap ; the terms of peace might even include the
surrender of so many British war-ships that there
would no longer be any trap. And if the German
invasion failed, the worst would be a surrender,
and when peace was made the trap must needs
open and the prisoners be sent home again.
Britain couldn’t boil and eat them—such pro-
ceedings are out of date ; so the trap is no such
serious trap after all. And if the terms of peace
which the victorious Britons proposed seemed too
onerous, Germany could simply reply something
like this:—
Keep the blessed prisoners for a while. Feed them at
your own cost. Treat them decently, according to the
ordinary rules of war. We have lost S 10,000 soldiers
for the time being, but we have 3,000,000 h ft. Our navy
is intact and it lies where you can’t get at it, under
shelter of great land batteries and behind that maze
of sand-banks on our Baltic coast. We are finishing
a few more ships, and we have still as good a chance as
ever we had in a trial of strength at sea. We are impreg-
nable against any invasion you can attempt by land. It
is anno3ung and a serious loss to have our sea commerce
interrupted, but we don’t depend so much on sea coih-
merce as you do. If you take our colonies—well, they
aren’t worth so very much, and they cost us a lot of
money which we will save to build more ships with. We
may get them back with interest some day. Meanwhile
they will be costing you money, in addition to the cost of
feeding your German prisoners and repairing the damage
they did in England before you took them prisoners.
And remember, every time you send away a warship to
seize a German colony you have one ship less in your own
waters to repel us when we come, and we are coming.
That is the condition to which Britain, with its
very small and inefficient army, its ruined agricul-
ture, and its almost complete dependence on
foreign countries for food, might be reduced if the
event which Lord Roberts declares to be quite
possible came off. England might be a trap, but
unless the British people were prepared to mas-
sacre their prisoners the survivors of the invading
army would, even at the worst, get out of the trap
some day. Regarded as a trap, it isn’t any worse
than lots of others—Sedan or Plevna or Metz
or besieged Paris. And the inducements to rush
that trap are very great. As already mentioned,
the raid which Roberts declares to be feasible
might succeed in reducing Britain to very grievous
distress on land, for the invaders might bottle up
its principal harbors on the land side against
foreign supplies, and cut off the scanty internal
supplies of its big cities by the destruction of
railroads; and Britain, despite its naval
strength, might be driven to make peace on
terms that would be disastrous to somebody—
possibly to us. If, as is more likely, the
raid failed, the German fleet would still be as
strong as ever for open attack, and the German
army practically as strong as ever; and if the
open attack succeeded, again peace might be
made on terms which would be disastrous to some-
body—possibly, as already hinted, to us. These
may be contingencies against which we can do
little to guard ourselves, though even to do a little
is better than to do nothing.
* # * *
But, in addition, there is a third hazard.
Supposing in that period, which might last
for months, of tension and suspended anima-
tion. while a state of war prevailed but the
German fleet still refused to come out from
amid its sand-banks and defences and give battle
—supposing during that period a third Power,
even a second-rate one, chose to try its hand at
the stealing of Australia? It might gamble on
the chance that Britain and Germany would so
cripple each other at sea that they would be left
unfit for distant operations for a very long time
to come. In that case, and at such a time, how
many ships would Britain send to the defence of
Australia? Unless Bull was raving mad—not
one. And in this matter Bull isn’t raving mad,
nor does he intend to become so. As one casual
item of evidence, consider this extract from a
speech on defence by ex-Prime Minister Rose-
bery, reported in the London Times (5/12/’08): —
But you are told that invasion will take place when
the Fleet is engaged elsewhere. That again I think a
great aspersion on the wisdom of our governors. The
Fleet engaged elsewhere ! Is it to be supposed that, at
any moment when there is any possible contingency of
the kind barely to be apprehended, a sufficiency of the
Fleet to defend our shores would be allowed to leave
these shores? WHAT POSSIBLE DANGER TO ANY
PART OF THE EMPIRE COULD JUSTIFY OUR FLEET
BEING SENT IN THAT DIRECTION AS COMPARED
WITH THE DANGER THREATENING THE HEART
OF THE EMPIRE? (Cheers.) If it is capable of demon-
stration that the first thing to protect in this Empire is
the heart and source of this Empire, any Government
would be culpable and criminal that allowed this island
to remain undefended by any allurement or any interest
elsewhere. (Cheers.) It would be like a man going out
on a cold day who enveloped his feet in furs and his
hands in woollen mittens and had nothing but a thin
linen shirt round his body. (Laughter.) He would be
called rightly an idiot for taking great care of his
extremities and none of his vital parts. (Laughter.) I
hope that there is no Government likely to exist in this
country which would be so insane or negligent as that.
Rosebery is a Liberal —an influential member of,
and formerly the leader of, the party now in
power. Because he is not now in office he can
tell the whole truth, which the men in office can’t
do. And Rosebery’s statement is, simply and
baldly, that so long as Germany (or any other
country) is a dangerous and fairly unscrupulous
rival, and so long as the German, or any similar,
strong and semi-hostile fleet is above the surface
of the waters, Britain won’t risk its ships in
defence of Australia or any other remote depen-
dency. In Rosebery’s opinion—and his British
audience cheered the statement—there is no pos-
sible danger that could fall on Australia that
would justify Britain in sending away any,really
serviceable part of its fleet from its own shores
while a possible dangerous enemy was about.
Unless Britain can be delivered from its fears by
the destruction of its most serious rival, Aus-
tralia is never likely, according to Rosebery’s
view, to see another British ironclad, even if
Asiatic conquest is upon us, unless it be a super-
annuated ironclad, and so far past service that
its absence from the British seas doesn’t matter.
• * ft *
It is quite natural that Britain should take up
this attitude. Germany has 20,000,000 more
people than Britain possesses, and its population
is increasing at least twice as fast as Britain’s. It
lost only 31,000 people by emigration in 1906 (the
last year for which statistics are available) against
Britain’s loss of 237,000. It has less than a tenth
of Britain’s unemployed. As an index of its
people’s prosperity, Germany recently had
£633,000,000 in its savings banks, against Britain’s
£204,000,000. The German Imperial Government,
in 1907, had a revenue of £127,000,000, and
the revenues of the Imperial and State
Governments put together were something
between £300,000,000, and £400,000,000, against
Britain’s total of £154,000,000. The single Ger-
man State of Prussia had, in 1907, a State
revenue £17,000,000 larger than that of the British
Government £156,000,000 against Britain’s
£139,000,000, and though Prussia is the largest
State in the German Empire, it is still
only a State. A country such as this can’t help
being ambitious. It wants colonies—good
colonies—to which its surplus population
can go when it has a surplus population.
It is driven forward by the same impulse which
made rising Britain snatch Canada and India
from decadent France; Germany, in its turn,
means to snatch things from decadent Britain —if
Britain is decadent. And to get and hold such
colonies it has exactly the same reason to wrest
the command of the sea from Britain as Britain
formerly had to wrest it from Spain. To that end
it is building a fleet with such speed that, accord-
ing to some British authorities, the date is now
only four years distant when Germany may be
Britain’s equal in first-class fighting ships—the
ships that really count. In fact, the latest
Whitakers’ Almanac says that by 1911 Ger-
many will have 10 Dreadnoughts to Britain’s
eight. It is no use being angry about these
things—ever since the first empire fell and
the second one rose in its stead the world has
travelled on exactly the same lines, and protests
won’t alter the course of the world. And it is
hardly worth while descanting on the infamy and
baseness of such a sudden raid as Lord Roberts
foreshadowed. Declarations of war are mostly
out of date now, and the Hohenzollkrns have
always been a sudden race—almost as sudden as
the Jameson Raid.
It is comforting, of course, to learn from the
Sydney Telegraph that that great German
strategist, Von Moltke, saw almost insuperable
difficulties in the way of an attack on Britain.
But Von Moltke is dead—has been dead 18 .years.
And the date of the alleged remark is much
further back than 18 years. In the times when
MoLTkE is said to have got this notable
observation off his chest, Germany had a
much smaller population than it has now, had
very little money, few manufactures, no Protec-
tionist tariff, practically no navy with which to
back up an invasion, and no great mercan-
tile marine of swift vessels with which to
carry out a surprise; also it hadn’t, as
it has now, so vast an army that it
could gamble with a light heart on the chance of
300,000 men having to surrender. Things have
changed since the days of Moltke, the man who
has been dead for 18 years. In his time, too,
Australia was little known, and there was no
Power in the Pacific that could possibly attempt
to steal our country while the British and German
navies fought each other, or watched each other—
one on the open sea, the other lying low behind
its sandbanks —that fact being quite apart from
the other circumstance that in Moltke’s time,
there being practically no German sea-power, the
deadlock above described couldn’t arise at all.
Furthermore, Britain then owned Heligoland,
just outside the mouth of the Elbe, which would
have somewhat weakened the German position ;
Germany owns Heligoland now. And in those
days Britain didn’t depend so absolutely on im-
ported food as it does at present; and its position,
in consequence, hadn’t got on its nerves. It still
patrolled all the seas of the globe, whereas
now it has drawn its fleets in alarm round
its own coast, and lets the distant seas slide.
And in addition to the fact that there was, for all
serious purposes, no Japan in the days when Von
Moltke made the alleged comforting remark,
there was also no White Australia policy to aggra-
vate Japan ; it was only in later years that the
Asiatic influx made the White Australia ideal
absolutely necessary to our preservation. Taking
one thing with another, the need for a strong Aus-
tralian navy and an Australian system of uni-
versal military training isn’t diminished one whit
by anything Von Moltke said. Von Moltke is
dead. He died 18 years ago.
* * * *
Meanwhile, the point that concerns us is some-
thing quite apart from any views entertained by
Von Moltke. The Sydney Telegraph and such
papers assure us that the German danger is a
myth so far as Britain is concerned, and that being
so, Britain can supply abundant sea-power for our
defence. On the other hand ex-Prime Minister
Rosebery has publicly stated that, no matter
what disaster overwhelms Australia, Britain
won’t risk ships of real fighting value away from
its own shores, in case the German danger isn’t a
myth. He said that to reassure an audience
which, perhaps, felt none too sure about the Ger-
man myth, and the audience cheered at the assur-
ance that this country would be cheerfully thrown
overboard. In this matter Australia and Maori-
land are the two places which, above all others,
are liable, unless they resolve to help them-
selves, to be utterly lost in the day of trouble,
or even the day of suspected trouble. To Canada
and Egypt Britain might stretch out a helping
hand, for they are near, and a squadron des-
patched to these places could get back to the
North Sea in a very few days. But Australia and
Maoriland are very far off, and Bull isn’t going
to risk any important part of his fleet at long-
range distances unless things in Europe begin to
look much brighter than they are now.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Victoria, the State that is Growing Old.
The curse of the Land That is Growing Old clings
to Victoria by reason of its Big Landlord system.
It may not have the Big Landlord disease any
worse than Tasmania and New South Wales have
it, but Victoria is the most thickly peopled
of the States, with 14 inhabitants to the square
mile as compared with Tasmania’s seven people
and New South Wales’s five. And apparently,
though there may be room for the rapacious land-
lord and also for five ordinary people to the square
mile, there isn’t room for the hungry earth-grabber
and 14 people to the square mile. So the young
men are swarming away from the Victorian
country districts—have been swarming away for
years—to other States where they can buy and
cultivate their own little farms, and be no land-
lord’s slave. That drain has left Victoria
with an amazingly large proportion of women
as compared with men, a surprisingly large
number of unmarried women who should
have a chance to be mothers but haven’t,
and an incredibly large proportion of the very
aged, who can do nothing to help along the birth-
rate, though they help the death-rate materially.
So when the Australian Statistician issues his
figures it always happens nowadays that Victoria,
with one of the finest climates in the Common-
wealth, has the lowest birth-rate, the highest
death-rate, the smallest natural increase of popu-
lation, and the most lamentable record of
departures—that, by reason of the Big Landlord,
it advertises itself perpetually as the plague-spot
of the Commonwealth. As a case in point—the
other day there appeared the Vital Statistics of
Australia for the quarter to June 30,1908, and the
results were at these rates per annum :
For Every 100,000 Inhabitants.
Births. Deaths. Natural Increase.
Westralia .. 2980 1113 1867
Tasmania .. 2967 1094 1863
Queensland.. 2660 930 1720
8. Australia.. 2629 914 1615
N. S. Wales.. 2585 1011 1574
Victoria .. 2507 1198 1309
To possess the smallest birth-rate, the biggest
death-rate, and the very poorest natural increase
of population is a ghastly record for a State so
young that there are multitudes of people still
surviving who were alive when its first stone was
laid ; a State with a splendidly healthy climate ;
above all, a State which was settled (in the gold
days) by the hardiest, healthiest race of adven-
turers who ever struck the South Seas. And it is
wholly brought about by the unspeakable land
policy, which is steadily reducing the population
of all the most fertile counties of Victoria. The
charge against the great landlords of Victoria is
one of wholesale, constant, callous, and premedi-
tated murder—the murder of thousands and
thousands of the unborn. And this is done in
order that wealthy landowners for whom Hell —
if there is a Hell—must be yawning wide, may
feed a diseased vanity during their brief spell on
earth by looking out on wildernesses of grass and
telling themselves that they own the country as
far as eye can reach ; and in order that men who
have already more money than they well know
what to do with, may pile up a little extra wealth,
and have a gaudy surplus to spend on jewels and
Flossies and other luxuries. It is a mighty poor
cause in which to sacrifice a State which was once
the sturdiest and most progressive and most
populous in all Australasia.
■ ♦
The Postal Farce.
“Gallertite ” writes :—•
If Wilks, Webster and co. possessed a fair knowledge
of the unfitness of things they would have put up the
shutters of the Postal Commission when three out of the
original seven members threw up the sponge. What has
the inquiry resulted in? Practically nothing, except a
weary record up to date of some 22,000 questions. All
this rubbish will be published in due course, but not a
dozen people in the Commonwealth will wade through it.
And in all this jungle of words not one fact has been
elicited that was not public property long ago.
The trouble all along has been want of money. In
1901-1902 the total revenue of the Post Office was
£2,372,861 —this year it will be over £3,400,000.
A large increase in business naturally means
a corresponding increase in expenditure; but there
has not been cash available to keep up with the growing
wants of the community. Beginning with Turner, the
first Federal Treasurer, each successive holder of the
office has starved new works. The first consideration
was to keep down expenditure so that the State Treasurers
might be placated with huge gifts in excess of the three-
quarters of the tariff revenue to which they were entitled.
Years passed by before the situation was realised. Then
it was suddenly discovered that most of the telephone
installations were out of date and that the telegraphic
service was also in a decaying state. With regard to
telephones Melbourne has always been worse off than the
other State capitals, but this was not the fault of the
Postal authorities. They took over a wretchedly inef-
ficient installation from the State, and the only remedy
would have been to throw all the material on the scrap-
heap. When Hesketh, the chief electrician, took charge,
one of his first official acts was to condemn the Melbourne
system. He showed that it would cost nearly £250,000
to effect the necessary improvements, but there was no
money, and he had to patch up the service as best he
could.
Let it be made very clear that the Postal Department
never ceased harping upon the urgent necessity of money
being made available.
In a huge administration, such as the Post-Office, a
certain amount of dissatisfaction amongst the employees—
there are 12,000 of them —is inevitable. But certain poli-
tical scavengers in Parliament are never happy except when
acting as the mouthpiece of some allegedly wronged letter-
carrier or oppressed telegraph boy. Webster was one of the
chief offenders in this respect before the Postal Commis-
sion was appointed, and since it has been at work he has
welcomed every wretched bit of tittle-tattle that could
be fished out. Samuel Mauser, before he came to office,
firmly believed that the Post Office was a sweating de-
partment, but he soon changed his mind. In no other
Government department are the officials better paid and
more liberally treated. Not only does the postal employee
enjoy peculiarly advantageous privileges with regard to
payment during illness —a very just and proper arrange-
ment—and also substantial holidays, but he also practi-
cally owns a freehold.
Under the badly-constructed law it takes a ton of dyna-
mite to get rid of a Federal official. One ex-official, who
had been guilty of gross insubordination, cost the country
nearly £4OOO before he was finally got rid of. But re-
cently a letter-carrier, who had several times been con-
victed of drunkenness, was lined at the police court for
more drunkenness. A drunken postman can cause a ter-
rible amount of mischief, but it was not in the power of
the Deputy to dismiss him. A long and tedious process
of appeal to a Board had to be gone through, and finally the
man was sent back on his rounds, with a slight reduction
in status, but with no reduction in beer-thirst. A coun-
try postmaster, after a number of conspicuous and
glaring drunks —he had been punished over half-a-
dozen times—was recently again let off with a fine
of £lO. Taken as a whole, there is no finer set of men
anywhere than in the Post Office ; all the trouble comes
from a mere handful of black sheep. What is wanted is
more authority for the heads of the Department and less
dependence upon the Public Service Commissioner.
Not an appointment can be made, not a man can be
transferred, not a man can be dismissed without his
interference.
Meantime the Postal Commission ought to be shut up.
It is waste of time and a mere glorification of unimportant
politicians. Every intelligent person knows what is
chiefly wrong—want of money ; and to waste the price of
many leagues of new telegraph line on the asking of fooi
questions doesn’t help the situation.


The City of the Violet Crown and the
City of the Perished Grasshopper.
Two recent reports from two proposed Australian
capital sites are interesting reading when placed
side by side. The first relates to the Yassberra site
—the one temporarily selected by the Australian
Parliament—and all the places mentioned are with-
in that area ; in fact, Bungendore is the place fre-
quently spoken of as the exact position of the
Federal city. The report is from Sydney E.
News of 12/l/’O9 :
Matters concerning- the man on the land in the Goul-
burn district do not look very promising at present.
Reports from various parts are of a gloomy nature, and
unless rain falls soon things will assume a more serious
aspect. At Bungendore everything has a parched
appearance. Between heat, dust and smoke, with hot
winds, herbage did not stand much chance. The water
supply has given out in many places. . . . Gundaroo re-
ports a plague of grasshoppers, scorching westerly winds,
and a complete absence of rain, besides a good taste of
the heat wave. . . . The heat early last week proved very
severe and bush fires have been burning all round. Rain is
very badly wanted.
It sounds like a rather dry district. This other
report (published in Sydney Telegraph) of about
the same date, is from Jindabyne on the Snowy
River, a few miles above Dalgety, which was also
at one time a selected Federal capital site, but
was knocked out by the votes of the Congested
Population Party. It represents the views of
N.S.W. ex-State Premier Joey Oarruthers, who
in his more misguided days used to denounce
Monaro as utterly unfit for the purposes of a
capital, or any other decent purpose whatsoever
Mr. Joseph Oarruthers, who has just returned from
an extended stay at Jindabyne, on the Snowy and
Thredbo Rivers at the foot of the mountain (Kosciusko),
DECLARES THAT HE HAS EXPERIENCED NO CLIMATE IN THE
WORLD WHICH COMES UP TO THAT OF THE DISTRICT IN QUESTION.
The Bulletin once suggested as a poetic name
for a Federal capital on the Monaro that designa-
tion of old Athens, “ The City of the Violet
Crown,” and for Yassberra the name of “The
City of the Perished Grasshopper.” Judging by
Joseph Oarruthers’ description, Monaro wears
the Violet Crown all right, but the trouble about
Yassberra is that the Grasshopper isn’t Perished.
The beast is alive and eating the crops at a great
rate.
• ♦-
The Sal. Army as an Immigration Agent.
According to section xxvii. of clause 51 of the
Constitution, one of the subjects on which the
Australian Parliament has the exclusive right to
legislate is immigration ; and, having this right,
the Parliament should inquire very seriously into
the N.S.W. Government’s curious trafficking with
the Salvation Army. That body, it is alleged, is
to act as immigration agent for N.S.W., to select
and send out settlers, and to receive a bonus for
each person who settles down to a rural occupa-
tion. If the immigrant proves a waster, he is to
be sent back at the Army’s expense. The Sal.
Army has done similar work for Canada, and,
despite all precautions, has done it very badly.
The Army is mostlya city organisation, and in
the slums of London it is a power. It is there
or thereabouts that the immigrant can be
gathered in most easily and cheaply. There is
no travelling to do, nor is there any expense. A
twopenny tram will carry an officer from the Sal.
Army’s London headquarters to great tenement
houses, where it is only necessary to stand at the
foot of the common stair and holier out that a land
of milk and honey is calling for immigrants, and
they will rush down the steps in droves. The
Army can hardly help a tendency to give prefer-
ence to its own people, and the fact that a man or
woman is a Salvationist is in itself a great dis-
advantage—it argues ignorance, hysterical emo-
tionalism, and other drawbacks. The Army has
to get its men to New South Wales, and settle
them to rural occupations, and keep them there
long enough to get its bonus. There will, pre-
sumably, be a certain period of probation ; and
after that the Army’s responsibility will cease.
After that period, if the man whom N.S.W. has
accepted and paid for as a good immigrant
should prove to be really a waster, the inference
will be that the Army did its duty, and that the new
citizen was all right when he was selected, but
that he demoralised afterwards in the enervating
atmosphere of the new country. Therefore the
business of the Army will be to keep a hypnotic
eye on the new arrivals per medium of its numer-
ous officers, and by furious exhortation to keep
them at steady toil long enough to pass muster.
Having got them through the needle’s eye of
inspection and got the money, the hypnotic ex-
pression will probably be wanted for the next
batch, and the frantic exhortation will relax. By
that time, too, the casual, odd-job immigrant will
probably have got over the glamor of novelty,
and will tend to drop back into his old unsatisfac-
tory self. About the best that can be expected of
the Sal. Army’s immigrant is that he will just
scrape through inspection—that he will have a
tendency to be weedy, ignorant, poor of intellect,
retreating of chm, small of stature and skimp of
chest circumference, and that he will be passed
with hesitation, and with a feeling that if he were
just a shade weedier, duller, more unlettered,
more sloping of chin and brief of stature and
scanty of chest he would be pushed right out.
The idea of the Sal. Army as an immigration
agent sounds wholly unsatisfactory. Canada, at
all events, has been there, and Canada appears to
be distinctly low-spirited on the subject.
♦
The Federal Port.
From the “ Old Soldier ” :
“Pick”(B 31/12/’08) raises questions about Jervis Bay
which nothing but a thoroughly exact detailed survey of
it and Twofold Bay can set at rest. On the face of it, and
with only the information available to the public, no
doubt “Pick” is right in thinking Jervis Bay would be
difficult, if not impossible, to defend. Legrand’s
“ Manuel de Fortification,” the French textbook, after
saying that the two things to be feared are a landing and
a bombardment, gives a list of the necessary works in
such a case:
“(1) A certain number of batteries and forts to keep
the enemy’s fleet in awe ; but unless the contour of the
coast-line is favorable, the town will not be saved from
bombardment by such means.
“(2) Lines of torpedoes closing the navigable channels,
and connected with observing stations on shore.
“(3) A fortification on the land side for the purpose of
protecting the place from the attacks of a landing force.
A simple rampart was formerly thought sufficient; but
more is needed now through the improvement of fire-
arms, and it is necessary to encircle the town with a
girdle of detached forts, as in the case op an ordinary
fortress. [That is, three or four miles off.]
“(4) A certain number of forts or batteries securing,
within the greatest possible radius, the possession of all
places where an enemy can land.”
When the Capital sitew'as being debated in the Federal
Parliament, someone suggested that the Commonwealth
should have five square miles of country at Jervis Bay.
He was a remarkably modest person, for, according to
this great French authority, the Commonwealth ought
to be put in possession of all the foreshores of the Bay, of
all the land within a radius of four miles round the
Federal port, and of every probable or possible land-
ing-place tor an enemy “within the greatest possible
radius” round the town. That means within a day’s
march—say 15 miles—north or south along the coast.
Jervis Bay would be a very awkward problem for
the engineer. It is nearly circular in outline,
with a very wide entrance, which could not be
easily or certainly stopped up with torpedoes ; and the
contour of the shore line does not lend itself to the con-
struction of batteries to “ secure the town from bombard-
ment.” The hills, too, at the back of the Bay are high,
and rise steeply from the water’s edge. There is a
common delusion that high and steep hills are easy to
defend. It cost George Colley his life in ’Bl. People
don’t understand what a quantity of “dead ground,”
which cannot be swept by fire from above, there always
is on the slopes of such hills, giving cover to the men
advancing to attack those on the top. That is a detail;
but now, what area of Federal territory will be necessary
to make Jervis Bay a safe.port for the capital? At least
900 square miles, 1 say. Dalgety would be cheaper by a
good deal with Twofold Bay thrown in.
The Fat and the Lean.
The Commission which was appointed to find out
why the chop in Westralia sells for something
like its weight in precious metal has told Parlia-
ment some of its thoughts on the subject. Almost
everybody in Perth and on the goldfields has
suspected in a vague sort of way that a meat ring
was at work, and the Commission says that the
suspicion didn’t do anybody an injustice. The
retailing of the chop is “ very largely controlled
by the wholesale butchers,” it remarks; and,
going into details, it says that “ the firm of Holmes
Bros, and Co., Ltd., which is virtually a branch
of Forrest, Emanuel and Co,, Ltd., has no less
than 18 shops.” The retail price is fixed, and the
most remarkable thing about the whole business
is that “the registration of its rules under the
Arbitration Act enables the association ” —which
has got itself admitted as a union of employers
—“to enforce by law its scale of charges on all
members, and to recover from them the penalties
its rules provide for any default.” So an Act
which was intended to oil the machinery of indus-
try, and prevent the public from getting trodden
on while employers and employees were having a
row, has been so shamefully prostituted that it is
now really a means for legalising the process of
treading on the public; and an Act which can be
used for that purpose is liable to become unpopu-
lar. Of course an outsider, observing how the
public is fleeced and squeezed, may buy a butcher’s
block and a chopper, and put on a blue apron,
and hang out a sign on his own account. But the
Butchers’ Association, protected and fattened by
the prostituted law, smiles, and then something
sudden happens. The evidence showed that a
butcher opened a cheap shop in the main street at
Kalgoorlie—
only to find himself at once opposed by a new competitor
who went especially up from Perth and opened two new
shops in the immediate vicinity within a fortnight of
each other. Whilst the independent cheap butcher was
refused supplies by the local wholesale firms, his competi-
tor obtained what he required without difficulty, and, so
far as could be judged by the evidence, practically at
prices fixed by himself.
The Commission called that “destructive com-
petition,” and even a Tory Chief Justice probably
wouldn’t complain that that was violent language
under the circumstances. The meat ring didn’t
have to go to the trouble of picketing the butcher’s
shop ; when a man proposed to sell at prices that
didn’t suit its book as the chief retailer—in other
words, when a man offered to take less profits
than it was grabbing itself —it wasn’t under the
necessity of hiring an organiser to make rallying
speeches, to which the papers would presently
point an inky finger, while shrieking “ Gaol !” or
“ Military ! ” Fat didn’t need to do anything so
foolish and untidy as to knock chips off the ears
of unoffending clerks and others; it merely had
to use other and much more effective forces at its
command, and in the end pinch the stomachs of
equally unoffending men and women and children,
condemning the public to pay such a price for
meat that many must either do without the meat
or stint themselves in other directions. Only an
ill-balanced few have any sympathy for men who,
even in resisting a cut in their wages, use force ; but
Fat’s process of starving out a competitor, of
killing him with “destructive competition,” in
order that it may go on exploiting the people un-
checked —against this the public doesn’t boil over
with indignation, and there isn’t the faintest sug-
gestion that anybody ought to be in gaol over it.
And there isn’t any cry of “Shame!” and no
mention cf “ law’n’order,” when a ring or con-
spiracy, or whatever it is, seizes hold of an Act
intended for the settlement of industrial disputes,
and twists it from that end in order to serve the
shameful purpose of squeezing monopoly prices for
food out of the public.
♦
Combustible Sydney.
“Underwriter” holds forth
The N.S.W. Select Parliamentary Committee, which
lately investigated Sydney’s fire risks, got a lot of cheer-
ful informQtkm out of the 34 witnesses it examined. It
seems, so the committee gathered from its 34 witnesses,
that, at present there are practically no laws for the pro-
tection of Sydney from fire, and that the Ma metropolis
is worse off from a flame-combating standpoint than was
Baltimore (U.S.), when it set a match to the page of his-
tory. Baltimore then had a better water supply than has
Sydney ; it had more than doable the number of engines
and brigades-men, and only a slight wind was blowing,
yet Baltimore did things that made the hair of Fire In-
surance stand on end like quills upon that meat pin-
cushion called the porkful fretupine.
A comparison of the two cities led one witness—
Inspector George Cherry, of the N.S.W. Fire Under-
writers’ Association—to remark that if a fire started,
say, at Darling Harbor, during a high, hot wes-
terly wind, Sydney might easily knock out Balti-
more’s record in one round. At all events, that part of
the city bounded by Circular Quay on the north, Darling
Harbor on the west, Liverpool-street on the south, and
Castlereagh-street on the east, would probably become
just a wilderness of cinders. Large and high buildings,
narrow streets, unduly congested blocks which under-
writers look at askance, valuable merchandise stored in
a way un-get-at-able to the firemen, unprotected
rear windows exposed to other unprotected rear
windows across tortuous 15ft. lanes —these are a few
of the things that make Sydney a huge bonfire
waiting for the match. Also there is the cheer-
ful habit many persons have of storing highly-
volatile and explosive mineral oils in all sorts of old!
places. The vapor from many of these oils is liable to
flash at anything under freezing point; also the vapor
travels all sorts of distances, and should it meet a flame
at any point of its travels it may carry it back to the oil-
body like a gunpowder train. Repeated warnings on the
subject don’t seem to affect the reckless oil-storer, and
the blessed law doesn’t seem to affect him much either.
True, the law empowers the fire brigade superintendent
to enter any premises, and report if he finds any
dangerous explosives there ; and, of course, that’s some-
thing. It’s an occupation for the superintendent, and
keeps him from getting drowsy. But as the superin-
tendent can only report—he can’t cause the removal of
the explosive, or interfere with it in any way—his power
of entry doesn’t seem to have many other advantages.
And it appears there is no other authority with power to-
shift the explosive either.
The Parliamentary Committee wants that sort of law
changed. Also it wants other things. For instance, it
wants theatre auditoriums separated from the stage by a
wall higher than the roof, with no openings in it above
the level of the stage, and with fire-resisting doors at all
openings below ; also, fireproof curtains to be dropped,
as in America, after every act. These safeguards it pro-
poses should be a condition precedent to the licensing of
any theatre. Concerning ships, the Committee recom-
mends that the foolish law which prevents the fire
brigade taking a hand unless by permission of the captain
be abrogated. At present a pig-headed captain, with a
burning ship lying, say, at Darling Harbor wharf, might
burn Sydney off the map, and that’s too big a privilege to
give any captain. The smothering of steamers’ fires by
the waste gases generated in tbe smoke box ; an alterna-
tive water supply from the Woronora River or some
other place, and the liberal use of sprinklers—these are a.
few other improvements the Committee suggested. Now
it’s up to Premier Wade to get a move on.
♦ — :
The Stone That Looked Like Bread.
The S.M. Herald is beginning to give away the
Carruthers-Wade scheme of financial reform.
One of the corner-stones of that jerry-built edifice
of lath and stucco was the Public Works Fund.
“No more borrowing” had made so much pro-
gress that it had to be considered; there was a
handy-sized section of the House pledged to it.
The Carruthers-Wade crowd set out to keep
this section quiet by handing it a stone painted
up to resemble bread —to resemble it till you got
your teeth on to it. The S.M. Herald has at last
got such teeth as it has left on to the substance, and
it is making the remarks of a person who has been
taken down :
When this fund was established the Government of the
day took much kudos to itself for at length being pre-
pared to do the proper thing by receipts from the sale of
Crown lands. In the past this money had been paid
straight into revenue, and was used for renewals and
whatnot. The Government in a fit of piety said it would
have no more of this sort of thing. It would riot attempt
to be wholly honest, because it might not always be able 1
to afford it, but to the extent of two-thirds of the net
•
proceeds of the sale of Crown lands It intended to do the
riarht thing. The lands, being assets, were not to dis-
appear as assets, but were to be converted into other
assets. But what is the Government doing now ? It is
selling Crown lands and unblushingly taking one-third of
the proceeds right into consolidated revenue. It is doing
it lawfully, it is true, but not everything that is lawful is
necessarily right or businesslike. Then as to the
other two-thirds, a good portion is going for
renewals, that is, is going to make up wear and
tear, and not in creating a new asset to replace the old
one which has already been alienated. This is lawful, no
doubt, but it is bad law. Every pound that the Treasurer
can manage to have expended out of this fund on neces-
sary repairs swells his surplus or diminishes his deficiency
by that amount. Such practices would discredit any
private business concern, if it did not eventually lead it
into the Bankruptcy Court.
Yet on this scheme of bogus .Reform the Carru-
THERS-Wade crowd went to the country—and the
S. M. Herald helped it back with a substantial
majority. But the old, surprised paper hasn’t
even now realised the real extent of the shame-
less trick, because it still thinks that the
Government puts two-thirds of the land
revenue into the Works Fund, whereas, in
fact, it puts in very little more than one-
third. Turn to the Auditor-General’s report for
1908, and on page 5 under “Land Revenue —
Alienations” a total of £894,134 is shown. Now,
two-thirds of £894,134 is £590,089 ; yet on page 72
the actual payments into the Fund are shown as
follows: —“Transfer from Consolidated Revenue
Fund—two-thirds of the net proceeds of Sale of
Crown Lands exclusive of interest , less 20 per
cent., £346,070” ; and the difference between the
£346,070 which was paid into the Fund,'and the
£596,089 which is two-thirds of the revenue from
land alienations, exceeds a quarter of a million.
The Fund is robbed of that quarter of a million
by another trick. Most of the land of the State
is sold on time-payment; and the so-called interest
is really as much part of the purchase money as
the so-called instalments of principal are. It is not,
anyway, a case in which the State has paid money
for the land which it has sold —money on which it
has itself to pay interest. Therefore if two-thirds
of the principal belongs to the Fund, two : thirds
of the interest also belongs to tbe Fund. A man
finds that two-thirds of the money deposited in a
bank belongs to him. The bank undertakes to
pay it out in instalments. What fool would argue
that, though the instalments belong to the man,
the interest on the balance of the two-thirds left
in the bank doesn’t belong to him ? The position
is therefore worse than the Herald admits that it
is ; and yet, if it is only as bad as that paper
believes it to be, the Herald reckons that the
plan—this plan of Reform—“ would discredit any
private business, if it did not eventually lead it
into the Bankruptcy Court.” Under those circum-
stances, what does the Herald propose to do about
it ? It sees that its Reformer is a bogus Reformer,
whose methods would ruin a private concern.
Well? Is it going to risk bankruptcy for the
State ? In other words, is it going to stick to the
Reformer, who isn’t a Reformer at all, but a mere
Ruiner? Or is it going to crayfish out of the
awkward situation by declaring that McGoWKNis
no better—or, at any rate, that there is no proof
that he is any better, or even proposes to be any
better ? It is up to McGowen to do something to
show that he does propose to do something better.
It isn’t every day that the S. M. Herald calls for
somebody to be “ wholly honest ” in finance ; and
if McGowen isn’t prepared to show that he fills
the bill and intends to be wholly honest in finance,
then it’s time he went out of the business.
An Amazing Pilgrimage.
One of the most persistent charges made against
the late, unlaunented Bent was that he could not
be persuaded to deal with the very urgent land
question. All the “ disaffected Liberals ” roared
loudly that the land question was one that must
be dealt with right away; and the Age, whose
conversion on that point is now complete, made
a progressive land-tax a prominent election
question. So the Murray Ministry cannot
possibly avoid attempting something in this
matter unless it emigrates or buries itself. It
has, however, managed to postpone the thorny
question for six months, as per the following
announcement; —
During the recess the Minister of Lands will visit
Maoriland and other States which have advanced legisla-
tion, and the Government will prepare a progressive land
policy for the important session opening in June.
The Minister sent on this quaint pilgrimage is
one of the most conservative members in the
House. Everyone knows that Maoriland has
given the world the fullest information, in official
publications, concerning its progressive legisla-
tion. The Victorian Parliamentary library has
more up-to-date information regarding Maoriland
Land Acts and their results than Murray’s
Minister will obtain if he walks up and down the
country till next century. Anyway, he is a man
who doesn’t want information ; he would sooner
go a mile out of his way than meet it; and it is
generally believed that he wouldn’t know it (sup-
posing it concerned land reform) if he saw it with
a label on. All of this unfortunate business comes
about owing to the extraordinary foolishness of
Murray in having any dealings with the remnants
of the old Bent gang. He has hung certain of
those ancient, crusted Tories round his neck, and
has about a dozen of them (including Bent himself)
hanging to his tail. And, though Murray looks a
big, strong man and not very old, it will almost
certainly be found that most of his progress
will be like that of the crab—backwards or side-
ways. Fully two-thirds of the new Victorian
Ms.L.A. are land-taxers, but of the land-tax
party one-half is the Labor party, and is isolated ;
and the other half has coalesced with the anti-
land-taxers. Then a fairly large section has no
hingy for a fight with the House of Landlords,
and a section, though it believes in a land-tax
much, believes in its portfolio and its job much
more. So the Murray Government side-steps by
sending its most hopeless anti-land-taxer to collect
information which it has already in book form iD
its Parliamentary library.
The gentle Indian once more ! At the recent sit-
tings of the Wagga (N.S.W.) court, one of our
fellow subjects, a gentleman named Kedah
Singh, applied for renewal of his hawker’s license.
Kedah would, in all probability, have been
granted his permit to roam about the countryside
and make a nuisance of himself had not a sub-
inspector of police been on hand to detail a few
facts regarding his business methods. Because he
could not obtain money from the occupants of a.
country hotel, he had held up the establishment
and remained in possession until ejected by the
police. On another occasion he had caught the
bridle of a horse and threatened the rider with an
axe. Although Kedah called evidence to prove
that he was a peaceably-inclined man, and a
lamb in a turban, the bench was for once
mindful of the lonely bush woman and
the bush child, and Kedah’s application for a
privateering commission was refused. The magis-
trate also requested the sub-inspector to hand
, Kedah’s axe-waving record round toother districts
—presumably in order that he might be debarred
£:from trading elsewhere. Which is reassuring sy
The Old Colonial Days.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The greatest change which Federation is bringing about
in the character of Australian politics is that, While in
the old colonial days the people of each State lived
almost wholly in the present, and rarely looked beyond
their borders except to negotiate a loan, representatives
and voters alike are now becoming conscious of the fact
that the country is responsible for its actions before the
world.— London Times, on “ Australian Ideals," SOj Ilf 08.
They are dead, those days of drifting—
Proud this Nation’s eyes are lifting,
They are fixed upon the future, on a goal that
shines afar.
Gone the days of spendthrift madness,
Dead the days of sloth and badness —
We have hitched Australia’s waggon to a new,
bright-blazing star !
With an everlasting tether
Lo ! we’ve tied these States together—
We have turned our backs on Cohen and the old,
loan-cadging ways;
For a People white and leal
We have found a New Ideal —
Hear Australia’s great heart singing : “ Damn the
Old Colonial Days ! ”
Days for us of bitter sorrow—
Days when “ Statesman ” meant “ I borrow ”
But we’ve raised a New Religion on this land’s
loan-blasted shore;
From Cape York unto the Leeuwin
We have shed the creed of ruin—
We have sworn to save Australia, and our days of
doubt are o’er ;
We, the Younger Generation,
Fling our curse and execration
At the breed that pawned our birthright—’fcis a
breed that fast decays ;
We, the Younger Set, are grafting,
Hear the roar of forge and shafting—
’Tis the requiem of dead Folly—of the Old Colonial
Days !
Gracious land, wax strong and stronger !
See ! thy children slouch no longer,
Hear their anvils, how they clamor—hammering
hymns of destiny ;
Hearts of gold, all done with shirking—
For this land’s dear sake all working—
Soon our ships in line of battle shall patrol the
southern sea !
Conscious now, we toil all eager—
Thus the Ape shall lift his leaguer
When Australia’s roaring cannon thunder past our
capes and bays;
As the Greeks rolled back Hydarnes,
Lo, this breed in fighting harness
Shall blot out at last the badness of the Old
Colonial Days !
We, the scribes who cursed the shirkers,
Long have called for strong Berserkers—
Lo, at last ye stir, O workers, and our hearts beat
high with glee ;
Long the years of fierce beseeching—
Harsh our voices,
But at last Australia hearkens, mills a-chant with
industry 1
Blot them out, the old State borders—
Fast they die, the fool-disorders—
Aye, the old tradition passes; hopelessly each
Wade now brays ;
We, One People, stand together—
We, who tied these States a-tether,
Rattle clods upon the coffin of the Old Colonial
Days!
They have passed—their Credo scorning,
Lo, we face towards the morning—
Face the work that lies before us, slogging on
with giant wills ;
We have slain the gods of shoddy—
Pledging soul and pledging body.
Now we graft to shift the wreckage of their
I O U’s and bills !
Living only in the present,
Life for them was very pleasant—
We, their offspring, load our dollars in King
Cohen’s shekel drays;
But the task is worth the trouble—
Up ! Australians, at the double :
Let us settle all the loan-bills of the Old Colonial
Days !
For they're dead , those Days of Drifting,
But their old P.N.'s need shifting—
Let us toil then for the future, for the goal that
shines afar.
Past the days of sweat and sadness
Lie the years of lasting gladness —
Let us haul Australia's wagon towards the new
bright-blazing star ;
With a will that knows no breaking,
We have started Nation-making —
We have turned our backs on folly and the bad old
drunken ways ;
For a people white and leal
We have raised a new ideal—
And we sing a newer chorus: “ Hail the New Aus-
tralian Days ! ”
Vic.
GRANT KERVERY.


The Electrolytic Refining 1 and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping* up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINCTONS LTD., 386 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Whether the new Yic. Ministry light out
for an era of dazzling progress, or tie their intel-
lects in a knot of conservative stagnation, largely
depends upon the source of their inspiration.
With guidance from that amber light of Wisdom,
D.O.L. Whisky, great things can be achieved
even by the ungreat. Wherever illumination
from D.C.L. is sought the straying footsteps of
progress are set straight towards the green fields
of prosperity.*
far as it goes—but it doesn’t proceed very far in
any direction. The facts seem to be ugly enough
to warrant the absolute prohibition of Kedah as
a hawker in any part of Australia. So long as
Kedah, the axe-brandisher, gets out of the im-
mediate neighborhood of his recent financial
arguments, there doesn’t seem to be much to
prevent him obtaining permission to walk abroad
with his bundle of rubbish and threaten unpro-
tected people with any lethal weapon that comes
handy. Kedah and his tribe are objectionable
under any circumstances; when they start block-
ading pubs and waylaying horsemen, it is about
time the Law did something more forcible than
merely cancelling a license. Cancelling Kedah
would be a much more satisfactory conclusion.
+
The Importing Craze of Melbourne’s Board
of Shirks.
hor the manyth time, Melbourne’s unpatriotic
Board of Shirks has been accused of ignoring
local industry in favor of imported goods. Re-
cently this abnormal crowd of incompetents
invited tenders for the supply of six tons of soft
pig-lead, and received at least two tenders—one
from a local smelting co. offering to supply local
lead for £l6 a ton, the other from a local firm
offering to deliver imported lead at £l6 10s. a
ton. In this particular instance, the Shirks had
not the habitual excuse that the extra price of the
local article debarred them from purchasing it ;
so, in order to justify their acceptance of the im-
porter’s tender, they fell back upon the incredibly
silly and childish statement that Australian lead
isn't so good as the imported article. This is an
amazing yarn, and any crowd which puts it
forward ought to be regarded with dark
suspicion as to its mental state. Lead
comes from Canada, United States, Mexico,
Central America, Peru, Bolivia, from all over
Western Rurope, from half-a-dozen regions
in Asia, and from other places. Even if there is
good lead in one place and bad lead at another
the Board of Shirks probably doesn’t know at
which of all these foreign places the imported
lead which it is buying was dug up ; it just says
that, being foreign, it must be better than Aus-
traljan. As likely as not it was dug up in Aus-
tralia, and merely refined abroad. England buys
so much of its lead ore from Australia (not know-
ing, as does the Melbourne Board of Shirks, that
everything Australian must be inferior), that it
isn’t easy to import lead from England without at
least part of it being Australian. If the miserable
Shirks of Melbourne weren’t such absolute dullards
they would have noticed this point.
For preventing strikes and similar commotions at
places like Broken Hill, there is one obscure plan
that has points about it. Briefly, it is to have a
picnic now and then. The deadly monotony of
things gets on to men’s nerves in most mining
places. At Broken Hill they go on, week after
week, in the same old, dusty, grimy round. When
Fat, or even Fat’s accountant or chief clerk, gets
like that, he goes off for a fortnight’s spell some-
where: Fat probably takes a trip to England, and
gets rid of his irritability that way. The miner,
especially the remote miner, can’t take any trips
to England, and in only a few cases can he get to
an Australian seaboard city. He keeps on the old
treadmill, and his nerves go on getting more
jagged every week. He knows he wants some-
thing. He thinks—or somebody tells him—
that it’s Reform he needs; but what he really
often does need is a change to start with. He
may need Reform too, but if he got a change first,
and had the awful monotony broken up, and got
his nerves in order, he would go about getting the
Reform in quite a different way. Years ago they
used to have gigantic “Citizens’Excursions” from
Bendigo and Ballarat. Pretty well the whole
towns used to empty themselves out, and get into
special trains run at very special rates, and pour
themselves out over Melbourne, and hire special
Bay excursion steamers, and have two or three or
four days where there wasn’t a thing to remind
them of the treadmill. Then they would go back,
and get on the treadmill again, but it wouldn’t
seem quite the same treadmill, and anyway there
was next year to look forward to, and it’s a blessed
relief when a man has something to look forward
to. Broken Hill might do a lot worse than try
that scheme. As a plan for preventing strikes
and other commotions it won’t do away with
Arbitration, but it might and probably would
be a fine thing to run in double harness with
Arbitration.
*
Thus A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (15/l/’O9), who re-
turned last week from a lengthy visit to the
United Kingdom, in the Sydney morning dailies :
Trade among the manufacturing communities is not
too good at the present juncture. Attention is accord-
ingly being drawn to the great question of tariff reform.
I was greatly surprised to find what a strong hold this
proposition has taken upon a large number of British
people. In fact, I think the large majority of the
financial and mercantile community in London, apart
altogether from those directly interested in manufac-
tures, are deeply concerned with the question. Com-
paratively very few, as far as I could gather, were
opposed to the principle. Of course the recent bye-elec-
tions all went to show that the tendency of modern
thought among the British people is in the direction of
t ‘riff reform.
And here is the ex-cathedra pronouncement on
the same subject of the S. M. Herald (11/l/’O9),
whose fiscal expert has never, as like as not, been
away from these shores in his life
We must not take Mr. Teecb’s remarks too seriously,
and some of his accusations are so stringent that they
only make us smile. Mr. Teece is a bad prophet if he
thinks that the Conservatives—even if the Liberals suffer
defeat at the next elections—will ruin their chance of a
run by forcing on any considerable fiscal programme.
While Liberalism has aroused bitter enemies that may
turn and rend it for its social legislation, the majority of
Britons would still all bite together at anv party that pro-
posed to rob them of Freetrade.
It is about time the Herald decided to drag its
head out of the sand, and realise, however dis-
tasteful it may be to do so, that the Meekses and
Teeces and other prominent local business men,
who visit the Cold Land and study conditions
there, aren’t the credulous dupes, fiscally speak-
ing, that it has been making them out to be. And
when the Herald does that it will be within a
short step of owning that in the home of “ the
priceless boon of Preetrade ” they are busily
engaged just now measuring their blessing for its
burial cerements.
«
Last week the Sydney Labor Council acquired
by one vote (51 against 50) the power to order a
general strike without asking the consent of the
unions concerned. This is a power which it never
possessed before, and the proposal is likely to
drive the unions into revolt and burst up the
Sydney Labor Council. It would be fatal to the
arbitration principle if the men in any trade,
even when they and the employers had come to
terms that were wholly satisfactory, could only say:
“ These terms satisfy us entirely, and we will work
under them unless we are ordered to strike. No
terms you offer can enable us to promise that we
won’t be driven to strike. ” It would be practically
impossible to arbitrate, even under the best Arbi-
tration Act, if one party had to put that saving
clause in the agreement, and the unions are not
prepared to definitely swear off arbitration.
‘ Harrison 0.,” on the subject of Tait, his acci-
dents and his time-tables :
At Brunswick (Vic.) on Saturday, January 2, an old
lady was, by one of Tait’s engines, knocked off this
planet into Eternity, while traversing one of Tait’s
famous level crossings. Tait must be pretty sick of un-
protected and under-manned crossings by now. It is
not so long since a jury at Geelong said some harsh things
to Tait about one of the said crossings, and also intimated
that the damages would be £2OO. At the inquest that
followed the Brunswick gore-spilling, it transpired that
the gates at the crossing were not locked at the time ;
and furthermore, that this state of affairs was in no way
unusual. The coroner snorted, and asked why they were
not locked, and was informed that the porter was other-
wise engaged. For a space, nobody could see what, in
the name of Tophet, the porter had to do with the lock-
ing' of the gates ; but it subsequently transpired
that said porter had to hump the luggage, reassure
nervous old ladies, prohibit smoking and expectorating,
help drunks off the line, attend to the ordinary porter’s
work, and see that the gates of the crossing- were looked.
In fact, he had to be the whole show, for on this particu-
lar occasion (owing to the fact that a signal wire, which
had broken four or five hours previously, had not been
repaired) he (the porter) had been forced to take on the
additional job of signalman. That was why the gates
were not locked, and why Ellen O’Connell was killed—
the explanation was quite simple. The coroner, of
course, wanted to know why the broken signal wire had
not been repaired, as nearly five hours had elapsed be-
tween the time of the breakage and the occurrence of the
fatality, but in reply he could only elicit a vague, general
sort of statement about some telegram that had been
delayed. Ross (the porter-gatekeeper-signalman, etc.),
was held to be blameless. In a sort of way, this is
satisfactory ; but the question naturally arises—who is
to blame ? Tait, as usual, refuses to accept any responsi-
bility. He sent his lawyer, Williams, to the inquest to
say so. Williams was plain ; he said'that people travers-
ing the crossings were supposed to look after themselves.
Persons crossing a road are supposed to look after them-
selves, but this fact would not save the negligent driver
of a vehicle from a charge of manslaughter if someone
was killed by him. But He Who Burneth Tobacco in The
Middle of His Face and Who Came From America
(where, in 1906, 10,618 persons were killed on the rail-
ways, and another 97,706 were injured), goes on his cheap
and easy way, and “refuses to accept responsibility.”
On New Year's Day (the day before the killing of Mrs.
O’Connell), another Tait smash was narrowly averted,
at Ballarat East, between a train from Buninyong and
the Adelaide express. A departmental inquiry into the
matter is to be held, and I suppose some unfortunate
underling (who probably combines the jobs, but not the
pay, of station-master, signalman, gatekeeper, porter,
and railway bookstall) will have the blame affixed to his
person, but in the meantime it is decidedly interesting to
examine Tait’s time-table. Buninyong is a mere suburban
connection with Ballarat, and on this line the trains run
only at long intervals, and yet the Buninyong train is
timed to arrive at Ballarat East at 7.25, and the Geelong
train at 7.30. Let one be just a few minutes early or the
other a few minutes late, and another slaughter will be
the result. As will be seen, there is only five minutes dif-
ference between the scheduled times of the trains; a
while ago it was worse even than this, for there was only
two minutes difference. The infrequent Buninyong train
might easily run half-an-hour earlier or later. When the
smash comes, Tait (of Canada) will emit cigar smoke
and probably remark that “he cannot accept any re-
sponsibility.”
The Argus often asks indignantly why the Labor
party is so lukewarm over the question of immi-
gration. A few days ago it pretty well supplied
the answer itself. The s.s. Pericles had put into
Melbourne* with 695 immigrants (all for other
States) on board; and the Argus man had a yarn
with them. This is what one of them said :
Nothing caused me to come out here except that I knew
I couldn’t do worse than I was doing. I got 10s. a week,
and had to work like a horse. ... Is it a fact that they
give a good farm hand £1 a week and his keep here ?
Because if it is you can have all the farm hands in England
jf you’ll only send steamers enough for them.
The Labor party, which is fighting desperately to
obtain better wages and conditions for the local
farm-hand, is hardly likely to show much en-
thusiasm over importing men whose presence
would make their efforts useless. To an imported
farm laborer £1 a week and his keep may look
like affluence; but it is an established fact
that it is not enough for a man to get
married on. And what Australia wants is married
men, and plenty of them. It is noticeable,
by the way, that the chief barraekers for immi-
grants never want to import men in their own
profession. If a shipload of editors, Tory poli-
ticians, land-agents, bankers, soft-goods mer-
chants, and “right-thinking” persons generally,
were to arrive in Melbourne, the Argus would
probably begin to get lukewarm itself. But it
has no scruples about flooding the labor market of
other men. We want white immigrants certainly ;
but we want to have something for them to do.
And we don’t want the farm-laborer particularly.
What we want is the skilled workman (for our
factories) and the farmer (for our land when the
big landowner is forced to cut it up).
JACK LONDON.
See next issue of The Lone Hand for Jack
London’s vivid story of his early struggles.
The Lone Hand is not only the Australian
magazine. It is the best magazine. Get on to
the subscription list, either with your news agent
or directly with the office.
The l®£aE Hand
214- George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Duchess of Dantzic.”
Theatre Royal “ The Breed of the Treshams.’
Criterion “ Man to Man.”
Palace “ The Broken Home.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Kino's “ Sailor Jack.”
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
“The Breed of the Treshams,” tiie new
Sydney Theatre Royal production, is Rilanderson
melodrama, with a difference or two. The villain
wears clothes of the Charles I. instead of the Ed.
VII. period. The chief sympathetic figure is not
the patently virtuous young fellow of convention
—in fact, a brother officer goes so far as to term
him “ a disgrace to the regiment.” And there is
a gracious dearth of comic relief, police sergeants
and limelight. in other respects, the worn
dramatic trail that our remote forbears blazed is
faithfully pursued. “Rat” Reresby—misunder-
stood, contemned, despitefully treated—battles
against the world in the cause of sentimentality
and the right, and scores, ultimately, a handsome
win. His persecutors die infamous deaths for the
most part; if they are suffered to live, it is to
drag out shameful existences under the burden
of names that have become synonymous with
the word Mud. The authors of the play
haven’t fashed themselves much about the style
or construction of it. They appear to have
hooked a costume “thriller” out of the nearest
drawer, diluted it with pathos from “The Only
Way,” and slapped into the combination a big
part, ideally suited for an actor after the manner
and semblance of Julius Knight. Last Saturday’s
audience found the recipe right pleasing.
Lieutenant Reresby (known as “ The
Rat”) comes of “the black breed of the Tre-
shams.” The veriest tyro in matters theatric
suspects that Reresby is not good the moment he
walks “on.” He is livid; his mouth wears a bitter
upward twist; hiseyes are furtively aslant. If there
is one point on which all hands in the fortified
town of Eeversham (A.D. 1045) are agreed, it is
that “Rat ” Reresby is thoroughly wicked. The
audience sits up hopefully, expectant that it is in
for a new stage thing. Not so, however. As a
wrong ’un, Reresby proves a false alarm. He
does nothing that is not kindly and heroic.
Francis Tresham, his half-brother, provokes him
to a duel. He disarms the headstrong boy and
spares his life. Sweet Margaret Hungerford stirs
his admiration. He plunges straightway, with
an almost old-maidenly vim, into the task of
making her and Francis matrimonially happy.
He salvages and adopts a waif, by name Batty.
What genuine bad lot ever saddled himself with
a stage waif ? When the Feversham Castle gar-
rison mutinies, and is heard howling blood and
rapine without, he dispatches Margaret to a
turret with a knife and the customary trying hint
that she will “ know how to use it if the worst
comes to the worst,” and himself proceeds with
pistol and broadsword to keep the army at bay
till help arrives, and the play recovers its reason.
And finally he endures the torture by hot irons,
rather than betray his idol’s villainous brother.
If a unit of this type was “a disgrace” to a fifteenth
century regiment, then has the bull-dog breed de-
teriorated sadly in the last 250 years. Judged by
the “Rat ’ standard, the most blameless corps of
modern Boy Scouts clamors for disbandment, and
the average khaki-clad grown-up is unfit to live.
Julius Knight plays Reresby. It is the
straightest, sincerest performance the writer hasyet
seen by thissound actor. TheDorsingtonof EardJey
Turner is another good piece of work. R. I)en-
niston is sufficiently dastardly as Sir Clement.
A. J. Patrick is a taking young lover, and Rupert
Julian (Lumsford) crashes down a flight of stairs
in astoundingly deathlike fashion. Miss Florence
Grleeson makes a hit as Batty, and Miss Guildford
Quin is a delightful-looking, albeit somewhat
missish and self-conscious, Margaret.
“The Broken Home,” which fractured at
Sydney Palace on Saturday night last, was held
together for the first evening by the resource of
W. J. Montgomery. Jefferson Taite, who was to
have taken the heavy part of “Harry Denton, a
True-hearted Man,” met with an accident on the
way to the theatre, and, as no understudy was
available, W. J. Montgomery was prevailed on to
read the numerous remarks of the True-hearted
One at half-an-hour’s notice. Although the action
of the piece was retarded here and there whilst
the lead turned a page, the skill of a capable
and experienced actor saved the situation.
The “Home” doesn’t pretend to break new
ground ;it just breaks itself. The dramatist set
out with the cold determination to go to the well
of Life and there gather as much grief as one
cracked home would hold. Before the curtain
rises, Myrtle Denton—whose official label is “A
Loyal Wife” —has accumulated a mild variety of
Past. After marrying a dishonest person, who
was dragged from off her arm at thd church door,
she has, after the lapse of several years, wedded
in all good faith the True-hearted One. She
believes her first husband to have died in prison.
The obliterating cloth reveals her in the
midst of her unbroken home with a charming
and unbroken infant in her arms. The burst-
ing up commences without delay. Walter
Denton, who is the villainous cousin of the True
Hearted, Arthur Millwood, “A Bad Lot,” and
Jack Atkins, a ne’er-do-well Irishman in a tam-o’-
shanter that amounts to a breach of the peace,
arrive in the garden and begin to plot the down-
fall of the establishment. At least Denton and
Millwood plot, and Jack Atkins roars insults at
the pair of them ; he keeps on all the way through
refusing to do what he calls their “ dhirty work,”
'out, nevertheless, does it faithfully until he is
deservedly poisoned in the last act by his long-
suffering employer. The plot consists of Arthur
Milwood—who is the double of his brother, the
dead felon—striding into the garden and an-
nouncing himself as the deceased come back
to claim his own. The Loyal Wife flies
from her happy home for ever, clad in the usual
cloak, and leaving the usual note on the table, and
the unusual infant on the couch. Walter Denton,
thecousin, stridesinimmediately after her exit and.
discovering the letter, reads it without a qualm.
He tears off the postscript which relates to the leav-
ing of the baby, and gives the inf antover to Millwood
to convey to Mother Flanagan, a professional child
stealer, who is waiting outside. The True-hearted
One appears, reads the letter, and, whilst under
the influence of excitement, is taunted by Mill-
wood with desertion. A vest-shaking struggle
between the two results in Millwood being cast on
the floor and looking so dead that the horrified
husband does a staggery exit, during which
he ejaculates. “The Brand of Cain!” Walter
Denton has been concealed behind the screen
during the disturbance, and he comes forth just
as Millwood rises on his elbow and gasps for
water. Two feeble smacks on the head from
Denton’s riding crop complete the half-and-half
murder. As the corpse falls flat there is a loud
roar of hate from the hallway of the mansion, and
the deafening Irishman dances with rage whilst
he points an accusing finger at the half-murderer.
Instead of discharging him for making an un-
reasonable noise, his employer calms him down,
and they depart, leaving the body in the drawing-
room.
Then the curtain falls for eight years. In
Act 11. the True-hearted is supposed to have
become a wreck through drink ; but as W. J.
Montgomery couldn’t very well reel and read at
one and the same time, it was a perfectly
sober man with his book in his hand who
was cast out of his club by a scornful steward
on first night. While sitting on the club
steps, learning his next conversation, he is
nearly robbed of his watch by his ragged eight-
year-old son, urged on to the deed with a strap
by Mother Flanagan. The lost and hungry wife
joins the pair shortly afterwards, but they fail
to recognise one another, and the drama goes
slowly on to “Act 111. The Abode of Unrest—
a Millionaire’s Mansion.” The True-hearted
Husband is still supposed to be drinking hard.
His evil cousin, having got him to make a will in
his favor, is leaving the whisky round so that he
can finish himself that way. The deafening
Irishman is present in the capacity of footman,
and he yells impartially at all; also, the feverish
gaiety of a millionaire’s home is represented by
people dealing one another hands of cards, and
then getting up and walking about arm-in-arm.
With Act IV. arrives 11 p.m.—and 11 p.m.
brings common sense for the disorganised family,
and handcuffs for the villain. It also
brings death to the Irishman who roars
with his last breath. Nellie Fergusson, as
Myrtle Denton, makes a sweet but unreasoning
wife; Helen Fergus is admirable as Mother
Flanagan; and Ethel Buckley supplies a fair
measure of vigorous comedy as jane Wilton.
Kenneth Hunter, in the character of the plotting
but futile Walter Denton, is a much-shaken
villain, for almost everyone in the cast —with the
exception of a pieman who never speaks or sells
anything—throws him on the floor and casts
words of scorn at his head. % Thomas Curran as
Arthur Millwood, the false husband, Wilton
Power as a detective, and T. E. Leonard as
Daniel Wilton are all fairly satisfactory. The
part which was to have been J. Taite’s was later
allotted to the capable Harry Diver, and the
Home will be Broken till further notice.
** * *
“ Man to Man,” which opened at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday night last, is something
more than a mere spine-refrigerator. It is a
mental Sandow exercise. The onlooker who can
keep track of the plot through all its meanderirigs
and not suffer from brain-fag, and the periodic
need of iced nourishment for the mind, is no slouch
in the matter of intellectual development.
James Gordon is manager for Mathew.
Ellerton, who owns the Phoenix Ironworks.
Richard Ellerton, the reputed son of Mathew,
loves unliolily Ethel Maythorne, to whom .James
aforementioned is betrothed. Ethel spurns
Richard vigorously. So, on the wedding morn of
James and Ethel, Richard (a) burgles certain
securities from Mathew’s safe, (bJ induces a
small boy, named Ned Doyle, to commit
forgery, (c) provokes James—normally a man
of peace—to remove his frock-coat and smite
him (Richard) in or about the midriff,
(d) compels the aforesaid Doyle to place the
securities in the temporarily abandoned covering
of James, (e) observes “Ha ! ha ! ” and retires for a
space up-stage. The wedding over, he steps
briskly forward and (1) attempts to have James ar-
rested for assaulting him in the midriff (the police
refuse amid cheers to do more than take James’
name and address for this offence); (2) he charges
James with forgery ; (3) he accuses James of
security-pilfering. The last accusation he sheets
home by directing a search party into the wilder-
ness of James’ marriage-garments. The next act
discloses James and the boy Doyle hard at
work on one of England’s remaining indus-
tries—viz., stone-cutting at Portland prison.
They have held their jobs some 2£ years
when the curtain rises. James is compelled
to toil at the same stone as a murderer named
Bill—which is one of the unpleasant possibilities
of this line of employment. Bill, James, and
Ned escape, and are found together in act 111.,
near a railway siding. James appears to have
lost his reason. He is completely under the
dominance, of Bill. At the instigation of this
degraded citizen he and Ned push a goods truck
on to the main line, where it collides with the
night express. Bill’s aim in inspiring this
deed is to snatch a disguise from the en-
suing holocaust. On the wrecked train are
Richard and Ethel, and in the luggage-van is a
mass of documentary evidence. The correspond-
ence serves, when unpacked, to establish (1) that
Ethel is “a faithful wife”; (2) that Richard is
due for 20 years’ penal servitude ; (3) that James
is guiltless of crime ; (4) that Richard is not the
son of Mathew, and heir to the Phoenix Iron-
works, but the offspring of Kate Noel, an aged
and penniless gipsy ; (5) that James is Mathew’s
son, he having been changed at birth.
* * *
George Cross sustains the role of the up-
right but insanely credulous James. We would
love James more did he snivel less. Laurence
Dunbar, as Richard, plots with industry, and
some ability. He hits up a fine infamy-score
before the law declares his innings closed.
His crime-style is beyond cavil. George
Carey supplies an interesting character-study
of Bill, a homicidal convict. We are left in doubt
as to William’s ultimate fate, but hope against
hope that it was not the gallows. None ever
assassinated with more rollicking good humor


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
than Bill. Miss Eugenie Duggan is delightful as
Ethel Maythorne, and earnest efforts are made by
Miss Lena Langridge (Ned Doyle), Miss Lily
Rochfort (Lavinia Dove), .T. H. Nunn (Rev.
Ormond) and Temple Harrison (Samuel Plumtree).
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) Napoleon con-
tinues to evade payment of his washing bill
throughout two acts ; but the energetic Florence
Young manages to get him into a corner and
squeeze payment out of him before the last tram
leaves for Botanv and other rural parts. Flor-
ence Young always did bubble over with energy,
and the big crowds that still turn up to “The
Duchess of Dantzic ” are satisfied that the debt-
collecting job couldn’t be in any more satisfactory
hands. Sydney has known its Florence for many
years as a bright comic-opera warbler, who always
lets you know what she’s singing; now it is
getting a chance to find that, like Stewart,
she has great dramatic power.
** * *
There were several humorous features about
the latest series of pictures exhibited by Mr. West
at Sydney Glaciarium. The Red Hand series is
calculated to stop wealthy tourists going to Paris.
For, alluring and wicked as are some of the
scenes, the terrific aspect of the Apaches, as
the night-prowlers of the French capital are
called, is as dreadful as the stinking fish stories
of the Women’s League for the Defence of the
Marriage Tie. One of the series represents
the Apaches doing something between a fandango
and a “ Merry Widow ” waltz. The most humor-
ous feature, however, is a daily paper account of
the show, which says :
The conditions of life in the wilds of Central Africa
were depicted in a series called “Life on the Zambesi.”
The abundance of game, both large and small, and also
the wonderful fertility of the soib as instanced by the
dense undergrowth, were matters of interest.
Now did the gentle T. J. West ever hump his
cinematograph camera through the fever .districts
of the Zambesi ? Or were the pictures taken in the
grounds of Hagenbeck’s menagerie at Hamburg ?
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum the Chronomegaphone
is again in full blast, and the roars of Harry
Lauder and other alleged comic singers mingle
with the cheers of the audience. The Customs
House officer is a sad tale. In the pursuit of duty
and smugglers the young man has the misfortune
to capture the father and mother of the young lady
he is about to marry, and the situation becomes
complicated. Like a fool he allows them to get
away, whereas' by handing them over to the
authorities he would have got a reward that would
have gone a long way towards furnishing. This
film should be removed, for not only does it en-
courage the young to neglect their duty in order
to win the favor of a girl, but it inculcates an
idea that money doesn’t matter. And in a young
country it matters a great deal.
su * *- *
H. N. Southwell will help John Lemmone
in the coming Melba tour, which means visiting
most of the towns from Charters Towers to
Boulder City. Melba’s intention to visit com-
paratively small places has awakened curiosity as
to what she means by it. Her answer is that all
Australia is to have a chance to hear her. If
people go to London or New York and wish to
hear her, it means trouble and high-priced tickets.
Her action has caught on already, and in Dubbo,
where she does not sing before June 14, many
seats are already booked. W. H. Paling’s have
allowed H.N.S. full leave for the tour—a hand-
some act.
** * *
Andrew Black, the noted English singer,
and Christian Hellemann, the rising young Aus-
tralian composer and conductor, will be on view
at a popular concert in the Sydney Town Hall
next Tuesday (Anniversary) night. The Enmore
Choral Society will help Hellemann, and the word
“popular” may be considered an appropriate
epithet for the programme.
** * *
The variety business grows more and more
athletic every week, and the out-of-date person
who can merely sing is pushed further and further
towards the end of the programme—the end that
is nearest 11 o’clock. Lawson and Namon, the
latest arrivals at Sydney Tivoli, are a mixed
athletic team, whereof the lady smites a punch-
ing-ball, and the gentleman, disguised as a tramp,
extracts some humor from a bicycle. The sight of
a tramp cyclist wafts this writer backwards a good
ten years into the twilit Past, and revives memories
of other cyclists who tricked their brief hour and
then tracked behind the scenes. The possibilities
of the familiar two-wheeled contrivance have been
exhausted these many years, and the performer
who takes it on is liable to be overbalanced by the
memory of those who have circled and fallen
before.” Amalia and Leonora, the muscular lady
equilibrists, and Christofolo, the youthful juggler
and equilibrist, also help to make the programme
an athletic document.
'* * * *
Pollard’s Opera Co. has left Adelaide
Royal. It was not supported as well as it de-
served, in spite of cool weather. Adelaide always
fears in January that it may suddenly turn hot,
and does not care to book seats in advance. On
the other hand, Rickards is about to re-open the
Tivoli on the old “3, 2, and 1 ” charges; it re-
mains to be seen whether the cheaper variety
houses have spoiled the market. The Continental
has fairly up-to-date pictures of the Broken Hill
demonstrations ; the Olympia, has the Assassina-
tion of a Duke, as acted by players of the Theatre
Francais ; and the Town Hall has the Burns-John-
son disturbance. It is all the fighting that Adelaide
is likely to see, but it is quite unsatisfying. The
marks on Burns don’t show, the blows are not
obvious (except some of Johnson’s half-arm jolts),
and there is very little to prove why the police
stopped the scuffle and the crowd made no objec-
tion. Fighting at second-hand, by photograph,
is a poor game for the gore-lover.
* * * -*
A lamentable drama known as ‘ ‘ The
10.30 Down Express” is doing six nights’ hard
labor at the King’s (Melb.). The character of
this attractive production—it must be attractive,
for the house was crowded on Saturday—is of the
tragic-domestic order, interspersed with comic
menials and mechanical effects. The comic
menials “carry-on” in a terribly entertaining
manner whilst the serious persons are behind the
scenes. Incidentally the parlor maid drops a
packet of tin tacks on the floor, in order that
peals of merry larfter may result when somebody
treads or sits upon these little bits of hardware.
Also, the same maiden and her young man, who
is Bert Bailey, retract their mutual vows, and
return their tokens of affection to one another.
When the lady impetuously proposes to give back
her garters to the donor, and Bert Bailey turns
his head away in mock dismay, the Andersoman
audience seems even better pleased than it is
when Bailey retaliates by flinging his braces at
JOHN COSGROVE as Harry
Thaw , and the obviously despic-
able ABE HUMMELL, at Mel-
bourne Bijou.
the feet of his fiancee. As a
corrective to these ex-
uberant humorists, the
leading villain is a
brilliant success. In
cold, measured tones
he talks of burglary,
murder, and sud-
den death. He
plans the utter
destruction
of a toy rail-
way train
anditsliving
freight ; be-
cause one of
the passen-
gers has in-
curred his
dislike. Cas-
ually he
places a
helpless fel-
low citizen
on the rails
with a view
to further
bloodshed.
He is usually
interrupted
in his vil-
lainies, but
he never
loses his
temper, and
after a while
one gets to think of his thwarted endeavors
as harmless pleasantries. In fact, he is the
drama’s one redeeming circumstance. Good
and bad characters are presented by Edwin
Lester, Campbell, Edmund Duggan, Miss Gair,
Miss Leighford, Vivian Edwards and others.
Miss Fanny Erris impersonates Bert Bailey s
partner in comic relief, and Hilliard Vox will be
the redeeming circumstance until Friday.
Walter Baker and Miss Frances Ross will
appear at the King’s on Saturday (23rd) in a
drama written and devised by Baker aforesaid
and entitled “Sailor Jack.” The advt. attaches
great importance to the first appearance of these
two popular favorites under Anderson’s manage-
ment, and The Bulletin hails their approach
with a round of applause.
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), the panto
iff “ Jack and Jill ” appears to be going again with
all its original vigor and volatility. The songs
and dance music that merely tickled the public
ear a month ago are now biting it; the appearance
of Bert Gilbert, disguised as a Gibson girl, has
gained in majesty and grace ; Widow Campbell
is a popular institution ; Miss Gastelle and Fanny
Dango, who decorate the name parts, have been
awarded first-class certificates in the plum and
peach section of exhibits ; and everything else in
the garden is either lovely or lively, or both.
Portions of the ballets are both. A specially ad-
mirable portion is Miss Addie Hinde, the blonde
and airy damsel who flashes into action like a
gleam of surprise, and passes away like a blissful
illusion.
* * * *-
The rival questions, “ Can a man love
The delicate light comedian,
HARRY McDONA, in the
great frost drama, at Mel-
bourne Bijou.
more than one
woman?” and
“Can a woman
love more than
one man ? ” are
being intruded
upon Melbourne
notice apropos to
a coming change
of bill at the
Bijou. The ob-
vious answer to
which queries is—
“ You never can
tell till you try,”
or words to that
effect. But the
title of theimpend-
ing drama is “ The
Great Redemp-
tion,” and it will
supersede “ The
Unwritten Law”
on Saturday next.
* *
Concer nin g
“Cinderella,” at
Melbourne Royal,
this paper can
think of nothing
new to say, except
that it lasts some
minutes longer
than it should. Perhaps it presumes on its popu-
larity or suffers from too many encores. “.Cin-
derella” is a bright consecutive panto., but if its
good old tale were slightly abbreviated the effect
would be just the same, or even more so.
Kr * * *
Tait’s flicker-delusion, at Melbourne Glaci-
arium, entitled “ After Many Years, pictures
the return of a long-lost husband to find another
johnny with, at the very least, a platonic footing
on the premises. This returning habit that long-
lost husbands have is utterly objectionable.
In the present instance, the “ friend ”
assumes the role of comforter and guide,
while the husband, supposedly drowned in a ship-
wreck, is Crusoeing on an uninhabited isle in
about 4cwt. of false whiskers and animal pelt.
Hubby is, of course, salvaged by a passing ship,
returns, and, with the selfishness of his type,
claims his gushful spouse. He has no gratitude
for the unimpeachable personage who spoke
kindly to his wife in the interval, and allows the
creature to evacuate the position without offering
him even a medal for his services.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia last Saturday
night, T. J. West pictured Daudet’s troublous
and romantic story of “ The Arlesienne,’ with
more or less adherence to the original. One or
two of the chief characters in the little drama are
flamboyant almost to garishness. Their simplest
actions are represented with the showy opulence
of mannerism of not the best type of French mime,
and as for the young man who postures as the
love-sick Frederic, his compass of torturing facial
expressions is remarkable. If it were proper to
study that young man’s visage for a diagnosis,
The Bulletin would say that he was suffering
not from amorous melancholia, but from the after-
pangs of a jag on green fruit. The color of the
film, however, is excellent, especially the sun-
splashed courtyard of Esteve’s farmhouse, which
is a triumph of flickergraphic art.
Thomas Burns was the “star ” arrival at
Melbourne Opera House last week. He appeared
in the flesh and on the flickergraph screen, and
one way and another his admirers got a good deal
of him. Between now and next Monday, when
the engagement of Mr. Johnson’s recent adver-
sary comes to an end, Melbourne will probably
have exhausted its enthusiasm for “nobleartists,”
and the other members of the present company
will loom larger in general estimation. J. W.
Rickaby, a tuneful humorist with more than one
side to his burlesquery, is the latest of those mem-
bers. Geoffreys and Benson have changed one
rather good turn for another ; likewise Guest and
Newlyn, and Carden Wilson. Also the Latonas,
whose front name is partly Frank and mostly
Jen, are introducing some songs they didn’t sing
before. That is to say, partner Jen is making
the introductions with marked intelligence and
musical ability.
Although Victorian Executive Councillors
are ex officio J’s.P., few of them hanker after the
“honor” so much that they trouble to get them-
selves sworn in. But of Bent’s last batch of
dummies, five turned up, the other day, before
Justice Hood to grab the despised remnants of
the positions they held for a week or two.
The Broken Hill unions say that Tom
Mann is now being paid only £5 a week and £1 for
expenses; and, considering the sort of genius the
unions seem to think T. Mann is, The Bulletin
is sorry to hear it.
A Sydney Chinese vegetable John named,
or said to be named, War Lee, was found by a
policeman to be selling with an alleged lib.
weight, which was only 13oz. He therefore re-
ceived an invitation to be present next day at the
police court. When the case came on, War Lee
stepped briskly forward and pleaded guilty.
Sentence was about to be passed when the prose-
cuting bobby remarked to the Bench that he
didn’t think the defendant was War Lee. The
Chinaman apologised for his mistake, and another
War Lee was found and placed in front of the
magistrate, and the case began again. As he,
too, pleaded guilty, the Bench was reading him
a homily on his conduct when the policeman
ejaculated that he was blessed if the second man
was War Lee either. He, too, was rushed out of
court. A third wrong Chinaman then appeared
and explained that the real War Lee was too busy
that morning, but he would call himself War Lee
if the Magnificence on the Bench didn’t mind.
The Magnificence, in a rage, then inflicted on
some Chinaman alleged to exist, and reputedly
named War Lee, the highest penalty allowed by
law.
W. N. Willis, who has played many parts
in his time, now takes on the rble of biographer,
and is writing the life of his friend, the late
W. P. Crick. Mr. Willis has announced that his
book is an act of justice, and there is abroad a
general impression that it is going to scorch up
quite a number of reputations, and make a con-
siderable dust one way and another.
Nothing, even bad seasons through droughts,
bush fires or retrogressive Ministries, seems to retard the
progress of the wholesale firms which supply the means
of wholesale slaughter to the slaughterous fly. At any
rate, judging by the large new premises which have just
replaced 'kocke Tompsitt’s old ones in Flinders-street,
Melbourne, that firm owes much prosperity, if not to the
Ay, certainly to the substance which carries death, sudden
and numerous, to that numerous insect. By delving
down into the earth, and high up into the altitudinous
atmosphere, R., X. and Co. have increased their building
to such a palatial extent that they should easily be able
to store and manage the distribution of enough Insectibane
to slay, without warning, all the insect pests, exclusive,
of course, of undesirable politicians, in the Common-
wealth. And this without overcrowding their innumer-
able drugs and other aids to human wellbeing.*
The Landing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Has it ever struck you what an uninspiring anniversary
—January 26, Foundation Day—we Australians cele-
brate? Surely we Commonwealthers ought to give over
this celebration of the landing of Phillip and his lags.—
Extract from the speech that ought to have been de-
livered, but wasn't.
O, gracious Day we celebrate —
Remember how, whh pride,
The Hangman’s ships, with gladsome freight,
Came swinging on the tide !
Fire off the rockets, ring the bells—
Lord, how the bunting sags !
Still can I hear their manacles—
The fetters of the lags !
How proud are we to know that they
For whom we lift these strains—
For whom the dear school-children bray—
Came out (hooray !) in chains !
They were the founders (’gainst their wills),
Wave high the crimson flags ;
Commemorate, O Jims and Bills,
The landing of the lags !
From shore to shore, Australians all,
Arise forthwith, I pray ;
Salute with universal bawl
The Hangman’s Holiday !
See how the noose swings merrily.
And how the cold corpse wags ;
Keep green that precious memory—
The coming of the lags !
Impress our bad old history
Upon each school-kid’s brain ;
Yea, indicate most carefully 7
Australia’s ancient stain !
Pass round the pleasant picnic bun—
Load up the girls in drags,
And glue the Nation’s eye upon
The advent of the lags !
VIC.
GRANT HERVERY.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Issachar”: The first Yiddish or pigeon-Hebrew
dramatic performance in Australia was given at the Mel-
bourne Temperance Hall on January 11. The word
Yiddish applies to a mixture of Hebrew with any other
language. There have thus been more varieties than
can be reckoned up. The mixture with what is termed
Low German is the only one, apparently, with a notice-
able literary output. New York is the great head-
quarters in that regard for up-to-date production, with
its Yiddish drama, in good theatres, With good actors. A
tame dramatist is kept at each theatre to translate
and adapt the best plays from the American, German,
French and English. Most in favor are American comedies
with funny Jews in them. The piece selected for the
Melbourne Temperance Hall was “ Gabriel, or the Faith
of a Jewish Wife,” by J. Lateiner, played over 400 nights
at the New York People’s Theatre. The Melbourne audi-
ence was the most talkative I ever saw. Quite a Babel
before the show and between the acts. I was surprised
to find that men, women, and children mostly seemed to
understand the Yiddish speech. The points, especially
the comic ones, were taken up as if they were in
English. The piece went swimmingly. A more
delighted audience cannot be imagined. “ Gabriel ”
is called an operetta, and is a queer nondescript of
farce and vaudeville, also bordering on the tragic.
Yiddish sounds almost exactly like German to an English
ear, and a German understands much of it, especially
when illuminated with action. The plot of “Gabriel”
may have been suggested by Halevy’s opera, “ La Juive,”
introduced by L.vster in Australia. That opera ends with
the Jewess being flung into a cauldron of boiling oil, with
a stage amphitheatre of thousands of painted spectators
behind the real ones, as in a cyclorama. A Cardinal is
her enemy. When the deed is done, her supposed father,
Eleazar, shouts to the Cardinal, “She is thy daughter !”
In the play of “ Gabriel,” Dina, the Jewess, is sentenced
to be burnt alive, but is saved. Miss Opitz took
this part with ability. H. Reynolds was good as her hus-
band, Gabriel, both with his humor and fine outbursts of
passion. The best performance was that of the principal
comedian, S. Weisberg, asPinke, a kind of amiable Fagin.
He caused the most uproarious fun by his acting, dialect,
singing and dancing. lam tempted to call this the most
funny Jew ever seen on the Melbourne stage. Miss
Lazarus acted up to him capitally as Chinke, his wife,
with powerful sinking. Feldman was dignified as the
Grand Duke, and Briar quizzical as his Private Secretary.
Altogether a most peculiar dream of extravaganza, but
it would have been nowhere without the electrical audi-
ence.
“0.K.”: A Poverty Pointer assumed that the Sir
Charles Young, author of “ Jim the Penman,” was
identical with Charles Young the actor, who appeared in
Australia 50 years ago, and whose divorced wile after-
wards married Hermann Vezin. This assumption has
been queried. Mr. Young the actor, and baronet Young
the playwright, were different persons, I fancy. Can
anyone settle the question ?
‘‘Snell”: Please consider this from a recent Argus
leader on the drama : “It is pleasant to go occasionally
to hear a stirring melodrama, with all its fierce situa-
tions. ... It gives relief from epigram, and from the per-
petual stage-juggle with aberrations of sex.” The leader-
writer echoes the babble of cheap philosophers in the Big
SmoKe. What sense is there in such reflections in Mel-
bourne, where two theatres are entirely devoted to the
“stirring melodrama ” (so-called because it is an inces-
sant stirring of the same old puddle), and where plays of
an epigrammatic character get a look-in once in a blue
moon? The Argus man, fatigued with epigrams and
surfeited with sex aberration (note that the simplest and
most natural affairs of sex become “ aberrations ” imme-
diately they crop up in a British play), must have strained
his stupendous intellect w’ith an overdose of “ Merry
Widow.”
Melba sent, from New York, a post card with her photo
and a large box of sweets (the latter were purchased
locally on her behalf by John Lemmone) to the youngest
boy selling newspapers on Sydney streets. A deal of
sifting was necessary till little Tommy Blank was decided
on. The publisher sent him word to call. “No bloomin’
fear,” said Tommy; “I know what ’e wants. It’s that
blooming tram cove wants to cop me for jumpin’ on the
trams.” After assurances he accepted both presents,
but it was quite evident that the sweets were better value
to Thomas Blank than the picture.
“ Paradis After Mignonette Kokin, Meredith Meredro
was bound to come. The next will be Xylophonia Xenia,
and the next Jane Smith. After that, the curtain will
fall. Meredro is plain. Her nose is planed-down Grecian,
with an annoying little snub. Yet she has charm. That's
the word. French actresses are plain, but they struggle
for charm, and snavel it. Meredro must have it by
nature. Every motion is steeped in the grace that Pro-
vidence poured over her, like the oil that flowed down
Aaron’s chin-mat. She is quite a Hamlet in that black attire
with the long tights. She would be a better melancholy
Dane than other women that Australia has seen—Mrs.
G. B. W. Lewis, Rose Evans, Miss Cleveland, Louise
Pomeroy.
Sir Julius Benedict, the composer of “The Lily of Kil-
larney” (1862), “ The Crusaders” (1846), “The Brides of
Venice ” (1843), and other operas, was born in Stuttgart
(Germany) in 1804, and was one of many foreign musicians
who made their home in England. His works comprise
operas, ballads, cantatas, oratorios, symphonies, etc.
He studied under Weber—lB2l-24 —and held various
posts in Germany and France. London saw him in 1835,
and he lived there until his death in 1885. During that
time he was a big luminary in the English musical
world. He conducted every Norwich Musical Festival
from 1845 to 1878.
“ Sr.” : Sorry to note the demise of Dave Gardiner,
comedian. He was of the old-time nigger minstrel
brigade, and for years was the principal artist at the
Melbourne Temperance Hall Saturday nights people’s
concerts. Along with Jantz Kholman, Dave used to
rattle the bones, and belabor the tambourine, and ask
questions of the interlocutor. He did this for about
15 years or so. He was a regular smoke night entertainer,
too, and essentially Australian. If Dave had been an
English comedian, per “ s.s. Imported,” he might have
been a great comedian. Even in his latest days he
had some fairly good and fresh conundrums, and those
which he hadn’t time to ask on earth he’ll probably put
to Peter at the gate.
(Continued on page 33.)
A MONSTER COMBINATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Comrade Mann!
Also Comrade Darling:
The Revolutionary Socialist!
And the Revolutionary Capitalist !
Talking !
At the Hill!
Arms !
And the Mann !
Also more arms !
And the Darling-!
Still-
Curious to state—
No bloodshed !
A Revolution, my friends !
Have you ever seen one?
A hint here for the Tourist Bureau :
“Grand Excursion
To.the Broken Hill Revolution !
Conducted by the Mann-Darling Monster Com-
bination !
“ See for Yourselves
How History is made—
Also Ironed and Mangled 1
Warranted Harmless!
No Fatalities!
Life-like Street Hustling—
More Real than a Cinematograph,
But Less Violent than a Football Match I
Book Early! ”
Comrade Mann!
A Iso Com rade Darling !
The Revolutionary Socialist!
And the Revolutionary Capitalist !
Now Performing at the Hill!
N,S. W.
WILLIAM SULTHIDE.


OUR SUMMER SALE.
This event begins on JANUARY
25th. All Goods throughout the
house, with few exceptions, are
materially reduced.
Write for our 88 Page Sale
Catalogue containing' illustrations
and Price Lists.
Post Free on request.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
xcxc
THE "GOERZ-ANSCHUTZ”
FOLDING CAMERA.
AN IDEAL CAMERA for Tourists, Travellers, and all wishing' a High-Class Camera, in
a Compact, Light, and Quickly Adjusted Style. An entirely New Model. The Speeds
of the Focal Plane Shutter working automatically from 1/f2ooth of a second up. to 5
seconds. The Lens is the _ _ ,
GOERZ “DAGOR.”
The New Improvements in this Excellent Camera must commend it to the most critical.
Users of it are charmed by its efficiency and adaptability. Though Extremely Light, no
quality is sacrificed. Everything that Science could give has been added to this
SUPERB CAMERA.
Price, including- Lens, Shutter, Three Double-Dark Slides, and Velvet-Lined Carrying Case,
x 3/4in.
' (Post Card Size)
£lB/151
Com-
plete.
x 4-^in.
(i-Plate)
£23
Com*
i plete.
C. P. GOERZ,
to 6 HOLBORN
CIRCUS,
LONDON, E.C.,
or from the Sole
Australasian Agents-
HARRINGTONS LTD.
386 George St. (near G.P.0.), Sydney; 179 Collins St., Melbourne; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Sr” : Since Johnsing’s victory over
Burns the few young niggers that we have in
Australia are a loud and arrogant push. They
have bousrht green socks and new straw hats and
canes. They have stuck the straw hats carefully
over their ears, and they wave their canes, and
they walk three abreast and throw out the feet
that are contained in the green socks with the air
of Africans who own the earth. They have tan
boots, and their light suits are of the check
variety, and the check looks like the front door of
a gaol. A fine, large air of condescension and
proprietorship attaches to these young buck
niggers, and at times people who see them almost
wish that something would happen to Mr. John-
sing just to calm the niggers down.
THE ARTLESS CHILD .
SISSY: “If you say it was both our faults
mother will beat us both, but if you say it
was all your fault she will kiss you and call
you a brave boy.”
•d„ 1 TT-.i t ■ 1 r , , , j ~ ~
Hill fairly bubbled over after the
so-called riot and the arrest of a score of men, in-
i m Mann ; and the Combined Unions
added to the amusement of the cities in a dull
season by begging the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to send along the military to protect the
public from the unprovoked assaults of Wade’s
policemen. The Combined Unions weren’t more
than half serious when they made that suggestion,
hut they were serious enough in complaining that
it wasn t necessary to do anything to earn a crack
on the head from a constable’s baton. In proof
that the bit of stick fell alike on the just and on
the unjust, there is, anyway, the case of the
constable who happened to be among the crowd
in plain clothes, and who, mistaken for one of the
local unemployed, got the father of a bump on the
back of the head. He was a zealous constable too
who, in spite of the fact that he was in plain
clothes and off duty, was giving law’n’order a
shove along at the time. Unfortunately his shove
was misinterpreted : and if a constable’s shove
was misinterpreted, it is at least quite possible
that many another man’s shove was misinterpreted
likewise.
» * * ,
Every time there is a strike or any trouble
of that sort the shopkeepers of Broken Hill quake
in their boots and hurry along to tell the miners
that “ the business part of the city ” is on their
side all right; wherefore the present ruction had
scaripely started when the Chamber of Commerce
met and made an offer to supply goods at cost
price to the families who are “out.” The sword
that hangs for ever over the business man is the
dread of something large and comprehensive in
the way of co-operative stores. The Combined
Unions don’t issue strike pay nowadays ; instead,
they issue coupons. In ’92 they established and
manned their own stores, bakeries, butcheries,
boot-shops (with repairing branches), etc., at which
the coupons were honored ; and when the strike
was over and things had settled down a bit, the
co-operative stores were resumed. But the men
didn’t have much heart left just then to put into
their stores, so Private Enterprise got another
lease of life. Lately, however, it has been
threatened again, and it quakes as mentioned
above. And it quakes more than ever on finding
that the Combined Unions have turned to the
Co-operative Stores and are drawing all their sup-
plies through that channel.
* * * *
A. W. Meeks is optimistic
about the Englishman’s credit abroad. F’rin-
stance:—
On the Continent, no matter where you go, if you want
to buy anything, and you are English, the Englishman’s
word is accepted implicitly ; and the goods are forwarded
to him wherever he may be—payment to be sent after-
wards. Also you And the foreign trader is willing to take
a traveller’s cheque, if the traveller is an Englishman. I
am not speaking of something I have not personally
observed. This is my own experience in Switzerland,
Italy, France, and also at ports on the voyage from Eng-
land.
Meeks must have been on one of Cook’s personally-
conducted tours, or else he stuck carefully to
British hotels and shops where he was known or
had introductions. The English swindler is
particularly well-known in the countries
named. Their prisons are full of him.
Europe, from Boulogne unto Baden, has been the
English “leg’s” Mecca since long before
Thackeray started writing him up. If the
foreigner knows so little as not to matter about
his English tripping acquaintance, he will con-
sider the cashing of his cheque ; otherwise he
sheers off the document with all the coyness of a
good Yid in the presence of a boiled or raw ham.
* * * *
The Sydney fruit hawkers who sell much
bashed fruit for a small cash payment are in great
trouble. Each of them holds a license (cost £1)
from the City Council authorising him to peddle
fruit in the streets, but under the traffic regula-
tions the hawker is liable to a fine unless he
keeps moving with the procession. Even
when effecting a sale he is expected to
sell to a mobile pedestrian. One hawker
sa,ys he has already paid £37 in fines. The
itinerant bashed-fruit merchant is chased all the
time by the Dago who sells rather less bashed
fruit in a shop, and the latter is suspected of
bribing the Force with ginger beer to keep his
brother moving. And the brother would get a
lot of sympathy but for his discordant yells. A
man who bellows as he does should be made to
keep his barrow travelling at 10 miles an hour and
be fined if he stops this side of Boggabri.
■*■#■**
The burning of T. F. Knox’s fine house,
Leura, at Bellevue Hill, Sydney, is making
insurance men think hard about shingle roofs. At
present, if you have that sort of covering over
your head, you only have to pay an extra shilling
per cent, for it, and for the household gods only
an extra sixpence (this is in the case of places
with brick or Stone walls). Many an insurance
man reckons that the risk in a climate like this is
worth five times the money. The Knoxes were
making some repairs—people with shingle roofs
generally are making repairs—and, according to
the published accounts, there was a tarpaulin or
something such spread over the gap. That raises
another question of interest to insurers. If a man
insures a shingle-roofed place, and presently
the roof is partly made of tarpaulin, how about
the insurance policies? It is the business of the
man who wants to alter the risk to notify the in-
surance co. that he intends to do it, and most
times the insurance co. takes the extra risk, what-
ever it is. If, however, a man sets about
the job without giving notice, then he is liable
to fall in if anything happens. But, though
the fire insurance cos. are supposed to be
great hagglers when it comes to a settlement,
they very rarely, as far as one can find out, take
the point that repairs or alterations were made,
and they were not told about it. What they call
the “ moral hazard ”is considered then; if the
man has a good name, and it isn’t likely that he
was trying to get at the office by increasing the
risk without letting the co. know about it,
the co. generally pays up and looks as pleasant as
it can. But it apparently isn’t the law, and a
man can’t therefore rely upon his insurance office
taking things so pleasantly.
THE “MERRY WIDOW ” HAT.
IST CELESTIAL: “ Whaffor that!" 2nd Chow: “Her husband dead. Her welly glad,”
“ Oby’s ” letter :
Oamperdown, which becomes a mere ward of Sydney,
has tottered to destitution as many one-time eminent
families have done. It; was distinguished in the be-
ginning;, and in large part it mortgaged itself for the sake
of its respectability. The aldermen in charge could not
draw blood out of stones. The stylish University paid no
rates, though it held a large slice of the territory.
St. John’s, St. Paul’s, and other affiliated colleges
paid no rates. Prince Alfred Hospital paid no rates.
These, with their grounds, absorbed more than
one-third of the whole borough. It was a distinction,
the borough thought, to carry such institutions, but
Oamperdown was too poor for the luxury. Now the City
Council talks of rating these institutions or their grounds,
or, as an alternative, of claiming a consideration from the
Government. When Oamperdown aldermen mooted that
idea on behalf of their impoverished borough, official
laughter was loud. So the little municipality goes out,
as all the other pocket-handkerchief municipalities about
Sydney should go out, but the people and aldermen do
not deserve quite all the obloquy attached to the decline
and slump of Oamperdown.
* * * *
“ Mariner ” writes :
The 11,000-ton liner hasn’t altogether chased Romance
off the high seas ; it has merely got rid of most of its own
share of the damp and dangerous substance that is the
raw material of the novelist. To the time-wasting wind-
jammer, staggering about on the lesser business of the
world in the back lanes of the five oceans, Romance comes
in plenty. It arrives laden with icebergs and gales; it
falls in green-gray tons on the wretched mariner, and on
his bedding and food ; also on the photograph of
his nice, dry home at the other side of the
world. The weevils in the biscuit are Romance,
and the unpleasant white elephants in the salt
horse are Romance too. When his ship is blowing madly
through the dark, and no one has any clear idea where she
will fetch up, he has the satisfaction of knowing that he
is just like a character in a magazine story, and that
people in perfectly safe and well-warmed rooms are ab-
sorbed reading about him, and won’t put out the cat and
go to bed until he comes to the end of his paper voyage,
or is washed up dead on the last page. The plain, bald
facts never get into the magazines, such publications
preferring lies with flowing hair and whiskers down to
their waist; they are, however, occasionally printed in
the morningpaper in small typeunderthe heading “Ship-
ping Intelligence.” Here is a recent instance of the Real
Thing. A whaling barque rolled back into ’Frisco lately
from a cruise in the Northern Seas. It had been out
struggling with Romance and trying to get a living
catching the large marine animal from which men get
the material to keep women upright, if not honest. The
greeting of the ever-tnerciful Sea to the mariners was a
boatload of five apparitions—the frost-bitten and delirious
survivors of a French ship which had collided with an
iceberg. All five died, and were buried on an island by
the amateur undertakers. Later on, when surrounded
by bergs, a furious snowstorm struck the barque and
partly dismasted it. To steer the ship clear, the captain
had to be lashed to the wheel. Six of the crew
were badly frostbitten, and one afterwards died. One
day a large whale was sighted, and the yawl, manned by
five men, went after it. The whale, in its dying struggles,
smashed the boat and drowned three of the crew. How
much bad weather and general misery they had to endure
it is hard to say, but the few facts detailed are sufficient
to show that Romance is still to be had if one likes to put
on sea boots and go down to the deep in a whaler.
According to the Melbourne police,
Bourke-street has now added to its notorious
Rats’ Push a gang of ill-regulated juveniles known
as the Mice Push. It is now up to the police to
form a Cats’ Push.
v • * *
The Law isn’t an ass—an ass never had either
the Law’s appetite or its capacity for not knowing
its own mind. Take the case of P. J. Macnamara
and another party. Two years ago, Macnamara
could not persuade a jury, before District Court
Judge Fitzhardinge, at Grafton (N.S.W.), that he
was entitled to £5O as commission for the sale of a
pub at Coramba. So he went to the Law again
and asked for a new trial, and got it. The next
jury, before acting-Judge Dawson, said yes
where the first jury had said the other thing.
Then the defendant demurred, and the Full Court
upset the decision and ordered a non-suit. Plain-
tiff then got the High Court’s ear, when four
Justices decided in his favor, and said, in effect,
that the Full Court was wrong and that acting-
judge Dawson’s directions to the jury were right.
It seems a streak of luck to litigants that there is
an end at last to the possibilities of the long
lane, with the wide-mouthed gentlemen posted in
line on each side of it.
9 * * *
Melbourne’s mermaids are already divided
into two sections—-the girls who do, and the girls
who don’t. The he-swimmers are, to a man, with
the girls who do. The trouble arose very simply.
Recently the angels who dip their wings in Port
Phillip organised themselves into an association
for racing purposes. One of the first acts of the
new body was to veto all events for girls at men’s
carnivals. This provoked a snort that almost
amounted to a yelp through the nose. Then came
the edict that men were not to be admitted to
ladies’ carnivals. The snort developed into a
shriek of indignation, and then schism came to
pass. The Albert Park girl-fishes, who number
amongst them champions Lily Beaurepaire and
Marjorie Richardson, and are the most
popular team of all, candidly admit them-
selves annoyed. “ What difference does it
make if we let the men see us?” says natty
Miss Carter, the secretary. “Our girls have
all swum at their carnivals before.” So
it is not unlikely that Albert Park—the most
honorable and distinguished fish in the swimming
community—will break away from the Associa-
tion. And, considering that its legs and feet can
bear the closest inspection, there seems no suf-
ficient reason to the contrary. The excellence of
Albert Park lady swimming is due mainly to the
proximity of the sporting State school, which de-
veloped champion Beaurepaire and his sister.
Hilda Hedley and Stella Carter also learned to
“ trudge ” while imbibing dried alphabet there.
A JEERFUL NOISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One of your correspondents says that he sent the letters
that appeared lately in your columns, anent the bell
to the clergyman of the church. For the same
reason that he {rives, I also sent them, not knowing that
e^Se d orle 80 > but the clanging continues
with increased force. Is it a Christian act to cause such
unnecessary suffering now that he is aware of the fact?—
Yours, etc., One Who Cares for the Sick.— From the
correspondence column of the Melbourne Argus.
So long as t’-e plate goes round, dear pals, so long as the
cash comes in,
So long as the world has prodigals who’ll pay for my tale
of sin, y
While the lamp of guff fails not to burn, and the torch of
trust’s aflame,
111 bang my bell for the soul’s return—with a sub. against
his name 1
So long as my preaching pays me well,
Yea, though 1 settle the sick man’s hash
And his soul is damned and he goes to hell,
I’ll ring for the churchman who brings the cash with a
ding . . . dong . . . BELL 1
So long as the billet of ease is mine, and my monthly
wage is sure,
With a trifle to pay for a glass of wine, and a trifle to give
the poor,
I don’t give a dump for the doleful crew that yelps at my
holy noise
That calls the sinner to seize his pew, with a share in
eternal joys
That’s given away with a year’s pew-rent.
Though the poor, sick sufferer pass away
When, chasing sleep, he is wholly spent,
There’ll be a funeral fee to pay—and I’ll t 011... t 011...
the BELL !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
ÜBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Patents and Trade Marks.
GRIFFITH (SL HASSEL,
Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys and
Consulting Engineers.
163 Klngr Street, Sydney; 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Corresponding agents throughout the world
SPECIAL
SUMMER UNDERWEAR.
We have a line of Undergarments that will appeal
to you for the remainder of summer and autumn.
Our Light Mottled Blue Underwear is of the right
weight for present wear and very porous and
cool. The material is pure wool—the texture
open—and the whole garment elastic enough to
fit closely without pinching anywhere. We know
how difficult it is to get really unshrinkable
Underwear, but we guarantee these to be so, or
we will return your money. Prove it for
yourself.
Either Garment, 5/0.
6d. extra posted.
Our large Illustrated Catalogue Free.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
“Men’s Outfitters,’*
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
vx
The Victorian Health authorities have at
last definitely snared a “ carrier ” —not the pigeon
or teamster variety, but the sort that distributes
typhoid. The scientific curiosity was treated for
typhoid in a country hospital in 1904, and dis-
charged cured. He went to work on a station,
and three of his four room-mates promptly con-
tracted typhoid. Next he grafted on a farm, and
the cocky and his son took the disease. Soon
afterwards there were typhoid cases at two other
places—all traceable to the “carrier.” Then the
Health authorities got on his track, and hos-
pitalled him fpr further consideration. As it is
impossible to keep him long in hospital, he being
quite healthy himself, he will probably be charged
with riotous conduct.
CEMENTED THE FRIENDSHIP.
MRS. GRDALONG : “So you know Mr. Gaytyme?”
MR. PLANTEM (a retired undertaker): “Know
him! I’m a personal friend of his. Why, I
buried his wife four years ago.”
S.A. Education Department has intro-
duced a tent school for country districts which
cannot yet get a permanent building. The trial
specimen is 16ft. by 15ft., and should be much
more comfortable in hot weather than some of the
shanties in use far-back. It goes to Eyre Penin-
sula to accommodate about 20 scholars, and the
teacher in charge will live under canvas.
“Pole Star ” : Cabled that Pickering, the
Harvard (U.S. A.) star-gazer, has found a planet,
beyond Neptune, circling round the sun millions
of miles away, in the backblocks of the solar sys-
tem. Supposing this is true, the discovery is an
epoch-making one, scientifically, though of
course a small thing
compared with the fact
that Johnson beat Burns
in the 14th round.
Venus, Saturn, and one
or two more were known
to the ancients, or those
of them who knew any-
th i n g of anything.
Uranus was discovered
in the 18th century by
direct visual means.
Neptune was found by
mathematics. A mathe-
matical computation by
an English and a French
scientist simultaneously
predicated its existence,
and it was found —a
minute stellar point
only to be dug out
of the heavens by
the most power-
ful telescope.
The men who ,
have actually
seen Neptune are
fewer than those in
the front row at a
prize fight. The
number of those
who will actually
see Pickering’s
bantling will pre-
bably be nil. The
mathematical feat
which found Nep-
tune may well seem
prodigious to the man
who finds it difficult
to add up his debts
properly. The way of
findingour last colleague
is almost as weird. The
astronomical camera did
it. This machine keeps on
taking impressions, unlike the
human eye, which looks, winks,
and starts to look again. The
astronomical camera takes an
impression, then it takes another,
and another, and another all on top
of each other; so that if you can
keep the machine glued on to one spot in the
star depths for long enough you will get a
good idea of the scenery. The problem of
getting the camera fixed on the particular inch
of the galaxy containing the alleged planet,
the job of keeping it there, of telling which
particular smudge on the plate is peculiar, and,
when the peculiar smudge is noticed, the job of
identification, are mighty tasks for which only one
in a million is adapted. Pickering is among the
ones, and has found a planet. The other 999,999
probably reckon that he would have done better
to have found a £1 note.
* It- * *
The frequent type of British female who
aspires to marry a Babu got a severe lesson in
London last month, when Mrs. Chetti, an Eng-
lishwoman, and the wife of one Venugofal Chetti,
was driven to ask for a judicial
separation from her Venugofal
on the ground of his deser-
tion. Chetti contested the
suit, alleging, according to
London Daily Mail (2/12/’08),
that he was not lawfully
married to the petitioner,
that he was a Hindu and
domiciled in India, that ac-
cording to Hindu law he
could not lawfully marry
when he was not in India,
and that according to the law
of his domicile plurality of
wives was allowed. And he
called Jardine, K.C., an
authority on Indian laws and
customs, who testified that
The respondent, as a member
of one of the highest castes of
Hindus, could not marry outside
his own caste in India. The wit-
ness added that there was no
such thing as divorce in Hindu
law. A Mohammedan, however,
could divorce his wife by simply
saying three times, “ I divorce
thee. ”
Bloomsbury, and the neigh-
borhood of the London Inns
of Court generally, teem
with gentle Indians in quest
of legal lore. (Strange as it
may seem to Australians, the
British maiden burns with a
great burning to wed these
dusky mysteries. The colored
knowledge-seeker is known
mostly at the hash-palace he
frequents as “ Prince.” The
middle-class Englishwoman is
troubled with a fixed idea
that all visiting savages are
“ Princes.” It is not till the
bogus potentate bolts, leaving
in his wake an unpaid board
bill, a wife and piebald family,
and a horde of deceived and
blasphemous traders that
doubts start to penetrate
the hearts of those who
have delighted to do him
honor. Inquiries usually disclose the fact that
the absentee is the only son of a poor and
flagrantly dishonest bazaar-dweller, who has
robbed the community vigorously and well, with
the idea of giving his boy a chance in the world.
If perchance the deserter and his family have
any assets, the same are employed to prove con-
clusively that by the custom of the country he isn’t
liable for his ill-treatment of the “dogs” in far-
away England in any way whatever.
* * * *
Something like an original excuse was
offered by a man charged at Collingwood (Vic.)
Court lately with attempting suicide; he ex-
plained that “he didn’t know his own mind at
the time.” There is a subtle air of genuineness
about that.
One of the Sydney dailies made a curious
printer’s error last week. It published a heading
re the Broken Hill lockout: “ Mr. Darling’s
Views ; Not for Publication.” Of course
what it meant was : “ Mr. Darling’s
Views; Not Pit for Publication.”
WHERE HE
CAME IN.
“ I don't like that split you've made in your frock."
“My dear boy, it's nothing to the hole it has made
in your pocket."
The incredible fool who won’t interfere
with a would-be suicide because of the old super-
stition that a person who does so lays himself
open to prosecution, turned up lately in particu-
larly gruesome guise at Brighton (Vic.). A
domestic servant, who had been suffering
from melancholia, was found at dawn lying
across a lounge with a fire burning round
her legs, both of which had all the
flesh consumed. An early-rising gardener,
who was passing, heard moans coming from
the yard, and saw the unfortunate creature
on fire ; therefore she wasn’t dead then, however
dead she was later on. He put in an hour mooch-
ing round till reinforced by a milkman. All the
time the fire was burning and the victim was
being consumed. Being asked by the coroner
why he had not taken steps in the shape of rescue,
it proved that the ignoramus was troubled with
the old English superstition that the person who
interferes with an attempted suicide before the
police come is liable to be charged with murder.
This is one of a trio of quaint delusions, the other
two being that jewellers are always anxious to
buy cigar ash at a guinea an ounce, and that there
is somebody somewhere who will give a fabulous
price for a million used penny stamps.
* * * *
Wade’s Police Offences Act unearthed a
curious citizen named Gordon Foster last week,
and smote him in the midriff and undid him
utterly. Gordon lived in William-street, Sydney,
and advertised himself as a “medical clair-
voyant.’’ So Constable Anderson called on him
in disguise, proffered 55., and asked to be
medically clairvis&ed. With no more to go on
with than the upturned palms of the Law, Foster
discerned: (1) That his guest possessed “a won-
derful temper—kind and considerate ” ; (2) that
he had “a marvellous control over dumb animals ” ;
(3) that he was due, within three months’
time, for “an accident of such hideousness
that he (Foster) couldn’t discuss it. If he did the
horror of it would drive Anderson raving mad.”
Foster then tapped one of Anderson’s fingers
four times, and said, “There you are. It is in-
sanity. You can see it,” and wrote him out a
prescription, tip, or what not, wherein he was
urged to take the shells of 12 oysters and dry
them in the sun, then break up the white of
the shells with four eggs, mix with boiling vine-
gar, and afterwards let it stand to cool. What
Anderson was to do with the result—whether he
was to eat it, drink it, or rub it in, and whether
it was to avert the accident or the lunacy—Foster
didn’t say. Magistrate MacFarlane handed him
six months, but suspended the sentence under the
First Offenders’ Act, and the court broke up with
a vague feeling that Wade’s Act had scored an-
other victory.
HALL-MARKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the last meeting of the St. Peter’s Council the aider-
men discussed an invitation to attend a social evening 1 in
honor of Rev. Geo. Rooke, rector of St. Peter s Church.
Alderman Swain said that Rev. Rooke’s free and easy
manner had won him many friends. As far as his
memory served him, he (Alderman Swain) had read
printed on a ticket, the words, “ The minister would like
a shake of your paw.’’
Alderman Spackman said that, while he admitted what
had been said about the clergyman’s popularity, he must
take exception to the use of the word “paw.” He did
not think it would be appreciated by the masses. Paws
belonged to the lower animals, not human beings. “ The
minister would like a shake of your hand,” he thought
would be more on the line of life in which the people
lived.
Alderman Swain explained that the word was in com-
mon use in England, and he saw no objection to it.
Sydney Star, IS/11’09.
Ah ! never heed the seeming slight,
The phrase that soundeth full
Of insult. Ten to one it’s right,
And is employed by Bull.
Assume that you are button-holed
By one who says, “ Old man,
Tip us yer flipper ” ; do not fold
Your arms and put a ban
On further converse. Don’t abuse
The speaker till you’ve learned
If “ flipper ’’ is a word they use
In England. (He who’s spurned
For using words employed abroad
Mostly the table turns,
In full view of a jibing horde,
Upon the fool who spurns.)
Take, for example, such a case
As this : An unknown bloque
Grips you, peers dully in your face
And says, “ Me boy, I’m broke
“And badly need a helping fin.”
Should you look dazed, askance,
He and his friends will revel in
Your hopeless ignorance.
Anon he may demand your “ fist,”
Or “ mauler” ; laughter’s germs
Will soar should you not know the gist
Of either of these terms.
“ Fork out yer bunch o’ fives,” or eke
“ Parss us yer blankv|dook,”
Are cries the Cold Land hears each week ]
Likewise “ Extend yer hook.”
Such phrases dwell amid the Groves
Of Academe ; a loam-
Aye ! clod-like soul is he who loves
Them not. They come from ’Ome !
N.B.W.
10-2-4.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted t whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Jobber: Don’t know what has become of
“Rangatira.” Your letter awaits him Fernmount:
You seem to have taken “Twinkle, twinkle, little star,”
for your poetic model. There are several better.... Kyoto :
Well enough written, but the time has passed for general
dissertations on Japan....P. O’Leary: Two small poems
in violet ink declined Dot Wilkins : Can’t say. Some
hundreds of pars arrive per day, and it is impossible to
keep count of them all Nambucca : Cordially wish
Moseley success with his motion. The more Bulletins
that don’t go on School of Arts tables the better our
banking account likes it. Sorry to hear about his legs
and his objection to the Christmas Number pictures of
Adam and Eve Draperesque : One rebuke from “ The
Counter-Jumper’s Protest ” should avail to pulverise
“D.W.M.” utterly, viz.
“ D.W.M.,” then pray remember
Though you may not like his style,
There’s many an honest counter-jumper
Has had grit enough to make his pile.
Oculus: Sketch re “Pouncer” and “Piggy” so
amazingly feeble that we had to carry it in our arms to
the W.P.B Mayfield: For the manyth time, Marvin
Hart knocked out Jack Root in 12 rounds at Reno,
Nevada (U.S.A.), July 3, 1905, and James J. Jeffries, who
was refereeing the contest, formally presented the winner
with his title of heavyweight champion of the world
to defend against all-comers. Tommy Burns took the
title from Hart (23/2/’06).... Rose Rouge : Nicely rhymed,
but the sentiment is as righteously common-place as that
which abides in an impromptu outpouring of prayer...
G.M. : We are loaded to the Plimsoll-marlc every week
with verse about “ boundary-keepers ” who “ went
wrong” in early youth, and who now eke out a cheerless
old age brooding on the might-have-been and on their
allegedly dare-devil past. They are unconvincing citi-
zens. Most of them were jettisoned by a bank
in the first instance for that, though honest and
well-meaning, they were incompetent, and none of
them ever revelled worth a flagon of boiled milk....
Justitia: Vague, embittered howl about nothing in par-
ticular. If they haven’t stopped your remittances in
Fogland, swear off the drink for six months and save
enough to return to and die in your birthplace Spiro :
We bar the school kid jest, whether plain or illustrated,
and regard the dispatch of the same to this office as an
unfriendly act....0.W.G.: In “ The Men Out Back ” you
tear a bogus passion to tatters... .T.M.0.: There are two
objections to “ Dulce Domini ” : (1) it is libellous, (2) it is,
as verse, very, very bad. Raymond George : A solitary
instance from “ An Evening Song ” :
The ev’ning shades were falling, softly falling.
Thro’ the gloom a bird was calling to its mate.
Whilst the cool refreshing breeze
Sighed so sweetly through the trees,
A maiden sighed impatient at her gate.
This sort of verse requires, if it is to be presented in a
state fit for human consumption, (1) a magic lantern pic-
ture representing a peroxided female, in green shoes,
white stockings, purple skirt and gamboge blouse, lean-
ing over a maroon and blue stile, while a pink, white and
crimson farmhouse uprears itself in the middle distance ;
(2) a throaty-voiced balladist; (3) an orchestra habituated
to the grinding out of valse melodies. We don’t
keep any of those essentials on the premises
Ringsider: Sorry you have the “ pip.” Hope it is not
painful Nostaw : Sensational, but crude and clumsy.
Scotia : Rather pretty, but quite conventional, and
marred in places by bad metre Louis Blake : Sorry we
can’t find merit enough in any of them... ,M. W. (S.A.) :
Hopelessly out of our line Tataramoa : Muddled up
past comprehension.... N. McA. :It doesn’t appeal to us.
lvanor : “ Mea Culpa" is a venial sin merely. Its
chief faults are vagueness, carelessness of construction,
and a certain sloppiness of sentiment.... K. : A scrutiny
of “ Spitting in the Fire” impels us to draw your atten-
tion to the world-flung counsel, “ Expectorate only in the
Cuspidor.” Radical II.: You talk of waiting to see
what Kidston will do before condemning him. We have
waited and we see what he has done. He has passed a
monster Loan 8i11... .Rough Coal: “ The Crowd Around
the Bar” misses, despite some neat rhyming. Mining
and shipping articles might do, and then they mightn’t.
It’s impossible to say without seeing them Spring :
Distinctly funny, but the vagaries of Whisker and his
plaid are already as stale as the haggis of yester-month.
F.S. : Your “ Midnight Fantasies ” are the same old
fantasies. There is a fortune waiting the poetaster who
weighs-in with a new set ... C. J.R. : The indifferent
versification of “ The Maiden’s Lament ” brings about the
gagging of the same. In any case, we don’t like to hear
maidens lamenting in this paper... .Polyanthus : Nothing
notable about “ When Delia Sings" except the fact that,
while Delia is “ over six foot eleven,” her male parent is
but “five foot seven.” So much for heredity... Poole:
Many thanks for letter.... E. Glen : That proposal has
been made 20,000 times at least.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Twigg: Belated, and artistically horrible J.E.N.:
They are not art, and the reading matter attached isn’t
literature....A.J.C. : Hopeless—pictorially and every
other way Hindmarsh : Drawing moderate. Joke not
new, not worth much, and not very well spelled.
The industrial crisis isn’t the only un-
pleasantness at Broken Hill, as these advertise-
ments from the Barrier Daily Truth clearly
prove :
PUBLIC NOTICE.
TF ALICE MASON does not PUBLICLY APOLO-
GISE for words used concerning- me within three
days, legal proceedings will be taken.
MBS. M. WINTER.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
-|\/TISS ALICE MASON awaits with pleasure MRS.
IVL WINTER’S law proceedings.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*


(o^icil
J)S^
The MV/or w *
How.
c doorj
; When I
it' v/acy up 'io r( c yg- •
'Jovtf* CLS.Rrc |
WorbC z>sr \
Mrityc
[M D y.
Ayyoß,
An
Did
JoKe
AU^led
(DC A~% vnrjaoi 11 Dwrf&r
ytr -fife T«r+le S O4
4o*e »*S y « OY s*' !
~
n C»vc 6*Jl
k "6uK yoa l®t~
me «n I'm ItfC
L \dyn*jor<,
«*»An . -4=-^
" Co«U«r let you i*i even if
yo** were fcr / usb^*ui!
BoVts-[\NlTrt3 (
I'll*/ I I
Horror 1 1
For
£*rgt. I
Pa y
TMt
AU>fc*lAD/S
Awr&)3
vcvc
A CIVIC ADVANCE.
We should lose no time in following the lead Britain has given us, and open the doors of our municipalities to female councillors, aldermen and mayors.— Age.


for. every emergency-
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT. .
THE LUCK GIVER—
BLACK OPAL.
A gentleman last week showed us a Black Opal
Ring we had sold him a year ago, and
remarked that no money could buy it
from him. WHY ?
Selected
Black Opals,
£4 4s. pair.
Five Exquisite
Black Opals,
£7 7s.
Special Black Opal
Centre and two
Diamonds, £l5.
He said he had had nothing but Luck since buying it -nothing he touched but what turned out wel.
DID THOSE OLD PHILOSOPHERS SPEAK TRUTH WHO ASCRIBE VIRTUES TO GEMS ?
We don't know. We only sell the Opals-after cutting them from the rough.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Jimmie Pannikin : I seek trustworthy
information. What is the longest song sung Out-
back? (Please understand that I mean places past
Parramatta.) Once during a memorable trip in
the West-o’-Darling country, I went to bed just
after midnight. Modest Mick was then singing
the first verses of “Grace Darling.” I rose at five
next morning, and Mick was still singing the
same song. I was incredibly informed, by mulga
wire, that he was singing when I reached Wiudy-
jingle, 70 miles away.
“ Agricola ” : It is a day of black misfor-
tune for a laughing jackass when a magpie decides
to build in a position commanding his feeding-
place. The jackass clings to his regular hunting-
grounds with much affection, and will feed there
for months, sitting on the same tree day after
day, waiting for the succulent spider and the
toothsome beetle to come within range. The
magpie always signalises his intention to take up
a selection by firing every other bird within 200
yards. One of the first to get fired is laughing
John. But he soon sneaks back, quietly and
unobtrusively, and trusts to an inoffensive
demeanor to protect him. Nevertheless, at inter-
vals during the day you will hear an excited
“ wark-wark-wark,” very similar to the noise
made by Sin War John when the push is out for
scalps. Laughing Jack comes down the gully,
breaking records with every flap, while the old
man magpie combs his tail-feathers with much
energy. But mag. does not get really vicious
until the family arrives, and then he frequently
murders the harmless-jackass in cold blood. Once
I saw a magpie thrust his beak right through the
breast of a jackass which was too busy watching
the ground to notice his coming, and on several
occasions I have seen dead jackasses near a mag-
pie’s nest. t
“ W.M.” meets a fishy substance :
Re the “ Romance of Middle Harbor,” once published in
Tub Lonb Hand. Some years ago, another young fellow
and I, residing on an island in Auckland hathor
(Maoriland), took a whaleboat and Maori crew one Sun-
day to s;ek some sport “wau-booka” fishing, lo clo
this you pull a whaleboat against the run of the sea at a
good smart pace, and have a long and strong line out
with a large bait and a small shark hook attached.
We had no luck. So we gave that up, pulled in shore a
hit, and, letting the boat drift, began to seek sport with
deep-sea lines. My line was first down, and no sooner
down than taken, but in a very peculiar manner, there
was no flurry, no race—it was simply walked away with
leisurely, but straight off. A good strong pull brought
my fish away. It came speedily to the surface, ana
then the fun began. The Maoris cajled on me to
let it go, and tried to cut my line. Not long before
I had got into trouble by holding an insect, some-
thing of the cricket kind and known there as the weta,
towards a Maori woman and asking what it was. There
was some superstition regarding the weta. I now sup-
posed I had struck another superstition, and was not to
be blocked, so I drew a double-edged billhook 1 carried
and kept the crew off, and brought my fish on board, it
seemed as ready to come as I was to fetch it. It was an
enormous mass of large eel-like bodies. The Maoris all
sprang into the sea, and my mate retreated into the bows
paralysed. The whole boat (30ft. or so) seemed to be
occupied by the brute. I at once attacked it with the
billhook. The smaller ends I found I could cut through
at a blow and the larger with two blows. There was
nothing jelly-like about the tentacles, but good sound
fish-flesh. The under side of these limbs was covered
with a single line of suckers, and every part as cut away-
walked off on its own account. , ,
When the boat was cleared I was pretty well exhausted.
That brute was undoubtedly something of the octopus
family, but to the present time I have never found it pro-
perly described. I have no doubt that on land it was
perfectly harmless, but what chance would a diver have
who was unfortunate enough to encounter it at the
bottom of the sea ?
SQUASHED.
HE : “ Would you think it very rude of me if I
were to speak to you without being introduced? ”
SHE: “It would be abominable for anybody to
speak at all with his mouth so full."
“ Bungarra ” : It was blazing noon when
Bill and Jim struck the Swagman’s Rest at Woo-
linoogabba. They were dusty and dog-tired, and
very ; and neither had a red cent. A.
friendly drummer offered them a lift to Yabi-
nooka, and they clambered into the buggy. Still
remained the question of beer. Finally, a bright
idea struck Jim. “Bill,” said he, “would arf a
pint do yer ?” Bill reckoned it would just about
keep him alive to the next pub. So Jim leaped
out and marched up to the bar. “ Two pints,
boss ! ” The boss drew them, foaming, at the
brim. Jim grabbed one. “’Arf a mo’, boss,
while I takes this to me mate outside.” So the
boss waited, shooing the flies off the pint on the
counter. Outside, Jim gulped down half the
tankard and Bill finished it in short order. The
boss, running to the door, was just in time to catch
the empty mug where it would do him most harm,
and to see the buggy disappearing down the road.
“ A taste like that’s not much good to a thirsty
man,” said Jim to Bill ; “ but 'arf a pint’s better
than no beer.” “ Every time,” said Bill.
THE PARARLE—FIN-DE-SIECLE.
THE PRODIGAL (eating curried real): “I have arrived home a day late."
From “Kong Walt” :
Took a trip down the Great Southern Line (Vic.) the
other day, and compared results with my first experience,
23 years ago. What a vast deal of slogging has been
done ! I wouldn’t have known it, although as a surveyor
I worked through it from Dandenong to Poster.
Korumburra occupies the site of a wild bush camp 1
was in 23 years sinee. Cow and coal are responsible for
the change. But the gigantic destruction of priceless
timber makes one groan. Hereabouts were of
magnificent blackwood, myrtle, sassafras, etc. Not a
stick is now to be seen —all ruthlessly destroyed for cow
'••razing ! Between here and Port Albert it would not be
an exaggeration to state that from £1,000,000 to
£5,000,000 worth of high class timber has been destroyed
(£SO worth was often got Horn one tree, as the sawmiller
at Mirboo will tell you). Bent, with his eye on the butter
export bill, takes off his hat to the cow. If I were a
younger man I should want to take off my coat to those
who have been guilty of this atrocious waste in order to
make robin for the horned lady.
Being brought up with strict idea's of
economy, I turned the tap off. Pre-
sently strange, uncomfortable sounds
began to disturb my reverie the while
gallons of water rushed into the tank.
Then there was a sound the like of
which I had never heard before, and
Something projected part of itself out
of the top of the tank. I let out a
shriek and started to break pre-
vious records for the district. Idien
I pulled up and looked back. The
Something had propelled itself clean
out of the reservoir. It was shy
Maggie. Unable to open the back
door, in her hurry she had sought another
haven of refuge, and X had turned the tap off. 1
went home feeling like a reprieved murderer, and
clean forgot to ask for the axe, or pianola, or
whatever it was.
“ Walilia ” : One of the great natural re-
sources of Papua is a never-ending water supply
in the shape of a heavy and incessant rainfall, and
the figures of this eastern part of the Possession
are interesting. Samarai is a small island of
about 60 acres, and the recorded rainfall averages
nearly 17in. a month! One month during the
past year 27in. fell, and falls of sin. and 6in. a
day are numerous. The oldest inhabitant says
that the weather now is fine and dry compared to
what it was 10 years ago, but I dare not repeat
his figures. I hear there was a “drought” here
once of just six weeks, but no lives were lost by
thirst. At this date—October, 1908—the “ dry
season is on, and in a fortnight’s residence here I
have had four dry days ! Fverything is moist.
Boots that were cleaned a week ago are clothed
with whiskers of blue mould ; woollen clothing
bedecks itself with spots like a leopard ; and my
spare set of false teeth are hairy like those in the
Irish legend.
• * * *
“Sr”: Note (B. 15/10/’08) the remarks
of one who lauds the bike as Shearer James’s most
serviceable transport vehicle. The writer is out.
The bike punctures, retires to the parcels office on
the approach of rain, shies if it meets a swampy
road, has a paralytic stroke if it hits a rut, and
drops dead if it encounters anything like heavy or
broken tracks after dusk. The sulky is the
shearer’s best conveyance on the track. It is less
exhausting than bike or prad ; it humps its
owner’s gun and bed in comfort; keeps moving
even when the water is up to the axles, and, best
of all, gives .Tim a chance to hand the foot-weary
deadbeat a lift on occasion. The horse and cart
can be easily recognised, which makes the thiev-
mg of them a dim-
cult matter. Also
they can be mort-
gaged if hard luck
strikes their owners.
MORE LEGISLATION.
“ You ought to he ashamed to beg. Why don't you
work! ”
“ I would, but I can’t get anything to do at my
trade!”
“What's your trade ?”
“I used to run a lob sweep!"
THE MAIN TRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The institution of a daily train service between Wel-
lington and Auckland did not have an auspicious com-
mencement. Thg train left Wellington at 10.30 last night,
and was timed to reach Palmerston at 2.25 this morning.
At Pukerua, however, progress was barred by a derailed
cattle truck, and 3£ hours elapsed before the train, which
carried about 180 passengers, could proceed, arriving at
Palmerston at six o’clock. Between 20 and 30 passengers
had been waiting since two o’clock. After a brief
stoppage here the train went on. —Maoriland paper.
Now pull the shiny lever and let us get away,
A-rushing and a-roaring from dark Poneke Bay ;
The mountains loom to leeward,
And the lights are fading seaward,
And we’re off to Auckland city, a hundred leagues away.
Its gleam across the darkness the glaring headlight flings
As gaily round the narrow curves the jolting carriage
swings,
Through the gloomy tunnel boring,
With the wind-rush past us snoring,
We’re off to Auckland city to the lilt Will Lawson sings.
The engine throbs and clatters, and the bridges thunder
by,
We have left the hills behind us and the waves are rolling
nigh,
We have left the hills behind us
And the summer dawn should find us
Running northward to Taihape e’er the chops begin to
fry.
A hiss of steam that splutters ! What is this that stays
us now ?
Has the engine stopped a-wearied with the sweat upon
its brow ?
Have the warlike natives rocked us ?
Has the falling landscape blocked us ?
But the guard makes answer boldly : “ We have bumped
upon a cow.”
Then sadly do we linger while the engineer-in-chief
Draws his working plans for moving the objectionable
beef,
While the horny-handed toiler,
Ranging six-deep round the boiler,
/Vrestles with the raging bovine with a courage past
belief.
Now pull again the lever, and gaily on we go,
The grey dawn brightens softly, the surf is white below,
The flax-blades sigh and rustle,
And the train gets on a bustle,
Making up the heavy leeway of the busted milker s woe.
Again that bump and rattle, and the engine stops its
song,
Now what the deuce has happened, and what the h—l is
wrong?
But the guard the question settles,
For a truck is off the metals,
And we’re resting for a little till the orders come along.
The sun is on the mountains, and the winds are fresh and
free,
We have counted all the sleepers, we have drunk our
morning tea,
But at last the whistle’s blowing,
And the train has got a-going,
And we’re threshing slowly northward past Otaki by the
sea.
It needs the pen of Jeffries, and his railway knowledge
too,
And his wealth of lurid language to describe our journey
through,
How for days and nights extended
Still we bumped and patched and mended,
And the Fates combined to show us what the Main Trunk
line could do.
Yet all were well and happy till we reached the seventh
day,
When in the wild King Country bush the driver lost his
way.
The hills with mist were shrouded,
And the sky o’ercast and clouded,
So he couldn’t, get his bearings, and the engine stopped
to pray.
Then through the dark’nirig’ twilight we saw a ruddy
glow',
And across the sombre valley we heard a whistle blow ,
And we banished care and sadness,
And we cheered for very gladness
When a wandering Maori engine took our shipwrecked
train in tow.
We’re getting near to Auckland ; we shall reach it by
and by ;
We have seen the large volcanoes drifting past us stern
and high,
And we’ll live to tell the story,
And we’ll all be one in glory,
With the wondrous Main Trunk Railway where the wild
expresses fly’.
The thread of steel and gravel that our borrowed millions
bought,
The link between our cities that for years and years we
sought,
Oh, we’ve seen it, and we ve known it,
And we’re proud indeed to own it,
And we’ll sing a loud “Te Deum ” unto Ward as we are
taught.
But, Joseph G., I’ve travelled to the Liffey from Dundalk
On the rocky road to Dublin, and in spite of all your talk,
In these days of fuss and flurry,
When I’m really in a hurry,
And I want to get to Auckland, I shall have to start and
walk. _
MAORILAXD.
D.M.W.
“ Moreover ” deals craftily with a viper :
Black he was and huge (all snakes are huge in print)
and very deadly. In an evil hour for all concerned he
pitched his hole beneath my domicile. In a short while
his true character betrayed itself. He bit several un-
offending members of my family, and ran me in for a big
bill for funeral exes. I simply fumed. Then he stung
and caused the death of a favorite hound. It was past
bearing. I had heard of the snake’s love of music.
I determined to do my guest to death in a manner at
once poetic and subtle. Near unto an orifice in my
kitchen floor I placed a musical clock, and over against it
a saucer of milk flavored with arsenic. I bade the orchestra
strike up, and sat noting developments through a chink
in the wall. Vivaciously, anon, to the bars of an American
quick step, the doomed reptile advanced, swaying in
rhythm to the strains that had called him from the home
he was never to see more. His eye, rolling in fine frenzy,
caught the Saucer of Death. He ogled the milk It was
a fatal ogle for him. In another moment he was quaffing
the doctored fluid with the gusto of a dipso, beer-mopping
in midsummer. He made a violent exit, subsequently' to
the convulsive accompaniment of “ Gor’ Save.”
“Wang”: Away back in the days that
have now grey whiskers, when I was being offered
up as a sacrifice to Goddess Cow, I was sent on a
message over to Mackinnon’s to borftiw an axe or a
pianola or something. Maggie, the only Mackinnon
daughter, was-a shy bush girl—so shy that when
any stranger approached she’d rush in and never
show herself. As I approached, I saw Maggie
wheeling a barrow ; but directly she spotted me
she turned the barrow over on one side, and
crouched down behind it till the apparition should
pass. The apparition, however, made a bee line
for the barrow, so Maggie promptly sounded the
retreat. I followed ; but when I got to the house
Maggie had disappeared. I knocked ;no answer.
Then the flood-gates up aloft were opened, and 1
stood under the back verandah, and thought of
the good the thunderstorm would do, and
how wet I’d get going home, and of tfie
mud that would eventuate shortly in the
cow yard, and many other pleasant things.
The water poured into the 400-gallon tank on the
end of the verandah ; and then it rushed excitedly
out of the tap, which happened to be turned full
nn. for the tank had run dry some time before.
“George Washington”: Since reading
the “Abo.” column, have fallen in love with
Nature. Strolled out with her yesterday. First
thing I struck was a limb. Down for nine
seconds. Resuming, I tripped over a porcupine ;
had a 'short argument; picked up a few points
and departed, feeling like an animated pincushion.
Heard what I thought was the sharpening of
drills: followed the sound ; and found a bower
bird ; called it a lyre and left. Met a dog shed-
ding its bark; followed the treeless bark to its
source—the source retreating meanwhile. Found
myself face to face with dad, who combined
rabbit-trapping with fossicking. Reached the
humpy and entered. Bunny’s skin—reverse side
out—adorned the walls, inside and out. Bunny’s
sac-coat—stretched on wires—hung from the
rafters. Bunny’s chesterfield was used as a towel.
Dad said “the game was payin’.” Wished him
luck and started for home. Trod on a bull-ant s
nest; inspected Mrs. Bull-ant, and warned her
against tight-lacing. Reached home wondering
whether you would publish these impressions.


Hotel
A ustrn/in -
TARIFF:
From 12/6 per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Niche
evei v Thursday ; excellent band engaged
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
xc
vxcv
xcv
cx
YOU CAN CLIMB
TO THE TOP !
where there's always ‘plenty
of room,' by equipping
POSTAL Instruction
in Shorthand, Bookkeeping,
Penmanship, Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching is thorough, no
stereotyped methods; every-
thing made simple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
experts in Australasia.
Send for “Home Study.'
cx
STOTT & HOARDS
BUSINESS COLLEGE
LMQOR E St SYDM EY,
Up here in the mountains and scrub.
Where we live on the poorest of grub,
We’ve cured so many ills
With Laxo-Tonic Pills
That we’ve formed a Laxo-Tonic Club.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ♦ . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“ Cicfc ” : Ambling aimlessly through the
h ,°P scrub in the Tumbarumba (N.S W ) clisti i<-r
the other day, I was hailed by ai okbunui wombat
who was much the worse for wear. The old
fellow had got mixed up in a bush fire at some
time or other, and thumb-prints for identification
purposes were in his case quite superfluous. The
ancient one was hairless and stone blind. He
apparently killed time traversing his end of the
diocese, always hovering within smelling or
feeling distance of his burrow, towards which
he fell over and tripped and grunted when
he grew cognisant of my approach. His
wornbatess was not at home at the time, and
with pity and a breech-loader I slew him anon A
post mortem snowed that his hairless epidermis
was a tangled plan of confused scars and healed
burns, his eyes were hard and dry, and the outer
extremities of both ears were burned away On
inquiry I discovered that no fire had raged there-
abouts for nearly ayear-a fact which proves the
wombat a native of vast endurance,
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Let me relate the
story of the Grabben Gullen switch. Wicked folk
say that the Grabben Gullen people eat, drink
sleep, talk and pray potatoes—this is, of course, a
false, malicious, seditious libel on a bright, beautiful
and busy place. Now for the story : Delahunty’s
pigs got into Malowney's pratie patch.' Malowney
I «“i? o v nded m the P^ s - Delahunty (called
Del unty ) went over the crilc and assaulted the
impounder, so there was a Court case at Binda
Delahunty, giving his evidence in court, admitted
striking the prosecutor, but maintained stoutly
tnat he had only used a switch. He repeated
‘a bit av a switch ” so often that the presiding
J .Jr. at length asked for the approximate dimen-
sions of the said switch. Cross-examination
elicited the forceful fact that the Grabben Gullen
switch was the dogleg of a stockyard ! Of course
even that mass of timber couldn’t hurt some
heads !
* * * *
“ Mooru binda ” chats anent dingoes
I must put.in my spoke re (lingoes. First of all Hie
te-f, barks > b « fc howls like a wolf, and also snaps
ike an} other angry dog, and snarls. Dingoes are said to
learn to bark when associated with domestic dogs but
their bark is never very perfect. If they learn to bark
like other dogs, it is a proof that they are not pure-
blooded. Many of those which roam at large, and are
,w Sld f- red i t 0 be u- W u ld , s P eci, »ens, are the progeny of
domestic dogs which have associated with wild ones—
hence, in some degree, the variation in the color of these
animals. I have had abundant proof that dingoes
entice away domestics at certain seasons, just as
brumbies entice mares from stations. The howl of
(Miih ( "Ti 0 1S m ll6 of , th e most mournful noises on
It 's seldom uttered during the daytime, but at
nights, and especially on moonlight nights, it may be
heard ,n the distance for the greater part of
if‘ rS r when the wanderer is most anxious for
rest. If dingoes come near the camp, a shot fired
at them will send them scampering away ; but
fnr iiv n rC a eW bundred - vards off (quite close enough
fhnv seven .- of them to be an intolerable nuisance),
they take no notice of the sound. Ido not know what
the U sm P^ eU f f° U ( P this howl l ' OUlld a cam P- Perhaps
the smell of food attracts them. Although they are
noisy in their leisure moments, it seems as if they hunt
in silence. On one occasion, just before Ihobbled my
horse and camped for the night, I saw a pack kill a lar<>e
kangaroo—the only occasion on which such a sight was
b > - " le - , 1 htst saw them in the distance, and I
think they had only just started their prey. They came
straight towards me at a great pace" the ’roo makin®
fiautic efforts to escape. It made a perfectly straight
run, and never once attempted to double. It had not
gone more than three-quarters of a mile before the
We, ,’ e T "'° of them seized it by the throat
the others behind, one by the root of the tail. Thev
had it down in an instant, killing it far more
kill Ck dne an< Th- kl f h" y tha ? 1 ever saw kangaroo-dogs
kill one This happened at a distance of about
from where I was, and the dingoes proceeded to
tear their prey to pieces without noticing my presence.
When, however, I approached nearer, they retired to a
distance, how mg wildly. It is doubtful if they ever
attack an old man.” A pair of dogs, or, at most a
h r e r ht ’ Seem t 0 aIT0 * afce to themselves the
sole right of hunting over a certain district, and I have
nf /-quently that they resent the intrusion of
Thev ofiln h fl' eXL ' e P t at certain seasons of the year,
they often fight savagely among themselves, and I have
seen trapped, poisoned, and shot dogs which bore the
maiks of former frays. At any other time I should have
been reluctant to taste such stuff, but once when there
was nothing else between me and Heaven but a din<*o I
thoroughly enjoyed the meal I made off it. e ’
THE INFERENCE BY DEDUCTION.
GASMAN (noting the extraordinarily low consumption indicated on meter): “S 'pose your
daughter's got married, sir! Congratulations, I’m sure.” (Hands bill.)
“ Lantana ” : At Tilba Tilba (N.S.W.)
recently, aborigines’ sports were held, and a big
crowd of warriors gathered to see who was “ bes’
man. Boxing items were the principal attractions,
and 1 every degenerate brave imagined that he onlv
had to bractiz ’ a little to become a second Jack
Johnson. When Binghi is loaded up with several
Pints and aided and abetted by a brace of lubras
and half-a-dozen unregistered canines, he is apt to
imagine himself nearly anything or anybody, even
at times the local police magistrate.
* * * *
About Ngarua :
The capacity of the Maori forgetting to the bottom of
thmgs even more rapidly than his Pakeha neighbor is
illustrated in a recent incident. The Maoriland law pro-
vides a penalty of fine or imprisonment for selling liquor
to a prohibited person. Ngarua kept a Maori accommo-
tion house in a country kainga (village) where was also
dispensed without consulting the law, things spiritual.
Ngarua s stock of liquid comforts was running low and
funds were not in a flourishing condition. An idea struck
hnn. He proceeded to the nearest magistrate and took
out a prohibition order against himself, then straightway
procured from, a wholesale dealer a. large supply of
whisky on credit. And now, so far from suing for the
money, the merchant dare not even mention that he
supplied the liquor.
This same Ngarua is not a believer in carrying all one’s
eggs in one basket. Some time ago he did the rounds
of his district in company with an expert Pakeha
stousher, and picked up some useful hints in the art of
bruising. Like others, he opened a school and proceeded
to impart this useful knowledge, but he made no charge
for it. A Pakeha visitor wanted to know why lie was so
generous, and got this reply : “ You no understand. Me
teach him, and by-and-bye he get very much conceit.
Come along and say he think he good enough far me now
Me say, oright, how much ? ’ He say ‘ £5/ Me say ‘ that
right, and we have go. Well, I give him one like that”
(throwing up his arm in fine undercut style). “He no see
that before. Me keep bit up my sleeve.”
“ 0.K.” writes :
Having duly “barracked ” for Johnson in a healthy
spirit of opposition, I’d like to fall foul of some
among my fellow barraekers who prate too loudly
of “ British fairplay ” where the color line is concerned.
Young Australian Bias is the civilised offspring of old
British Animosity. Long, long ago, in the “good old
palmy days ” of prize-fighting, when Ben Gaunt, Harry
Broome, and “Bendigo” (whose nickname achieved
immortality in the Victorian mining town) were chief
white exponents of the noble art, there was a certain
Black Perry who threatened to put Hingland’s noblest
artists into the shade. The career of poor Black
Perry was ruined by a conspiracy of scoundrels. They
1 put up a job ” on the good-hearted negro—dropped
a stolen watch in his pocket and sent for the police
to find it there, or otherwise brought him
within the clutch of the law, with the result
that he was transported to Tasmania. The same sort of
British fair-play that Black Perry got was introduced to
Victoria by the early gold-rushers. Harry Sallars, the
nigger, had knocked Joe Kitchen to a standstill, when
the mob of British fair-players—everybody was from the
old country” at that time—broke the ring and com-
pelled the referee to give the fight to the white. The
Sallars fought Tom Curran in the Werribee district,
Tnotnas being so fat and out of condition that he couldn’t
have won a pillow-fight on his merits. But merits were
unnecessary in the white man’s case. The gallant patrons
of the noble art mobbed Sallars and kicked him and
swore he had lost the contest “on a foul.” Talking of
the foolish one-sided jeering and harmless one-sided
c leering m the Burns-Johnson affair, a veteran sport
(•'• Miller) made this caustic remark : “ They said the
black man couldn’t win, but they let him. I remember
when they used to say the black couldn’t win—and they
wouldn t let him.”
A NEW FORM OF JIM-JAM.
White spirit is now being manufactured from prickly pear.
phorised rabbit. Later he pulled himself together and
left the district.
Presently Louisa came in and sniffed. -Like one dis-
traught she opened up the parcel, and an object that
emitted an odor that was as the reek of 18 Chinatowns
looked dumbly up at her. She reeled to the fireplace and
gathered up the tongs and fire-shovel, the while she
uttered shrieks of vengeance against the donor of the
o fence. She engineered the humming bird on to the
shovel, and ordered me to act as undertaker without a
moment’s delay.
The funeral procession started off, while the cook re-
cited the service for the dead, or something, in the
kitchen. A grave was dug in a distant spot, and right
quickly, for that pheasant cried aloud for burial.
Some time later, the missus, having read the letter
which had accompanied the horror, came into the kitchen,
and asked to be allowed to gfaze on her present.
A stormy scene followed with Louisa. It was termin-
ated by Louisa giving her mistress a week’s notice. The
latter commanded me to unbury the dead, remarking
that a little clean dirt would not have hurt the feathered
smell. Also she gave me a week’s notice, on general
principles. Within three minutes I bore to her Some-
thing that fairly sizzled with odor and indignation. The
Thing was ordered back to the tomb. Matters were
eventually smoothed over. It was all the result of our
colossal ignorance in not knowing the laws that govern
culinary science. Deceased was the gamest bird I ever
saw—or smelt.
It took nearly a week to coax the cat back.
The Maoriland revenue returns show that
the beer duty- yielded £7OOO more last year than
* <*• »*«•. a.**** *,
No-License movement is spreading, Maoriland
sa y S frank] v that this evidence of increased beer
y tnls evlaence or increased Deer
consumption is more than it can understand. But
it seems, year by year, that the fewer hotels
Maoriland has the more Maoriland drinks. Ap-
parently, the lack of a hotel where it can buy a
* • i , , , J
,llodesfc pint slm P ! y makes purchase a keg.
QUEEN COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the Cow !. . .
My slaves are children, small and weak
By plain and mountain, beach and creek
They worship now.
With reverence of me they speak.—
I am the Cow 1
My slaves are fools ! . . .
They toil for me so long-, so late,
Their brains are dulled as with a weight.
Small worth are schools
When pupils faint at the school-house gate.
My slaves are fools 1
Behold, I’m Cow !. . .
And as I amble by, full fed,
Each knee is bent, and every head
To me doth bow.
What matter if, ere dawn is red,
A paltry child is dragged from bed
To milk and tend me ? Children pass
Like shades reflected in a glass.
But I am Cow.
M.L.
TE AROHA.
“ Wang ” : “ Machete ” and “ Archibald
Augustus ” relate in a recent Bulletin some co-
incidences. Here is mine : A man I know well
(we’ll call bun Smith to make sure of him) not
married, and a son arrived. Smith’s ideas as to
the bringing-up of youngsters didn’t agree with
those of the hoy, and at the age of 10 his son lit
out to look for a better father. Smith’s efforts to
find the youngster were hopeless, and time rolled
on with a steady roll. No more stork’s messages
came to Smith’s domicile, and that, combined
with bad seasons and other things, made Smith
morose and disagreeable. Mrs. Smith stood it for
some years; then she too lit out, and Smith let
her light. The years rolled on some more. Smith
sold his farm and went to live in Melbourne. One
day he was crossing the crowded street, and tried
to stop a motor-car. His efforts were partially
successful. He was projected with much force on
to the footpath. An energetic policeman hauled
the chauffeur out of the car, while two other people
sought to restore Smith. After a bit their united
endeavors were successful. Smith opened his eyes
and gazed for a minute on an attendant lady •
then on the chauffeur. After that he nearly lost
consciousness again, for the lady was his wife arid
the chauffeur was his son. Here ends the tale of
Smith.
“ Wang ” revives a memory :
Passing- a poulterer’s shop the other day, I noticed a
festoon of hares hanging with their heads enveloped in
paper and flies. Somehow the spectacle recalled to me the
episode of Louisa and the pheasant.
Louisa cooked for a squatter-family beneath whose roof-
tree I toiled in the capacity of general house rouseabout.
the pheasant was a present from an adjacent squatter
to the wife of my revered master. The bird was dead
when it arrived ; utterly dead. I never saw a fowl in less
danger of premature burial than this one was. Louisa
was out when the unfragrant mass of deceased poultry
arrived. I took delivery of it with one hand while I
defended myself with the other.
Methuselah, the cat—ever inquisitive—advanced upon
the cadaver. He thrust an inquiring nose in at one end
i , Parcel. Then he elevated his bottle brush and his
back hair, and provided an imitation of a newly-phos-
“ M.A.” on ants :
Feeling- virtuous the other day, I took the advice of
Solomon about going to the Ant. Found him at home,
and spread myself out to note his industrious habits.
Saw quite a lot of him in the vicinity, but paid particular
attention to a fellow with side-levers and a swag, who
appeared to be acting as ganger on the job. He had the
swag in front of him, and was sprinting along a beaten
track on which many of his mates.were also journeying—
unfortunately in an opposite direction. Noticed him col-
lide violently with several, and on each occasion a heated
argument, mostly ending in a fight, was the result. He
dropped the swag more than once, and hurried on with-
out it; then laid hold of the first fellow he met and
openly charged him with stealing the bundle. Party
denied this on oath, and was called a perjured liar, on
which the usual fight supervened. Ant No. 1 corpsed
his man and hoisted him on his head, evidently mis-
taking- him for the lost property. He failed to
notice, however, that he was now travelling in
the wrong direction, having got reversed during the
fight. Nearing the depot with his “stiff,” he was way-
laid and violently assaulted by three Apaches, who, it
seemed; wished to take upon themselves the cost of the
interment. No. 1 stuck gamely to the late lamented,
and finally beat off the Apaches. He forgot to take the
dead ant along in his hurry. Tumbled over his original
swag about now, and, having carefully inspected it,
denied ever having seen it before. Was mildly remon-
strated with by a couple that just then happened along,
and assured that the luggage had certainly been left
there by him. Got wildly excited at their obstinacy, and
offered to lay them any odds they were both blithering
idiots. Also chopped one of them in halves, as a guarantee
of good faith. Then he hurried off, carrying with him
the repudiated property. Got in a panic over a rumor
of thieves being about, and raced to the top of a 4ft.
stump, apparently failing to notice 211 members of the
Apache tribe who were already up there. Scrambled
down opposite side of stump, and was evidently much
perturbed to find himself in new country. Hurried
back over stump, meeting on the way 209 of the 211
Apaches, and receiving- from each as he passed more or
less personal abuse. Kept right on to the place where 1
had first made his acquaintance. Fulled up here sud-
denly, and had a long-, quiet think, but could not seem-
ingly place himself. Laid the matter in all its puzzling
details before a passing stranger, but got no enlighten-
nient. Got mad with this fellow, and tried to chop him
in two, but the other put in first chop, on which my
friend bolted—this time, in an opposite direction. I came
away then. I was doubtful of being able to accurately
follow the vagaries of both sections—also doubtful of the
wisdom that counselled me to take up the study.
Solomon knew next to nothing about the Australian ant.


The Temperance Council at Mary-
borough has made complaint that a
certain post-office in the district is con-
ducted on hotel premises, the mails,
being delivered over the counter ad-
joining the bar. The postal author-
ities explain that there are
where there arts no o‘ther|
suitable places for post-
al offices than on the pre-i
mises of the local hotel.
.. . .
Client: “ Hare 1 read
my palm.”
Seeress : “ Not nte t
You're a pleece-
men in dls-
guise come to collect Evidence agin me.”
Client: *• flow do you know I’m slch ? ”
Seeress: “By my art. It Is given me to read
•feet as well as palms. Them’s the feet of
a bobby, or I don’t know my job!”
Mrs. Squiffy : “So you’ve been to the
post-office, eh? Did you j;et any
mail ? ”*
Hr. Squiffy ! “ Not a drop ! ”
/a United States astronomer has
discovered a new star. The Bulletin
did the same thing at a variety
show not long ago.
Premier Wade lias
ottered 'to go to
Broken Hill, and use
his influence on be-
half of Industrial
peace. He Is here
.seen-practising; a con- .
dilatory smile. Let us ■ hope that a
such extreme measures will not be
ft. necessary.
It is reported that great pressure is being brought to bear
Upon Premier Wade to accept the Chief Justiceship.
The storekeepers at Broken Hill have deckled not to supply'the police
with victuals, and the force now hustles for itself a good deal.
A LOOK AROUND N.S.W.


mm
Absolutely and scientifically
proved the best of all known
preparations for cleansing
the mouth and teeth.
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Rev. G. North Ash writes (14/l/’O9) from
the Rectory, Neutral Bay
In your issue of to-day I find (page 28) a very kindly
reference to clergymen in general, and to myself in par-
ticular. Alas! the writer of the letter which evoked
your eulogium is the Eev. W. H. Ash, a Presbyterian
Minister, late of North Sydney.
According to a Berlin paper, which will
have an attack of suspended circulation if it isn’t
more careful, Wilhelm 11. of Germany is in a
bad state of nerves. He is reported to have
developed an unreasonable passion for bed; in
fact, it is asserted that he spends most of the day
there. Bill 11. has also got religion worse than
ever, and prays with tremendous fervor. Many
kings have been noted for their piety, but so far
as this scribe can remember, they were more noted
for staying up late than for going to bed. If Bill
doesn’t get up more frequently and put on his re-
galia, he may go down to history as William the
Prostrate. History has an irritating habit of
being impertinent as soon as a monarch is cold.
E. W. Christmas, who spreads paint on as
much canvas as any man in Australia, is packing
up his traps for the other side. Christmas, aS.
Australian, wanders round painting sx4’s for
wholesale distribution ; once, three or four years
ago, he showed 42 of that size or thereabouts in
Sydney, and on the afternoon of the private-view
day he sold the whole lot in one line to Mark Foy
for Medlow Baths. Then, after a while, he went
on to Maoriland, and got another wholesale job to
paint 20 pictures, some of them 5x4 and some
larger, for the Franco-British Exhibition. As
there are no other wholesale orders on the Aus-
tralian horizon, Christmas, who started life in a
bake-shop, is wandering on to Europe, and has
ideas of a two-years’ stay in Spain, Egypt, and
other art centres; and he has strivings to do some
serious work before he comes back again.
Mrs. Charlton, of Hobart (Tas.), is a luck-
less woman Her first husband was drowned ;
her second fell off a scaffolding and was killed:
and the other day her third fell out of a cart, and
died in consequence. The possible fate of her
tourth is an interesting subject of speculation.
There dropped out at Perth (W.A.) the
other day an actor in the prologue of a big
tragedy. Dr. \\ dliam Farmer, one-time resident
magistrate and medical officer at Wyndham.
Lsperance and Busselton (W.A.), was found
dead in bed. He was a surgeon with Jameson’s
expedition when that cheerful amateur buccaneer
made his famous “ raid ” —the preliminary to the
great Boer war.
Of Victoria’s 10 new Ministers (two
honorary) only three—Murray, Graham, and
Watt—have held office before. Watt was P.M.G.
for two years under McLean ; and Murrav was
Chief Secretary under Irvine and Lands Minister
under Adolphus for twice that time. Had the
team any pronounced democratic convictions
there might be the makings of a strong combina-
tion among the novices; but the odor of Bentism
still pervades the Cabinet. The team includes six
Australians, three Scots, and J. Drvsdale Brown.
J. Drysdale Brown was born in York, went to
school in Paris, came to Victoria when 12,
ji ™ Cold Country when 39, and entered
at Middle Temple; he was admitted to the Vic-
torian Bar on his return, but has never practised.
He is a mining investor, a moderatelv Pich Land-
lord, and Attorney-General. Also he is 59. And
please don’t forget he is Drysdale Brown—not
snnply Brown.
A letter from “ D.” :
The conversion of the Earl of Derby to Protection
which was announced in a Reuter’s message last week, is
a notable sign of the times. Hitherto the Stanley
family has been stubbornly Freetrade. The old Earl,
though a Unionist, was bitterly conservative in the
matter of fiscalism, and in this respect could never see
eye to eye with the majority of his party. He regarded
Protectmn as an accursed upstart Yankee contraption,
and despite his huge Lancashire estate, the farming
areas whereof have been wilting year by year as a
result of the thinning process that the free import regime
has been producing in the ranks of England’s yeomanrv,
he clung to the old doctrine. His son, the present Earl,
is an intimate friend and red-hot admirer of Edward VII
His sudden change gives color to the rumor persistently
circulated in the French and U.S.A. press that the
Seventh Ned is a keen proselytising tariff reformer. The
three types whom Edward is said to most dislike are
(1) Convinced Freetraders; (2) the people who oppose
alteration of the insane old Coronation Oath ; and (3)
those able-bodied citizens who side-step the Territorial
Forces.
The eccentric Lord Petre, whose sudden
death, at the age of 47, is reported from London,
had an uncle of considerable influence in Sydney
some 30 years ago, and he also died suddenly in
London at the age of 47. Augustus William
Berney Petre, grandson of the tenth Baron Petre,
started on a military career, but dropped it, and’
joining the R.C. priesthood, came out to Australia
with Archbishop Vaughan. Many elderly Syd-
neyites recall Father Petre. of St. Mary’s. The
Lord Petre who has j ust died married an American
society girl about 20 years ago, but he grew tired
of fashion, separated himself from old associates,
and afterwards wandered round the world as “ Mr.
Petre,” studiously suppressing all references to
his past. He died in a boardinghouse.
THE RUIN.
One of a batch of police sent up from Sydney to
Broken Hill bruised his toe. It is surmised that he acci-
dentally struck it against a wayside platform.
Sketch of the platform .
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes :
r . Mr ;, B « r I nar < l Byrnes, of the biff Sydney coal business,
who died last week, aged 68 years, commenced in a very
minor way on the spot near Circular Quay where Harri-
son, Jones and Devlin’s biff wool warehouse is now In
his time the opposite corner of Reibey-lane was occupied
by a pubbery known as the Royal Admiral, a house after-
wards used as the offices of the Shipping- Master, and the
site of the first home of the Bank of New South Wales
The minute book of the institution shows that the bush
ness was commenced in the house belonging to Mrs
Reibey, in Macquarie Place. Mr. E. S. Hall was the first
manager, and his agreement with the directors was that
he should sleep every night at the bank, and should not
be out of Sydney after nightfall. Where Barney Byrnes
had his coal shed in the late ’sixties Mr. Francis Cox had
a smithy in the 1790’5, and did all the blacksmith work
for the Government, with the aid of some robust exiles
whose services were lent him by the Governors of the
time. Mr. Cox founded a very noteworthy Australian
family, and died in 1831. His remains were originally
planted in the neighborhood of Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan’s bio-
railway station, but are now in the South Head Ceme-
tery, where they keep the bones of old John Robertson
company.
Died at Millbrook, Moss Yale (N.S.W.)
Henry Lowther Zouch, eldest son of the late Cap-
tain Zouch, of Goulburn. The latter came to Syd-
ney early in the ’thirties, as an ensign in the 4th
regiment. In the same regiment was Captain
Foster Fyans, who settled at Fyansford, near
Geelong (Vic.), and William Lonsdale, who be-
came first resident magistrate at Melbourne-
before the place was named—and was the first
Colonial Secretary of Victoria. He was also
Colonial Treasurer, though he is not accused of
having made a Budget speech. Ensign Zouch
made one of a military jury which tried several
men accused of mutiny at Castle Forbes-
Major Mudie’s collection of shanties atSingle-
ton (N.S.W ). The men were convicted and exe-
cuted. Mudie, however, lost caste; he was struck
off the roll of magistrates by Governor Bourke
and left the country. He is said to be the grand-
father of a very high-up Australian. Zouch was
sent out to find the remains of Richard Cunning-
ham, botanist to Mitchell’s expedition, who was
murdered by Bogan blacks in 1833. He became
superintendent of the mounted patrol on the
southern roads, and subsequently a Superinten-
dent ot Folice and Acting Inspector-General.
Ordinary ability plus a good memory makes
success, and half-an-hour daily for six weeks wifi S
easU r Pel ?*“ is the nSI one
andverv k f y ac< 3" lred - permanent benefits, simple
2",, ry ,interesting. Taught by post. Write, Pelman
chool of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Bldgs., Melbourne *
ROPING HIM IN.
Soldiers are so hard to get in England that ladies’ committees are being formed to hunt for recruits.
Chords op Females : Britain will never sink to the compulsory military service methods of
foreign nations. Come along and enlist voluntarily.”
Veteran A. W. Compigne, the only sur-
viving member of the first Bananaland Legislative
Council, founded 50 years ago, has celebrated his
91st birthday. He first settled in Brisbane in ’47,
when the gaol stood where the post-office is now,
and on the quay near the bridge the six-pounder
guns were ready for action in case the convict
settlement should be surprised by a concerted
movement on the part of the chained gangs or the
Great Powers of Europe.
The ructions at Broken Hill this time
throw into strong relief the holy calm and quiet
of the silver-miners’ four-months-long struggle
in ’92. Nearly twice as many
men were “out,” and feeling was
more bitter because all the time
the companies were struggling to
work their mines with blacklegs.
There was only an extra handful
of police on the scene, yet there
was only one brief moment when
so much as a nose bled. And
the police didn’t stop that trouble
“Dick ” Sleath did. Asa born
leader of men, that big, rough,
raw Scotchman never had his
superior in Australian unionism.
When Sleath had belted the
strikers into order, he used to
lead them on to the nearest re-
serve, and then W. J. Ferguson
would get on to a lorry and
amuse them for half-an-hour;
and by that time the crowd had
forgotten that it wanted to eat
anybody. It was a remarkable combination, that
of bleath and Ferguson, and a muddle-headed
Government rewarded the pair of them with gaol.
Some discursiveness by the Oldest In-
habitant :
James Whiteside, who, on January 9, was gathered to
his fathers from the Old Men’s Home, Perth (W A ) at
the great alleged age of 103, had been a soldier in the
14th regiment of the line. He served in the Crimea and
wore the uniform for 19J years. For striking a ser-
geant he was sentenced by court martial to seven years’
transportation to Westralia, with the loss of medals and
pension rights. Melbourne, in the sixties, had a little
experience of the 14th. It had served in the Maori War.
and was waiting for orders. Some of the officers
were dudes, and swift ones at that. One night,
two or three of them occupied a box at the
Theatre Royal during Barry Sullivan’s management.
With them were some noted women, who held
good positions and dubious reputations. They were
loud, not to say deafening, and at last the audience de-
manded that they should be put out. The disturbance
attracted the attention of Barry Sullivan, who was not
that night, and, with that stately stride for
which he was noted, he walked to the box and insisted
upon the whole party leaving. Amid much protest,
Sullivan fixed them with his eye, and hypnotised them
into following him like folk walking in their sleep. The
sight of Sullivan striding in front of his captives and, at
the head of the circle stairs, pointing with the Finger of
hate the way to Bourke-street, was as good as anything
he ever did on the stage. The chief offending lady, when
her husband died by the wayside near the Palmer
diggings, wedded a well-known business man, and lived
more or less miserably ever after.
Myles Flynn, sent to the Adelaide Stock-
ade in 1902 for a highway robbery about which he
swore he knew nothing, is getting the inquiry his
friends, and the friends of fair trial, have always
pressed for. John Downer, Grundy, and George
Murray, all K s.C., are holding it, and the first
result has been to set all Adelaide laughing over a
side issue. Flynn isn’t in gaol at all! He was
sent to the asylum as a lunatic five years ago, and i
ha,s been more or less loosely attached to that in- 1
stitution ever since. The resident medical
officer is convinced that Flynn’s mental trouble
wa,s melancholia due to being shut up in
prison when innocent, and so the doctor would not
report the man’s restoration to health because
that would mean his going back to gaol, with a
probable recurrence of the trouble. It was sug-
gested to the lunacy expert that a man who, it is
admitted, had many convictions against him
possibly wouldn’t be so sensitive about gaol ;
to which, of course, the reply was that, while a
man might put up with gaol when he was guilty,
he might very naturally worry over practically a
life sentence if he wasn’t guilty.
YOU CANNOT FEEL GOOD
When your digestion is out of order. Dr. Sheldon's
Digestive Tabules digest what you eat, thereby curing
the cause of your indigestion. Obtainable everywhere,
price, 2s. 6d. per tin.*
“Blunt”: The late David Gaunson, of
Melbourne, was always associated in my mind
with Tom Bent. They were notably r»wdy
members of the Vic. Assembly five-and-twenty
years ago, when I first lived in Melbourne. One
day there was a triangular contest of vilification
among Bent, Gaunson, and another turbulent
member, whose name I have forgotten. In the
course of their throwing-off at one another they
touched upon the question of “convict” parent-
age, and Bent bellowed as follows: “If I ’ad a
drop of convict blood in my veins I’d let it out
with a knife.’' This I took as a reflection of
some sort on Gaunson’s parentage, though it
might have been meant for the other fellow, and
wasn’t much of a reflection after all. Men im-
measureably superior to Bent have had convict
parents.
The protest of “ Johannes ” :
Let me lodge an objection to “ O.K.’s” talk (14,'1/’O9)
anent Oscar Wilde. “ 0.K.” considers that Oscar Wilde
shouldn’t have a monument over his grave at P6re la
Chaise, and hopes that if he does someone will carve a
ribald inscription on it to the effect that Wilde is in Hell.
Oscar Wilde was responsible for the best comedy of last
century, and for one of the dozen best poems that have
been written in the English language since Byron died.
I hold that if Wilde had the moral character of a Caligula,
yet the two achievements above-named earned him
many monuments, and one on which no postmortem libels
should be inscribed. Years ago when Wilde’s crimes were
first published to the world, England became afflicted with
one of its periodical attacks of the snuffles. Opinion was
let loose in every half-penny paper. The country went on
a moral maffick. The wretched accused —ere ever he
stood his trial—was driven from hotels, spat at and
stoned. After the trial, the official receiver who had
charge of Wilde’s bankrupt estate announced that the
literary works of the insolvent w’ere worthless as assets.
(It may be noted that within five years nearly £7OOO
of debts were liquidated out of the proceeds of “De
Profundis ” and the plays alone—most of the money
came from semi-Puritan Germany—and the Wilde
creditors have long since been paid in full.) The whole
insane business astonished and nauseated th? continental
peoples—who have always differentiated between the
artist and his work—even more than did the
rampage of bogus patriotism that occurred during
the Boer war. With all due deference to righteous-
ness _ I cannot see any sense or justice in re-
starting the hysteria here at this time of day. Touch-
ing the “ pestilential magazine ” which Wilde “ pub-
lished and circulated privately among young Oxford
collegians when he was a middle-aged satyr,” I take leave
to say I don’t believe in it. I was an undergraduate at
Oxford between 1896 and 1900. As always happens in
such cases, an incredible collection of weird untruths had
clustered round the name of the outcast genius ; and I
think that, in common with the other lads of my age, I
had an opportunity of shuddering at most of them at one
time or another. Wilde was represented by various
people who had never known him (most of the yarns are
said to have been faked up, in the first instance, by
Yankee yellow pressmen) to have fractured every counsel
in the Decalogue, and to have perpetrated in addition
about 14,000 other infamies of his own invention. I
never heard the “pestilential magazine” story in
those days—possibly for the reason that in Oxford it
couldn’t have lived for 10 minutes. Ninety-nine per cent,
of the undergraduates, even in effete old Britain, are
nothing if not intolerant of sex-perversion. Even
assuming that one lonely degenerate got hold of the
(alleged) Wilde publication, he would find his prize as
jumpy a thing to possess in that environment as
a bomb. There was never a time within the recol-
lection of the oldest Oxonian I have known that
sueh evidence of degeneracy as the owning of the
sort of literary garbage this magazine presumably was
wouldn’t have rendered the proprietor liable to death
by “ragging” in Tom Quad pond, or in the chill and
slimy Isis. An unpleasant person was Wilde in certain
ways, but he was not so bad as scores of great men whose
names are honored in every school-room daily, nor worse
than a few now living whose styles and titles will occur
to the average man in the average civilised street. After
much vilification it seems to me a fair and seemly thing
to give the fallen peace.
THE INJUSTICE OF IT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The injuries and diseases of Old World people are to be
snown in a pathological collection which will shortly be
on view at the Royal College of Surgeons. Many in-
teresting discoveries have been made in this regard,
■thus typical lesions of gout were found in an early
•Jnristian subject, and there were masses round the joints
giving the characteristic reactions of uric acid.— News
item.
Sanctity he displayed in vain
And self-denial. He,
Good though he was, endured the strain
Of that sharp agony
Which worldlings suffer from who drain
The cup of revelry.
He fed not on stuffed larks and bisques,
Nor quaffed the heady wine
Of Cyprus. No gay odalisques
Massed luresomely in line,
And entertained him with the frisks
Old Rome esteemed divine.
Far from it. All he drank was milk ;
Rusks were his Feast-day fare ,
His lady friends wore serge, not silk,
For frisks they did not care.
When such transpired dames of his ilk
Were hardly ever there.
One might suppose that equity
Would prompt Fate to enlist
The cause of such a one. That he
Who never had been kissed
(The blameless man !) at least should be
A healthy pietist.
But no. For years he reaped the seed
Of oats he did not sow ;
And when, at length, he’d to proceed
To where the steady glow
Of grilling friends showed that his meed
Of life was cancelled, lo !
He limped forth to be lions’ feed,
Dead lame in ev’ry toe.
Envoy.
Sanctity he displayed in vain
And self-denial. He,
Good though he was, endured the strain
Of that sharp agony
Which worldlings suffer from who drain
The cup of revelry.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


m
3
bCWA
op
SHARKS
rr*
%
%
* aniA,l TOTni
Mw>
Venus on the Beach !
Cool !
Sweet!
Delightful !
At Night
Subtle !
Exquisite !
Alluring 1
m
(/H"
wm
■M
j
V
X
V
\
TC
'3
m
X\'
3
3t
m
Hr,
-:rl
<0
dx 0
do
yA/A
c-o
9
%
Like
Venus The Tobacco of Charm
Which is made from the FINEST Carefully Selected VIRGINIAN
LEAF, specially matured, and sold in 2oz. and 4oz. (actual weight)
Plugs, or in Cut Double Flake, packed in Dainty Silvered 2oz. Tins.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
“ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT * rnatle in En S>and.)
l . • ii if, . . ... _ l)6clL till <
The
Rojal Agricultural Society’s trials in Enjrland. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
by- Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
otunct : post umce Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
riivbdc . un DBI . v BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
I STOCK R w A h SE^ LERS ° a " Classes of New an « Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity
s OCK Winding E „„ ne , **'*'*“ <» «»
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank
„ _ Repaid Repaid Total
Dross Written Govern- Private Re-
-190. J.. 22,329 10,029 3000 6 000 30 000
Dec e, 1903*‘ 217-7 Q - 3000 6 ’ ooo 33 ’ 000
Jnn'e m" 9 ’ 7 ' 7 3000 MOO 36,000
June, 190 4 .. 21,822 9,822 3000 6,000 39 000
>6C '’ in 9 4" 21,823 9,823 9 000 42 000
Dec*’l9ft'" 10,009 ~ MOO 45,’ 000
Dee., 1900.. 22,3i>7 10,307 —. 9 000 4s 000
June, 1906.. 23,421 11,421 9000 sl’ooO
Dee., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 13’uyo 55 000
June, 1907.. 34,783 18,783 12,000 59 000
June 1908 Is’lnw 2 i’ 606 ~ 15,000 6 4,000
Dec ’lQn«" 20,483 15,000 69,000
Dee., 1908.. 43,737 18,737 20,000 74,000
p“fl r n the , original scheme of reconstruction, both
, and Private deposits were divided into four
parts. Three parts of the Government debt were to carry
7 and a in five equal instalments
• e f* ee i l 19 j 7 , an<l 1922 > tbe other part was to carry no
vaf St n and b ? repa - val,ie out of profits. The same with
private deposits, except that the three-fourths were to be
represented by interminable stock ; the other fourth
„f'l‘!i g: K n . OSfc ?u k V e^-’ issued a "ainst it, does not appear
ebfc i on .r°? balance-sheet. Under the rearrangement
fixed up by Kidston, the bank gave 16p.n.’sfor the full
Government debt, and these carry 4*2 12s. 6d. per cent
interest. During the past half-vear another of these
p.n. s has been prepaid, leaving 10 to pay ; and, when two
more have been got rid of, the bank can pay
TT^ lVld ?u d ", P , tO , 3 £ P er cent. if R wants to.
Under the old scheme 50 per cent, of the net
profits used to go towards paying off the private
depositors one-fourth previously mentioned, and 25
per cent, used to go towards reducing the Govern-
ment debt ; now the whole 75 per cent, goes towards pay-
ing off the private depositors. The other 25 per cent,
usually goes to reserves. Apparently, however, there is
nothing to prevent the bank making larger payments
than 75 per cent, to the private depositors, and putting
less than 25 percent, to reserves. In Jan., 1905, in re-
porting to shareholders, the directors said—“ The 25 per
cent, of profits which hitherto went to the Government
will now go to the Private Depositors Fund, thus giving
that fund 75 per cent, of the profits, instead of 50 per
cent., as formerly.” Up to now that plan has been
adopted ; the repayments have been three times greater
than the reserve additions. Now, however, while 45000
is added to reserves, £20,000 is repaid. There is nothing
in the 1904 Act relating to the matter. Apparently the
bank reckons that it will pay to be generous—that the
advt. is worth more than the free use of the thousand
or two which it pays away in excess of what it must.
*4tne when the old arrangement was
modified matters have moved like this :
Reduc-
, „ 1897. 1908. tion.
Old Government deposits £1,833,327 £947,075 £BB6 252
Interminable stock (debt
to old depositors) .. 3,116,621 3,116,621
Debt to old depositors
(payable out of profits) 1,038,974 850,974 188 000
Due to bank (“ Debts in
suspense”) .. .. 742,835 201,683 541,152
Until all the Government debt has been paid off no divi-
dend in excess of 3£ p.c. can be paid ; and until the bank
°® the , old d . ebfc t 0 depositors (now apparently
£850,974, though the item never appears in the balance-
sheet)’ at least 75 p.c. of the net profits must go
. „o e m. So > lf the bank were to make a profit
of £BO,OOO a year, and used three-fourths of it to
pay off the old depositors, and wrote off nothing at all it
would be between 14 and 15 years before a dividend’in
excess of 3J per cent, could be paid. At present how-
ever, besides paying off depositors, it is writing off large
sums. Now, under ordinary circumstances, when a bank
or anything else pays off depositors or other creditors out
of profits, it is equivalent to writing down assets. But it
is different in this case ; since the one-fourth of deposi-
tors’debt (the £850,974 shown above) does not appear in
the balance-sheet at all, it means that on the other side
there are no assets representing that debt to write down
bo it is highly probable that the independent writing
down will have to continue ; certainly it ought to con-
tinue so long as the assets shown on the balance-sheet
are not worth 20s. in the £. And there is, further, a debt
of £850,000 not represented by assets at all. What the
assets shown in the balance-sheet are worth it is impos-
sible to say ; but it is quite certain that the position must
have wonderfully improved during the past few years
and it is just about as certain as anything can be that
assets have been written down a great deal more than
the published accounts show—that is to say boom
paper value has been replaced by solid cash and securities
derived from undisclosed profit.
A further comparison shows the Q.N.’s recent
progress:—
Dec., ’O7. Dec., ’OB.
Bills and notes . £919,314 £568,120 Dec. £351 194
New deposits .. 3,109,171 3,087,677 Dec. 21’494
Liquid assets .. 2,545,038 2,239,297 Dec. 305’741
Advances.. .. 5,595,953 5,505,340 Dec. 9o’ei3
Premises, etc. .. 277,779 280,493 Inc. 2,714
The movements are not very significant. It is a little
surprising that advances have shrunk. The explanation
probably is that, though settlement has been fairly rapid
up North, the old settlers have had such a rattling good
tune that their advances have been reduced.
* *
The Bank of North Queensland :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June 1902.. £2°3B 2'-p.c. = £1313 - £725 £13,808
1902 -* 2687 2 * » •> 1313 1374 15,182
June, 1903.. 2153 2£ „ „ 1313 840 16,022
Dec., 1903.. 2408 2£ „ „ 1313 1095 17 117
June, 1904.. 2251 2* „ „ 1313 - 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2£ „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1900.. 2262 2£ „ ~ 1325 937 20 100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 „ „ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 2£ „ „ 1330 1131 2*215
I)ee - 1 99 ®-- 2 644 2£ „ „ 1335 1309 23,’524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ „ 2113 905 24 429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 „ ~ 2122 £4OOO 21’e78
June, 1908.. 3677 4 ~ ~ 2129 1548 23 226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 „ ” 2652 4500 - 20,i1l
Formed at a dangerous time—in 1888—this bank made a
bad start; and even after it had written off three-fifths of
its capital it wasn’t out of trouble. North Queensland
to which, in the beginning it gave most of its attention!
drifted further and further back. Then the thing that was
going to ruin the country was resolved upon ; the black
labor went, and in its place came a greater number of
small white farmers. At the same time settlement in
Atherton and other Northern districts was pushed for-
ward, and Northern mining also looked up : and while
these things helped the Bank of North Queensland, that
energetic little institution gradually made its way south
and got a slice of the prosperity that was flowing in there’
and it was on the spot when attention began to turn
toward the New England district of N. S. Wales. Between
1902 and 1906 its profit figures didn’t move up much *
presumably old securities were being at this time written
SBMiSSS
ssfjs»is‘{ti‘£i?«fsssjs
the proa,, ,« now “f, * And apparently, a.
shareholders' «„„„,, thei SEWS *&3»2
pJratt?mwh”?Ctapp?«d^r»d g n:h‘S?“”'
SsK'e, ro „-,. a0 .; -»'»
Limild’assets' * " 2§,£ 2 s“ loo' S'iS
ftSar - •■ «a «** *. as
premises .. .. 30,146 39,924 Inc> gm
a "tfni 0 whin atUre iS £ he Solid , °* liquid assets ;at
Dared “"r km V ® redu . oed their coin, etc., com-
pared with their liabilities, this bank has put its propor-
lic-s Xnev B iHh C B en K- AlB ° the P ro P ort icn of tlfeTub-
'? t he business is not excessive ; for every
funds and ,?nd he PUbli< i' S mo " e -'’ il ba * «of its own
consbier u-wf ,T rnia condlt,ons > it is only time to
SorH™ v he risk is not excessive when the pro-
steadilv ‘k° All tbe same > in view of the
“ -"creasin- bus!ness and the steadily.increasing
this bank Lm ? pub i lcs money with which it is favored,
its canimi hi) i® t 0 Co ™l, er the question of increasing
d P, , be h f r l0n "- W . hlle l it was Putting its house in
whi?e’onn«. h ” m W ‘ IS l' a . v| ng but a small dividend, and
of capital on ."r'V ts shares were at a discount, increase
nossfhle m s^ ls t f “Ctory terms was difficult, if not im-
possible. Now that it has trot on to the 5 per cent, mark
thfbastsnf f er? t n i‘ T , he disclosed Profits, calculated on
Recently as follows :- d reBerVeS Colnbined - have ™ved
Dec 6 ’ ions " £ q i? P-C- June ’ 1907 •• £4 17 9 P-c.
ilec., 190 S .. 316 11 „ Dec., 1907.. 5 8 4
Dee 8 ’190«" ! J t ” June, 1908 .. 6 010 „
Dec., 1906 .. 4 6 7,, Dec., 1908 .. 612 1
Probab.y there hasn’t been a real improvement to that
• 't is more likely that, in the earlier half-years,
profits were beir.fr used to write down old assets, and a
prudent management didn’t mention that thev were
oeiner made because it didn’t want to be rushed for larger
dividends so long as it had any of the old trouble on hand.
With the accounts this half-year the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia is issuing a circular explaining
how things are getting on in connection with the clean-
ing-up of the old wreckage. The directors sav that,
under ordinary conditions,” the deficiency of the Assets
f , or f,he special reserve, is not more
!oJ? ..£»°2 1,608 . ’ and b - v 1916 ’ whe " the last of the
,t* deposits must be paid off, it is estimated that
the deficit will be got down to £700,000 by means of the
surplus profits of the bank. It is not intended to clean
up the balance-sheet and wipe out the old deficiency by
reducing capital or otherwise ; future profits are to be re-
lied upon to do the necessary cleaning-up. which is a slow,
wearisome, and unsatisfactory method. The balance-
fofiows*— )el,Jff ISSUed in a " eW form > Poetically as
Total paid capital .. .. ~ £2,212,894
Less estimated net deficiency .. l]o9l j 509
Net capital intact.. .. £1,121,385
It is an improvement, however, to put things that way.
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.
(Melbourne): —
' _ . . To Re- Re-
t 4 ronts. Dividends. serves, sei'ves
Dec 6 ’ 5 P-c. =£2250 £lB6 £9,577
.uec., 190-... 3186 o ~ 2250 918 10 495
DPo e ’iQn‘f’* o 6?? 7 ” ” 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903.. 3226 5,, ~ 2250 976 1° 020
mm" 5352 s >■ .. 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3332 5 2 9 50 1082 10 204
Dec 6 ’ 1 Qna *' fS* 5 ” ” 15!l
Dec., 1905 .. 5577 6,, ~ 2700 2877 20 599
June, 1906.. 5166 6 ~ ~ 2700 2766 23 365
T >e<! ’’ io?w" 7061 8 ” ” 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907.. 4432 6 „ „ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec., 190/ .. 4271 6 ~ ~ 2700 1571 30 129
Dec 6 ’1908 " 455? ! ” ” 3900 1292 31,421
Dec., 1908.. 4657 6 „ ~ 2700 1957 33,378
This was the pioneer among the trustee cos. of Australia,
and wa.s supplied with a paid capital of £90,000, which is
much in excess of what later on was reckoned to be
enough for all requirements. In consequence of its
large capital it never has shown up very well in any com-
fWh‘?u s ? ts , oufc , the earnings in proportion to
funds , for the funds themselves obviously can’t earn
more than 4 or 5 per cent, at the most, if they are to be
the security which they are intended to be ; if they are
earning more than 5 per cent, they may be safely in-
vested or again they may not be. The business is, how-
ever a large and profitable one. The trust balances in
hand exceed 8£ millions. The average earnings, includ-
mg the commission on annual income and the proportion
of the commission charged on the capital value, is about
4s. Bd. per cent, per annum; 3s. of that goes in
expenses Both figures are exceedingly low ; to
some extent this is no doubt due to the fact that
this co. has to handle some very big estates, which take a
long while to wind up; and the longer an estate is in
hand the smaller the total annual charge is, because the
one fixed commission on the capital value is then spread
out more. Whatever way you look at it, however under
i p.c. is a very small sum to pay for the services which a
good trustee co can render. Further details and some
comparisons follow :
n . . Dec., ’OO. Dec., ’O7. Dec., ’OB.
Commissions .. .. £9) i7 6 £ 10 ,423 £lO 0851
* nfcerest 649 1,086 1,128
Expenses .. 5,611 6,454 6,556*
-r™ o !'!"' ndS ’ P ' C ’ •• ;£7/14 / 9 £7/4/1 £7/13/5
Trust Estates .. .. 6,326,344 8,665,494 8,678,461
Expenses p.c. of Estates 3/6 2/11 3/
With regard to expenses, nothing apparently is charged
;? r /flPnL t - he i u°V ltsown premises (the offices stand
«ib 465,000 in the books, and, after paying- rates, repairs
etc. the income from that source was only £92 last half-
year). While that cuts down the expense rate, it also, of
course, cuts down the interest earnings; the item, in
short, appears on neither side of the profit and ’loss
aiccount.
* * * *
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
Dividends Written Ee-
Profits. Paid. Contrib. Off. serves.
“■>'.““o,luj*PJ f»PA} £IJJ6 £14,294
N 0.., ,903 Wmjggf 1953 19,163
M.,, 1904 10,450 ( “fj&f 2077 17,626
Nov., 1904 14.190 jjgftj 2„90 19,626
£5OOO share premiums added to reserves .. 24,626
May, 1905 14,894 {2797 25,473
Nov- 1905 17,247-|| 0 7 P-- 2 8|p.c.| 3m
May, 1906 16,918] j- 3370 27,977
Nov., 1906 P.c.} - 33>133
On All Shares.
May, 1907 17,234 20 p.c. = £12,500 3690 34 177
Nov., 1907 19,168 20 „ „ 12,500 2498 38 347
May, 1908 16,309 20 „ „ 12,500 2510 39 646
Nov., 1908 19,201 20 „ „ 12,500 2547 43,800
“ On June 17 last,” says the report, “ the directors re-
ceived from the Perth City Council notice of intention to
acquire the property under section 50 of the Perth Gas
Co.’s Act, 1886. A letter was also received requesting
that permission be given to certain officers to inspect the
works, which was granted. Since that time no further
communication has been received.” Upon this matter
the future of the co. hangs. The City Council has the
right to take the works over ; but it is in dispute whether
the business has to be paid for as well as the wprks, and
that is a large item seeing that the business was recently
valued at half as much again as the works. The co.’s
paid capital is £125,000 in £1 shares ; the later issues of
shares have been wholly or partly paid up out of pro-
fits, so that even if they get only par for their shares the
original holders will have done splendidly. There is an
electric light department as well as a gas department.
Last half-year gas showed a net profit of £5119 ; the other
branch, £11,535. Dividing up the general assets propor-
tionately between the two branches, the gas business
showed about £l4 ss. p.c. p.a.; the electric light business
about £2l 10s. p.c. —that is, of course, on capital invested.
The co. owes only £2124, mainly deposits on accounts.
A few months ago, in spite of warnings, a great
many Perth Gas Co.’s shares were unloaded on to people
in the Eastern States at high prices ; but during the last
few weeks there has been a rapid slump to about 465. It
is discussed in Perth whether it will be worth the city’s
while to buy the concern if it has to pay market price for
the shares. No hardship would have been inflicted on
anybody if the Act had said plainly that the city should
have the right to the whole undertaking on paying for
works at a valuation in 21 years ; but as the Act
didn t make that plain, it will probably still pay the city
well to complete the deal even if it has to pay market
price for the shares. At 465. per share the business is
worth £287,500; and 5J per cent, on that (which will
allow at least 1 per cent, for a sinking fund) will call for
j 8 vear - ,®°> assuming that enough is now written
oil for depreciation, the works would only have to provide
half the profit that they do now ; in other words, the city
could cut about £16,000 off its lighting bill and still pay
interest and put aside at least 1 per cent, per annum for
sinking fund. It is outrageous that the city may have to
pay the co. for goodwill ; but, even if it has to do that, it
had better go ahead. At any rate, it is absurd to let the
present state of things continue; for Perth is paying
somebody else 9 per cent, on the market price of shares
to supply it with lighting, when, at the worst, it could
take over the shares and do the work for about 4i per
cent., or perhaps less.
* * • *
The Sandhurst and Northern District
Irustees, Executors, and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Vic.):—
Writ- Added
n Net ten To Re- Re-
TorS’’ Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves,
1000 " 6 P-C.= £lOOO £174 £2,234
loo? " 1273 6 » » 3000 273 2,507
IQO9 " 6 * ” ” 1100 ~ 1265 3 > 772
1902 .. 1452 6 „,, 1200 25? 4. 09d
1904 ” 2 o ” ” 1400 986 6,010
1005 " i ” ” 1600 1491 6.501
499 5 •• 4156 10 ~ ~ 2000 2156 8,657
1907 ” olof ” ” 2000 ~ 1092 0.749
ions ” 19 >’ ” 2000 £TSO 842 10,591
1908 .. 1922 8 „ „ 1600 322 10,913
This trustee co.’s profits are very erratic, probablv due to
the manner in which it takes the corpus com missions in to
profit and loss. As mentioned a few times hitherto,
trustee cos. draw two commissions—an annual one on the
revenue, and a single one on the capital value of the
ver .V frequently the larger of the
tw o , and if it falls into profits in a large lump, instead of
being distributed in some way, it naturally makes the
figures look very uneven from year to year. And the
smaller the office the more uneven those figures look.
Anyhow in this case nothing is mentioned to explain
why the commissions and other receiptsafter providing
iiono tln ? enoles ” dropped from £4981 in 1907 to £3775
m 1908. Amongst some other information which the co.
doesn tgive, as a rule, is the value of the estates in hand • so
the expenses in proportion thereto can’t be shown. In
proportion to income, they amount to 63 per cent. ; this
includes taxes and an allowance (£200) for rent. The
£20 ' 00 °j the, ' e is another 10s. uncalled on
the 40,000 shares. The debts total £2731. The share-
holders- funds, which constitute a surety guaranteeing to
the testators, etc. that the co. will do its work properly
mainly in public stock (£10,000), mortgages
(£12,465), and premises (£8679). * h
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co
„ _ . . To Re- Re-
Fronts, Dividends. serves, server
Dec., 1902 .. £1174 6 p.c. = £9OO £274 £l5 311
June, 1903 .. 837 6 „ „ 900 - 15248
Dec., 1903 .. 1395 6,, ~ 900 495 15 743
June, 1904 .. 986 6 ~ ~ 900 86 15 829
Dec., 1904 .. 1269 6 ” 900 369 16 198
June, 1905 .. 881 6,, ~ 900 16 179
Dec., 1905 .. 1069 6,, ~ 900 169 16,348
June, 1906 .. 806 6,, ~ 900 lg 254
Dec., 1906 .. 1316 6,, ~ 900 416 16 670
June, 1907 .. 739 6„ „ 900 - 16 509
Dec., 1907 ... 1186 6„ „ 900 286 16 795
June, 1908 .. 896 6,, ~ 900 16 791
Dec., 1908 .. 1261 6,, ~ 900 361 17,' 152
This co. owns the building where the wool and shipping
people meet, and isn’t to be confounded with the Stock
Exchange, whose building hasn’t any bronze or copper
adyon top of it. Its share capital is £30,000 ; it owes
however, on debentures £21,420. The building stands in
kj}® at Lio,ooo, and the furniture and fittings at
£lOOO ; they stood at the same figures six years and more
ago. Apparently unearned increment is relied upon as
being sufficient of a set-off to natural wear and tear and
decay of the building ; and additions and renewals pro-
bably keep the fittings, etc., at their original value. The
return on shareholders’ funds was last year only £4
4- s - 2d. p.c.; but the co. isn’t altogether a money-
grubber—it serves as a convenience for the members who
are also mostly the shareholders, and it does also a ser-
vice to the commerce of the State, though unfortunately
secretary and manager C. H. Hayes, who. has been
mainly responsible for the latter service, has been too ill
a man lately to be much of an honorary barracker for the
btate s great natural resources.
* * * *
-Th© Coastal Farmers Co-operative Society
Ltd. (Sydney)' ’
ht , Bonus to To Re- Re-
inm'> Pr „°o« s - Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901 .. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 —. £256
1902 .. 1528 6 „ „ 104 £1262 io2 418
1903 .. 2957 6 ~ ~ 253 2583 121 539
1904 .. 2778 6 „ „ 320 2147 311 850
1905 .. 4958 6 „ „ 368 4188 402 1252
1906 .. 4206 6 „ „ 432 4126 _ onn
1907 .. 43’52 6 „ ~ 479 3873 900
1908 .. 8010 6 ~ ~ 535 7285 190 1090
Sept.,
1908 .. 6706 _ 6706 7796
Dividends and bonuses are declared after the March
glance The turnover for the half-year amounted to
£410,850, which shows continuous progress; for the
previous 12 months the figures (the biggest on record up
to that time) were £642,237. The co.’s paid-up capital is
now £11,437 ; 12 months ago it was £8587. Meantime
some of the bonus to the consignors has been divided in
paid-up shares. In view of the large turnover, involvin'.-
book-debts amounting to about £35,000, an increase of
funds was absolutely indispensable. The co. began in a
small way ; in even the second year the turnover was
only £167,7 1 4, and the capital that was big enough to carry
that business obviously isn’t big enough to carry the
present business. One course would have been to have
kept a tight rein on the bonus distributions and with the
money thus saved to have built up a big reserve fund
It would have been perfectly legitimate to have done
that; the society, however, adopted the other alternative
and, while maintaining high bonuses, decided to pav
some of them in the shape of shares carrying no liability
In other words, instead of putting the profits to reserves
where they would have carried no dividend, the society
divided the profits and thus practically undertook to pay
the co-operators a dividend upon them. The amazing
thing’ is that in the North Coast Co-operative Dairy Co
—the one at Byron Bay, which is among the biggest supl
pliers—a commotion has been made about this plan, and
only by a very narrow majority did the shareholders
decide to accept the shares; the inclination of a bio-
section was to bail up the society and demand cash. Pre-
sumably this section doesn’t want to smash the co-op-
erative movement; anyhow, it is supposed to be part of
the co-operative movement itself. Yet there couldn’t
possibly be a worse blow aimed at co-operation than this
attempt to grab cash, with the direct result of weakening
and jeopardising: the wholesale co-operative concern. It
is to be hoped that by this time the opposition feels a bit
ashamed of itself: if it doesn’t its proper place is outside
and not inside the co-operative movement.
* * * *
Yale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co. (N.S.W.):
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902 ..£1794 10 p.c. =£lsoo £294 £1496
Dec., 1902 .. 1518 10 „,, 1500 18 1514
June, 1903 .. 1541 10 „ „ 1500 41 16d5
Dec., 1903 .. 1880 10 „ „ 1500 380 1935
June, 1904 .. 1618 10 „ „ 1500 118 2053
Loss.
Dec., 1904 ..157 5 „ „ 750 1146
Profits.
June, 1905 .. 1606 10 „ „ 1500 106 1252
Dec., 1905 .. 2269 10 ~ „ 1500 769 2021
June, 1906 .. 1720 10 „,, 1500 220 2241
Dee., 1906 .. 2688 10 ~ ~ 1500 1188 3429
June, 1907 .. 1835 10 „,, 1500 335 3764
Dec., 1907 .. 1454 10 „,, 1500 3718
June, 1908 .. 4018 30 „ „ 4500 3236
Dec., 1908 .. 2957 10 ~ „ 1500 1457 4693
The reserves of this co. move in a mysterious way. Six
months ago there was a reserve fund of £3OOO and un-
divided profit of £236. Now there is a reserve fund of
£lOOO, a special reserve of £3400 (though what it is
specially for isn’t mentioned), and undivided profit of
£293. The special reserve may be to meet some con-
tingency', and may not be a very good reserve ; but
nothing one way or the other is evident yet. The re-
serves are, however, a better lot than those of most
mining cos., which don’t trouble to write down the value
of their mines, no matter how rapidly thej r are being
exhausted. That is to say, though they' are using up
their capital, they put nothing in its place ; so that
what they call their profit is to a great extent
merely their capital coming back to them. This co.
isn’t guilty of that folly; though it doesn’t
mention what amount of “profit” it writes off—
in other words, what amount of its income it puts aside
as a set-off ag'ainst the hole it makes in the mine—it evi-
dently puts by something substantial. Four years ago
the book value of the mine was £15,034 ; it is now only
Four years ago the liquid assets in excess of lia-
bilities (including suspense account) were £10,062 ; they
are now £16,350. So, in addition to the dividends and
bonuses that have been paid since 1904, and in addition
to the machinery and plant that have been bought and
paid for, the co. has made £6288.
* * » *
Neither chairman Meeks nor general-manager
Teece, who went to England to open the A.M.P.’s office
in London, brought back much comfort to those policy-
holders who allowed the management to rob the society
of its purely Australian character. Mr. Meeks had some-
tlnng to sav to the interviewers about the notable hustle
, e English business-man ; so from that point of view
a 6 j ii m isn’t going to find the new field a soft snap.
And Mr. Teece, looking at things from quite a different
point of view .regarded Britain as decadent, and slither-
ing down hill. So the great A.M.P. has found out for
itself practically what The Bulletin tried for seven years
or more to hammer into its head ; it has robbed itself of
its purely Australian character in order to struggle for
business in a country which is slithering down hill, and
where business is so hard to get—owing’ no doubt to the
country s fiscal foolishness—that the men who pursue it
have developed a remarkable amount of speed; a
country where the manufacturer has become scarce,
while the agent and every other sort of commission
person has become numerous. It is to, be hoped that the
A.M.P. won’t disguise the results obtained under these
cheerless conditions by mixing them up with the Aus-
tralian results. But it is safe to bet at least tuppence
that the society will.
♦ * * .
The 50,000 £lO pref. shares in Dalgety and Co.,
Ltd., were more than 50 per cent, over-applied for ; but
evidently with a view of strengthening the Australasian
connection-, applicants on this side will be allotted their
shares m full.
The North Coast Co-operative Co., Byron Bay
(JN.Js. W.), the biggest butter-maker in the Commonwealth
and one of the biggest in the world, made' a profit last
half-year of £4271 after providing £1225 to cover depre-
ciation. At the end of the previous half-year there was
a credit balance of £6260 in the Export account, appar-
ently the ammi’it of that half-year’s profit from that
department; bi.i that £6260 has now been reduced to
£3722, showing a loss of £2538 in the past half-year The
£3722 is, however, included with the half-year’s receipts.
the position for the six months therefore really is :■
Profit on General account .. .. .. £1774
Less loss on Export account for half-year .. 2538
Net loss for half-year .. .. £764
Previous half-year’s Export account profit
VS.v£ 0 V urns . that loss into a P rofit of £5496. This less
£1225 depreciation, leaves £4271 as shown above. The
balance of the Export account having been included with
the half-year s profit, there was (with the profit and loss
balance brought forward) £7664 available, which was cut
up this way : £3BOO as bonus to butter exporters, 5 p c
div. (£743), £650 written off, and the balance added to
reserves or carried forward. The paid capital is £14,867 ;
the P resent distributions, the reserves will totai
£4862. The turnover is enormous compared with the
funds , apart from the Export account, the receipts for
totalled £220,297. The co. owed
£4 1,459, which looks big alongside the capital ; but, on
the other side, there were £22,903 in cash and £16,536 in
book debts. The plant has cost £63,300, of which £39 374
has been written off, leaving this item at £23,927. Thus
capital and reserves do not represent even the book-value
£u e P ant a lone ;so the whole of the trading capital has
to be borrowed. This isn’t a particularly satisfactory state
of affairs for so successful a co.; the reserves ought to be
considerably stronger. But these co-operators in the
butter business are gluttons for bonuses, and that explains
things.
* * * *
P,P rin £ the P ast four years 745 new limited
liability cos. have been registered in N. S. Wales, with a
< i a P'kal of £15,335,632 ; of this lot 197, with a capital of
±3,844,175, were registered in 1908. This doesn’t of
course, mean that £15,335,632 was put up in money in
the great majority of eases the co. was formed to take
over the business of a firm, and most of the capital was
represented by shares issued in payment for stock, plant
goodwill, and such-like items. In other cases no new’
capital at all was subscribed—in the case, for instance
of the Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Ltd.’
an old-established concern, which has during the year
taken advantage of the limited-liability provisions of the
Companies Act. The depression in mining is shown by
the fact that only 30 no-liability cos. were registered
during the year, as against 65 in 1907 and 51 in 1906.
*****
Following this comes as much of the past five
years’ gold production of Australasia as can be squeezed
into the width of a column. The figures are in fine
ounces
1904. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Westralia .. 2,373,021 1,794,547 1,697,553 1,648 505
Victoria .. 821,017 772,290 701,988 676 001
Queensland .. 877,238 544,636 465,882 461 359
N. S. Wales .. 324,996 253,987 247,363 224’792
Tasmania .. 65,921 60,023 65.617 60’453
S. Australia .. 29,108 25,592 17,445 14)500
Commonwealth 4,491,301 3,451,075 3,195£48 3 085 610
Maoriland .. 520,323 534,616 477,058 471)792
Total .. 5,011,624 3,985,691 3,672,906 3,557~402
That isn’t very cheerful. Still, there are a few o-’ 00 d
prospects. For three years there was a boom in indus-
trial metals, and, in consequence of the high prices
almost any sort of a copper or tin show was good enough
to make profits out of for awhile. Gold was, therefore
neglected. But the industrial metal markets collapsed’
and a lot of people began to see quite unsuspected virtues
m gold-mining; consequently the last few months have
seen a good deal more gold-prospecting. Still, gold-
mining can’t go on for ever ; and it will be a perfectly
natural thing if the Australian output does tail off.


HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD.,
Australian Offices:
, Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[4
LOHMANN COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables,
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. II
There may be another Kalgoorlie somewhere ; but Kal-
goorlies only turn up at very long intervals.
After the ’fifties there was nothing big enough
discovered to stop the steady slump until Kalgoorlie
arrived. In the ’fifties the output was worth about
£13,000,000 a vear at its best; from that it steadily
faded until it was down to £5,331,908 in 18S6.
Kalgoorlie lifted it up past £18,000,000 in 1903,
and from that point it may reasonably be expected
to slither away in something very like the old manner.
In the north probably there are other big fields, though
it isn’t certain yet that we shall enjoy them ; so far as
the south is concerned, outside Westralia we are mostly
nowadays drinking the skim-milk—plugging away at
vast depths, as in Bendigo, and getting very little for it
except phthisis and widows ; scraping off the alluvial, as
we are doing along the river flats at Bright and Araluen ;
and putting through the old tailings dump—we are
doing that everywhere. In that respect, as in some
others, Westralia isn’t like the old goldfields of Victoria.
They went about things in a very leisurely fashion ; it
took them 30 years to punch their way down to
2500 ft. Kalgoorlie has done it in about half the time.
The new idea is never to leave an ounce of gold in the
mine till to-morrow if it can be got out at approximately
the same cost to-day. Also Kalgoorlie doesn’t save up
its tailings, etc., for by-and-bye. To-morrow is by-and-
bye enough ; and to-dav is better. So Kalgoorlie and
other Western fields lifted the Australasian output with
a mighty lift; but from the very manner in which the
mines there have been worked, the lift can’t be so pro-
longed. So the steady shrinkage in gold production,
chough it is something to be sorry for, is nothing to be
surprised at. We must simply make up our minds for it,
and prepare to earn a crust at something else.
* * * •
Chairman John Darling has given a long inter-
view to the daily papers in reply to The Bulletin’s plain
statement that the Broken Hill Prop. “ simply can’t carry
on long on its present scale. The staff is organised for a
very big mine, and the Broken Hill Proprietary can’t
continue to be a very big mine much longer. It may be
a big ore-smelting concern, buying its supplies from
others, but the bottom is just about out of the mine
itself. Certainly there may be possiblyfour or five years’
ore developed, but that is a mere trifle, and even that ore
can’t be rushed out. Already officers are looking afield."
The chairman, having remarked that he “ didn’t wish to
say anything about it,” proceeded to say a good deal.
“ Figures speak better than words,” he said ; and then,
disastrously for himself, he quoted figures. On May 31,
1908, there were 3,000,000 tons of ore reserves, he says.
Very well: in the last 12 months for which the co.’s
reports have been issued (to May, 1908) the ore handled
was 585,715 tons. Therefore, on the chairman’s
own figures, there is barely five years’ ore de-
veloped. Five years’ supply at that rate would
amount to 2,928,575 tons. But a considerable
quantity of that ore can’t be reached and never will be
worked, partly on account of the fire, partly on account
of movements underground ; so, in saying that “ there
may be possibly four or five years’ ore developed,” The
Bulletin was exceedingly liberal to the co., even on Mr.
Darling’s own figures. To that The Bulletin added:
“ But that is a mere trifle.” And so it is. In The Lone
Hand (November) this matter was discussed at length.
It was shown then that, “ in the case of the Broken Hill
Prop., the total quantity of ore treated since the end of
1902 (five and a half years) was 3,205,735 and the total
net profit was £1,733,608, an average of 10s. 9d. per
ton.” On the same basis, there is five years’ work in the
mine, and the profit would be £1,612,500, or 335. 7d.
per share. It must be remembered that during a great
part of that five and a half years boom prices prevailed
in the lead market, so that the valuation of £1,612,500, or
335. 7d. per share, is also based on the same boom prices.
Of course that is merely an estimate (on the basis named)
of the value of the ore developed in the mine. In addi-
tion there are—(l) the liquid assets ; (2) the zinc possi-
bilities ; (3) the limited quantity of ore below 1400 ft.;
and (4) the possibilities of the co. as a smelter of other
mines’ ores.
“As an illustration of the faith the directors
have in the future of the mine ” —these are still Chairman
Darling’s remarks—“ the following items of expenditure
appear in the balance-sheet for the past six months
Precautions against fire, £2500; development work,
£33,554 ; building additional furnaces, £81,000.” This is
nonsense, and nobody ought to know it better than Mr.
Darling. Moreover, some of it is disingenuous nonsense.
Mr. Darling, for instance, says that £33,554 was spent on
“development,” which shows “the faith the directors
have.” What the directors’ report (page 8) did say was—
“ A very large amount of exploratory and developmental
work has been carried on during the past 12 months, the
total expenditure being over £70,000, of which £33,554
was for the past six months.” The whole explanation of
that is that the mine is getting so hard-up for ore that it
has been rushing exploration and development. The
northern half of the mine has been riddled witfh bores in
the attempt to find ore. Says the general manager
(p. 15)—“ The diamond drills have been at work during
the half-year, and drilled a total of 3048 ft. in 11 bore
holes without disclosing any new ore bodies.” A lot
more money was put into a long prospecting gallery which
has been driven north at 1000 ft., and it can find no ore.
Quote the general manager again : “At the 1000 ft. level
the prospecting gallery towards north reached a total
length of 1528 ft. without meeting any ore. Four bores
were driven east and west, for a total footage of 1988 ft.,
without discovering anything of value." And Chairman
Darling calls that “ development work,” and says it
proves “the directors’ faith in the future of the mine.”
If the work had proved some ore, it would have been a
lot more to the purpose. You can’t smelt faith.
Another “prominent shareholder” has been
interviewed by the Adelaide papers with regard to The
Bulletin’s forecast. “Do you think,” he asked, “we
should spend £BO,OOO on additional plant if we were not
confident of our future?” This is very much like a man
putting a fire-escape on his building and then asking,
“ Do you think I would spend all this money on this
escape if I didn’t think everybody could get down by the
ordinary stairway?” For this £BO,OOO that they talk
about is going into zinc plant, and the zinc material is in
the tailings dumps on the surface. That £BO,OOO repre-
sents the expenditure which gold-mining cos. put into
cyanide plant—and cyanide plant isn’t any proof that the
mine looks all right; in fact, it mostly comes
along to work over the tailings when the mine is
played out. The same foolish “prominent shareholder”
says of the mine that “ we have not half explored it yet,
and there is more ore in sight than we can work.” On
the official figures there is only five years’ ore, anyhow.
Still it is quite likely that there is more ore in sight than
they can work, simply because they never will be able to
get it out without risking too many lives. But whatever
that quantity may be it has to come off the five years’
supplies. As to the mine not being half-explored yet, of
course no mine ever is half-explored. Only a very few
mines go down past 4000 ft., and there is still another
7900 miles or so to go before they absolutely exhaust the
possibilities, and break through on the other side. For
all practical purposes, however, when they go three or
four hundred feet and strike nothing, the thing can be
given up as a bad job. In the struggle to prove that the
northern half of the B. H. Prop, mine isn’t a blank below
say 700 ft., General-manager Delprat put in the 1000 ft.
gallery no less than 1528 ft.; then he bored east and west;
and he could find nothing. In the south end there is ore
at 1400 ft.; but it is close to the boundary, and with every
100 ft. of sinking, the length of the shoot gets less, until
at 1800 ft. or thereabouts it will most likely' have passed
out altogether.
» * • *
Broken Hill is having a bad time. Three of its
principal mines are closed down, and the men working
along the line of lode—the real supporters of the town —
have dropped from 6502 in September last to 3584 at the
present time. And even if the B.H. Prop, should start
again, it will most likely not put on its old number of
hands.
* * * *
The derelict Broken Hill Junction, which has
been flying signals of distress for 12 months past,
promises not to sink after all. Just as things were
beginning to look uncommonly gloomy underground, the
diamond drill let a little sunshine in, and local people
who hold Junction shares are smiling once more. A body
of nice ore was worked at the north end of the 900 ft. level
before the mine closed down, but to all intents and pur-
poses it had cut out. Still there were reasons for regard-
ing the supposed hanging wall with suspicion, because of
the irregular character of the ore body near the Junction
North boundary. Two drill holes were therefore put in,
and both have proved the ore of good quality. But pre-
vious experience of these bodies adjoining the Junction
North induces one to wait a while before throwing one’s
cap into the air, because so far they have generally been
small.
Block 14, Broken Hill, is patiently drilling away
from the 400 ft. and 500 ft. levels, and is hoping to find
sulphides some day. It is hard to believe that, in a mine
so rich in carbonates as was Block 14, the sulphide zone
should cut out at a little over 600 ft. in depth. Three
diamond drills are to be used in solving the problem, and
they are to prod the earth in such a thorough manner
that it will be almost impossible for anything of any size
to escape.
* * * *
Managing-Director Kendall, of the Great Cobar
(N.S.W.)has arrived from England, and Manager Blake-
more has gone away for a spell. Any man who has had
to try to get results out of the new smelting plant, and
struggle to make it do two-thirds of what it was going to
do, deserves to go to Maoriland at once, and to Paradise
by-and-bye. The co. originally brought out a smelting
man ; he never did have much of an opinion of the new
plant, and went; and now it is understood that another
man is to be imported. Meantime an Australian metal-
lurgist has got a temporary job—the same fine copper
man who made the nearest approach to a success that
Lake George ever reached. Also it is understood that
the managing director, or consulting director, or what-
ever Mr. Kendall is, has brought out an accountant,
Australia being apparently a place which can’t grow
accountants any more than it can grow metallurgists.
Meantime, in spite of the rather better copper market,
Oobar shares have sagged to about 80s.
* * • ■»
Mt. David (N.S.W.)has found 20 inches of gold-
bearing stone about 150 ft. on the hanging wall side of
the old reef. This reef is b?ing sunk on, and gold shows
in some of the stone. There is a chance that the old
workings may have missed a parallel reef possibly joining
the main ore body, notwithstanding that a good deal of
crosscutting and exploratory work was done near the old
reef. The fact that there is so much gold-bearing surface
about encourages the hope that a fair sized reef may be
discovered, and something of the sort is badly wanted.
The long drive south-easterly from the winch winze is
out 518 ft. ; the water making in the face is regarded as a
good sign.
* * * *
Kyloe, Adaminaby (N.S.W.), maintains a bold
front in the market, on the strength of favorable mine
reports. At the deepest level (No. 3) the south drive has
rich ore over a width of sft. ; 34 tons were raised, averag-
ing 20‘5per cent copper. From the south drive 36 tons of
llj per cent, ore were raised. From the start the ore
going south has not been any thing like so rich as the
northern drive, so the ore in the latter may be considered
as an enriched patch. This old show is entering a new
stage‘of development, but, taking its previous historv
into account, it is a risky gamble at present prices. It is
in much the same class as Gilmore’s and other over-
capitalised concerns that had hardly any ore reserves, and
were boomed on the strength of a few good yields.
The gold output from the West for 1908 was
1,648,505 fine oz., or 490450 z. less than 1907. The output
since 1886 t0ta1520,011,692 fine oz., valued at £85,042,188.
The 1908 dividends also showed a substantial falling-off,
the year’s total being £253,847 less than in 1907, and is
the smallest distribution since 1903. Nearly £19,000,000
sterling has been paid to date.
* » » *
This was the financial position of Kalgurli
(W.A.) on July 31 last: Assets (apart from mine and
plant)—Stores, £7977 ; sundry debtors, £742 ; invest-
ments (almost all East Indian railway debenture stock),
£24,022 ; bullion, £42,065; cash, £9344 ; total, £84,150.
Liabilities—Sundry creditors, etc., £30,198. Allowing the
co. full credit for stores, and assuming that the value
placed upon investments is conservative and the debtors
are good marks, this gives a surplus of £53,952. The
year’s income amounted to £354,052 ; and, after provid-
ing for all charges, a profit of £151,095 remained. In
dividends £lBO,OOO was distributed, so that the co.
took roughly £29,000 out of accumulated surplus in
order to maintain the old rate (30s. per annum). Since
the year closed two 6s. 3d, dividends have been paid,
and the aggregate amount absorbed by these two dis-
tributions is just about offset by the profits earned during
the remainder of 1908. General manager Black reports
mine and plant in good order, and considers that his esti-
mate of 510,000 tons above the 1350 ft. level is safe. He
does not, however, commit himself as regards the average
value of the reserves. The tonnage shows a big drop
compared with last year’s figures. This is accounted for
by the fact that the 540 ft. level hasn’t come up to ex-
pectations, and that no ore has been developed on the
east lode at a greater depth than was worked last year.
* * » »
During the year ended September last, Golden
Pike (W.A.) worked its Kalgoorlie holdings dn the half-
gold-half-wages system. Battery tests made by tributors
show the lode at 400 ft. in the Golden Pike lease to average
12s. per ton, which, of course, is unpayable. The co. still
builds on getting some of the Ivanhoe east lode now
being worked down to 1650 ft. in the northern portion of
the Great Boulder ; but as this prize packet has first got
to pitch into the Boulder No. 1 (which it may do at
2000 ft.), and then continue to pitch a further 1500 ft.
northward before it strikes the Pike boundary, the
chances of (1) it ever reaching there and (2) of it being
payable when it gets there are about the same as Buck-
ley’s. No statement of accounts has yet come to hand,
but the financial position of the co. is known to be rather
rocky. More capital will have to be raised from some-
where before very long, but it is doubtful if shareholders
will stand another reconstruction.
* • * * *
The Sons of Gwalia management has spoken.
In an official circular just to hand shareholders are in-
formed that the putting up of the monthly output to
£20,500 has been sanctioned by the directors on the re-
commendation of the general managers, and that this in-
crease can be maintained for the next 12 months. It is
also mentioned that the settled policy is to adjust the
output as near as possible to the average value of the
whole mine ; at the same time it is said to be impossible
to at present accurately judge the influence of the pro-
posed increase of output on future dividends. The
Board can’t be accused of being a “bull”; its state-
ments are very moderate, to say the least of them. Pos-
sibly the Board thinks that it is better to have a bit up
its sleeve ; if, later on, it can produce the something-
well, the Board will stand around and accept congratula-
tions upon its good management.
V * * *
Croesus South (W.A.) continues to lose its sub-
stance. Last year’s expenditure outdistanced revenue
£2570, and, as the cash balance is now very thin, early
reconstruction, or the pawning of some of the co.’s belong-
ings, seems inevitable. Meanwhile the Kalgoorlie leases,
mill and plant have been leased at a monthly rental ; and
unless the shareholders take prompt action, the bulk of
the income from this source, as well as the money now
in hand, will probably go to pay London office expenses
and help the directors and their subordinates to keep up
appearances.
* * * »
Daylesford (Vic.) hangs on tenaciously to its
old belief in its gold resources. There may be mines of
wealth untold lurking in the disordered innards of that
volcanic district, but no assurances of tbeir whereabouts
are obtainable outside the bars of Daylesford’s pubs.
Ajax shares, which boomed to £7 two years ago, have
been bobbing up again of late. They touched 255. last
week. Also Nuggety Ajax have been scoring some penny
and twopenny rises on the strength of the allegation that
the irrepressible “pup” is bound to strike the parent
reef very soon. But, considering that the Ajax stone
has gone as low as four ’weights to the ton, the prospect,
even if it is struck, is not dazzling, anyhow. The other
Daylesford mines that were born of the Ajax boom seem
to be living under assumed names, if they are not finally
and irrevocably dead.
The Union, Diamond Creek (Vic.), seems to
have petered out under rather vague circumstances. On
October 6, a typewritten circular to the surviving suf-
ferers informed them that “developmental work at all
levels under No. 4 has been temporarily suspended. In
No. 4 gold has been located on the reef lOin. wide, and
your Board intends, at an early date, to further prospect
this portion of the mine. Owing to some 16,000 shares
having already fallen into the hands of the co., the Board
wishes to point out that should any developments of note
take place, the shareholders remaining in the venture
would have their interest considerably enhanced in
value.” At about the same time an unaccountable rising
quotation of Union shares happened in the Melbourne
dailies. Before the end of the month the “ work ”at
No. 4 level had ceased and the mine was closed. Never-
theless, the payment of another call was demanded, fol-
lowed by the usual threat of forfeiture of shares if the call
of the dead mine was unanswered. A meeting of credi-
tors last week is said to have resulted in winding-up.
The half-yearly meeting of shareholders for the discussion
of an unissued balance-sheet is now long overdue, and
the question as to how much coin was collected on
account of the moribund mine in its last months remains
unanswered.
• * * *
Bob Briant, of both the old and the new
Charlotte Plains, and also of McEvoy’s and Main Leads
North, has been tipped into the Cathcart deep-lead hole.
His following is strong. “ Ballarat ” Buchanan, “ Mary-
borough ” McCrorey, and Tom Harvey, of Melbourne, are
suns in the same firmament. The market in Cathcarts
now flutters like a maiden’s bosom over a tale of love—or
a mouse. Briant knows his work, and is to inaugurate a
reign of “ economy and progress.” What he has to cio is
to open up the claim ; but already big holders are said to
be switching him off that track to avoid calls. Cathcart
has a small lead and swelling ground. Cheap work,
nevertheless, has to be done ; and that is only possible
with a big block of the wash isolated and drained. Cath-
cart is now the only alluvial gamble in Victoria. If Ararat
is to remain top-dog it isn’t likely to lose that distinction.
* * * »
Bright (Vic.) beats other centres in alluvial
work, the 1908 output reaching nearly 45,0000 z. out of a
total of 49,1760 z. Tewkesbury’s five dredges were re-
sponsible for 85000 z., Wandiligong won 32100 z., and
Beliance 31350 z. Junction and Kia Ora followed close,
and other plants tailed avvav behind. In its day Bright
was a big reefing centre, millions being won down to the
creek levels. No one has had the pluck to go deep.
What the dredge-kings should do in gratitude is to spend
a few of their big divs in re-opening a show like the
Oriental at Wandiligong, out of which 300,0000 z. of gold
was got above 300 ft. and little work was done below that.
* * *
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), is
worked out from 400 ft. down to 1900 ft. The 2000 ft.
level is stoped up 90ft., the 2100 ft. to 2600 ft. levels are
worked out, the 2700 ft. level stopes are up 85ft., the
2800 ft. level stopes are up 80ft., and the stone in these
last deep stopes is of poor quality. At the 400 ft. level
there is a small reef with no gold showing, but
“ a lot of virgin country.” The main shaft is
down 3030 ft., with a crosscut going out at 2900 ft.
to cut the reef, which is expected in a month’s time.
These figures plainly indicate the poverty of the reserves.
If the 2900 ft. stone shows reduction in quality, there
must be the deuce to pay. Away north the old North
Tunnel Consols mine is being opened up at 1900 ft. As a
bit of prospecting nothing could be more legitimate, but
the work looks like a forlorn hope, judging from
the poverty of the old North stone. Last half-
year the Extended paid £14,400 in divs., hav-
ing crushed 8119 tons for 8291J0z., so that the
average was a shade over an ounce. Just half this was
wanted for working expenses and development. Along-
side, the Long Tunnel covers costs with 7dwt. Therefore
by not entering into an agreement with that co. to mine
and treat the stone, the Extended has to plug on with
shaft-sinking on a shortening length of reef, and lose most
of 10s. per ton raised. The fear of the Extended directors
may be that an agreement with the Tunnel will put them
at the mercy of that co. Yet, if it was possible for an
agreement to be arrived at between the Briseis and New
Brothers Home, the Long Tunnel and the Extended
should certainly be able to come to terms, especially when
it is obviously to the advantage of shareholders that this
should be done.
* * * »
Frank Gee Duff has not got the Grown Lyell
(Tas.) lease, after all, so the situation is saved to the
shareholders of that deplorable show. J. P. Madden shot
off from Melbourne to Hobart directly he heard of Duff’s
strategy, and his touch of the blarney-stone seems to
have done the trick. As the lease had been actually
plotted up in Duff’s name on the Mines Department
plans, the Crown Lyell crowd should say prayers of thank-
fulness that a kindly Ministry let them out of a very tight
corner so easily.
*•■*•*■
The market had a nice game last week with
Mount Elliotts (Q.), one of the most popular of Anglo-
Australian gambling counters nowadays. On Saturday
shares were worth 68s. By Thursday,midday, they were
78s. 6d. This was on the strength of a bore which
touched good ore in the bottom —exactly where or what
or how much wasn’t mentioned. Now, consider what
this means. There are 120,000 shares, so the rise meant
about £65,000. It is a very good copper mine that gives
25 per cent, profit on the value of the ore ; therefore, for
the market jump to have been warranted the new de-
velopment should be worth about £260,000 —w’hich is a
good deal of money when you say it slowly.
One of the least cheerless features about the
annual gold dividend returns from Gvmpie (Q.) is that
the second half-year was much better than the first.
During the first "half only £14,200 was divided ; in the
second half the total was £53,000, and of that amount
nearly £lB,OOO came from nine cos. during December—
a cheerful wind-up to a year which opened shockingly.
* * * *
Charters Towers’ old dullness has resumed busi-
ness. East Mexican chances are again blighted, for the
reef at 39ft. up the rise pinched to a small vein of poor
stone. With all these irregular prospects Mexicans are
not so strongly supported. New Brilliant Freehold is
pushing out its levels ; but the poor market for Mexicans
(to the south) and Brilliant Blocks (east) shows a lack of
confidence and speculative activity. Latest fortnightly
return from Mills’ United is 1213 tons for £4985. But thi
failure so far to locate anything payable in the deep
ground tells rather badly against both this claim and
Freeholds ; for mines that carry so many shares as these
do require to show solid value at depth. A similar feeling
obtains regarding Bonnie Dundee ; so, despite two divi-
dends and a block of ground left to stope out, the market
is very dull pending better developments in the deepest
level (No. 4). Queen Centrals are a gamble on the chance
of the upward extension of the Dundee shoot, hence
developments near the boundary are being followed with
interest. If the stone is there Queen Central will have
to sink its shaft.
*> * * *
La Leoness gold mine, situated somewhere in
the mountain fastnesses of Nicaragua, and alleged to be of
great value, has been acquired through “ Hail Columbia ”
Hoover, by the Oroya-Browm Hill Co. (W.A.).
* * *
Collie (W.A.) coal has no luck. It was hoped
that it might turn out just the thing in producer-gas
plants. But, after being given a thorough trial at
Southern Cross, it has been discarded there, and jarrah
charcoal is used instead, although the coal costs only
£ll3s. 6d. per ton landed as against £3 4s. 4d. for char-
coal. The chief troubles with the coal were that it
powdered, and the excess tar blocked the tar-extractor.
Tokatea Trust, Ltd., of London, run by a
breezy ex-Sydney party named Hogg, has taken over the
Menzies Florence and the Malcolm Proprietary (W.A.).
Both shows are considered to be played-out ventures,
and Hoag’s motive for getting hold of them passes under-
standing in the West. One paper reckons that Hogg’s
only chance of success depends on some generous person
coming along and hiding some gold in his newly-acquired
holdings, and this just about sums’ttp the situation.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
* * * *■
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in \yeight, and
easily applied. 3 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wra. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grinnvade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * » *
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense.*
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every fevv feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [3
* * * *
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9/’OB,
referring to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, writes : “One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne Office is still growing and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
* * * *
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “Farnley” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, js puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the Farnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“Farnley” bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
Fremantle, W.A.* #
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockhreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses ;
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
r * * •*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
*■*■* +
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Hay'market, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron "founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * ■*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* * * •
Canbelkgo.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * -* *
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Syd-
ney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, recognising that
only the specialist can survive in the present day, have
lately added to their staff an electrician, for many years
with Mather & Platt in Manchester. It is their intention
to keep this side of their business well abreast of the times
and in reorganising the department they have put them-
selves in a position to supply all classes of electrical
machinery at prices which compare favourably with those
of other makers.*


-x" :
4k
Peter F.Heering's
Est. JBJB.
'
rr*3
M*t 1
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to explain that
there are four grades of
Robur, viz.:—“Special,”
No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3, the
difference between each grade
is entirely a matter of fineness
of quality—all are pure.
Bach package is distinctly
marked to show the grade
of Robur it contains, so with
ordinary care it is not possible
to make a mistake.
The No. 1 Grade is
beautiful tea —it really is.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARB BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 19, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
, & few months Miss Rawson will cease to be
tne JJirst wrl in the Commonwealth. She goes
hence with her father, his Excellency, and the
National Anthem will be played to another Ex-
cellency. Miss Rawson (her name is Alice—and
according to melodrama the Alices can do no
wrong j the nice, good, noble-hearted young
woman in melodrama is named Alice as often as
the wicked girl is called Cora) well Miss
Kawson deserves something for remembrance
N.a,W. women, and she’s going to get it.
lhe Chief Mayoress, Mrs. Allan Taylor, has, by
circular, summoned the nobility, gentry, and job
oon of ,^ 13 , cit y t 0 a meeting in her rooms, at
d.dO on Wednesday (to-morrow). There and then
will be discussed the form that “it*’ will take,
A family of some quality, living in an up-
country district, gave a fancy-dress dance a year
ago. (A girl who has come to town to get Mer-
rily Widowed in the matter of hats, tells this
storyette.) There was nothing remarkable in
that. At least there wouldn’t have been if a
daughter of the house—a flapper of 16—hadn’t
attended the dance dressed in a little sister’s
little frock. How she managed the latitude of
the garment without inserting a yard of material,
the storyteller telleth not; but the longitude,
what there was of it, was in straitened circum-
stances. Dressed so, sh® looked like Miss
Maggie Moore as Lizzie Stofel in “Struck
Oil,” for she was as generously exuberant in
figure. The gloom of a citric form of re-
ligion hangs permanently over that district,
and most of the inhabitants believe that if they
sewed on a hook or a button or turned a sod on
Sunday they would be in training for the grills of
Satan. The shock the fat girl gave her parents’
friends made them feel as if they’d fallen off the
top of the G.P.O, tower twice, and killed a pious
frump each time. This year the same family sent
out invitations for another dance. Four girls and
34 men accepted, and danced the winged hours
away. The four girls say that that was the ideal
dance. Why there were only four girls I know
not, but perhaps the others stayed away in terror
lest the stout damozel in the kiddy frock might
transpire again.
Something of a celebrity was in Sydney for a
Space last week—to wit, Mr. Frank Baden-
Powell, a brother of the military advertising-
expert of that name. Mr. Baden-Powell has the
usual bewildering collection of professions and
hobbies that distinguishes his family. He is a
barrister, painter, and sculptor, an F.R.G.S.,
and other things. And he solaces his leisure
half-minutes with most known forms of sport,
from “dibbling” for minnows to dashing out the
brains of the lion on the infuriated animal’s own
native desert. His wife and small son accompany
him. She was Miss Florence Watt, daughter
of the late James Watt, of Napier, Maoriland.
Your true-blue, social-reform female takes her-
self with magnificent solemnity. Mirs. Harrison
Lee, an energetic no-license toiler, decided to get
married the other day. She unpacked the follow-
ing engagement-notice for the benefit of a semi-
paralysed reporter :
The last year’s work had told on me greatly, and I was
very weary. I had not the least intention of marrvinv
again, as I thought I could better serve God and'His
people with an undivided heart. However, Mr. Andrew
Uowie, a settler in Winton—who is highly respected as a
Godly man, a Presbyterian elder, a non-smoker, a no-
license worker, and a liberal giver to every good work
and who has been for 15 years a widower—pleaded for the
right to take charge of God’s tired servant, and at last I
felt it really was the Father’s wonderful plan to give me
rest and a good man’s protection. ... I know I shall be
misjudged and misrepresented, but if the results be to
make me kinder and gentler and more like our beloved
Master, then, etc., etc., etc.
A somewhat different intimation, I trow, to that
of the female indifferentist in matters alcoholic,
Her advertisement of the approaching hitchment
is contained, as often as not, in the words : “ Well,
I’ve snared old Bill” (or Ebenezer, or Ahasuerus,’
as the case may be) “and his pile at last. How
about coming to see us spliced ? You on ? ” And
with that the conversation is steered in the direc-
tion of motoring, and the different sensations
experienced (a) when one runs over a sleeping
dachshund, (6) when one does the same evil turn
to a waking and blasphemous road-maintenance
man.
The affluent and sedate bachelor was ready for
his breakfast, and whilst waiting conversed
affably with Catherine, his trusted housekeeper.
She was telling him of the difficulty she ex-
perienced in getting him a good cook. “There
was wan,” she said, “a jewel av a girl, but I
reckoned I’d have no chance of her. She had
been snapped up by Mrs. Merino just as I heard
tell of her. Whin I got into the registry office
a friend told me this same girl was in the waiting-
room waiting for Mrs. Merino. I asked the
registry lady to let me see her just for a minute.
‘ You can’t,’ says the registry lady ; ‘she’s as good
as taken Mrs. Merino’s place. It’s wan of the
best situations in Sydney, and Mrs. Merino will
be in any minute now.’ ‘Well,’ I says, ‘sure
you wouldn’t be stoppin’ me asking the girl if
she’s got a friend as would like a good place.’ I
was let speak to her just for a minute, and found
her a nice-spoken young woman with as good
references as could be got.”
“Well, well, Catherine,’’said theaffablebachelor,
“ what became of your paragon ? ”
“She’s in the kitchen now cooking vour
breakfast.”
“Oh, Catherine, but what about poor Mrs.
Merino ? ”
“ Sure now, sir, haven’t we troubles enough of
our own without shouldering any of Mrs. Merino’s
worries ? ”
A Reuter’s message told last Saturday how
The Rev. Mr. Baxter, prophetic editor of the Christian
Hkrald, obtained £5OO damages for libel from the news-
paper Mint for describing him as a charlatan.
They take their prophets very seriously on the
other side of the earth. As an instance, when
the current newspaper files were posted in
Europe, Madame Steinheil, a beautiful French-
woman, was on trial for the murder (1) of her
husband, (2) of her mother. As is the French
custom on such occasions, all and sundry hurried
forward with “ theories ” about the gory deed.
And about 99£ of the theories Were hostile to the
accused, Not so, however, the theory of Tub
Echo os' TAB Wonderful, which is the official
organ of the 1 rench Spiritualists, It exonerated
Madame Steinheil handsomely. The sub-editor
went into a trance, with the express object of
dealing with her case, and when he came out of
his unconscious or stunned state he recounted the
following stirring experience i
It is the house of the painter Steinheil) that 1 am
in. I behold a strang-eh Mr. Steinheil is preparing for
bed. He hears a noise. He comes nose to nose with the
stranger, They argue frenziedly. Everybody argues,
Someone penetrates the room of Mrs* Japy (the murdered
mother). lam there. There is a disturbance, a mix-up,
Mrs. Japy is grasped and shaken. Her false teeth rattle
and crack together. My God ! I hear them rattle. The
shaker of Mrs. Japy departs. Mrs. Japy pants with
emotion, accidentally swallows her false teeth and is, by
them, suffocated. Mr, Steinheil enters. He sees his
beloved mother-in-law in the throes of death. He drops
dead. The strange man enters, rushes at Mrs. Steinheil,
seizes her, gags her, ties her to a bed, runs around over-
turning the furniture, and flies. He steals nothing. The
strange man will never be arrested. A most powerful
Personage will command that no action be taken against
the strange man. Etc., etc.
This reconstruction by the Echo op the Marvel-
lous had created an immense sensation at the
time the Paris papers left. With that to go on,
and the charm of the accused, which is such as to
move to tears the examining magistrate himself,
Mrs, Steinheil’s counsel looks to secure an acquit-
tal somewhat easily.
The Earl of Granard, who, according to Reuter,
has just married a daughter of Ogden Mills,
millionaire, is something of a curiosity in several
ways. In the first place, though a peer of the
United Kingdom and a Catholic, he is a Radical
and a Some Ruler, The Catholic aristocrat who
is a Home Ruler 1s like unto the auk for infre-
quency. Secondly, though an Irishman born and
bred (Bernard William Patrick are some of his
names), he, and many of his existing male rela-
tives and most of his forbears, served in Scottish
regiments. Returned Cohentingenters .who en-
countered this particular Earl in S’Africa speak
highly of his intelligence, his sense of humor, and
his un-Scots Guardsmanlike absence of “side.”
He is an intimate pal of Ned VII., and he is a
rich man who became yet richer last month by the
death of a maternal uncle (the eccentric Lord
Petre) in an obscure London lodging-house.
Adrian Francis are the names with which the
Agent-General Coghlans have labelled their
infant son. The youngster is quadruply banked
With god-parents: Baroness Hildegarde von
Hugel and Lady Russel, and Mr. Marconi and
Sir Walter James.
Mr. “ Dicky ” Haynes, of W. A., and his bride,
who was Miss Darcy, of Bega, are sojourning
awhile at Manly, where the long wash of Austral-
asian seas for ever haunts the beach.
Sydney is so dull that the auction of household
furniture and effects at Quambi, the Judicial
Darlev’s place in Edgeeliffe, was attended as well
as if the entertainment were called “ The Woman
Pays ” or “ The Girl in the Cupboard.” Quambi
furnishing is, to the twentieth century mind, a ter-
rifying jim-jam. It is early Victorian, and must
have been perpetrated when Chief Giantess Darley
wore crinolines and had rows of stiff rosettes on
her frocks.
Miss Nunnelley, who for 13 years reigned
queen of Maoriland tennis, was defeated by Miss
Powdrell at the M.L. championship meeting
recently ; and the other lady now reigns in her
stead. However, the ex-champion partly turned
the tables on Miss Powdrell at Taranaki, on
Saturday, by winning the championship of that
little place. The ladies of Maoriland are ponder-
ing whether to invade Australia with a team of
lady tennisites on the look out for laurels.
The male bird is increasing his already terrify-
ing beauty. An English paper asserts that—
Apricot, duck-egg blue, sea-green, and flamingo-red
are among the newest masculine colors for evening
waistcoats.
They are made in poplin, corded silk and ninon, and
the buttons strike a distinctive note, contrasting prettily
with the color of the waistcoats they embellish. Sapphires
and coral buttons seem to be the favorites.
For day wear socks and ties must match, and the colors
range through every known shade.
It was mentioned in a Bulletin of two or three
months back that Australian artist Geo. W.
Lambert and his missus, fired by the triumph of
brother Streeton, were going to make a descent
upon this country. Lambert writes out. however,
that it is quite uncertain when he will return;
and when he does give Australia the pleasure of
seeing him he says he will only come to see “my
own people and my own country”—his own
people including in particular his mother, who
has been waiting now for eight years to hug the
boy who has been making a name for himself on
the other side.
Mrs. George Lauri’s pathetic and nicely-worded
note of thanks to those who telegrammed and
lettered their sympathies on the death of her
husband was ambushed in that column of the
mornmg dailies at which eight out of ten persons
never look. It was the column in which Mrs.
Brown, of Struggle-street, notifies Mrs. Smith,
of Experiment-road, that if “Mrs. Brown doesn’t
immediately stop slandering me she will be
prosecuted along with other parties.” It is the
column in which you are informed that, though
grey hairs are honorable they add years to your
appearance, and you had better use Satan’s Vege-
table Hair-Stain. If Mrs. Lauri had known her
way about she would have got her letter under the
Earthquake or on top of the Broken Hillarity.
The only amusing thing now in progress in
Sydney is the competition regarding the name of
the capital city. The conflict was instituted by
the Star. Surely the editor must feel like put-
ting in “Nemesis” as his own contribution to
the thousands of appalling names submitted to
him. Only one humorist appears to have offered
his help to name the Federal capital, and he
hands out “ Ballydudley.” No one has suggested
Ballywhackmaquew or Whackbally, but Messina
and Denmark and Inverness are in the list.
Dudleyville and Deakinville are the offerings
of the utterly banal mind. Guelphstown is
grotesque, and the proffers of such names as
The Mother City of Australia and Hume Inter-
national State ought to be remonstrated with for
setting up such a standard of extravagance.
We’d have to get special elongated envelopes to
carry such addresses, and then the extra ink used
would be a serious item. The choice of name
rests with the Australian Parliament, and' doubt-
less it will have the bad taste to select Federal
Capital instead of Womba'ton, or Woolgoldia,
which are actually in the ligt of .submitted names.
Miss Florence Menkmeyer, the picturesque
pianist, is again about to swoop upon Sydney to
give recitals in the Town Hall. Vocalism will
enhance the display of instrumentalism.
The only unmarried Australian theatrical im-
presario of importance is going to have that
church service that begins with “ Dearly beloved ”
and ends with “Amazement” read over him.
There won’t be any amazement at the news that he
is going to pluck his sprig of orange blossom, and
the revelation of his name won’t come with the
force of a brick falling from a great height. He
is trying to keep his engagement (for the present)
a profound secret —which is the reason why I
mention it here. At the same time, he wears
that profoundly-engaged expression which gives
away the show. His partner in the white-flower
conspiracy is a young Maorilander, a comparative
novice on the stage, and now playing in one of
his companies.
One of the new-to-Sydney baritones —Darval—
lifted his singing notes at Miss Rose Scott’s
cottage last week, with the result that those
present, who were really fine apricots (not small
potatoes), have been spreading his fame with great
enthusiasm all over Sydney.
Concerning other singers : Miss Rosina Buck-
mann, who cages in her throat the best
Maoriland-grown soprano voice, has been an-
nexed by Mr. Fred Shipman for his Newbury
concert tour. Mrs. Spada is ill, and compelled to
stop in Sydney to get better, hence the catching
of little Rosina, who has done good work in light
opera for the five or so years she has been before
an admiring public.
Have just been looking at the itinarary through
Maoriland of the Humphrey-Kolker-Titheradge
Co., and for the manyth time am struck with the
insignificance of the towns the first-class com-
panies think sufficiently important to be visited.
If Bathurst or Goulburn heard that a first-rate
theatrical co. was coming to play there, it would
get such a shock as would make it drop dead
out of the map. Maoriland towns a fourth
of the size of these two are visited by mum-
mers of note, who do well in the enterprise.
I was once talking on this matter with Mr. Mike
Joseph (now tethered in Westralia by Mr. Ander-
son's interests), and he explained that in Aus-
tralian country towns the companies would not
draw payable audiences. “Now considerNor-
tham,” he continued, “a big and affluent place,
yet one night is all we could hope to run there.
In Maoriland a town of equal importance would
be good for a week.” He tur.ied to a factotum,
whom he addressed as Bill. “Bill, used we not
to play to £lOO nightly at little , in M.L. ? ”
“Yes,” responded Bill, “and for a week. If she
dropped to £9O, I’d say it’s time to get a move on
her.”
Mention of the Andersons reminds me that
their small daughter Mary had a gigantic birthday
party early in this hot month. Out at the
leviathan pleasure resort known as Wonderland
she entertained the other infants lavishly, and the
shining hours were much enhanced.
Two girls, Miss Guildford Quin and Miss Ethel
Phillips, make pretty pieces of Cavalier-time
femininity in “The Breed of the Treshams.”
Both are at the ingenue period of fluffiness,
and wear their shining satins, slashed sleeves,
curls and coy airs with propriety ; but the
way of a maid with a tortured man
would not be Miss Quin’s way. There’s
a ghastly torture scene in the play. The
gay, gallant, wicked hero “Rat” comes before
the audience with signs of it red upon
him, and Margaret—of course her name is
Margaret when it is not Marguerite—would
prove to him her poignant grief and pity. “ Mar-
garet ” Quin is about as grieved and pitiful as she
might be over a centipede that had only forty-
eight legs left out of his original fifty. Miss
Beatrice Day is not in the cast. On the first night
she watched the stirring “ Rat ” hunt from a box.
Miss Carrie Haase, who left this nation to add
to the gaiety of the English with her elocutionary
wares, took part in the great Ristori matinee in
London. The object of the festival was to raise
funds for a memorial in Ristori’s native town.
Miss Genevieve Ward, who did the somnambulis-
tic act from “ Macbeth, ” wore the same nightie
that Ristori had when she last appeared in the
historic jim-jam role.
Mr. Lloyd Jones departed from Mosman’s Bay
in his yacht Thelma last week. There was much
going to and fro of residents on the face of the
waters in honor of the event, much cheering, and
some skiting as the Thelma, carrying a lot of sail,
skimmed out for her ten days’ voyage to Mel-
bourne to race the Sayonara.
Miss Enid Clift, who takes Mr. Friend for
a matrimonial mate in the near by-and-bye,
will go hence with her Friend in the Morea, the
dandy new steamer now lying at the P. and O.
wharf.
Next week the telephone girl will freshly
brilliantine her pompadour, push her curb bangle
over her glove, pull down her trim white blouse,
shake out her black sicilienne skirt, put on her
black Merry Widow' hat with the wreath of white
roses, and pace into the presence of some high
postal Personage to complain of over-work. The
deputation, like Erin in the song, will have a
smile on its mouth and a tear in its eye, and your
Akenehi devoutly hopes it will make the high
postal person feel as badly as a wet fowl looks.
Nothing but over-work would make those girls
keep the public waiting such a time for its
number. And the service has been of late
something deserving of vituperation. But surely
the men of the service are over-worked, too, for it’s
always a man’s voice with which mine has to deal
when Igo number-catching in my sea-suburb. A
few Sundays ago, at 10.30 a.m., I invaded a
penny bureau in my suburb, and rang. After
waiting and ringing for what seemed to me half-
an-hour, but was probably only 10 minutes,
my suburb exchange replied with a man’s voice.
He received the intimation of my long tarry with-
out explanation, and proceeded to ring up William-
street to get the number I sought in Macleay-street.
Presently I noted the time. It was 15 to 11. After
a profound silence, lasting just seven minutesfrom
the time of noting (I had my eye on my bangle),
I concluded my Exchange man had gone to divine
service, or into a trance, so I rang again. In firm
and reproachful tones the Exchange male asked
me why I did so.
“ To get my number, of course,” I replied.
“I’m getting your number, madame. I’ll let
you know when you are connected.”
Another absolute and unbroken silence lasting
six minutes (by the bangle). I rang again, and in
a very, very hurt voice the Exchange spoke. This
was the dialogue :
He: “Why are you ringing, madame? I’m
getting your number.”
Me : “ I’m ringing because you are not get-
ting it. I’ve been here since 10.30, and there
are a number of people waiting to use the bureau.
Is it William-street that does not reply, or the
number I want ?”
He: “It’s my business to get your number,
madame.”
Me (desperately): “I wish to know which is
not replying—William-street or the number I
want ?”
He: “I’ll get the number, madame, if you’ll
wait.”
Me : “ I’ll report this delay to 95.”
He (shortly): “All right.”
This exchange of acid drops occupied less
than a minute, and after another spell of profound
silence that endured three minutes, I heard
William-street reply in a brisk feminine voice.
The next instant I was put on to my number, and
the time was three minutes past eleven. Thirty-
three minutes in that dreadful, unserated box on a
roasting Sabbath morn, and a crowd of infuriated
persons waiting outside with their noses flattened
against the glass door! I didn’t ring up “95,”
because the sportiness of the Exchange man in not
“giving away’’the guilty party rather took my
fancy.
An inquiry by ’phone or otherwise as to the
whereabouts of your friends—men or girls—last
Saturday afternoon brought the same replies:
You would have to fish for them. Everyone
seemed to be putting up his or her fins in this or
that bath. A large quantity of finely-shaped girl
belonging to the Sydney Ladies Club contested a
lot of swimming events at the Lavender Bay
Baths. Misses F. Durack, M. Wylie and F. Forder
swam like schnappers, and won various competi-
tions.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHL.
The trying heat of the Australian climate, with its
vagaries of wind and sun, makes undue calls upon the
c .mplexion that even the most robust skin cannot unaided
withstand. To those who for pleasure or profit must bear
the heat and burden of day, and to those whose skins are
exposed to all weathers, Valaze will prove a veritable
boon. Valaze eliminates every trace of freckles, tan and
sunburn, and creates perfect skin beauty. 3s. 6d., 6s. fid.,
and 6d. postage. Another wonderful specific is the
Novena Sunproof Creme, which prevents, as Valaze re-
moves, freckles, sunburn, tan and sallowness, 2s. and
3s. 6d. Send for the new Valaze book, 3d., or free with
order. All chemists, or direct from H. Rubinstein and
Co., Valaze Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne.* * [2
Jacky Jacky, of the Dora Dora blacks,
who 16 years ago showed the police force some
points in bushcraft right from the Victorian
border to Western Queensland, is now an inmate
of Darlinghurst Gaol, Sydney. His sentence was
life, reckoned at 21 years, so he has yet five years to
serve. But when he left Grafton gaol recently for
Sydney he was believed to be dying, and the
chances are against his ever pursuing the bear up
a tree again.


HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS
LTD
VICE REGAL* JEWELLERS » WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
SILVERWARE
FOR PRESENTS.
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
m
■!
ill m
SILVER-PLATED MEAT DISHES,
HIGHEST QUALITY,
14 inches long, £1 18s.; 16 inches long, £2 Bs.; 18 inches long, £3.
GOODS FORWARDED TO THE COUNTRY ON APPROVAL.
Five per cent. Discount on all cash transactions.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSE STREET
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
—* —————
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried.
* limm if nm
■WM
mm
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows: —
S.S. LE FIAIRE, February Ist, 1909.
S.S. VAN SPILBERGEN, March 6th, 1909.
Thence every five weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO,
MACASSAR, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 48 days, including
eight days’ stay in Java. For Booklets, Time Tables, and all further
information apply:—
AGENTS: —Messrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide; John
Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S.S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island; Earp Bros., Newcastle.
Tlie Head Office for Australasia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.
STECK. PIANOLA PIANO.
1909.
How to make it a
Brighter, Happier
Year for the whole
STECK
Pianola Piano
1909.
How to make it a
Brighter, Happier
Year for the whole
Family.
DO you know that all over the world —in England, France,
Germany and America —thousands of people will be made
happier this year —thousands of homes brighter by the STECK
PIANOLA PIANO, the Piano that EVERYONE can play.
The best forips of pleasure do not come haphazard. They
result from definite planning ahead. Suppose you decide to start
the new year by installing a PIANOLA or PIANOLA PIANO
in th 6 home. You will provide—
A delightful entertainment for long evenings, for holidays, and
for the odd moments when one does not know exactly what to do.
A valuable educational factor for the children, instructing them
by practical example in the most beautiful and ideal of all the arts.
A new bond of interest in the home, entertaining old and
young alike.
Ready access to the best music at all times —a Beethoven
Sonata if you can appreciate it, or the “ Merry Widow” Waltz
if that is more to your taste.
Wouldn’t you like to own one of these wonderful pianos,
which are above criticism from a musical standpoint, which enable
you to hear all the world’s best music, which YOU YOURSELF
can play ?
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may
be interested in hearing the PIANOLA PIANO. If you are unable
to call, write for Catalogue J. It will be sent free.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD., 357 George Street, Sydney (next D. Jones 8 Co.).
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.


rarcuM
C3EGUGXISED the worTff over for their ex-
-1 quisite quality, Carlson Currier Silks
may be bought from the leading Grapery Houses
in the Commonwealth. Every color gradation
may be obtained from the palest to the deepest
tints. Send to us for a beautifully illustrated
book—FßEE—mentioning the name of your
Draper when writing.
THE CARLSON CURRIER CO. (of San Francisco)
The Block, Collins Street. Melbourne. [l.
U)
V
ROYAL
CORSETS
Are the Corsets that initiate all the
Corset Fashions of the World—other
makes but follow in all those details
that have already been embodied in
every pair of “P.D.” Corsets. The
most famous of French Corsetierres
design and model “P.D.” Corsets—
Corsetierres who are artists—who have
a delicacy in the execution of their
work that imparts to every type of
figure those gracefully flowing lines
that present fashion demands, and
lending a distinctive charm—a subtle
gracefulness and winsomeness of per-
sonality—an attractiveness utterly
beyond the reach of the wearers of
other Corsets. In addition, they are
more comfortable—give perfect free-
dom of movement—qualities that few
Corsets possess. Thorough Corset
satisfaction is assured you if you but
insist on “ P.D.” Corsets. Look for
the Trade Mark on every pair.
Only Stocked by
Drapers and Storekeepers
of Repute.
MARK.
%
TRADE
L
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
LCinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
The Tyre of
Never-Failing Excellence.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 18, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
-The “ make-my-own-dresses” fad among a cer-
ain society class of damsels is growing into a-far-
reaching fraud. A certain percentage of young
shemale is quite slick with a needle and puts in
good work on blouses, etc., but the admiration
she gains is Dead Sea fruit to lazier and less
patient spinsters. They resort to Teachers of
Amateurs. The fashion was once a course of
practical dressmaking lessons—so many lessons
or so much. 1' ond mothers panned out the money
almost feverishly to help Dorothea’s budding desire
tor usefulness, and to provide the material for a
frock for Dorothea. First impressions meant much,
and dear, spoilt Dorothea was “helped” in cut-
ting out, and starting, and finishing off; but there
was so much start and so much finish that any
middle period got squeezed out. Consequently
in half-a-dozen afternoons Dorothea got a new
frock, and much patting on the back, plus the
delights of a Block canter and tea on sewing-days
without the usual protest from Mamma.
, T set of lessons sometimes became a fag.
.Now lessons ” are advertised everywhere at a
shilling an hour ! Girls get a length of silk from
a lenient parent, and rush for an odd hour’s
lesson then fit in other odd hours until the
ast buttonhole is finished, and, behold, a new
blouse and much kudos and complacency all
round. Millinery follows in the same comfort-
able way. There is an outbreak of millinery
essons, and where Dad would kick a bill for a
hat into next year, Mamma painlessly extracts
moneys for the expenses of “learning millinery.”
The latest and most flaunting flag has been hung
out by a very expensive chiffon store : “ Blouses
cut out and fitted for Is.” This, of course, means
that the expensive material and etceteras are
bought at that store. The bait is distinctly ’cute.
I saw an advertisement the other day—“ White
work taught, trousseaux, etc.” It reminded me
ot a sweetly demure maiden in a gilded home,
w io sat every day with dainty lingerie in her
hands, always just reaching completion. The
hand embroidery on the cambric testified to her
i'ttnd daintiness until some girl chum acci-
dentally came across a parcel from Paris—the
pieces cut, embroidered, and packed all ready to be'
placed togethf r “ to order—any old measurement.”
In “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch,” Miss
Hazy s husband, who thought “ you ain’t much on
looks, old girl, but you kin cook,” got no worse
a jostle than the bridegroom of that demure
seamstress when his Miranda fixed her first post-
matrimonial patch.
Kathleen Watson—otherwise Mrs. Deardon—
was not long back in Melbourne from her trip to
England when her third book made its appear-
ance. “The House of Broken Dreams,” printed
in London and published by George Robertson,
runs on the lines of the authoress’s “Litanies of
t° A ending. i Her second book,
Trie Gaiety of Fatma,” was comparatively a
burst of sunshine between two banks of clouds.
The conglomeration of sadness in this last case
lias a charm for critical readers who are content
to forgive the weakness of the plot for the sake
of its artjstic sentimentality, but “Broken
Dreams” is not nearly so forcible as “The
Litanies ” in its appeal to the sympathies of pessi-
mists. Kathleen W atson, with her intense feel-
ing for color in poetical prose, should achieve a
L perfect gem ” of picturesque monologue writing.
This is not It. Her friends will continue to ex-
pect It of her because she is so oddly matter-of-
fact in her unconventionality, and so likely to ex-
tract a tender moonbeam from a pickled cucumber.
The adage that Fortune favors the Brave has
proved itself true enough in the case of the two
clever sisters who opened a photographic studio
in Melbourne Block Arcade, some four or five
years ago. They were plucky venturers at the
outset, when their knowledge of the business was
as limited as their capital, and brave battlers
during the time they were making an artistic re-
putation for their work. At last they began to be
rushed with orders, and then came a romantic
ending to this long chapter in their young lives.
They sold the business, turned their backs on the
li.'Ctle dark-room where they used to stain their
fingers, and stepped out into the sunshine. Mrs.
Hicks, mother of the studio girls aforesaid, has
inherited real and personal estate from a widovved
sister, who died in England, last July—a fortune
so considerable that Rumor has magnified it to an
immense figure. The sister visited Melbourne
two years before her death, and carried mamma
Hicks off to England with her. Mamma came back
to her girls in due course. Now she is preparing to
carry them off to the Gold Country to live.
The poor Janet Lady suffers sad ups and downs
with her faint thread of health. Only that inex-
plicable quantity called personal vitality brought
her out from her crushing illness, and defeated
the doctors’ verdict. It is almost a year now
since the once energetic lady has left her room,
and she is still pluckily fighting.
The Morea, the latest sensation in P. and O.
mailboats, brought back some of <sur most fatted in-
habitants. The Burgoyne wine king and his son,
the wine prince, had the most gorgeous state
rooms, and the Joe Thompson family came in full
glory of recent shopping raids. A woman’s land-
ing costume has all the consideration nowadays of
a presentation gown. She is returning from the
Great Cities of Shops, and must show the other
cats her most bird-of-Paradise feathers. Mrs.
Peter Mitchell wore an impressive and quite out-
of-place frock in directoire style. The Colac
Chirnsides came home, and Mrs. Andrew kept up
the Chirnside women’s reputation for tasteful
frockings. Other passengers had special views of
some very special dresses during the trip. Miss
Landale, who makes a hobby of being beautiful,
and has been jaunting with her adoring popper,
exploited the very latest thing in hair-dressing
a marvellous drawing-out of her hirsute
Stion ge W n A poking-backward, horizontal
send IRC T U fl;lt . ten y°ur h a ir at the sides, and
a corned ? ? *2? Rad and P" ff as fa >' behind as
hL i he ” “snood ” it with rihbon.
Sihrirf ln " °mu ie r , n T ent is a mania of furious
elaboration Thatch-dressers are making for-
v, I s - almost impossible for a maiden to
hair i n an y way that is calculated to
underhS ,T her , hat ' The hat has a flat
rn lffi ; lke a < i oo i n s Straw hd ’ and on to this
must the stray curls be pinned. Since there are
rarely any home-grown stray curls left over from
ka ;- an : a r °f puffs,, the “ trimmings ” area
gof shameless falsitude, and hat-pins are a
matter of dozens—not “couples” as in bygone
1 mpf? ages. To force a girl to remove her hat at
a matinee just now is something approaching the
eart hquake, and it is pre-
ceded by thunder and lightning.
“Curly” Crespin, that dandy little captain in
our most haloed military circles, has been drawing
tie limelight strongly in his summer wanderings,
-tie and Captain Tom Hall were boating some-
vvhere in the wilds by Mallacoota Inlet when they
stranded in the shallows of a sand bar. They
managed to scramble on the rocky face of Gabo
island, and hung their spurs or shirts or some-
thing on their swords until the glitter attracted
a coasting steamer. A boat was sent, and the
wrecked ones climbed hand over hand up the side
ot the steamer before an admiring audience of
v °yagmg bummer Girl, who rushed to the hero-
worship and offered up such sacrifice as the loan
ot her best kimono.
• er baps it is the newest fashion, or perhaps it
is the weather, or perhaps it is an economical way of
saving up piles of lingerie for a good show of a
trousseau—but whatever the reason, one of Mel-
bourne s smartest goers has developed the habit
(or non-habit) of spending the summer days with
little between her plump self and the warm world
except one layer of frock muslin. Through the
misty transparent screen of muslin bodice there
shows a ceinture or belt at low girl mark, and
nothing else but dim, faint girl—the play of
curves and muscles showing like those in a prize
hghters pet pictures.
If a man sits on a barrel of gunpowder and
lights the match of the casual smoke, there is no
one to blame but himself if he goes suddenly sky-
scraping. Yet a paternal Government has laws
that prevent the casual man having inflammable
powder lying round unlabelled or unlicensed. Can’t
someone rise up and put a legal clutch on flannel-
ette? Ihe latest victim was an old lady, taking
the air and a snooze on a lounge in the back yard,
bhe wore a flannelette “ wrapper” or shroud and
was incinerated (at the instigation of a floating
spark) with all the neatness and despatch of the
most modern cremation ceremony. But the
regular two- or three-a-week cases are the murder
of soft, helpless, pitiful babies, who take no
thought wherewithal they shall be clothed, but
live by faith in a perverse world and the kindness
of iin ignorant mother. Each yard of the inflam-
mable stuff should be marked “ Danger ” in the
scarlet of poison labels, or the sale should be
stopped by force and the present stock bought up
as fuel for a crematorium or.as a species of ammu-
nition against our next war.
St. Kilda and Brighton, which are always racing
something across their big bay, instituted a
ladies event on Saturday. There were a dozen
or so motor-launches out, each with a captainess
in charge. Mrs. Kennear won on her husband’s
B.b.K. (not Risky; just R.S.K.) launch. Mrs.
Kennear is a small and dainty young lady, and
found it a pretty grim task to keep the
wheel under control, as the bay was throwing
itself about in large masses, and behaving
in a mean, nasty way. The race was from Brighton
right round Williamstown and back to St. Kilda.
It made quite a formidable course in rough
weather. The skipper ladies mot the case with
oilskins and sou -western, tied down in a sonsy way
under their chins. Women go in more for driving
sea motors than land choo-choos. They seem to
prefer a chaiiff. in the land way. The water
sport is getting a firm hold down Bairns-
dale way (where the hops grow). The
rivers roundabout are beautiful; lined with
rushes and bamboo grass, and shaded by fine
trees. Enterprising councillors have freed the
trickles from the deadly Snag. The three Lakes—
Wellington, King, and Tyres—that run into the
Southern ocean near Ninety Mile Beach are
charming water ways, well banked in with thick-
timbered shores where the tree fern and musk
make shady undergrowth. Clusters of summer
bungalows run small piers out to the depths for
landing, and sawmills and hop plantations and
orchards run serviceable cargo piles from point
to point.
The wild and froggy flurry that swirled in the
innermost sanctum of the Alliance Frangaise, last
winter, has reached a climax that calls for adjust-
ment at Parisian headquarters. Mr. Maistre,
Consul here for France, leaves for Paris next
month, and it is understood that things will be
settled either with intense politeness or with axes.
During the rage of the dispute (which revolved
round the black-balling of gesticulating proposed
members) several Importants resigned with loud
explosions. That most reverend president, the
Holroyd Lady, washed her hands of the whole
affair, and Mrs. Spanish Consul Cave retired from
the treasury.
The Norman Fenners boast a Baby. Mamma
was a Stirling before she was a Fenner—the very
lily-fair daughter of Dr. Stirling. The Fenner
clan and the Chirnsides and Stirlings are beating
a wild clang of cymbals in rejoicing. Thank the
Fates, babies are becoming quite frequent phen-
omena in our toppest society.
“Trvphena,” nowadays wife of English ship-
owner Doughty, knight and eloquent M.P., has
herself got into the habit of orating. She lec-
tured lately at Louth on the things you see, and a
few of the things you are not supposed to see,
when you travel between Australia and England’
Next she. “ papered ” the Imperial Colonial Club
in London on “Australian Women,” and said
that the bush and town blend of the breed was
“ the most lovable, the mosthumorous, the gayest,
the most irrepressible, most wilful, and most dis-
respectful of feminine types ’’—which almost
suggests that “Tryphena” was writing an auto-
biography. And after giving the Imperial
Colonial Club almost the best time of its life, the
bright Australian went off home to prepare for
an address at something awfully swagger in the
way of a Conservative and Female Franchise
Association meeting in London, at which she and
one of the Cecils were to be the chief speakers.
It’s wonderful the people the franchisers have
roped in.
“Taxies” are already making things hum.
One dashed headlong into a waggon, smashed it-
self into smithereens, and half killed the waggon
horses. It was like a terrier attacking a mastiff.
Kendall, the adventurous Government surveyor
with Colonel Sutton and Mr. Harbor-Trust-Smith
were in the taxi; they and the driver shot out
into the road like catapults. The three pas-
sengers struck the road with their straw deckers,
and were Saved ; but the driver, having no fashion-
able straw headgear, suffered severe injuries.
On Wednesday afternoon West, of the endless
Films, gave over his whole boiling of star pictures
and his Olympian Cafe to a charity matinee in aid
of the mopped-up Messinians. Crowds of our
elevated ones, from Dudley downwards, took
charitable tickets. The Dudleys did not turn up
personally, though their box was in order, with
tables and flowers and other such extraneous eh-
tieements. Those little attentions save the
Governor from the fag of going out for his own
ice-cream. It was not want of appreciation that
kept the Dudley away. He is as keen as a school
boy on the flickergraph, but he has a sick
wife and a just-recovering daughter, and vari-
ous other worries to add to his present engage-
ments. There was a well-smattered house, but
people were not treading on each others’
necks k° the Earthquake unfortunates.
Ihe audience that did arrive was mostly Bill and
Eiza and pure Australian—the Dago was not
rushing any. I expected to find a policeman
making a byway among the ice-cream carts that
blocked the entrance; but there was no ice-
cream and no banana. The show was an
excellent one. West has gone on beyond
travels through foreign lands, and the
“Humorous Sketch” that is labelled and
shaken before taking. He adds a real live theatre
to the bill. In this case “ The Tempest ” —a play
written by one Shakesbacon—was produced in all
perfection of scenery and acting. The coming bill
is to produce “ L’Arlesienne ” with musical selec-
tions from the opera by the really excellent
orchestra that hides behind colored lights.
Miss Hetty Holroyd, of Sydney, who departed
Bullwards with a Voice and a new husband some
years ago, has been developing into a singer of
note. She is professionally named Esta D’Argo ;
and a correspondent tells me that the lady practi-
cally mopped up the floor with an Albert Hall
audience at a recent concert. Miss Esta D’Argo
married one Tillett, who was here with the Vert
company.
The Hambourgs and the Charlie Taits and the
Tennis bounders—they bound physically, not
socially—just missed the big scenic earthquake
by two days. It was hard luck for showmen of
the Tait calibre. They were bound for Naples
and a cross-country run to Leipsic.
A behind-the-scenes item gives some idea of the
lightning-change spectacular business that is
pantomimed to make a Melbourne holiday. Some
of the ballet girls at Her Majesty’s dress com-
pletely (or undress incompletely, as the case may
be) twenty times for the one performance. Those
ballet girls will presently imagine themselves
society darlings at a fashionable sea-side summer
hotel.
Miss Sadie Bloom, a pink-cheeked under-grad,
at the University, has given over science study
to devote her time to a husband. She was
married last week to Mr. Joseph Schubert, of
Warren (N.S.W.). Miss Rebecca Bloom, in silver
and chiffon and silk, propped up the bride in case
she should faint and fall back at an angle of 45
degrees. The said bride wore Oriental silks as a
sop to tradition. The Rev. J. Lenzer officiated
as knottier, and Mr. Sol. Bloom, a shining light
in University circles, was next best man to the
bridegroom.
Miss Cecilia Meudell, one of. the Meudells of
Tooralc, rushes into a perfect orgy of trousseau-
buying. She has just returned from the Bull-Fog
Country, and in three months she will be living in
a bungalow of the latest pattern in tropical
Bananaland. The Man is Mr. Charlie Phillips,
who carries a load of responsibility and ore and
such things for the mining Lempriere Brothers in
Queensland. 1
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide:—
Marble Hill, where onr State Governor takes the Hill
breeze when we have one—and also when the Hills have
one—has had its face and hands washed, and its best
pinny put on, and it will be quite a presentable cabin by
the time the Dudleys arrive. They are due here on
January 21, and we are polishing up the handle of our
big front door and borrowing the Federal army in order
fittingly to celebrate the occasion. This is the first time
South Aus. has really owned>a Governor-General Ex. as a
citizen, and, if the weather will let us, we are going to
rise to the occasion, even if we have to borrow a neigh-
bor’s step-ladder to do it.
There is a movement afoot among the old boys of what
used to be Whinbam College to come to the assistance of
their ex-master, William Whinham, upon whom old age
and evil days have fallen. He has just been discharged
as: incurable from the Adelaide Hospital, after being
treated for eight months for fracture and dislocation of
the hip ; and the notion is to get him into some kindly
retreat where he will have proper care and attention, in-
stead of having to hunt on crutches for the scant crust.
The old college building has also fallen upon less hilarious
times. It is a fine, impressive, creeper-covered pile in the
best part of North Adelaide; but now it is used as a
college to train young persons in the proper method of
providing tracts (and meals?) for our benighted heathen
brother. The inmates are understood to live a fearsomely
stringent existence, eating only when a kind-hearted
public presents them with a cabbage or a tomato or some-
thing. Which doesn’t show much consideration for the
poor heathen brother when you come to think of it.
Our lengthy tenor, Wanborough Fisher, issinginganew
song. He has just invented a collapsible mosquito-proof
tent, that can be erected in lmin. 59sec., and can be
rolled up and carried under the arm like an umbrella, so
that no one would suspect you had a tent concealed
about you. The thing is Bft. square at the base, and
mosquitoes flee at sight of it. If it had only an electric-
light apparatus, a gas stove and bath, and motor garage
attached, you wouldn’t ask for a better tent anywhere.
Talking of tents. In future, where the number of
scholars in outlying districts does not justify the building
of a permanent schoolhouse, the provisional teacher is to
have a new excitement added to the hilarity of instructing
the backblox infant. Two tents will be provided—a
small one for the teacher’s residence and a large one
for the school, and here the seeds of learning will be
sown, whether the temperature is 112° or merely 42°.
Natural history can. be studied right on the premises.
In fact, the school can be shifted in pursuit of the natural
history supposing it should be on the wing. Also, every
time the school is blown down in a storm, think how well
it will sound—“ On Friday last the school house at Black-
snakes was blown down in a terrific hurricane. Fifteen
scholars were killed instantly, hut, owing to the presence
of mind of the teacher, the room was soon up again, and
lessons were resumed as usual.”
The Pierrots have caught oh properly At that
fashion-haunted harhlet, Glenelg, and society has been
pleased to intimate that the shoVv is “ qhaite name." One
or other of the moneyed lights has a “ Pierrot party ”
pretty well every eve* Mrs. Frank Russell took along
forty frivolous folk the other night* and more are follow-
ing thick and fast.
The scrumptious Dutton yacht is off again, this time
round Kangaroo Isle, Port Victor, and all the other
haunts of summer ton and fashion* The Julian Ayers
people, who have been house-partying with the John
Gordons in their bungalow on the Island, came back to
town in time to clamber on board • and the party also
include a visiting Melbourne maid and several others.
Some duke or other—the species is so common here-
abouts that one gets confused over their ducal names—is
sending Adelaide Zoo a eland to marry the gentle-
man eland already there* The gentleman eland lost his
first wife last year, but is removing the black band round
his left horn and wearing a wedding favor instead.
The A. E. Tolleys are gadding again. It is not so very
long since they came back from a European jaunt with
trunksful of frilly Paris triumphs. Now they have run
across to Colombo, “to escape the summer,” etc.
The Robert Kyffln Thomases and their youngest pretty
maid are to be among the early globe-trotters this year.
The Voice breathed in a floricultural atmosphere last
week for the knotting of Ida, eldest damsel of the
vigneron Gillards, and William Gerard, who owns sheep
somewhere about Rapid Bay. A little later the pair will
leave to put a waistbelt round the globe.
Yours affectionately,
JOHAHA


GRACE BROS. 12 DAYS’ SALE
A Money Saving Chance
on Dress Materials.
A. Money Saving Chance.
A Money Saving Chance
on Ladies' Underwear.
The Most Seasonable Goods are offered in
Section at “ Saving Prices ” during the
12 DAYS’ SALE.
rat i t io-lif Prints 9 9/30" in a large Variety of Neat and
P,“v fcK‘'K™¥s'Se.inrmk.m.. e ,.ndH.l»»rov..
Sale Price, 10yds. for 3/4. .
LOT 2.-Light Prints 29/30" in Fancy Stripe Designs ' n
Pink Bine, Heliotrope, Blue and Red and Brown and Red.
Sale Price, lOvds. for 3/6.
LOT 3.-Cambrics 30", White Grounds with Pink Turquoise
and Saxe. Sale Price, 10yds. for 3/11.
LOT 4. —Light Cambrics, 32in. .(free. from dressing), Pmk
with fancy Red Pattern and Stripe, Pink: with
Pattern and Stripe, Vieux Rose andßed Squaie
Pink with Pink and White Square, Red with tin> White Pattern
and Square, Biscuit vvith tiny White 1 at . 3)11.
Usual Price, yd. Sale Price, lOyds. ror djn.
of the ** Model
HAVE you received your copy
Trader ” Sale Number?
If not, be sure and get it.
It is a Money-Saving Chance. Write for one to-day.
A Post-Card will bring it to your door.
The " Model Trader ” Sale Number contains 160
Pages; 144 Pages are Money-Saving Chances, and
t 6 Pages Reading Matter.
No thrifty housewife should be without a Copy.
It's yours Free for the asking.
During Our 12 DAYS’ SALE we offer these Goods at ex-
ceedingly Low Prices, and even the Most Slender Purse can
participate. Many others, too.
Natural Wool Sanative, Branded and Guaranteed by us
not to shrink in Washing. Our Personal Guarantee
Ticket is attached to each Garment.
Light Weight Natural Wool Combinations, High Neck,
Short Sleeves, W., Sale Price, 11/3. O.S.\\., Sale
Price, 11/11 Pair. Long Sleeves, W. Sale Price, 77/6.
0.5. W., 12/6 Pair. . , .
Heavy Weight Natural Wool Combinations, High NecK,
Short Sleeves, W„ 10/9. Long Sleeves, 11/6 Pair.
If you want Satisfaction with Your Natural Wool Under-
wear, Write for the Above Selected Lines.
LADIES’ COLORED UNDERSKIRTS.
A Special Bargain. BUT FOR 12 DAYS ONLY.
A Dainty Batiste Underskirt with Deep Full Accordeon
Frill, very wide, in Butcher, Sky, and Pink. Sale Price,
3/ ladYes’ colored moreen underskirts, a
Special Sale Line in Moss. Navy, Brown, Heliotrope, and
Black. Sale Price, 3/9.
A money Saving Chance
on this Attractive Suite.
A Substantial Savin* can be effected on this
little Suite, which is a select design and made oi
Solid Rosewood. ~ . • „
The price we ask at our 12 -Days.Sale,-viz.,
£7/101-, should: be eagerly snapped up, as id
will be some time before another Money Saving
Chance presents itself like this.
m
This Solid Rosewood 5 Piece Suite consists of
Setree, with Carved Fret-Cut Back and Arms ;
Corner Chair ; 2 High Back Chairs ; and Low
Back Chair ; upholstered in Rich Sdk Tapestry.
Wonderful value. Sale Price, £7/101-
A Money Saving Chance
for the Mere Man*
Now is Your Opportunity for Money Saving
Chances bv Shopping at our 12 DAYS SAUL.
All Lines in Men’s Wear are considerably re-
duced and we feel sure that this Department
will share a little of your patronage, when you
con over these few items. .
Men’s Fancy Colored Striped Cambric Tunic
Shirts. Sale Price, Ijll\ each. .
Men's Fancy Colored Striped Cambric Tunic
Shirts, a large and varied assortment of Patterns
to select from. Sale Price, 2/5 and 2/9.
M m’s Fancy Colored Striped Ceylon Tunic
Shirts with Soft Double Cuffs and detachable
Double Collars. Just the thing for ease and
comfort and is unsurpassed for wear. Sale
The llroadwav Undressed White Shirts, Cased
Shoulders, Double Sewn and Gussetted Sleeves
and Skirt's, One Stud Hole, Bimon Behind,
Short Fronts. Sale Price, 27 / *
Button Behind, Long Fronts. Sale Price,
AFkwSPECIAL LINES in MEN’S HALF-HOSE.
2 Pair Cashmere Half-Hose for IJl\.
2 Pair Cashmere Half-Hose for 7/S.
S Pair Grey Cotton Half-Hose for 7/-
2 Pair Natural Merino Half-Hose for IJ-
o Pair Black Cotton Half-Hose for 7/.^a.
3 Pair Grey Military Half-Hose for 212.
A Money Saving Chance
on this Sideboard,
Now is an opportune time to effect a Sub-
stantial Saving by Purchasing: one of these Side-
boards durfng: our 12 DAYS’ SALE.
This Sideboard, fitted Bevelled Glass, Shelf
under, long: Carved Panel below, 2 Drawers, 2
Cupboards, Open Recess, made of Kauri Pine,
stained Walnut Oxidised Fittings. 3ft. 6in. wide,
Special Sale Price, &3112/6 ; 4ft.,
£4-110/- ; 4ft. 6in., £5/7/6.
jan. 30, Finishes Feb. 13.
Sale Commences
. S&ti
V'Vh
\ JV
,j*
7 * I Jml
II
111
THU Gigantic Sale is an event of "
yearS ai°ACE BROS^reTn^position 5 to” take all their remaining merchandise and
their 12 Days’ Sale at prices that will move it quickly.
originated It
sell it during
m
m
YOU CAN SAVE AT LEAST
30s. ON THIS MACHINE.
During our 12 DAYS’ SALE we offer the
economising housewife a Strictly High-grade
Machine which she may secure by paying Cash,
at a direct Saving of at least 30/-
The “BROADWAY” is a thoroughly up-to-
date Machine, with all the latest improvement*.
Tt is verv strong and is fitted with Adjustable
Conical Bearings, Combination Fly Wheel, Round
Needle Bar, Automatic Bobbin Winder, Sc f
Setting Needle, and large Shuttle easily threaded.
For Convenience the Stitch Regulator and guage
are olaced in front of the arm. The feed is
double and the Presser is the regular kind—not
the vibrating. This Machine makes the double
thread lock stitch, has a great range of work,
and is well adapted to family sewing.
Attachments for Braiding, Tucking, Binding,
Hemming, Under Braiding, Felling, and Quilting
are sent with each machine.
PACKED CAREFULLY FOR BOAT OR RAIL-
TRACE BROS, offer this splendid little
Machine at the astonishingly low price of
£4//5/- complete with attachments DURING
OUR 12 DAYS’ SALE ONLY.
A Money Saving Chance
oa this Choice Little Suite,
OUR SPECIAL LINE.
GRACE BROS, wish you to take particular
notice that this choice little Suite cannot be
repeated, and the price is based to clear. Bo
not miss this Money Saving 1 Chance of Securing
this Bargain during our 12 Bays’ Sale.
This Choice Little 7 Piece Drawing Room Suite
of Settee, 1 Gent’s Chair, 1 Ladies’ Chair, and 4
Small Chairs Upholstered in Tapestry with Plush
Borders, as illustrated above. Sale Price,
<£4/1616.
A Money Saving Chance
on Your Next Suit.
For 12 DAYS ONLY the Prices on High Class
Tailoring- have been considerably reduced.
NOW is the time for effecting a Substantial
Saving by Ordering your Suit during the In
Days’ Sale.
We reduce every Price, whether it be the
finished Suit or Material by the yard; and we
want you to know that we are willing to make
up your own Material, giving it the same care
and attention as our own. We have over 60
Different Shades to select from.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms will be
sent anywhere free on application.
This offer will be one of the plums at our 12
Days’ Sale-Sac Suits, made under the direct
supervision of our Head Cutter from very choice
Effects in English and Scottish Tweeds and
Flannels ; also in Indigo Serges. The fabrics
are choice, and are of the latest Designs and
Colors, and this Suit is absolutely the best
offered in Svdnev at the Price. Usual Price, 635.
Sale Price, 57/6, Post Free.
A Money Saving Chance
on this Overmantel.
GRACE BROS.’ 12 DAYS’ SALE is full of
Money-Saving Chances, and here is a Star
This Line deserves your attention and interest
from an economical point of view. Many others,
to \Valnut Overmantels. Assorted
Special Value. Size, 4ft. 2m. wide. Sale
P Th C e® ? SfTrader” 12 DAYS’ SALE NUM-
BER is Brimful of Bargains, and no thrifty
housewife should be-without a Copy. W rite tor
one to-day. . ,
A Post-Card will bring it to your door.
The Model
.. Store,
GRACE Bs_°§-
BROADWAY,
.. SYDNEY.


The Coming Australian Oil
Industry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
2 1 P1 0 2 °f ober 15 > 1908 > that The Bulletin
published the first of a series of arfeEr
the necessity of the Australian Parliament
doing something to re-establish the lo™ oil
industry of New South Wales. The writer’s
leum by W r S eadlng eCte ‘‘The Petro-
ftandard Oil Company,” by Miss°lda TiirbelN
gSS?i «*. '“iSifeEsS
w , e States, the second told how P N S
Wales had almost unlimited deposits of kerosene
cSnveyed'tt 6 «“»»• h&trfoSteSSJ
“■a f, ftnking information that Canada
\ ess than a million more people
oil refineries 7 The ° U reso “ rces - in 1889 had 13
than in 1871 Tber * ca “e the startling discovery
over fiOOO mill S " Wales alone produced
and fhar ons °t P l,r e refined kerosene weekly,
and that at one time even little Tasmania had
timeof r iritilS P ° ( trol f um deposits; and that at
State f Th « a dr °P, was Produced in either
helrfV , f ' l<:t impressed some of the men who
Australia and disregarding the pos-
accus ®d by foreign oil magnates’
small mrtv b^%w° bbe f parties, a
bers opThl T f i Fedeml le S ls lators, mostly mem-
dfstrictsS N L q b w P , arty ’ ™ ade a trip to the oil
ol f f N ‘ S-WaJes, and studied the problem
Z:t? L When they returned to Melbourne
they laid the facts they had dug out before their
colleagues, impressed them with their description
of the possibilities of a petroleum industry in
creation of it. So last week a larger party repre-
sentatiye ° all parties in the Australian pfri£
Customs O the j?\ F - Fu d° r ' Minister of
ustoms, Com Bill Lyne, and Freetrader
s°TobbU Went f orth t 0 See thin * s - Like dog
with?fc Wnter . Went after them in company
Tnd if hif r K eSent r atlVeS ° f oth<?r S y dn ey papers,
Od Tndnff ° ?eF r t,onS T COr r ect ’ the Australian
.g^t&^ loomme large ln the front rank of
* * * ,
rnm-n?r,? art /mu ft ]V ? edlow H y dro Majestic on the
morning of Thursday, and detrained on to the
New t 011 . ( ' ol 'P oratlo n’s private line at
down UnC - 10 ?- v GuStoms Minister Tudor went
down the private line on a motor trolly, which
gave him a splendid opportunity to see the wild
scenic beauty of the fastnesses where the oil lies
buried As lie rushed down the fearful grades
beneath awful, overhanging cliffs, he caught some
glimpse of why the oil industry had died. Lack
of means of communication had prevented it ever
growing big enough to defend itself against
the unscrupulous tactics of the Standard Oil
Under overhanging cliffs .
Trust. As the legislators rushed through Deane
fetation they passed a long line of trucks toiling
up the steep inclines behind a great Shay engine,
it was loaded up with a dark grey mineral, oil
shale, on its way to Germany, 200 tons of it, and
every ton of it containing not less than 120 gallons
of crude oil, most of it more. And that sterling
old Protectionist warrior, Oom Bill Lyne, pointed
out with curses that those grey-topped trucks
represented a loss of £l6OO to Australia as a crude
oil proposition alone. For Australia was receiv-
ing about £2 per ton for that shale, whereas the
crude oil it contained was worth about £lO for
each ton of shale on the 120-gallon estimate. But
by the time the German manufacturer and
chemist have done with it, if Australia desires to
buy back the finished product it will be asked to
pay back about £lOO for the products of each of
those 200 tons of shale. And with that fact
soakmg into the business end of him Minister
ludoi forgot all about the scenery, and groaneid
at the way his country was falling in. It hurt
him, just as it must hurt and scarify every
good Australian or decent business-minded man.
freetrader and Protectionist alike felt the re-
proach of national foolishness, and Oom Bi’l
Lyne s bitter remark : “ I tried to get a duty, but
you beat me. It rests with yourselves ! ” sank
deep.
* * ~ *
journey continued, always down, down
down, into the heart of the petroleum treasure
deposit. Around, blue in the distaneo-and-terra-
cotta-tinted near at hand, were piled vast moun-
tains, and every one of them resting on great
beds of shale, Down at Newnes township, Wolgan
Valley,, they found the beginning of a petroleum
industry, fehafts and tunnels pierced the. moun-
tains, aijd trucks came tumbling out,.loaded up
yith shale', tbe best, of which the Germans were
buying.up as fast as it emerged. On a little flat
hollowed but of the hillside scores of men were
to.ling on a bench of 64 retorts, which grew slowly
skywards. And each of those 64 retorts was to
making , VGr £looo -£64,900 in all. A brick-
day wh£h W \ S tUrnlng out 20,000 bricks per
a bkr? P fi° h were being utilised in the building of
bis- Kri i if another hollowed-out ledge a
dln^ h % d been erected ’ and “Pon%x-
lathes C f, OWd of 111611 were found installing
which tof nglr ! machinery with
m.f.if'i 6 a , le plant can possibly be
S u - d in Australia. Much of it must be
imported owing to the lack of a decent Australian
Torbane Crude Oil H'orks.
patents law. Half a million of money had been
poured into the Wolgan Valley, and the work of
making a start seemed only just beginning to take
shape, lhat tortuous railway, its rolling stock,
and the works already erected had swallowed up
the half-million like the drought-stricken soil
swallows the first shower of rain. As Minister
1 udor stood at the door of the engineering shop
he gazed on a mountain three miles thick, and
all its foundations were oil shale. From where
he stood he could see where 21,000,000 tons of
shale are known to lie awaiting the transforma-
tion to wealth. And had he drawn a circle
with a, radius of 17 miles he would still have
covered shale-bearing country. “It’s all waiting
to be turned into wealth,” said refining expert
Harvey ; “and if you’ll only give us a show with
the market we’ll do our share towards it. You’ve
given us a market for lubricating oils ; and we’re
beating the Standard Oil Trust because, through
the incidence of the duty, quality is the deciding
factor, and our, or your, Australian oil is the best
in the world. You’ve given us a market for
candles, and we’re holding our own against all
comers. You protected mineral oil spirit, and
1 m making it now, but I can’t make it on a large
scale till you give me a market for my kerosene ”
* * * *
In the evening we climbed on board the train
and started back towards Newnes Junction,
ivain came on and the mist fell like a curtain and
blotted out the details of the Treasure House. In
the cars the members read a brief statement of
the case for an Australian oil industry which
Manager Scantlebury had typed for them'. Some
prominent features of it were as follows
mn^\ California " oil Fields da *e back only to
-UOO, but, according to the Petkoleum Review
the organ of the industry, 58 companies, exclusive
of the Standard Trust and its pups, are engaged
in. their working and development, and the total
dividends for the 28 companies that have reached
the refining stage would amount to $6,000,000 for
the past year; and it is estimated that the divs.
will reach the $10,000,000 mark for 1909. This
be it remembered, is not including the notorious
Standard, which handles over 80 per cent, of the
United States refined oil.
An Australian petroleum industry, properly
encouraged, would keep over £2,000,000 annually
m the country ; that being the sum that the
commonwealth spends each year on petroleum
and its by-products. This amount is exclusive
of the even larger sum which is spent on the
petroleum products Australia buys in pretty cut-
glass bottles, elegant vases and jars, in dyes in
the colorings of delicate tint and shade that’we
see in the beautifully dyed silks of the present
day, or in the colors of the printing inks that we
buy from abroad and make locally, the water-
colors our painters use, the macintoshes our people
wear, the ammonia we use in our baths and our
fields, and the anaesthetics our surgeons employ-
all contained in that very Wolgan shale that the
Hermans are bidding for as fast as it is torn from
the foundations and ribs of the Blue Mountains.
It told how, 38 years ago, about 20 people
formed the Standard Oil Company, owning a
million dollars capital, a few small refineries in
Uleveknd, Ohio, capable of turning out only about
100 barrels per day ; a dep6t in New York, and a
few storage tanks scattered around Cleveland ;
and how that company had, at the end of 190?’
6000 shareholders and the following list of pro-
perty
lines’ 000 m ' leS ° f tW0 ’ f ° Ur ’ S ' X ’ eight and 12 ' inch pipe
Tank storage accommodation for 82,000,000 barrels of
Oil.
19 refineries, some of them covering 200 acres, and each
’capable of refining and treating 30,000 barrels of oil
per day.
3900 dep6ts in Canada and the United States.
60 tank steamers for foreign trade.
12 tank steamers for coastal trade.
Five cargo steamers.
19 sailing cargo ships.
A large fleet of chartered tank and cargo steamers and
sailers.
53,700 employees in North America.
65 700 employees scattered over the face of the whole
earth.
An oil industry capitalised at £65,660,000— n0t almightv
dollars, but omnipotent pounds. B
56 subsidiary companies, including two great German
corporations, which in turn own 56 more subsidiary com-
panies. ’’
Its own bank, which is stronger than the Bank of
England.
All acquired in 38 years, out of oil!
* * * *
We were still within the precincts of the Trea-
sure House when we turned into the sleeping
berths. We rumbled through the Blue Mountains
out of the rain into starlight where the air was
dry, but fresh and cool. When morning came we
were on the Mudgee line, running down tot Tor-
bane, and through the mists of morning we could
still see the richest portion of the Treasure House
the superb Capertee Valley, the future source
of the oil supply of the British Empire at
least, if not the world. Then we came to Tor bane
and went down the siding towards where the
grade qil works nestle at the foot of the shale hill
The party stepped from the carriages into the cool,
fresh morning air, and walked to where the bench
of 34 retorts was turning the shale into crude oil.
The retorts rise in a rectangular mass of brick and
steel some 60 odd feet high, and through open
chinks in the brickwork we looked into the glow-
ing, fervent furnaces, and then traced the big
main, through which the vaporised oil travelled
to the condensers. In the engine-room beautiful
polished engines worked silently, symmetrically,
turning 1 the fans that sucked the vapor down to
where the condensers radiated the heat and dis-
charged the oil in the form of delicate green
mud. bo thick and rich is it, that after being
condensed it is necessary to pump steam through
it to keep it sufficiently fluid to flow by gravita-
tation. A TT.S.A. oil man in the partv gazed
upon it with rapt admiration, and then” stoop-
ing down rubbed a little on the palm of his
and smelt it. Then he straightened
himself ; We have nothing like it in the
.States, he said sadly. “If all your oil is
like that our foreign trade is done as soon as you
get proper y going.” (Then his contempt broke
rough). Seems to me that the only reason you
haven t a world petroleum trade is that you’re
that green you’ll sprout if it comes on to rain ”
A legislator regarded him with a pained expres-
sion. Isut the Yank was engrossed, still inhaling
the odor of the oil. It was myrrh and frankin-
cense to him.
* * * *
Once more back into the train we started for
Lithgow, and as we careered over the rails the
legislators talked. One and all-Freetrade, Labor
or I rotectionist—they all agreed that something
must be done to encourage this industry, to turn
into concrete wealth the store of that great oil
treasure house They were all very frank and
straightforward. Even that rabid Freetrader
benator J. T. Walker, who, although a Free-
trader, is a very nice man, said he thought the
industry was one that deserved encouragement
by bonus. Minister Tudor made a statement
to the press, but, by some strange mischance,
writer has not at time of writing seen it in print
Kefernng to the fact that the bulk of the Labor
parly voted for free kerosene, Mr. Tudor said :
"Ihe position has changed vastly since the
passing of the tariff. The difference between
the Wolgan Valley of two years ago and the same
place to-day, is just the difference in the position,
lhe railway was not built, and Wolgan was as
isolated as Capertee is to-day, where 50.000 tons
of shale lie rotting in the sun and rain because the
cost of removal is prohibitive. The trouble is that
it a duty on kerosene should lead to any increase
in the price the burden all falls on poor people
who can afford it least. A kerosene tax is mainly
a poor man’s tax. Of course, lam speaking
tor myself and not the Government. This is a
Cabinet matter, and must be carefully thrashed
out. But whatever I can do personally towards
helping to develop this industry, which from
what I have seen, must grow and grow
bigger still will be done. I feel certain
that not only eveiy member of the Government
but every member of the party, is anxious to en-
courage what promises to be so profitable a busi-
ness to the country. It positively hurt me to see
that splendid picked shale going to Germany.
You can say that I recognise clearly that since
he passing of the tariff the position of kerosene
has changed altogether. We simply must encour-
*ig'e the industry, and the only question is how to
do it without increasing the burdens of the poor
people who use kerosene oil. It is not fair that
the toiler should bear the weight of starting the
industry altogether. We want to help it, but the
question is how to do it without layingan additional
weight on shoulders that are already overbur-
ened. If you can see any way of doing this, by
all means let us have the benefit of your ideas,”
Oom Bill Lyne about to explore a shale
tunnel at Wolgan.
Other members of the Labor Party were equally
frank. They were quite prepared to put a duty
on kerosene if they could be assured that it would
not fall on the shoulders of the poor. Many of
them represent country districts where kerosene
is the .sole illuminant. The prosperous citizen
has gas or electric light, sometimes both. But in
the bush home the lamp and kerosene are relied
upon absolutely. They are prepared to give
Protection, and high Protection to the by-pro-
ducts, but are met by the unfortunate fact that
the making of by-products docs not pav unless
there is a market for the kerosene. The great and
bloated Standard Trust is also in this position. It
can sell all its by-products in the United States,
but the Yankee market for kerosene is decreas-
ing; So the Trust sells its by-products in the
U.S.A. and exports over 60 per cent, of its kero-
sene, and the fact that it is driven to export so
great a proportion of its kerosene makes its
competition more dangerous. So well organ-
ised is its business, so certain and increas-
ing demand for its ' by-products, the
Standard every day grows more able to dump its
• • on , e * ts c^e f by-products is petroleum
spirit, the demand for and the price of which are
soaring up weekly. It is doubtful if the United
States will export much more spirit than it is
already doing, and in all human probability the
amount now being exported will continue to
decrease, and as the price goes up the quantity of
1 ankee kerosene available for export will increase,
and the danger of ruining our industry by dumping
continue to grow. The position is full of difficulty,
lheoretically, the Labor men said, the bonus
was the best means by which to encourage the
industry ; but, unfortunately, owing.to the opera-
tion of the Braddon Clause, any excise charged or
Customs collected are at once reduced by three-
fourths, owing to the States grabbing their share
of the money. Practically, they said, till a new
arrangement is made between the States and the
Commonwealth it will be almost impossible to pay
any more bonuses on anything. The sugar
bonus is already taking more money than the
Commonwealth gets from the excise after the
States have taken their three-fourths. Therefore
there seems to be nothing for it but the duty,
and the great question is to arrange the duty
so that the poorer section of the population shall
not have the price of their illuminant raised upon
them And that, summed up, is the position in
which the Labor members found themselves after
inspecting the works at Wolgan and Torbane.
* * * *
This is just where the Standard Trust’s well-
known proclivity for carrying on a long struggle
may yet be turned to some account. A duty of
M. per gallon on kerosene would be sufficient if a
bonus of Id. per gallon was paid on the produc-
tion of crude oil. But if the difficulties in the
way of a bonus are so great, a duty of 3d. per
gallon would probably make it impossible for the
Standard to dump. Said John D. Archbold,
president of the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey _ the parent co. of the present combination
—on this subject
frA S ru OU Al foreisn com P. etit 'On at any future period con-
nrodnPi« oT Pa " y WUh - the a * terna tive of selling its
markets the of Ce f alrl markets > or abandoning those
deoideH nn »th rm - e - h ° rn of the dilemma might be
thf ee d °” lf v h ? onsls was yarded as a temporary one •
r n§: further compelled to give some con-
and to ext , ensi , v . e 4 . propert ' V investments abroad,
permanent occupaS mployeeB relyin * Upon jt for
In the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.). The
Treasure House.
Considering that the last time the Standard
struck a “ temporary crisis” in Scotland it chose
the former horn of the dilemma for ten solid
years, it is just possible that it would continue to
pay the duty and fight on in the hope that the
good luck which has hitherto followed might
stick to it. In which case it would continue to
right for the Australian market, which is worth
clyse upon £2,000,000 per annum ; and, as to raise
its price would be to cut its own throat as long as
the local industry kept at present rates, it
would meet the local industry on equal terms,
then the deciding factor would be quality, and as
the Australian oil is of better grade than any of the
Yankee, the local industry would be growing all
the time. As the by-products were utilised, the
price of local oil would fall, and in the end’ the
Standard Would be forced right out. If the
Standard still proved able to rise superior to the
difficulty, and by its manifold tricks still kept its
grip on the; throat of the Australian industry
Australia might follow the example of India and
crush it right out by refusing to let it trade in the
country. In which case it would be an easy thing
for the Commonwealth to arrange with the local
manufacturers to import through a national oil
indent department sufficient to make up the
shortage. The following is suggested as a tariff
which would meet the case, and is based on the
oil product imports of 1907. The figures for 1908
would speak more eloquently, as they are larger
but are not given as they are not available in
detail:—
Statu of Revenue Production.
m , • Pro-
Total m Present Re- posed
Articles. Gallons. Duty, venue. Duty. Revenue
Kerosene .. 19,273,955 Nil Nil 2d. £l6O 616
Miner’l Colza 11,497 6d. £287 6d. 907
Solar & Re- “ a ‘
sidual Oils 460,769 Jd. 480 2d 3 sio
Lubricating ’
Oils .. 2,359,059 3ld. 31,945 6d. 58.976
Benzine and
Benzoline
and Gaso-
line Oils.. 862,238 Jd. 2,694
Naphtha Wood 4,042 6d 7in
Naphtha Oils 653,679 }d. 2,149
Paraffin Wax 6,078,308 Id. 25,326 2d. 50,652
£62,881 £313,119
The Commonwealth’s share of this revenue
would for a year or two supply sufficient
money with which to pay the bonus of Id. per
gallon on crude oil. The bonus is almost neces-
sary, no matter what duty may be levied, to
stimulate the production of crude oil. Under the
fostering influence of a bonus, crude oil works,


can
“As You Like It”
, 1 r _^
No matter what style of entertainment you prefer you
have it on the Phonograph—the instrument that brings the
world’s leading comedians, singers and instrumentalists right
to your very home.
An an entertainer the Edison Phonograph has no com-
petitor Its fund of music, songs or stories is unlimited. With
e ac h new record, whether an air from the latest musical comedy,
a waltz or two-step by band or orchestra, a selection from grand
opera, or a ballad of long ago, the Phonograph becomes a new
pleasure. A Phonograph in your home means enjoyment for
each member of the family and for all occasions. Write us for
full lists of records and machines and the name of your neaLest
dealer. He will gladly let you hear this wonderful instrument.
The Edison Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OP AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Wherever grace, beauty
and fashion gather to-
gether, Jewels add their
fascination to the scene.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
All Goods delivered Free on
if we do not please you.
receipt of cash with order. Money back
112 page Art Catalogue on request.
Real Jewels are the completement of real beauty. Indeed, every
lady acquires enhanced charm by the wearing of good and taste-
ful jewellery, and It is a duty she owes to herself to ador " he " ,
according to 'her position, and the canons of artis . ’ d
such beautifying objects. When such exquisite personal adorn
ments as constitute our stock can be purchased at true va ue
prices, there rerrjains no excuse for any lady denying
pleasure of wearing high-class jewels.
r>£Z
Mr
03640 —15-ct. Gold and Choice Pearl Olivine and Euby
Eagle Brooch, £lO 10s.
G9873-Pair of Massive Solid Silver Brushes, with Comb,
in £sm
GB49s—Unique Design Amethyst Trefoil
Brooch, 9-ct. Gold, £1 SS.
til 197— 15-ct.: Gold Pearl Set Bangle, £5 10s.
GBl39 —9-ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, £3 10s.
15-ot. Gold, £4 15s.
C3751—15-ct. Gold Pearl Set Amethyst Bangle, £5 10s
ILLUSTRATION ABOUT HALF SIZE.
Moonstone, with Crystal Rondels between, 455.;
Amethyst, 555.; Greenstone, 605.; Blue Agate,
635.; Malachite, 755.; Plain Greenstone, no
Rondels, 505.; Turquoise Matrix, £5 ss.and £6 10s.
These Necklets are very effective in wear, and, as we
have but one of each, we counsel early ordering.
H 7693 —A blaze of brilliancy. Parisian Diamond
Back Comb, drawn half size, 15s. 6d.
QlOB “Love’s Awakening,” Handsome, Extra
Good Silver-mounted Comb, 10s. 6d.
EXACT SIZE WHEN CLOSED.
Best Silver-plated Socket Manicure. Cuts as clean as
j, whistle. To be got from us only, in this quality, 2/0.
>”ooB—Ebony and Silver Brushes,
two In Leather Case. The best
for wear. Two sizes, 21s. and
255.
£4
G99o4—Silver-mounted Leather
Note Book, Bs. 6d.
which can be started on a fairly elaborate scale by
sm all companies with anything from £20,000 to
£50,000, would spring up all over Australia, for,
barring the Northern Territory, every part of the
continent is known to have petroleum in some
form or other. Judging by the remarks of the
members who made the recent trip, they are all,
Freetrade and Protectionist alike, fully seized
with the paramount importance of doing some-
thing. Their chief bugbear
is the fear of the price being
raised on the consumer,
who is mostly a poor man.
And that is where the
effect of the bonus comes
in. It would stimulate the
production of crude oil, and
keep the market well sup-
plied. A refinery is an
expensive thing to start,
but when once it has been
erected it can be made to
treat an enormous quantity
of oil. The trouble is to
get the crude oil in sufficient
quantities. Under a bonus
system little crude-oil works
would be started in a hun-
dred localities, turn their
shale into oil, and send it
along to the big refinery to
be made into kerosene and
the by-products. But these
are all matters of detail.
The great, joyful fact is
that legislative interest has
been aroused, that a Mini-
ster has made an official pronouncement on
the subject, and declared that the situation
with regard to the Australian Oil Industry is
ripe for reconsideration. The Bulletin rises to
congratulate Australia on its coming Petroleum
Industry—on the fact that it is about to “Strike
Oil.”
C. A. JEFFRIRS.
Although the Italian Government is ready
to lend the money for the rebuilding of Messina,
the earth’s crust thereabouts hasn’t quite got over
its attack of spasms, and most architects like to
be moderately certain that the foundations won’t
sidestep before they pile up massive building
blocks, and stick on the apex of the pile the usual
cloud-ripping flagstaff. The whole west coast of
Mexico the other day shook as does a cheap shingle-
built house when the heavy-footed serving-maid
strides in with the indifferently-cooked corned
beef. Although no crockery was broken, the event
served as a gentle reminder that the ill-
treated earth isn’t yet ready to lie stdl
and have edifices piled on its chest. Ac-
cording to Knott, who is one of the leading
earthquake authorities, the main cause of ’quakes
is the instability of the earth’s crust—which is
something like six miles thick. After six miles,
the inmost innards of the sphere commence, and
—so another eminent authority asserts—the in-
nards consist of molten rock. If the earth was
solid right through, there might be less liability
to wobble. (This applies also to politicians.)
The whole trouble seems to lie in the fact that the
globe is a half-and-half sort of affair. When the
airship is perfected, and Man is able to explore
Bpaee and choose his planets, he should take care
to select only those that are hard-baked. The
crusted variety seems to be unreliable.
Aboufc an ancient draper :
Mr. John Wetherill, who recently died at Alotia, Rand-
wick (Sydney), was a resident of nearly 60 years
standing. In the mid-’fifties he carried on a drapery
business in George-street, on the western side,
midway between Margaret and Wynyard streets,
having on one side of him “ Ebenezer Vickery,
boot and shoemaker,” and “ Hugh Dixson, tobacconist,
and on the other the subsequently somewhat notorious
Customs Minister Tudor at Torbane.
Josiah R. Treeve, who ran four or five build ing societies and
was secretary to the Church of England Cemetery Com-
uanv the burial ground being at Camperdown. In the
early' ’sixties Mr. Wetherill removed into near
Bill Moffatt, bookseller, where he remained for "early
half a century. He removed into George-street, near
Kin-street, in the late ’9o’s. Mr. Wetherill purchased
some years a»-o the old mansion and estate at Leichhardt
known as‘‘ Elswick,” built in the early ’thirties by James
Foster, barrister, and sold by him to Mr. James ISorton,
the early solicitor whose home it was until his.death.
Mr Wetherill lived in the house for some years, when the
estate was cut U p and sold. The R.C.’s now have the
mansion for convent purposes.
Mr. Barney Byrnes, the Sydney coal mer-
chant, who tied his last bag the other day, had a
facile hand for money-making. Coal, wood, iron,
arable land, ships, stocks and houses made a pic-
ture-book, the pages of which he turned with
ever-increasing delight. Political and social ideas
touched him, but failed to fascinate him like, for
instance, a cargo of coal bought at half-price.
When urged, as a man known to have money is
generally urged, to assume prominence in Parlia-
ment and assert himself among the local nobility,
Barney would agree that it was his duty
to become a public man, but he always
postponed serious effort in that direction. He
took Henry Parkes’s old house on the Blue
Mountains one time, with, it is said, the idea that
from Parkes’ cold hearthstone, freshly warmed
bv Barney’s stacks of fuel, would arise inspiration
and great deeds. But the broken statues about
the grounds—Parkes’ shattered gods and goddesses
—scared him, and, as usual, he postponed. *e
Barney as a cicerone, explaining to visitors the faded
engravings on the walls— poets and statesmen,
landscapes and seascapes—revealed the g e ™£"®
hero-worshipper. A mighty coal merchant before
the Lord was Barney Byrnes.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., EEDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sydney s new Municipal Bath in the Domain is
large, magnificent, and, under ordinary circumstances,
just IT. But on Saturday, when something like 9000
people rolled up to see the swimming champion-
ships tahe place, the structure proved much too
small. Seven thousand squeezed inside, and the rest
went disappointed away. The people were packed
like sardines, and the crowd slopped over and
was only kept off the springboards with difficulty and
policemen. The high pressure sent the 'more
agile soaring up the walls, and they sat on the
top, with a clear drop of 15ft. into deep water
waiting any temporary loss of balance. The in-
terest of the afternoon was centred round the 100yds.
and 880yds. premierships. In the lOOvds. N.S.YV. was
represented by Healy, Hardwick and Wickham, while
Beaurepaire to rh PC t- Wlth Graham afld Mason,
the crowd dm \ b ’ tter disappointment of
a cracker from ? ompete '. The P a «* wm
earlv At 20vd<? rhi 6 f s^ art ’ wherein Mason got left
other four were still deal level, and
wkdcl"ff t fe h^rm P h doe a tb , rOUS ! 1 the fluid - . Th en Hard
of the audienop T V ai J^ K t^le P* ace shook with the roars
Cecil Healv and’faGwr a PP lause seemed to hit
he came hft , hIUI throu-h the water, so fast
and"wor^b^ r nmre'spurted
Mrtsss hors
staTt h t e o B Hnilh S ; h WaS a P rocession . not a race. From
start, to tinish there was no one in it but Beaurenaire
the others* °He noddled"’‘i"’ ” 0t t - make exh ibitions of
ijrace When a ° n S' easily and with infinite
T, anyone spurted he justglode to the front,
tired of
tired of waiting for the company, and apparently sud
re "or y ds rem So he e h d " ere things Sn “as
UP 30vds f Z * ! to >: i,de oonsiderably, and finished
Zi third T wlth Hardwick and Mason second
aid third. In neither race were the records shaken
* * *
What time the hard and fast punters were
having a bad time at Rosehill their misguided brethren
scored at'the'Vn noUffh at 9 auifield - Four first favorites
tho tv-f 6 9? January meeting of the V.A.T.C., but with
the exception of Lady Diffidence the winners had no
class pretensions. The daughter of Grafton and Difli-
stvhf and r,m a /h Wlth f t a® A,l »i ve isary, Handicap in good
stjle, and may be noted as a likely one to pick up a little
plum at Fk-mingtoii in March. P P
*
Darwin partiaiHy solved a great mystery when
ivftkmlv Hif 0rl £ ln . of Species,” but writer is waiting
patiently till some genius will solve a still greater enigma
with a work on The Origin of Rumors.” Some time ago
seHnna Stal i ed that Mr ' V,ctor Trumper had
serious pulmonary complaint, which would probably pre-
vent him ever taking part in big cricket again. Then it
was said that he had also got rheumatism. Writer, whose
own I'fe has been darkened by that terrible complaint,
e J a “ sed T, hls sympathy, but is now glad to learn it was
wasted. It seems the rumors were quite untrue, and that
the batsman is in splendid fettle, sound in wind
and muscle and in that state of mind and body which
should enable him to make many more centuries on his
beloved cricket field.
* * * *
The players who interviewed the Cricket Board
of Control last week got a shock. The Board opened pro-
ceedings with the intimation that it was not there to
discuss terms, but to receive a deputation which wished
P e^ t ? ,ln . suggestions. As long as the deputation
neld its hat.in its hand, kept its nose clean, and remem-
bered that it was an applicant for a job, it would be
listened to. If it made a hole in its manners it would be
biffed out. The Board carried an axe in the shape of a
cablegram from the Marylebone Club which intimated
"hat the club would accept any team sent by
tne Board ; and that no other, no matter how thick
a tail it had, need apply. Marylebone has been
experiencing trouble with gentry of the same kind of
late, and a fellow-feeling makes it wondrous kind to its
brother in authority. And w'ith this intimation, and the
apparent intention of the Board to do the right and sensi-
ble ln ass ® r t' n g its authority, the -‘cricket
trouble is over. If the present players won’t go, there
are plenty more good ones who will. And, moreover
some of the players who found that their chances of
going were likely to vanish, have already begun to squeal
about being misled by ringleaders.”
* * * *
The Board of Control is on the right track to
fill the Australian XI. with the best players in Australia.
Half-a-dozen are already chosen ; another half-dozen will
be picked after the N.S.W.-Victorian match in Sydney
next week ; and the final bunch for the tour will be
'veeded out after a match between the Chosen and the
Rest of Australia on February 5. The sort of trouble
which happened in 1896 (when, after the XI. played the
Rest, J. Harry was dropped out of the XI. and J. J. Kelly
and Clem Hill included) is not going to chance again.
With a view to giving the most likely players in the
Commonwealth an opportunity, Ernest Parker, from
Westrana, and several players from the other States have
been invited to fill a place in the Rest, and it is quite
possible that the XI. may go down.
* • * *
The Sheffield Shield hangs in the balance this
season. There is only one inter-State match to be de-
cided, and provided that Victoria (the holder) defeats
X.S.W., two wins and two losses will be the record of
each of the States, and the destination of the Shield will
be decided on averages. N.S. W. has only to win to grab
the Shield; but, on the form of N.S.W. and Victoria at
Melbourne, the Bent State players are a very large block
in the way.
* * * *
Roger Hartigan, the Bananaland rep. in the
Australian XI., will make a big effort, during the cricket-
ing picnic in England, to prove himself a good Australian
as well as a sport by distributing commonsense informa-
tion about the Northern State. The idea might commend
itself to the,team generally. Only it is advisable to make
sure that the team has information to distribute before it
is urged to take on the job of distribution.
* m ■* *
Sydney Metropolitan First Grade cricket re-
commenced on Saturday in idea) weather. University
met Waverley and made 178 in its first innings ; Waverley
responded with the startling score of 101 without losing a
wicket, and things look blue for Uni. Glebe journeyed to
Parramatta and slogged the ’Maltas (otherwise Central
Cumberland) for 266. The reply was spiritless, and play
ended with four Central Cumberland wickets down and
the score standing at 31 ; the deadlj-bowling of Cotter
having taken four sets of stumps for 11. The struggle
between Sydney and Redfern was somewhat crowded ;
the City going out for 174 and then getting its
rivals all out for 135. Redfern put up no less
than four waterfowl on the hoard. Finneran took
six wickets for 60 and Pite got away . with
two for 17. Balmain put up a hopeless-looking
game against North Sydney, notching 182, of which 9~1
were made by B. Kortlang. North Sydney smote up 73
without losing a stick. Gordon made 206 against Peter-
sham, which responded with 102 for seven wickets.
Burwood against Middle Harbor made the only century
of the day, Diamond making exactly 100 when he was
caught by Long off Scott. This welcome lift made Bur-
wood’s record 274, and it took so long over making it that
Middle Harbor had only time to score seven, which it did
without any timbers being shivered.
* • » *
The principal combat in Melbourne Pennant
cricket last Saturday was that between Melbourne and
East. Despite the presence of Governor-General Dudlev,
it was an unalarming entertainment. Melbourne, with-
out the services of Ransford and Hazlitt, gave an undis-
tinguished display by making 135, and, as East now
stands at 124 for two wickets, its chances of a
first innings victory look rosy. St. Kiida, in its
light conversation with Carlton, kept talking all
the afternoon, with the result that it firmly established
itself with 252 fori nine wickets. P’ran, apparently de-
termined to occupy the wicket for months, squared its
shoulders against South and banged up 338 for five
wickets, J. Horan making 124. As for the other out-
rages, they were dark deeds of effortlessness, or tired
feeling, or something. Fitzroy already has Collingwood
defeated on the first hits by comprising 128 for four
wickets against ’Woods 112: so probably ’Roy will
declare a public ' holiday to commemorate the
crushing victory. University and Northcote bucked
into the fray like somnolent ’bus-horses, ’Varsity
being responsible for a total of 77, and North-
cote for an uncompleted score of 86 for nine
wickets. Essendon, which has generally given The
Bulletin some trouble in discovering its performances
with the naked sight, did very promisingly (for Essendon)
by making 115 against North Melbourne, which has in
part responded with four for 62. On the whole,.Saturday
was more of a bowler's day, principal averages being,
Parsons, 7 for 26 for East against Melbourne ; Mitchell,
5 for 25 for Northcote against ’Varsity ; E. R. Cordner,
6 for 37 for’Varsity ; and their.oreor less ancient Carlton,
3 for 2 for North against Essendon.
* * * »
“Cricket”: Sundry small points about E. M.
Grace are missed in a recent Bulletin par (7/l/’O9). The
three Graces were all brothers ; the “ cousin ” referred to
was \V. R. Gilbert, another fine batsman. It was the four
of them that made Gloucestershire unapproachabty
England’s champion county in the ’seventies. G. F.
Grace, the youngest of the brothers, lived just long
enougli to play in the test match (on English soil) in
1880. E. M., the eldest, is always known as “The
Coroner”—he is official sitter on the dead for West
Glo’ster. Also he has been secretary to the county club
till now, and he plays (at 67) Saturday cricket regularly,
and bowls lobs of a devilish subtlety.
* * * *
Seemingly, the English-speaking sporting world
—and there isn’t much sporting world that speaks any
other language—is beginning to get tired of its modern
showmen “champions.” A London weekly has hurled
the brickbat of derision at Hackenschmidt, the wrestler,
somebody in America took a fall out of Hacky, where-
upon the Russian lion retired from the match and talked
ot what he was going to do presently with bis victor.
I hat was months ago. Hacky did nothing but talk ; the
other fellow did nothing but talk. Each of them is afraid
to risk his “championship ” pretensions. They are in the
show business and their sporting spirit is about 99 under
proof. When they had avoided one another for a year or
so, the Sportsman solemnly cursed all “ champion ”
catch-as-catch wrestlers and their grovelling exhibitions.
Where the truth is thrown a little of it is sure to stick.
Ground wrestling is a wearisome form of sport, and its
exponents thusfar have been the dullest of music-hall
performers. Their show is only a little more stupid than
a boxing match under Marquis of Clinchberry rules. A
well aimed chunk of contempt will practically'kill clinch-
fighting one of these days, and every time a “ champion ”
throws out one of his long-winded challenges a disgusted
public will advise him to go and get work.
• * * »
According to the latest press reports from Lon-
don, the once all-god Hackenschmidt is now a little less
god and a little more business man. He is accused of
declining to meet a foreign gentleman named Zbysco
(pronounced like an ordinary seidlitz powder) except
under conditions to which Mr. Zbysco had every objec-
tion. Zbysco, however, was ready to make the absurdest
concessions to get Hacky on to the mat, but the Russian
appears to have evaded all overtures. Certainly, the
pair met in the office of a London sporting paper, and,
after conversing with a view to business, arrived at some
sort of understanding. As a preliminary, Hacky
insisted on wrestling in the catch-as-catch-can style,
to which the gentleman with the effervescent name
agreed, though he had never practised it. Then
Hacky, no doubt disturbed by the oily agreeableness of
Mr. Zbysco, postponed the meeting, as he wanted a rest.
And he rested—in fact, he has been “ resting” ever since,
though he has found time and energy for struggles with
Gotch of America and Rogers of England during the
period of his rigorous repose. He has even arranged to
meet Gotch again in England ; but, so far as the yearning
Zbysco is concerned, he is still “resting.” And what
makes the case stronger against the Russian is that his
“ test” has cost him £lOO, being damages for fracture of
agreement. The fact is, Hacky has gone the way of all
fighting athletes who take to the showman business. He
is fat and scant of. breath. Too much corn and wine and
oil, and not enough work.
* * * *
London Sketch (11/11/’08) has some fine pictures
of Dutton and Aunger’s overland motor trip from Ade-
laide to Pt. Darwin. One of the things Londoners find it
hard to credit is that during the whole of the 2000 mile run
but one set of *Michelin tyres was used by the voyagers.
On the last motor trip taken by this writer, the sickening
“ woosh,” which intimates that another £ll has blown
itself out, occurred three several times—and the journey
was but a paltry matter of 150 miles or so. Talking of
“ blow-outs,” the Michelin people have evolved an “air-
cylinder” which saves the back-rending job of tyre-infla-
tion per hand pump. The new invention bottles enough
air to charge 10 tyres, and is guaranteed safe.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) League of Wheelmen fell
heavily on a big batch of offending cyclists at two recent
race meetings. E. Bestel was wiped out for life for
“ insolence ” and “ language ” ; seven others were fined
2s. 6d. for “ beating the pistol" ; while quite a host were
cautioned and fined for various offences. The League is
certainly doing good, but a few more “ dealings-out ” of
this nature, and there won’t be sufficient riders to require
a handicapper.
* * * *
The most valuable sailing trophy in the Common-
wealth is the Stuart Shield, presented to St. George Club
(Sydney) by “ Sandy ”of that ilk. It is the outward and
visible sign of the championship of that club. Last
Saturday it was thrown on the waters of Botany Bay,
amid sand dunes and treacherous shallows and the deep
channels where the South Pacific rollers have made
dangerous rips; and of 13 entrants 12 went out to get
possession of it. Eight of them were St. George boats *
one (Elma) represented Westralia ; two (’Appy Days and
A'ega) Balliria, a N.S.W. North Coast town ; and one (Ida)
was from Queensland. The dominant crowd in the St.
George Club is afflicted with an unfortunate hallucination
that a fair test for dingies is a 20-mile buffet round its
picturesque but dangerous duck pond, and that
it gives the club a chance to teach any visiting
skippers something in the way of navigation. On
Saturday last that crowd fell in, and the splash it
made hasn’t subsided yet. Although the local 14-
footer St. George led a procession and won as it
liked, the craft (howl, Tarsfiish !) was skippered and
manned by Sydney sailors, and the other visitors pre-
ferred to follow the course that the visiting Port Jackson
skipper took rather than that of the local men, who were
supposed to know every bank in the bay. There is pro-
bably something in the boast, however, for the local boats
found almost everyone of them, and some of them liked
them so much they forgot all about the race and stayed
to rejoice over their luck in showing their knowledge of
where to go aground. Altogether, it was a deplorable
affair. The crowd that turned up was sufficient to have
swamped the two steamers that had been engag'ed to
follow, and a large portion was shooed off, and left to
follow the 20-mile buffet as best it could. The tram
arrangements were dreadful; and from a parochial point
of view the sailing w'as disastrous. St. George won easily
and was followed by the Queensland boat Ida, with Our
Own a bad third.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Rifle Association’s prize
meeting at Sydney on Saturday ’produced accurate
marksmanship by two shooters. In the Tyro, 10
shots at 400yds., Paine and Blaydes tied with the possible
50; but Paine won in the shoot-off by four points (two
inners and a bull to a miss and two bulls). The
Nursery, 10 shots at 500yds., was won by Paine
with a possible 50, Blaydes coming next with 49. The
aggregate associated with these matches therefore fell to
Paine with the possible 100 points, and Blavdes followed
with 99 points. There was quite a host of shooters close
behind the leaders with respectable totals; and the
governing bodies of rifledom will have to consider the
advisability of reducing the size of the bull’s-eye to pre-
vent public interest in a commendable pastime dying out.
* * *
J. Williams, a mighty man of legs, kicked up
the dust to some purpose at Talbot (Vic.), the other dav
b.V winning 130yds. and 220yds. handicap footraces ; the'n
he mounted the cycle and won a mile event. He was
only just defeated in the two-mile race. There were no
other items on the programme worth worrying about or
perhaps he would have won those also. ’
* « * •
Champion Dick Arnst is finding it as hard to
get races now as before he acquired the title of champion
rower. Last week, English champion Barry was invited
to come along and be annihilated, and £2OO expenses
were offered. Thus far no reply has been received.
Meanwhile, Arnst is exploring Maoriland on a bicycle
and will possibly later on visit England after a match for
the Sportsman’s Cup, over which George Towns failed.
The sculling success of Dick Arnst has roused
a desire to do something of the sort in the breast of
Hagney. Hagney is over 6ft. high, and weighs 13st. 71b.,
and would make an ideal sculler or boxer. But his heart
is set on sculling, and if he can see his way clear at all,
he may yet challenge Dick on the water as he has done
many a time on the concrete track.
* * * *
Young Lindrum and the more youthful Gray
are waging an exhibition battle at Alcock’s billiard parlor,
Melbourne, this week, the boy getting an allowance of
2000 points in 12,000. Lindrum is said to have a sup-
porter who will back him for big money against Gray on
even terms. If a match eventuates it should be a par-
ticularly strong “draw.”
* * * *
A break that few men billiardists have beaten was
achieved the other day by Miss Ruby Roberts, of Mel-
bourne, the Australian girl champion, whose portrait
appeared in Thk Lose Hand some 18 months ago. Miss
Roberts, practising on a standard table, made 33 consecu-
tive losing hazards off the red. In the style of her play
she is a worthy pupil of her uncle, Charles Memmott.
She ha 9 the professional “ touch,” which is rarely seen iii
even the best amateurs. She never makes an
effective stroke in a rough, heavy manner. Watching
Ruby Roberts at the billiard-table one is soon con'-
vinced that the average woman of fairly tall and
graceful figure can be taught to play a better game than
the average man. In nerve and foresight she will be
inferior to the naturally-gifted man player, but in execu-
tive skill she will beat the common herd. The pose at
the table and the handling of the cue are first essentials
to championship “form.” A girl—if she be no shorter in
height or length of arm than, say, little Dawson—has the
same “ command ” of the ball that he has. And she is
born with the capacity for balancing a cue in
what in champion Stevenson’s ease—has been called
“a ladylike manner.” Therefore as a student
of the art of billiard-playing she is more teachable tha.
the other fellow. Miss Roberts, of course, had the ad-
vantage of the best possible coaching front the outset
Her style was formed by Uncle Memmott, who is a master
of style, and when she was only beginning to learn the
game, her execution of certain strokes was faultless.
But what she learned she could just as easily teach any
other intelligent girl to do, provided that the pupil
hadn t previously been teaching herself to plav badly, in
which case a lot of unlearning would be necessary.
* * * *
Marathon Race — yiss !” cried Demetrius, ex-
pectorating deftly into the oyster-bin. “ / know him
Knew winner Marathon Race once, in Hellas—he meelk-
man. One morning he leave-a d' meelk at Capitain’s
house. Puss-cat he drinka d’ meelk and Oapitain’s maid
she weep, but meelkman say ‘ You wait, I catoha d’ fresh
can ! ’ and start run home. Then the Capitain—ah, he d’
Big Sport !—putta da op’glass and stoppa d’watch on him
from top window, time him for record over d’ twenty mile
an’enter him for the Big Race, for to scoopa d’ pool'
But when Marathon Day come, halfway in Big Race a tall
English lead big lead—Helleenika meelkman nowhere 1
What you tink—that English win ? Bah ! I tell you
Capitain he d Big Sport! He ride down on his white
horse to the crossroads, meeta d’a English runner
English say ‘Me lead ?’ Capitain say ‘ You lead ? You i
Na-a-a-arr ! ! You J Show him the wrong road.
Helleenika meelkman win half-an-hour easy. Capitain
scoopa d’ pool. Sport! Bah, what you know Sport ’’ ”
* * * *
The Wade Government, torn between the de-
sire to give a sop to its religious supporters (the people
who demand the destruction of the Sabbath soft-drink
vendor, and the untiring pursuit by the Law of
the woman Florence wherever she may appear)
and the hankering not to absolutely madden
the more rational section of the community, has
decided on a feeble tinkering with the existing laws anent
ln-fighting is to be forbidden, and the weight
of the gloves used at contests is to be increased by two
ounces. This will possibly satisfy the pietistic
crowd. It knows nothing whatever of the pastime
whereof it has been howling for the last six
weeks. The experienced fight patron will recognise
the new regulations as noise and humbug signifying
nothing. “In-fighting” has been stone-dead as a draw-
ing card since the Burns-Johnson fiasco. Your true
blood-lustful stoush enthusiast wouldn’t go a yard
t “ i u see r , nlore of ifc * Burns had a baddish time
with Johnson as it was; had he stood off, and
out-fought the inky calamity, he would in about
a dozen rounds have been made to look like a
railway accident. The promoters of the coming Squires-
Lang contest well knew what they were about when
they advertised that this mill would be of the “clean-
break order. As to the six-ounce-glove regulation
it is worth noting that the only death from boxing
that has occurred at the London N.S.C. since Bettinson
the present secretary, has been in charge was when the
combatants wore gloves of this weight. The fact is there
is no difference between the damage two men are liable
to do one another in 20 rounds with a pair of 4oz. gloves
a "ru*'l’ e damage they may do in the same circumstances
with 6oz. gloves.
” * » *
Having got over the sting of defeat, and
reached the. point at which he can take a calm dis-
passionate view of the late disturbance, ex-champion
bruiser Tommy Burns has verified The Bulletin’s account
of the scrap. He admits that the first knock-down
blow so dazed him that he forgot all his ring craft, and
summing-up the position, has come to the same conclu-
sion as this paper—that there is no overwhelming reason
e! u. i. °uld not beat Johnson in a future mill if he
fights him the right way.
* * * *
/xtTudor was at Torbane
(N.S.W.) last week, studying the oil industry problem,
u S e d down to the retorts with a magazine in his
hand, he passed a company of children carrying billies of
water : “Got any pictures of the fight, mister?” in-
quired one chubby-faced little athlete. “No. Who did
you want to win ?” “ Burns, of course ! ” came a chorus.
But why? asked the Minister. A look of blank
amazement came over every face—they wondered where
Tudor had come from, and then the speaker, in a pained
voice, said decisively: “Because he’s a white man, of
course! “White Australia’s all right!” chuckled
rudor, as he passed on.
THE MIANDETTA TROT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was one at Miandetta (the maps don’t show the spot)
That the racing- men resolved to have a meeting ;
And to fracture the monotony they thought they’d have
a trot,
So that pacers round about might be competing.
They prepaid 8 relatinB: t 0 it_ '“ Entrance-fees must be
Be the owners shearers, rouseabouts, or squatters."
And the only stipulation that the rule aforesaid made
Was : “ All entrants must be bona-fide trotters.”
When O’Grady from the boundary, at the back of Wil«-a
Kun,
Read this rule, he grinned with undisguised elation ;
And he muttered to himself, “Be Cripes ! I b’lieve it
could be done ;
And they’d never know a word up at the station."
When the day came for the meeting, the crowd around
the board
Read the entries in a manner contemplative ;
All the others seemed familiar ; but the name that had
them floored
Was “ M. O’Grady’s three-year-old, The Native.”
He was entered as a maiden, so the limit was his mark ;
But the handieapper—well, I am afraid he
Placed his soul in deadly peril when he realised the lark
That had been devised by Mr. Mick O’Grady.
Kur The Native was an emu in a trotting sulky neat,
And the stewards scratched their heads in deep defec-
tion. J
According to their rules, they knew O’Grady “ had ’em
beat ; ”
But if he won they’d need police protection.
Tim Burke was there, who owned the district champion,
Dainty Lad,
While Teddy Dunn had come to drive old Seamew.
And, each, in. lurid language, swore “Th’ stooards
must be mad
T’ arsk a ’orse t’ trot a blanky emu.”
The first time round The Native led, until he neared the
crowd,
Then it seemed that he objected to the cheering ;
The stewards watched him closely, and expressed their
joy aloud
At the wild, erratic course that Mick was steering.
First the stallion left him standing, and passed the cheer-
ing crew ;
Then the old mare came with quite a steady jog on ;
And The Native’s chance appeared to be a bright celes-
tial blue—
Till O’Grady to the emu sooled his dog on.
Then it bolted —past the grandstand with a twenty-four
feet stride,
It never even seemed to think of breaking ;
The driver of the mare looked round and very nearly cried
When he saw the giant strides the bird'was taking.
In the straight it caught the stallion ; and, of course, the
champion shied
When past him flashed the feathered freak careering ;
First it broke into a gallop ; then it broke its heart and
died ;
While The Native passed the post ’mid groans and
cheering.
Then the friends of Mick O’Grady were assailed by those
of Dunn,
And the Burke crowd took a hand in the collision ;
Till the air grew thick with waddies, while the chap that
hadn’t one
Pelted gibbers with remarkable precision.
They thrashed the matter soundly till the Dunns and
Burkes resigned,
Then they sought for Mick O’Grady and his emu—
They sought them for a week* but no O’Grady could they
find ;
And, in despair, they gave the race to Seamew.
Yet the swagmen down the river swore that in the dead
of night
They were startled by an awful apparition.
’Twas a spectral sulky passed them; and the driver,
robed in white,
Steered a ghostly emu, gleaming with condition.
And down along the Bogan—past the Knock-’em-endways
Pub,
Where the girls and pines are fragrant, tall and shady—
They’ve a yarn about an emu that streaks nightly through
the scrub,
With a phantom driver mighty like O’Grady.
N.S.W.
SPINIFEX.
TAPE WORM
Twenty Feet in Length Passed By a Little
Girl After Taking Comstock’s “Dead-
shot Worm Pellets.
Mrs. Olive Mclvor, 18 George Street, St. Peters,
Ethel Mc[?].
Sydney, states : “I have
pleasure in relating my
experience of the won-
derful efficacy of Com-
stock’s “Dead shot”
Worm Pellets. One of
my children, Ethel, whose
photo. I enclose, was a
great sufferer from tape
worm, but after taking
your remedy she passed
a tape worm twenty feet
in length. The other
children were troubled
with thread worms whicli
a few doses of Comstock’s
Dead Shot ’ Worm Pellets quickly removed. I
strongly recommend Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets, and you have my consent to pub-
lish this evidence of their value.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
obtainable at all chemists and stores, or will he
forwarded by post (postage paid) on receipt of
remittance. Price Is. (id. per box (six boxesBs. 6d).
ihe W. H Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


A B. & B. Cycle
is like a hard-boiled egg—hard to beat. Model 3,
with First-Class Tyres and Twelve Months’
guarantee, ill ; with Free Wheel, Back Rim
Brake or Coaster Hub, .£l2.
xvx
Won’t you write for OUR NEW CATALOGUE ?
IT EXPLAINS OUR MODELS THOROUGHLY.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cvcle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and
Castlereagti Street, Sydney.
FAT
Are You? Then why not let us help you to reduce your superfluous flesh? Would
you not like to be of normal weight and to enjoy the best of health ? If you cherish
that wish, let us help you to realise it. What we have done, and are doing for others,
with NORMAL OBESITY CURE we can do for you. Let us lighten your heavy
burden and send you on life’s way rejoicing. I>o not hesitate. Call at our offices, or
send us your address, and we will post you a Free Sample of Normal Herbal Treat-
ment, also an interesting booklet on OBESITY. Enclose 3d. stamps for postage.
London Spociolitios Apncy, Office A 44 castlereagh st„ Sydney
xc
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by usins?
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Blades fin., Jin., or Jin. deep. Hound, Square or Irish Point.
Sold under absolute <ruarantee at £!/C Torrey’s Swing: Strop, 2/6.
Post Free to any part of Australia. "/ O. Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d.
SOLR AGKNTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR I —
CLEAN, BROS & RIGG PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Buxton & Sons),
147-149 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
m
&
n
£2
-V
t
Weighs only 222 lbs. Requires no| water, being air
I j
Is guaranteed to develop at least one brake horse power.
Cos t\ only £2B, spot cash. Terms if reauired at
proportiohate prices. \
Not a\jtoy, but a thoroughly Rower Plant on
a small scale. | j
Starts mside 30 seconds and once started runs for 4
hours or rfaire absolutely without attention.
Thoroughly safe and costs less than \\ shilling a day
if or fuel. % y
Requires a \floor space of only 2 ft. 4 1m. x 1 ft. 81 in.
Will blow aiorge; run a small pumpAdrivea sausage
machine, a crea m\sepa rat or, a small electric light plant,
a fruit tree spraying outfit, or a printing press.
Our experts unit direct installation, star/ the engine
and instruct purchasers free of cost. |l
All types of “Uffc." Gasolene Engines\including the
above, can, until mrch Ist, 1909, be fought under
terms of our Extraordinary Special Offers which is by
far the most made in Australia.
Under it any responsible person can get one of the
above Engines by making, the small casm payment of
£4-5-0, and the remaining payments on\terms so easy
that the Engine can more {fan earn before they
fall due.
Write at once for full particulars to
nternational Harvester Company
of America incorporated) I
Roma St.. Brtsoane. 37 Broadway. Sydney. 545 Bourke\St„ Melbourne.
Bank St.. Adelaide. 75 York St.\Launceston.
GEORGE WILLS & CO., Perth.
General Agents for Western Australia.
m
(If).w
m
a
1-H.C
(257
MONEYS
has been described as “ the root of all evil.” \et without
it one cannot accomplish much nowadays.
If you are thinking of improving your property or
increasing your flock, and are hampered by lack of cash,
submit your requirements to us. We make advances in large
or small amounts at current rates of interest, on approved
securities, and will be pleased to carefully consider your
proposals, and let you know promptly whether or no we can
assist you.
Enquiry will cost you nothing.
We supply application forms if required, and have our
own printed forms of security, which can generally be used
in connection with the smaller class of advances, thus
saving expense.
A.M.L.&F. Co
©
Ltd,
(Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co., Ltd.),
Capital ... £4,000,000
Subscribed ... £3,000,000
Paid-Up ... £520,000
Reserve Fund £300,000
Pastoral BanKers,
Wool C£i Produce Salesmen,
Stocß (Si Station Agents, etc.,
Blig'h Street, SYDNEY.
vxv
cxv
- *»-r -j *
• *k i
"'*'* # 'V *%
«r ’ v
«****
V ; -•
■'■’■' -x- ■--
a®
x
K J
Ilf
Iff
yfwlql'
rnr-
fintfi'WinnniintfifiiWmiflnnm
STONES
AND
GRIT
have no terrors for
users of “DONLOPST*
for they do not cut and
chip like other-tyres? but
wear smooth, and take
a long time doing that.
If you want Economy and
Satisfaction you cannot do
better than use
DUNLOPS
PRICE LIST ON APPUCWION.
c
xv
xv
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z,
“ Bloggs ” writes :
As I forecasted (26/11/’O9), G. B. Simpson has been
appointed Acting-Chief Justice. He is due to retire in a
little over a year. It is a fair thing to assume, then,
that heds chair-warming for somebody. For whom ? By
his dark, dogged silence, I fear that it is for Charles
Gregory Wade. If Wade hadn’t decided to grabthe C.J.-
ship, I think—nay, I am sure—that he would have
hastened to fire a hearty “No ” at the re-
porters who have been asking him daily if such
was his intention. None knows better than
Wade that his self-appointment to this billet will
shock the Bar, the Bench and the knowledgable
section of the community. He has hardly any of the
qualities a Chief Justice should have, and almost all the
qualities the holder of that important job shouldn’t
have. His mentality is not of a high order. As a puisne
judge he might pass. He could “ concur ” with his
learned brethren with a certain air of wisdom and dig-
nity. But when he is faced with the task of delivering a
judgment of his own he is likely, unless a special Provi-
dence steps forward and props up his brain, to fall in
with a loud sickening crash or flop. His knowledge of
law seems scant, or else he has had amazingly bad
luck of late years. He was the adviser of the Car-
ruthers Government and presumably advised in the
disastrous wire-netting steal ; and in other legal regards
the Government he advised fell in badly. He has not the
judicial mind. His strength as Deform leader —which
lies in the “ bullocking ” ability of the narrow one-idea’d
man—will be his weakness on the Bench where im-
partiality is a first essential. As against these objections
the Sydney Morning Herald (19/l/’O9) advances one lonely
argument:—
“There may,” it says, “be cogent reasons why he
(Wade) should eventually accept the Chief "Justiceship.
A man’s taste, and ambitions, no less than his desire for
rest, must count for something.”
It amounts in effect to arguing that Wade has the job
within his grip, and that he will be foolish from a per-
sonal point of view if he doesn’t burgle it. And that is
the cheerful summing-up in the matter of the class of
barrister who gets Appeal Court work. The country at
large, which will have to endure Wade, possibly, for two
or three decades in a position for which he is unfitted,
looks at the matter differently. If the outrage does
occur the constituencies should hold"* each individual
member of the Wade Cabinet responsible for it.


Walter Bradley & Co.
* 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have foe Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Plorentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/. per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on 'Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
A SCIENTIFIC FACT
When the Blood is Bad, the
Digestion is Bad.
A Sydney Woman who had
Suffered for Years with In-
digestion, Tells how she
was Cured.
Good, red blood, blood well supplied with oxy-
gen is absolutely necessary to healthy digestion.
Upon the blood depends the proper flow of the
digestive fluids, the activity of the muscles of the
stomach and the assimilation of the digested food.
That is why a debilitated, run-down condition
so often brings on severe indigestion. _
The principle of the tonic treatment for indi-
gestion is that it makes the blood rich and red,
promotes a normal flow of gastric fluids, tones and
strengthens the stomach, and recovery is rapid and
permanent.
This principle was illustated in the case of Mrs.
Andrew Hill, 6 Boundary Street, Redfern,
Sydney, who suffered' agony with indigestion,
until Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured her. A reli-
able reporter called on Mrs. Hill and this is what
she told him:
“ I got very run down by degrees, and then my
stomach got weak. I never fancied my food; I
only eat very little because whatever I swallowed
lodged in my chest like a weight and seemed to
stay there for hours, giving me, a tender feeling
right through to the back. I always felt heavy
and oppressed, as if I couldn’t breathe properly.
I always felt languid and tired all day and the hot
weather affebted me terribly. I took no interest
in anything. I slept badly. Id lie awake for
hours and dose off towards morning, and wake up
fit for nothing. 'For days at a time I’d have head-
aches at the top of my head,, as if something were
hammering and pressing. My mouth had a nasty
taste, especially in the mornings. If I climbed a
hill or walked fast my heart would beat furiously.
I began to get very thin also. I was in a miser-
able state when I depided to try Dr. Williams
Pink Pills and they did me good from the first.
After only a few doses I felt brighter and a little
stronger, and,the food seemed to have a relish.
Before that box was finished I was greatly changed
for the better. I got a second box and found my
headaches going and I began to sleep soundly and
my energy came back. Now my health is very
good.” , „
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for any com-
plaint that a supply of rich, red blood is good for,
but one needs to be.careful to get the genuine, as
substitutes sometimes offered are useless, ihev
are sold by most chemists and storekeepers, price
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., or if they can-
not be obtained locally will-be sent post free on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
This Elastic Truss
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
„ the required pressure without
* russ the discomfort of springs.
Single, 17/6 We make all kinds of Trusses
Double, 22/6 and have experienced fitters.
OENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria’s new Coalition Government is
expected to grasp the necessity of a graduated
land-tax some time during the next decade. It
has already considered it as a subject of some im-
portance, for not only has something called
“effective land legislation ” been proposed by the
Liberal section of the Cabinet, but the new Lands
Minister, McKenzie, has been definitely requested
to visit Maoriland, in order to study the operation
and effect of the various land laws in Joseph
Ward’s island.
Back up a sewer and you will poison the
whole neighborhood, clog up the liver and bowels
and your system is full of undigested food, which
sours and ferments—this means indigestion,
headache, bad breath, yellow skin and everything
that is horrible. Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets quickly stop fermentatation in the
stomach, and they make the liver lively, tone up
the bowels and set the whole machinery going.*
The Maoriland Government has been re-
constructed, and some more of the old Seddonites
have been dropped out. A Maoriland Cabinet is
a weird thing. For instance, Jimmy Carroll is
Minister for Stamps and Deeds ; J. A. Millar is
Minister in charge of Machinery Department;
G. Fowlds is Minister in charge of Mental Hos-
pitals ; and T, MacKenzie is Minister in charge
of Scenery. Of course they have other portfolios
as well, quite a heap of them. Almost anything
is large enough to make a portfolio out of in
Maoriland. That place may yet have a Minister
for Back Doors and Yards.
“Quidnunc”: Apropos Sydney Tele-
graph’s NiS.W. Chief-Justice cartoon (13/l/’O9),
a new word has sprouted throughout the length
and breadth of Ma State in recent weeks—viz.,
“to wade,” signifying “ to seriously consider col-
laring a job for which you are absolutely un-
fitted.” And so does our grand old tongue expand
tirelessly day by day.
A correspondent of London Times called
on Thomas A. Edison in his laboratory the other
day, and the great inventor let his experiments
slide for a few moments whilst he made some re-
marks about the British working man. Ac-
cording to Edison, the British mechanic is as
good as any in the world, but the un-
skilled laborer is an almost hopeless propo-
sition. The Tr M ® s correspondent rushed in
heavily where a Freetrade angel would not have
flown ; he asked for reasons. Edison gave them
to him in this wise : “You have lost so many of
your industries that you have apparently an army
of people who either won’t work or can't work.
Placing the skilled American working man at 90
percent., your unskilled laborers are not 30 per
cent, in working value. They are not equal to
the Greeks whom I employ, or . even to the
Southern Italians. I ascribe the causes to too
much Freetrade or too much alcohol.” There
have been many hard things said about Cobden’s
hallucination, and Edison’s remark adds another
rock to the cairn above its resting place.
It wasn’t for fun that Bent fixed the Vic-
torian general election for the middle of the
Christmas holidays, instead of waiting till a day
or two of the New Year had passed, as he might
well have done. Now that the postal votes have
been sorted out, it is found that 75 per cent, of
them were in favor of Fat candidates ; and it is
remembered that the Postal Voting Act expired
on December 31, 1908. Bent had calculated all
right; he knew that the postal votes would help
his crowd ; so he carefully fixed the elections so as
to get the advantage of them. Considering the
busted one’s knowledge of the game, and that his
lot wasn’t above playing with loaded dice, Vic-
toria’s answer was really remarkable.
The Argus endorses George Reid’s Wes-
tralian outcry in favor of an energetic borrowing
policy, and thinks intelligent electors will support
“the Reid ticket.”
They asked him for his policy,
This man of fat and legal lore.
Alas ! his ticket proved to be
A pawnshop ticket —nothing more.
Britain is learning things by reason of its
Old Age Pensions law. Only stone-broke people
over 70 are qualified for the dole, and it was
thought that 500,000 would apply. On December
4, with nearly a whole month still available for
receipt of applications, 653,000 had applied. In
Ireland it was roughly guessed that the whole
number of persons aged over 70 was 184,000, yet
on December 4 there were 193,138 applications in
from persons who alleged that they were not only
aged over 70, but hungry to boot; and applica-
tions Were still arriving. These figures are giving
the British O.A.P. Department the tired feeling.
JOAN OF SYDNEY.
Mistaking the promptings of her own imagination for
heavenly voices, the inspired maid at length recognised in
her own fancies a supernatural agency, investing her
with a mission. —Matter of History.
Tasmania’s Apple Isle is to have a State
election shortly, and local Premier Jacky Evans
has made this announcement
It is necessary in the interests of Home Rule to keep
the State Parliament as strong as possible in order to
fight the Federal authorities.
It is interesting to note that Jacky Evans’ idea of
his duty as a State insect is to fight against Aus-
tralia. Nobody has any large opinions of Jacky
Evans’ fighting capacity ; in such a case he rather
suggests a caterpillar shoving against ah elephant.
Still.the bad intentions are all there.
“ I shall never be healthy,” said Leah.
“ Stuff and nonsense,” said ma ; “the idea!
For your ills, which seem chronic,
You’ll find pills Laxo-Tonic
A never failing and safe panacea.”
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
* Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial how
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
Bee that you do hot miss “ The Commonwealth
I Crisis.”*
Fixing capital sites has always been a diffi-
culty in Australia. Even after Sydney Cove dis-
placed Botany Bay there were regrets that the
banks of the Hawkesbury had not been chosen.
Only that so many buildings were up about the
Cove when the Hawkesbury was discovered the
capital would have been shifted to its banks.
Collins abandoned Port Phillip and fixed on the
Derwent shore in Tasmania as the site of his new
capital. So long continued and bitter was the
feud over the site of S.A.’s capital that the British
Government recalled one Governor and sent out
another with instructions to plant the metropolis
on the present site of Adelaide and blow the
consequences.
“ J.G.” : The moth-eaten old marriage-
tie lie was trotted out at the late Vic. elec-
tions with the object of downing Labor. But
the lie appears to be getting very shaky
on its pins. H. R. Williams exploited it
in the Eaglehawk electorate against Tom
Tunnecliffe, so that Tunnecliffe was moved
to reply that Williams was a “liar,” and
to add that whether he (Tunnecliffe) won
the fight or lost it he would refuse to shake
hands with his detractor. The electors
passed a vote of want of confidence in H.
R. Williams’s yarn, by bumping out that
loud-spoken person with severity. Anti-Sosh
seems in a bad way in Vic. just now. The
marriage tie untruth won’t work properly,
and to make matters worse, sectarianism,
which used to be a useful weapon, has
taken to going off at the wrong end and
laying out Anti-Soshers instead of the people
aimed at.
“ Tapir ” : In 1900, the last year before
Federation, the bank clearances of Sydney
were £144,000,000, while those of Melbourne
were £160,000,000. Yet Sydney is the outlet for a
State four times larger than Victoria, and an
older and more fertile State to boot; and it was
supposed in 1900 to have the “inestimable
blessing of Freetrade.” Now, N.S.W. having got
rid of the curse of even partial Freetrade, it asserts
its natural position as the boss financial centre,
and in 1908 its bank clearances were £228,000,000
against Melbourne’s £221,000,000.
According to the International Review
the Jap is doing curious things in Uncle Sam’s
colony of Hawaii. There are 60,000 male Jap
laborers of an age to bear arms in Hawaii, and
only 12,000 whites. Of these peaceful Jappy
laborers it is reported :
The Customs examination of their luggage showed that
almost all had brought their uniforms and many their
arms, though ostensibly only as mementoes of war.
Orders, sabres, and quick-firing guns were found carefully
hidden beneath other articles. Moreover, the plantation
workers were organising school battalions for the younger
men, and shooting practice for the older men, though
under guise of sport and social amusements. Since their
work occupied them during the day, they performed
these exercises during the night, and carried out complete
military manoeuvres by moonlight.
It suggests that Mild Brown Brother is preparing
some excitement for Uncle Samuel in the Kanaka
Isles.
In an article comparing Australia and
Maoriland, from a farming poin't of view, Mel-
bourne Argus came to the conclusion that there is
not much difference between the Dominion and
the Commonwealth. Then it added :
There is evidently room in both countries for more
activity in the increase of settlers.
The Argus has been sayipg this sort of thing quite
often lately; but when anyone Comes along with
a suggestion for a solid progressive land-tax, the
old party waves her brolly in an excited manner,
and screams that this isn’t the time for hasty
legislation.
“ G. L. B. Trotter” : It is a comparatively
small thing to note that Japan Js driving the P.
and O. Company out of the China seas,
for the P. and 0. has lots of business
elsewhere. The more serious point is
the Jap steamboat victory over America.
As I write there are five large and
efficient American ocean steamships laid
up idle in San Francisco Bay, and there
they have been from six to 18 months.
Hill, the great steamer and railroad
magnate, was asked lately : “ What are
your vessels carrying to Japan?” He
replied : “ Air.” His mammoth steamer
Dakota lies a mass of rusty steel on a
Japanese reef. ‘‘Best place, too,” says
Hill. Shipwrights in Japan average
16d. a day; in America they average
16s. All hands, from top to bottom, on
a Jap steamer are paid at one-third
the cost of an American steamboat’s
hands. The Jap crew is fed at very
much less than one-third the cost of the
American. Further, Pacific coast' capi-
talists have to compete with the Suez
route in the transport of Eastern Ameri-
can produCts and manufactures to Japan
and China, These Eastern transport
interests prevent legislation which
might benefit the West. The only
hope lies in a vast extension of western
manufacturing, which would save the
railway transit. I think the Panama
Canal, which is to open in 1915, will
be a great disaster for San Francisco,
rather than a benefit ,as expected. It
will be like Vasco da Gama’s opening
of the Cape route, which destroyed
Venice. It will turn the flank of the
IBS. Pacific railroads, sea carriage being
so much cheaper than carriage by land.
A, W.Meeks, M.L.C. (of N.S.W.),
. in the S. M. Herald (15/l/’O9), on the
man whom the Herald renresented at
the last Federal elections as a favorer of home-
bursting, confiscation, and other revolutionary
evils: —
There is no doubt that the visits of some Australian
public men to England have done a great amount of good.
Particularly I found on all sides that the able speeches of
Mr. Deakin when he visited the cbnference had had a
most marked effect. It is extraordinary how Mr.
Deakin has affected the English-people. Jle was the only
one I heard so strongly mentioned. But of him I heard
not from one side in politics, but from both, and from
men in very high positions in politics. There is no doubt
the visits of such men do an immense amount of good.
Mrs.' George Rimes, Simpson’s Road,
Eaglehawk, Vic., writes : “ Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy is the best remedy
I know for the treatment of all bowel troubles.
My husband once had occasion to use it and it
worked such wonders in his case that now he
would not think of being without a bottle in the
house.”*
Bananaland, which celebrates its Jubilee
this year, began its borrowing extravagance before
it got rid of its swaddling clothes. Governor
Bowen used to boast that his first Government,
with his 27-year-old private secretary Herbert as
Premier, started business with 7d. in the Trea-
sury, and that by the end of the first year it had
spent about £3OOO more than the revenue received.
That baby shortage was the beginning of the
£42,000,000 of debt now on Cohen’s books. The
other appointed members of the first Government
were Ratcliffe Pring (Attorney-General) and
Robert Ramsay Mackenzie (Treasurer). The
House of Fossils numbered 11—all representatives
of squatterdom.
EASIER SAID THAN DONE.
Gregory Wade is coming out in his true colors. Inter-
viewed in Adelaide on the Broken Hill trouble he said it
was entirely a matter for the Commonwealth.
WADE (to Fisher): “Yes, I lit it. Now it’s
your turn to put it out.”
It is alleged that, though the importation
of wheat bags built to hold more than 2001 b. ia
prohibited, bloated monstrosities like caves, cal-
culated to hold 3601 b. each, are not only manu-
factured here but are allowed to be used for the
export of wheat. If that is so the Australian
Government is grievously neglecting its duty. It
can’t prevent these bulgy horrors being made, or
carried by rail, or used in internal commerce ; but
it can prohibit their export as well as their im-
port, and it should fall on the cavernous bag with
all the powers at its disposal. The State Govern-
ments could stop the internal trade in the 3601 b.
infamy, but it seems hardly worth while expect-
ing a State Government to have either sense or
decency.
I HEAR AUSTRALIA SINGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hear Australia singing—hear her voice at night and
morning ;
Have ye heard it, O my brothers, sounding clear and glad
and free ?
’Tis her singing soul that beckons to her children—hark !
in warning,
Lo, she bids us up and labor for this white land’s liberty !
Hear her song, O far-off toilers, hear her cry for stalwart
fighters—
Men whose arms shall guard Australia when the Asian
cohorts come ;
Are ye laggards, are ye careless—up !to arms, ye stern-
eyed smiters,
For Australia’s Voice is calling and she beats her battle-
drum !
In the cane-brake, by the mine top—where the stampers
crash and thunder,
Where the anvils roar, O hear it—hear our proud Aus-
tralia’s song :
“ Are ye marching with me, children ; shall the White
Man’s cause go under ?
Up and guard me from the danger ; ye have tarried over-
long !
I have bred you in my Bushland. I have strained you to
my bosom—
Now I need your strength to save ms from the foreign
legions brown ;
Launch your ships, O White Australians ! What I—on
fields of carnage gruesome
Shall my Flag at last be lowered, and the White Man’s
cause go down ?
“ Children all, I call you homeward from the lands
beyond the Leeuwin
Gall you back to fight my battles and to man my ships at
sea ;
Shall the land that bred and bore you drift all helpless'y
to ruin ?
Home! Australians; Home! I need you—shall ye turn
your backs on Me?
Sons and daughters I have nurtured, children dear whom
I have cherished,
Shall I call in vain for fighters—men to serve my smoking
guns ?
Nay, I know your hearts are loyal. Other lands have
passed and perished,
But your bones shall be my bulwark’gainst the grim,
flotilla’d Huns !
“ Far my sons have wandered forthward—round the
world’s wide rim they’re scattered,
They are driving ships and engines from Cape York to
Ecuador;
But their hearts will steer them homeward, lest they see
the Home-land shattered—
Lest they see their bleeding mother reel beneath the
storms of war.
At my knee they learnt to love me, and I know they’re
not forgotten—
Nay, they’ll heed the tender Mother who is calling from
the South ;
And when Asia sends her legions—when the roaring guns
are shotten,
Lo, my sons shall come and kiss me—kiss me bravely on
the mouth !
“ Nay, my children, ye are faithful; ye shall save your
’leaguered Mother —
Ye shall march as marched the Grecians in the noble days
of yore ;
Ye, my sons, shall gather round me, owning service to
none other,
And in vain the Ape may batter at my strong, fast-bolted
door !
Ohildren dear, your arms around me ! Let me feel your
lips upon me—
Let me see my sons all bearded standing at their mother’s
side ;
When the Monkey’s fleets are roaring—wjien his blows
are beating on me,
Ye shall bear my shining standard—ye shall be my living
pride ! ”
I hear Australia singing—hear Her voice at night and
morning ;
Have ye heard it, too, my brothers, ringing far o’er land
and sea .*
'Tis Australia’s soul that beckons —hark! again in
solemn warning
Rolls her song athwart our country—sacred Song
Liberty !
Heed her song, 0 strong-thewed toilers ; heed her cry for
stalwart ’ lighters—
Ye must guard her, ye must save her when the Monkey
cohorts come ;
Are ye listening, are ye moving l Up 1 to arms, ye stern-
eyed smiters,
For Australia’s Heart is singing and she beats her
Battle-Drum !
VIC.
GRANT HKRVRY.


The BECHSTEIN Pianos
—MBB— M— a«a
Were first introduced to the British Public in 1862 at the
Great International Exhibition, where they received the
highest award. Since then their reputation has become
world-wide. To-day they. hold undisputed the position of
The Standard Pianofortes of the World.
GRIEG writes of the Bechstein Piano: “My enthusiasm for your productions in the art of Pianoforte making
has ever been far too great for it possibly to be increased.”
SAINT=SAENS writes : “ It affords me great pleasure to play on your admirable Pianos, as their splendid tone
and delicate touch are so well adapted to express the refinements of modern music.”
LEONCAVALLO writes: “Your instruments are perfection itself; 1 only wish 1 could compose works worthy
of such instruments.”
VLADIMIR DE PACHMANN writes: “To me it is the height of joy to play on these instruments.
Then alone can I become one with the piano, and revel in pure music and poetry. The beauty of tone
of a Bechstein Piano I can only compare with that of a Stradivarius String Quartet.
JOSEF HOFMANN writes: “The Bechstein Piano possesses greater poetry of tone, and resembles the
human voice more than any other instrument. It is the realisation of my ideal of a Piano, and the only
one on which I can express all I feel.”
CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST FREE ON APPLICATION.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney,
and at Brisbane and Newcastle.
Ready-to-wear COSTUMES
j at Reduced Prices.
You can return Ready-Made Goods
If not to your liking.
1
r
»
n
Sr--
.
S-St;
umit
V',
%
mm
mm
Mimi,
I
White Unlined Muslin Costume, as sketch, Net Yoke
and Strappings. Price 25/-. Altered to fit, 4/6 more.
Unlined Spotted Muslin Costume, in White, with
Dark Spots, also in a few pale colors, 27/6.
Altered to fit, 4/6 more.
SEND MEASURES ONLY.
Bucßley & Nunn, Limited,
500-310 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
f CEE! Snap This!
1
m
With each Suit ordered
this month we will give
AN EXTRA (Fancy)
VEST,
Fresh and Fashionable.
Stylish SUITS to Measure,
505., 635., 705., 755., 84s.
FAULTLESS FASHION, FIT and FINISH.
Fill in and forward this Coupon for Patterns
of our Latest Suitings, mailed Free.
“Bulletin,” 21/l/’O9.
Please post Patterns to
Name -..—
Address .—.... ......
With all Suits ordered before the end of this month an extra (Fancy) Vest will be included.
F. J. PALMER & Son
The Tailors you’ve heard of,
CORNER of PITT and
PARK STREETS,
SYDNEY
And at GEORGE ST.
HAYMARKET.


OPEN
FACE,
HIGHER
GRADE
12/6.
15/
/
S'
m
X
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face Keyless
WATCHES, Splendid Timekeepers,
Extra Strong Short-wind movement.
12/6-
Higher Grade, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
SHOP BY MAIL
“CITY PRICES” straight to you in your own home without the expense of a
trip to the city. Our Up to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT can supply
you as easily and advantageously as if you were a resident of Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to-day for a copy or our 304-page
Illustrated Catalogue. It will help you in
making your Xmas selection. Sent Post Free
to any address.
SHOPPING BY POST.
No matter where you live, you can rely on
our up-to-date Mail Order Dept, to serve you
promptly and satisfactorily. All goods sent
carriage free to any address.
A. • SAUNDERS.
[sct. Gold Shamrock Leaf
BROOCH, set with fine
White Pearls and Sap-
phire or Turquoise,
£4/10/-.
Pearls and Dia-
monds, £B/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Extra
Strong Safety Chain,
Smaller, £2/5/. ' Larger, £3/5/, £3/10/.
Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/, according to size.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon Circle
BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/--
SOLID
SOLID
GOLD,
SILVER
25/
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance,
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5/10/. Guaran-
teed 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Dog and
Kennel CHARM,
7/6.
9ct. Gold, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 12/f»-
15ct. Gold, 20/.
m
tag
23
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX, Richly Hand
Engraved, (>/0-
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Smaller, 4/6, 5/6.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold •Scroll BROOCH,, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Southern Gross” BROOCTI,
Set Red, Rlue, and Green Stones,
12/6.
Without Map of Australia, 12/6.
15et Gold, set with Tourmalines, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £*£.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mouse
and Candlestick
CHARM, 7/6-
M
A. SAUNDERS.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, Silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns, ?>/(».
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold-filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, SO/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/7/6; loct.. Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
PENDANT,
set Bloodstone
and Sardonyx,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire, ■
£ 10-
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, 25 /-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby, and Sapphire, 22/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Goid Slipper
Lace Pin, 4/6-
Larger, 5/6, 7/6.
In Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, 7/(»-
Smaller, 6/6. Larger, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Rea] Amber Stem, Solid
Silver Mounts and Screw, Straight or Bent
Stem, IJJ/G.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Thistle
CHARM, Ame-
thyst Thistles,
12/G.
ALL GOODS SENT POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold PENDANT and NECK-
LET, set fine Pearls and Ame-
thysts, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Rustic Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set fine Pearls and Ruby <
Sapphire, with Extra Strong Safety Chain attached,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/
Smaller, 7/6.
’ - - :
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather,
nicely fitted Pure Silver Mounts and Lock
10/6.
Other styles, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, # 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A .SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot, £‘2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe and Whip
SCARF PIN, 7/6-
Larger, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather,
nicely finished, 5/6-
In Seal Leather, 6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/S, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap-
phire, 8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
let. Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12/6-
15et. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
„, , A. SAUNDKRS.
Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl
and Sprays, 20/-.
A. S.AU AUERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20/-.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
l--t. Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Rubies ana Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/-.
For pierced or un-
pierced ears.
A. SmJNDEUS.
9ct. Gold “Good Wishes” Bar and
Heart BROOCH, 10/6-
loot. Gold, 25/.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
% I?
N
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
Engine-turned Cases, f-Plate Lever movement, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance, £2-.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £l/10/, £5/10/,
£6. In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l3,
£2O, to £5O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double Cut Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand-Clasp
RING, 25/--
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EAR-
RINC.7, set with
Tourmalines, £2.
For pierced or
unpierced ears.
Other Styles, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Chain PURSE, Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, White Metal
Chain, 8/6-
Other styles, with Silver Chains,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 21/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct.
Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS, 17/6-
15ct. Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS-
9ct. Gold Enve-
lope CHARM,
12/6
Any name en-
graved free.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


ItnivW(luilll*l7llulvv/iillLl!iiVinil)2UlTl)ii?iiii/r//iJUkiuiuiiiiunur/iiißiJ!f«t]iJiii]u'Aa»iiiTiiir/iniwjiiiiHnn!uiiriifiiiiiiif/'iniiiiiirtiiUiiiUM r i/iilUfiliilllIUI)l)II)/illlllf
N
LSI
O
n
a
m#
©
P
y
a
V./
to
&
W
U)
fSS3
=S3
yy
I^3BB
11C;
LLu
H
i '
1
lTnmimi»'»
2
Q
32:
E
9
liiin\\iiiKiii\uiviiiiiill[(ifii(iiviiiivr7i]iii«ii
FOR FULD
OP" '
ALD


AUSTRALIAN
MEDICAL
HOUSEHOLD
LIBRARY.
Before the Doctor comes!
If no Doctor is near !!
f
To prevent Illness and Doctors* Visits!!!
In those three phrases can be summed up the reasons why THE BULLETIN has decided to offer to its readers an
Australian Household Medical Library.
Very many Australian homes are so far from settlement that there must be always great delay, in case of accident or
illness, before a doctor can be summoned.
Many Australian homes are entirely out of the reach of medical aid, and are left without medical help in case of trouble.
All Australian homes should aspire to rear healthy children and to keep the adult members of the household healthy by
careful attention to diet and to other rules of good living.
So, THE BULLETIN makes this special offer to its readers, and its readers only. It will send for £3, post free,
a complete Medical Library of four volumes written for Australasia by a prominent Australian Physician. It is a unique,
because Australasian, Medical Library.
THE ILLUSTRATED AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL GUIDE (2 vols.)
containing 130 drawings, several colored plates and a mannequin—together with a fully illustrated private and
separate section for women, over 1000 pages, bound half morocco, stiff board, gilt lettered* Published at £3 3s.
THE ATTAINMENT OF HEALTH and THE TREATMENT OF DIFFERENT DISEASES BY MEANS OF DIET,
678 pages, 4 drawings, bound in cloth, stiff board, red lettered. Published at 10s. 6d.
THE FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT OF AUSTRALIAN INFANTS IN HEALTH AND DISEASE,
340 pages, stiff boards. Published at 2s. 6d.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
nr 60 SHILLINGS.
In the bush these books will save many lives. In the city they will help to avoid much trouble.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
1909.
To the Manager, THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
I
The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide, 2 Vo Is. ... £3 3
The Attainment of Health ... ... ... ... O 10
The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ... O 2
Postage ... ... 0 5
£4 1
remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which you undertake to forward the above works complete, carefully packed,
and'post free. I am, yours etc.,
O
6
6
O
O
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name —
A ddress


çxv
McLEAN’S SPECIAL GUN, £6 10s. J &
“ PREMIER ” D.8.8.L., Gross-Bolt, 30in. Twist Barrels, Left
Choke, Right Cylinder, Engine-turned Rib, Solid Strikers,
Bar Locks, Half Pistol Hand, Snap Fore-end, 12 Gauge,
£6 10s. Write for our new Gun and Ammunition Catalogue.
McLEAN BROS. & RIOG PTY. LTD.,
(Under direction of Thomas Luxton & Sons),
147-149 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Materials.
Hip
m
53
xolessor Howard s^/5:
principal insect,
ageivi irtlKe spread ol
TypKoid islhe common
kouse fly ";
IMoSQUiioes Are
known lo dis»lifibule
disease fflerms bur
IKe kouse ily is
-ed by Tnedical scier\-
-tists as line most-„
deadly enemy ol
Kv/mavdfy. "
— —~
If
I *V \
m
%
0/<s><Bx< \ t. *
J/5
r v
n o
0 0
“ INSECTICIDE "
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER
A Woman’s Vote —Result
When our Australian women exercise the
franchise, it is a foregone conclusion that
the women’s vote will be on the side of
progress —quality and not quantity of mem-
bers. We see it in everyday life—there
are three women to-day using Sunlight
Soap for laundry and housework to one
using any other soap in the world. Why?
Because women quickly recognise quality,
and the progress effected by the Sunlight
way of washing described on the cardbox ot
every tablet Try Sunlight Soap next wash
day and you will vote there is nothing better.
STANDARD BRICK MACHINE
cx
Makes Twenty
Concrete Bricks
One Operation.
Three men
make 5000 per
day. Make
your Bricks
on the job.
Write for
particulars.
J. J. STEELE,
Sola Agent,
104 Gastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IF YOU LOVE YOUR WIFE YOU WILL
. . . MAKE HER A .. .
FIRELESS COOKER
ANYONE CAN HAKE XT.
xvc
Saves 80 Per Cent
of Fuel.
Saves Half the Cook’s
Labor.
NO HEAT. NO SMELL.
NO TROUBLE.
NO SPOILT FOOD.
NO DANGER.
Makes Tough
Meat Tender.
Preserves the
Goodness and
Flavor.
The Fireless Cooker
is new to Australia,
hut it has been adopt-
ed by the German and
Americans armies, so
there can be no doubt
about it* efficiency.
Stew placed over-
night in the Cooker
can be dished up, hot
and appetising, for
breakfast the next morning without ««.«
fire or fuel of any kind. This seems impossible, hut it is a
tact. The cook may take half-a-day off and yet have a well-
cooked dinner ready on time. The Cooker emits no heat,
and no smell of cooking. It cannot spoil or
burn the food. It is just the thin? for the summer and indis-
pensable in the winter. Send HALF-A-CROWN for
Complete Drawings and full printed Direc-
tions for making a Fireless Cooker. So easy
and simple any intelligent boy can do it. You have
most of the necessary materials about the house, and the
total cost of a good-sized Cooker will be less than 55.,
rhat will be saved the first week it is used. We supply with
the Directions connuehensive Hints and Suggestions
for the use of the Fireless Cooker and a number of suitable
Tested Recipes. Obtainable only from the
J NION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPARY
will appear in the Romantic Opera,
THE DUCHESS OE DANTZIC
Prices as Usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, sy dne y.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT DRAMATIC SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
A Play of Singular Power and Pathos,
THE BREED OF THE TRESHAMS.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as LIEUTENANT RERESBY
(Known as “ The Rat ”).
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
SIGNAL SUCCESS
of the Latest Wide-World Dramatic Hit,
THE BROKEN HOME.
Presented by the Full and Exceptionally Powerful Cast of
EDWIN GEACH’S PREMIER DRAMATIC COMPANY.
3s 2s. & Is. POPULAR PRICES. Is., 25.. & 3s.
Geo. Marlow, Manager.
CR TT ERI O N T H EAT RE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: Mr. FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager : Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
UNANIMOUS APPROBATION Achieved by
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, Headed by the Talented Australian
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in the Grand
Production of William Bourne’s Famous Masterpiece,
MAN TO MAN.
Plan at Elvy’s.
JHE
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES —2s. 6d., Is. (id., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling s.
yH E GLA C I ARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
“Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is, & 6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, & 2s.
y IVOLI THE A T RE,
i» wi>i f aVDIMEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rick ards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of LAWSON and NAMON.
AMALIA and LEONORA, Continental Equilibrists.
CRISTOEOLO, Equilibrist Juggler. i
lIACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS Vocal Quartette.
juODFELLOW <& GREGSON. MR. ARTHUR HARRIS.
Ur WILL HAINES. MISS NELLIE MAUN.SELL.
MR. CHARLES FANING,
CHARLOTTA and FANING and FANING. . >
l> 1 uCES—-35., 25., and Is. Plan ai Paling s.
A HOUS E, MELaO U R N E.
U? Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TOMMY BURNS in Boxing and Training Displays.
J. W. RICKABY, Character Burlesque Comedian.
THE BAUVARDS, Eccentric Comedians.
THE BATON AS, American Vaudeville Artists.
GEOFFREYS and BENSON, Sketch Artists.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
»lan at Allan’s. PRICES-3S, 2s 6d, 2s. Is.
Her maj esty’s theatre, a/ie-bourna
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WilliaMSOK.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. J. O. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
last includes BERT GILBERT STELLA GASTEI.LI..
i’ANNY DANGO, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHIM.,
and VICTOR LOY DALL.
iox Plan at Allan’s. I>r,ces as ««“'•
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, ..ANUARY 23,
.eappearance of MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS
FRANCES ROSS, supported by Specially Selected
Dramatic Organisation, in
SAILOR JACK,
Written by Mr. Walter Baker.
Popular Prices. pla " at Allan s -
EAT R E ROYAL, MELBOU R IM E
ORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST,
ces—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. £[ an at AIIan ’ s '
fIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
r PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
DNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
EST’S PICTURES THE b o^ s lll.
all THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week,
r Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEBI b
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
>ULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen s.
HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
;RY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturday.
J.tNTAIT’S
PICTURES.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
Missing Friends.
ADDOX, formerly book-keeper Pullitop
m Station. Anyone knowing address com-
municate immediately Grant McKenzie, care
E. P. Carter, 45 Bridge Road, Melbourne.
IF ALFRED ERNEST LAWLOR (known
also as Lawson), last address Orange, will
communicate with the Trustees, Executors ancj
Agency Co. Ltd., 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
he will hear of something to his advantage.
WALTER SCHRAMM, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate
with V. SCHRAMM, Doncaster, Victoria.
Father dead.
“Viator”: The “Merry Widow” waltz has poisoned
the whole continent. I talked the other day with a man
fresh from the wilds. In the first pause, he gently
whistled the “ Merry Widow.” It spreads like phylloxera.
When I saw Carrie Big-wood crouching along backwards,
while Higginson breathed great thoughts into her hair, I
said : “ What an infernally disagreeable thing !” as the so-
called valse broke upon the public. It is distinctly bad,
touching the electric chain with which we’re darkly
bound in the lower bowels of Nature, tending to pravity.
How immeasurably inferior to a hundred other waltzes,
such as the “ Blue Danube” and “ Estudiantina. But
somehow it catches the Marconi waves. We are seized
with the fascination of clay-eating. When the parson is
preaching his sermon there surges up the “ Too-dle
00-dle.” Tiik Bulletin leaderist is fulminating one of
those sledgehammer smashes on the Australian capital.
“Too-dle 00-dle.” The bride is standing at the altar.
“ Too-dle 00-dle.” Oh, the cursed thing is as nauseous as
the scaly back of an alligator emerging from the mud of
the Norman River. It’s a Pharaoh’s serpent, yet it will
become as extinct as “ Whoa, Emma.” When people hear it
they' will take up ’arf a brick to ’eave, as now with the
“Soldiers’Chorus” in “Faust.”
Franz Lehar’s successor to “The Merry Widow” is
called “ The Tzigane ” (which is a kind of singing gipsy).
It is said to have a finer musical score than the “ Widow.”
This is not, in the nature of things, impossible. Anyway,
its world-wide boom is assured, and after that it will be
easier to “ place ” Lehar as a composer with a steady
job or the fortunate hero of one gigantic fluke.
Nat Goodwin has lost no time in re-marrying after his
divorce from the handsome Maxine Elliot. Miss Edna
Goodrich is the new Mrs. Nat —and the fourth one, says
the New York Dramatic Mirror,
The Play Actors, a London society which seems to have
a steady craving for the Dubious, has been reviving
Beaumont and Fletcher’s gloomy piece, “The Maid’s
Tragedy.” This was prohibited in the not-too-particular
time of Charles 11., on the ground (said a lumbering cynic
of the period) that “ arepenting mistress, in a romantic re-
venge of her dishonor, killing the king on the very bed he
expected her to come to, was showing a too dangerous
example to the heroines then shining at Court, who,
if eyer their consciences should run equally mad,
might have had frequent opportunities of putting the ex-
piation of their frailties into the like execution.”
“ Kodak ” : One thing about the bellowdrama that
gives me great joy is the way the villain seizes the she-
fiend’s rounded forearm when he wants to hiss in her ear.
“ Listen ! ” he commands, striding- over and grabbing her
tightly half-w'ay between the wrist and the elbow, “ I
have a plan! ” She totters forward a step, looks fear-
fully into his sneering face, throws a nervous glance
over her beautiful bare shoulder at her beautiful
bare spine, and brings her eyes back to his.
“Yes,” she whispers, “what is it?” He tells her
his scheme in a whisper that is louder than an
ordinary shout. “To-night, after dinner, ask him to
walk with you as far as the bridge. When you get to the
willows, ask him once more to give you the pap-ahs ! If
he agrees, well and good ; you can then return to the
house. If he refuses, pretend to get angry, quarrel with
him, and scream!” (A dreadful pause.) “But why
should I screaml ” she pants. “ Because I and thirty-five
others will see that your scream is answered. ENOUGH ! ”
And with that he flings her arm from him as if it were an
old bag or a broken telephone-receiver, and the sbe-fiend
nearly falls flat on her beautiful powdered back.
He was a Very Distinguished Violinist, with a name
you could pronounce three different ways, and he hated
giving encores. His reluctance in this regard had
lpoved his manager to curse behind town-hall organs
in five continents. He was a hard star to drive at any
time, but something happened one evening that nearly
made him back out of the musical heavens. It was
a vice-regal night, and the hall was filled with rank and
fashion—all except one chair in the front row, which was
filled with a sunburnt Man from the Bush. How the
Man from the Bush managed to arrive at a guinea seat at
such a show isn’t clear, but the supposition is that he
paid. He listened intelligently, applauded liberally, and
seemed to enjoy himself till after the second-last number,
when the Distinguished One’s very evident reluctance
to respond to the applause seemed to sour his
enthusiasm and make him angry. “Encore! Encore!”
he shouted, stamping vigorously on the polished floor and
making a tremendous noise. “ Come on ! Encore ! ”
The Distinguished One stood bowing ungraciously at the
back of the stage, but didn’t advance. The bushman
kept on clapping with the crowd for a few seconds ; then,
with an angry exclamation, thrust his hand into his
pocket and, pulling out a half-crown, cast it on the plat-
form. “Play, you fiddler!” he roared, shamelessly ; “if
you won’t play for love, play for money ! ” History
records that the Distinguished One that night smashed
his priceless genuine Strad, valued at Is. lid.
“Star”: In one medley co. performing in Christmas
musical burlesque in an Australian capital, several of the
principals are muon admired for their undeviating fru-
. gality ; but one prominent female member is genial and
kindly, and was liberal with Christmas gifts. This fired
the blood of another conspicuous comedienne of notori-
ous nearness, and before Boxing Day rehearsal she sent
for a little girl who had been assisting her in one of her
songs. The youngster was not very well, and there was
some fear that she might not be able to appear on Boxing
night. The hands, the auxiliaries and the small fry, hear-
ing of the summons, crowded round in anticipation. The
youngster duly reappeared, and was captured by the
chorus and the ballet. “Did she give you anything?”
yplled the girls. The little girl nodded. “Show us!
Show us !” screamed the unbelieving ballet. “ I can’t,”
replied the youngster, “ I swallered ’em.” The grateful
comedienne had given her small assistant two pills !
“Vic.”: Have been looking up chronicles of the Vic-
torian goldfields theatres. In 1852, and onward, the Monte-
zuma and Charlie Napier, at Ballarat, prospered. Bendigo
got its Lyceum, etc., with Billy Heffernan’s immortal (if
the comp, sets this “immoral” I’ll knock him into pie)
Shamrock Concert Hall, where Richmond Thatcher
luxuriated. The most favorite goldfields’ actresses were
Kate O’Reilly and Kate Warde. Highly popular dramas
were “The Flowers of the Forest” and “The Green
Bushes.” Castlemaine, Inglewood, and Maryborough were
good dramatic shops too. Geelong came well into circuit
with its Theatre Royal, afterwards a brewery and then
a Salvation Army Barracks. Vinson managed there a
good while. He was guardian to Anna Maria Quinn, the
child-accress, who married Billy O’Neil the First. Shear-
croft, H. N. Warner, Con Warde, Stuart O’Brien, and R.
W. Lawrence were favorite leading men on the goldfields
round. Is J. P. West yet extant? He and W. Ryan
could a tale unfold. Miss Herbert and Miss Fiddes were
popular. Well-known actors were L. J. Sefton, Burford,
D. Murray, Leslie, Gordon, F. Webster, S. Webster, Mun-
gall, Graham, L. McGowan, R. McGowan, Charley Miran,
and Joe Rayner. The low comedians included R. W.
Dale and tiny Joe Dias. Josh Heawood is still on deck.
Greville went at once on top in comedy. Very remark-
able were Hoskins’s Shakspearian productions at Balla-
rat, such as “The Tempest.” Brooke was a delirium
around the gold country in 1855-6.
The first pantomime produced in Sydney was in Novem-
ber, 1839, at the Victoria Theatre, then only 18 months
old. The panto, was for the benefit of Mr. Belmore, the
mechanist, and was entitled “ The Fairy Whale, or the
Harlequin Headsman.” It was Belmore’s own compila-
tion and was founded on whaling 1 exploits in Maoriland.
The harlequin was Mr. Fitzgerald ; the clown, Mr. Sulli-
van, from the Amphitheatre ; the pantaloon, by an
amateur: the columbine, Mrs. Knowles. Miss Win-
stanley, who was afterwards known as Mrs. Winstanley,
of Charles Kean’s Princess’s (London) company, was the
fairy whale. .
“ J.’s ” appreciation :
The business nature abhors a vacuum or want, and as
soon as it discerns anything of the kind it hastens forward
and plugs up the breach. Thus was bred the liquor
“0.T.,” whose owners sold over a million bottles of it
last year. “0.T.” is by “Temperance” out of
“Hanker for Liquid Stimulus.” It is a drink
that bucks up, yet in no wise incapacitates. You
may absorb 24 nips (which is to say an entire bottle) of
“0.T.” and not fall asleep on the footpath and get
arrested for desultory behavior. The chronic drunk finds
it a satisfactory pick-me-up, and Carrie Nation laps it
with avidity (and no damage whatever to her teetotal
convictions), between saloon-smashings. In brief, it is,
whether regarded as swank or soft stuff, thoroughly
almost unspeakably—boshter.
CONCERNING AN UNDESIRABLE CHARACTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The plot of “The Broken Home ” deals with the adven-
tures of a young married woman who makes the fatal
mistake of marrying a man who had led a double life.—
S. M. Herald, IS/11'09.
Avoid the Double-Liver
As they the double-blank
Shun who play draughts. The shiver
That thrills the billiard-crank
What time his adversary
Leaves him a double baulk,
Should smite and make you wary
Where Double-Livers walk.
Always the Double-Liver
A plenitude of wives 1
Possesses. Not a stiver
Does he give them. Their lives
Are one long futile struggle
For maintenance. Not love
They taste but the Law’s juggle,
Who marry the above.
It is the Liver’s habit
His children to disown.
To play this prank he’ll cab it
For miles, and ’spite her moan
Who gives the kid its daily feed,
He’ll tear from it all boons
Within his gift. He does this deed
To infants in platoons.
How may you spot a Liver
On sight ? Hist! Whether he’s
In some Den by the River
With criminals ; or breeze-
Ahsorbing with a lady
Of elevated rank,
Or plotting conduct shady,
Or blowing up a bank,
Always you’ll find him wearing
A decade-old tall hat,
And cigarette, and swearing
Most vehemently that
His “time” will “come”—however,
Because of Fortune’s blows
Unto the Double-Liver
N.S.W
it never, never does.
10-2-4.


California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of figs,
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE”
_ . is
- -t° obtain its beneficial effects, buy?*
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
\
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A
<3
O.
ST
0*
O
o
Ml
4*
N\^
1
w
I
■a
oB
/S'*
4 V
wr if,
8 j- : :‘,4
Mif/ .#
W# ' $
■•Vjs'j'^Sktv,.,., ;-v V"
•' ';.V
■;. : p-
a.
fcVS
W'v.
W
* /
To Users of Acetylene
&
Gas,
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
nd increase your
ngnt by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to
6d
SUTTON'S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
[UMOSjI
SWEETENED
lemon
squash
BE CAREFUL
WHAT YOU DRINK
You can’t be too careful what you drink in
Summer. Drink BROOKE’S “ LEM OS ” —t!ie
beverage that is pure and healthful. It is
the original Lemon Squash, and is far and
away superior to any other hot weather
drink. Isn’t it, now ?
BROOKE’S “ LEMOS
SWEETENED
LEMON SQUASH.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and
Joke
Novelties.
THE U.S.A. 4QUIRT PIATOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog {or
man)with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, orpostfreeanywherefor3/-
0
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
Areal startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having-a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the pocket. Pull directions .with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
xc
xvxc
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaran teed i n
perfect working
'order, throwing
■ a dazzling bright
.light. Price,
complete, 2/9,
• or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
- for re-charging
lamp //-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
vc
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson; Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
IT IN YOUR BATH-j
APPOINTMENT H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots frorrt Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
THE “PLOM” Gives Such Satisfaction
that we assert if you use it once or twice on your face, you’ll prefer it to
all other makes. You need have no hesitation in ordering by post, for we
guarantee THE PLUM and keep it in order free of charge for two years.
Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/3
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6 Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/- Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors 1/- eaoh.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
Post Free
Anywhere,
10/6.
~ REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
The Inky Way.
“ Clarence O’Hagan ” : Pleasing to note how staunchly
the Australian Star (Sydney) flies the flag of “Protection
for Australia and Australian industries.” (The blessed
journal always claims that virtue for itself.) Following
its recent move of dumping cheap Yankee watches into,
or on to, its readers, the Star has now a staggering
announcement (perfectly unnecessary) as to'its “ Fiction
for the Year”—the said fiction being a job lot of
“ syndicated ” stories by English authors ! Possibly
the directors imagine this policy will raise the Star
from the ninth to the second magnitude, but it is
doubtful whether that object can be achieved by means
of Brummagem watches and pinchbeck stories. Ap-
parently the only local industry the Star barracks for is
the cake industry.
•n * ■* *
N.S. W.'lnstitute of Journalists moved into new quarters
recently, and the big proprietors came along and drank
liquor in honor of the occasion. The secretary of the in-
stitute remarked that the institute had the sympathy of
the proprietors, and the proprietors said “ Hear, hear.”
The struggling journalist, who looked upon the coming
of the institute as the beginning of a press union, groans'.
While the institute has the sympathy of the proprietors,
it is not likely to do much good for the struggling re-
porter or the underpaid writer. Let some member, who
can afford to be sacked and black-listed all over the con-
tinent, propose that the institute should exclude pro-
prietors, and affiliate with the Trades Hall in the hope
of making things better for the members, and see how
long the institute will retain the sympathy of the prot-
prietors, if his resolution should happen to be carried.
The secretary’s remark was about the wont thing that
could have been said against the institute from the work-
ing journalists’ standpoint.
* * * »
From an old-established Sydney commercial man on a
subject that has been worrying the Daily Trlkgrapii
lately:—
“For many years it has been a grievance with the
Sydney morning press that Melbourne morning papers
can be" and are delivered in certain parts of New South
Wales hours ahead of the Sydney papers. While it is a
fact that there is a large circulation of Melbourne papers
in N. S. Wales, the reason assigned by the Sydney' morn-
ing press is only correct in spots. If the man on the
land desires to keep abreast of the times, he must
have the best financial and commercial informa-
tion. I will take the wool trade as illustrat-
ing other lines of produce. Some years ago the
Sydney morning papers published about every Satur-
day a tabulated statement showing the number of bales
sold by each selling firm of brokers to that date, with the
corresponding number for the previous season. Last
season this information was curtailed to showing the
number sold by each broker for that season only ; and,
so far, this season there is practically no information.
There are selling brokers in Sydney and Melbourne whose
business is on the down-grade, and naturally the man on
the land desires to know the firms which receive the
most public support, in order to entrust them with the
sale of his produce. He can only obtain that information
from the Melbourne press. Again, can the oldest in-
habitant recollect a time when the Sydney morning press
adversely criticised a prospectus or baiance-sheet of a
public co. ? During the crisis of 1893, and subsequent},
gigantic frauds were perpetrated on N.S. VV. citizens ; but
with the exception of The Bulletin, the Sydney press
has invariably remained silent. I enclose a cutting taken
from a Melbourne paper which shows not only the num-
ber of bales of wool sold by each firm of brokers to that
date, with the corresponding number for the previous
season, but the percentage of loss or gain by each firm is
also given. Perhaps the Sydney dailies dare not do
that. They might lose a sixpenny advt.”
* * * *
Through the dim long years that are past Appleland
has slumbered—in point of fact, so long has it slumbered
that it has fully justified the title of “ The Isle of Sleep-a-
Lot.” Now and again a live man has arisen to keep
people awake for a spell, but the awful Hobart Mercury
quickly dosed them with a sleeping draught, and the tired
feeling happened along again. But some months ago a
man appeared “who knew not Joseph”—at least he
knew Joseph, but didn’t seem to care tuppence, anyhow.
He produced The Daily Post, and put his hoof through
the moth-chewed traditions. At first the natives smiled
a superior Sunday smile. The Mercury gave the new
man a couple of months to snuff out. The land parasites
merely shifted their monocles in a superior way, and did
not even smile. That was six months ago. To-day it
looks as if the Murky and its bosom friend, the land
parasite, remain only to pray. Month by month the Post
has fought its way, and now old Toryism puts its head
out of the ventilator of the tomb and asks, sorrowfully,
what all the trouble is about.
* * * •
“ Experientia ” : I rise to support “ Billo ” (B. 17/12/’OS)
in his protest against the discourtesy to pressmen so
often shown by the Labor people. As a Labor man
myself, I have often protested against it. The average
Political Labor meeting starts with a motion to exclude
the press, and ends in a scramble for personal puff pars.
No one could be more haughty and autocratic to a
humble reporter than a Labor leader with a tiny item of
information to divulge, and no one so fulsomely cringing
as the same “ leader ” when he wants a personal “ boost.”
It’s about tiipe somebody kicked.
“ X.P.D.” : “ Aster Nirvanae’s ” account of the Sydney
newspaper slave who did a bit of everything for seven
half-crowns a week (B. 17/12/’08), reminds me of an up-
country editorship in Queensland which I occupied for
six months. The boss was pretty hard up when the paper
started, so I agreed to toil at £2 a week till the money
came in. I made about half the furniture, put the
machines together, canvassed (orders cost about 2s. each
in that climate, and there was no commission), did
my share of the folding, and reported, edited, and
read proofs in my spare time. The first time I
applied for a rise the boss said, “I can get Wilkins for
£1 a week and tucker.” I found out afterwards it was
true. The boss now edits the paper himself, and it looks
like it. A veteran editor-manager once said to me, “If I
held up my finger I could get a dozen young fellows to
come here and take up reporting for nothing , just to get
experience.” Also a friend of mine, a first-ciass shorthand
man- once worked for a big daily in Brisbane. When he
was 22 he had risen to beshipping reporter and got 255.
for a week of about 70 hours. “ Perhaps it’s as well, Mr.
H ,” said the head man when my friend was leaving
to take 50s. as a clerk; “ I’m afraid you lack en-
thusiasm.” And he did. Anybody would at the price.
* • » *
“ Malaya,” from, somewhere in the Federated Malay
States :—“ I have just dropped on to a weird publication
of the British and Foreign Bible Society, printed by the
American Mission Press of Singapore, it purports to be
the Gospel of St. Matthew, in the Malay vernacular and
character. Also, it is branded as ‘ High Malay.’ Judging
by this production, anybody could publish anything in
Singapore, for the attempt to give a word-for-word trans-
lation of the English version has resulted in something
wildly blasphemous and shriekingly funny. All the para-
bles are parodies, and the Sermon on the Mount is worse.
Here is a specimen (I translate it back, literally): ‘The
lilies of the field which do network nor thread needles.’
Again: ‘The grass of the field that is here to-day and
thrown into the kitchen to-morrow.’ But it is in the use
of personal pronouns that the translator really runs amok.
(Pronouns in Malay are of immense importance and define
every station of life.) Instance the Lord’s Prayer in
chap. 5. In this the supplicant is instructed by Jesus to
use the royal ‘ we,’ and to address the Almighty in the same
manner as is usually employed towards a water carrier—
and in Asia you can’t get much lower than the water
carrier. Also, by the way, there is no such thing as
‘ High Malay.’ There is Malay, English Malay, and
Chinese Malay—which last is a wild and woolly thing.’*
THE HANDICAPPED BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Somehow the world is very hard
Upon the well-intentioned bard.
No matter what he tries to write,
The critics always call it “ trite.”
“ Conventional ”’s another word
They often use—it’s most absurd !
It means that what the live bard writes
Appeared in “ The Arabian Nights,”
The Bible, Homer, Horace—books
Of that sort, at which no one looks
Except the critics, and they must,
For that’s the way the3’ earn a crust.
The finest things have all been said
By bards who’ve been a long time dead !
The noblest thoughts have all been thought
By bards who lived in the year Nought.
If you, my brother bards, or I,
Send in some verse, the critics cry—
“ What’s this ? This fellow has got cheek }
This thing is taken from the Greek ! ”
And if not Greek, it’s Arabic,
Or some dead cove who wrote on brick.
And when they read our verses o’er,
They say
( “Smith, )
•< “Brown, s-
/ “Jones j
wrote all this before.”
And that’s why I maintain it’s hard
Upon the well-intentioned bard.
N.S.W.
O, O. CABOT.


snipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. -• £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklbournk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (ijutual Cife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.Q., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Hotels, &c.
xvxv
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent:
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., S6O Central, 300 City.
w EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his clients. Also First-Class
Touring Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
Deutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE*
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR (Twin-screw) .. 9th FEB.
PRINZ SIGISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 11th MAR.
MANILA Bth APRIL
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eio Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
TIIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
February 20.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
AFEIC, SUEVIO, and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamvhlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Avplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Ddlgety and Coinpaug, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
cxv
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban , Capetown. Plymouth , and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
} HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.)»
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
cx
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Damphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay Interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
A the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. (d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of Interest during are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. («) Borrower ha 3 the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date on| y being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
v
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
& H. McDonald, Manager,
TASMANIA.—
HIGHFIELD.
The ideal spot, for pleasure seekers; climate delightful,
magnificent.
_The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-clas3
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
scenery
and Re-
for the
Cuisine.
Banking, &c.
gank of |)eui South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head OfUce-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ..£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ,* »• 1.600,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.REGiNALD James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
. ... ( William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors : ' g HEPHBARD Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through,
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. In Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY,
Banking-, &c. <
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .... .. 1,550,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,750,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Eeq.j
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG. Assistant Manager.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping ab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, January 30.
•S.S. Bullarra (from Fre-
mantle to N. -West Ports),
February 9.
BRISBANE,
MAO KAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, Jan. 23.
S.S. Wollowra, January 30.
Jtest and Cheapest lloute to Goldfield*.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after th»
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
CF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
January 23.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
EAY, January 30.
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
BURRUMBEET, 5 p.m., MON-
DAY, January 25.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BURWAH, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
January 19 (Cargo only).
GABO, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
January 23.
ALLINGA, noon, WEDNESDAY
January 27.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE,
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, Georife-street, Sydney.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.^—
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS V
WE
\
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
(IJont de piete Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEREAGH ST., 74:, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
“ DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.


IN BANANA LAND.
About a Certain North. Queensland Kailway.
“Cynicus” : The connecting link between Port
Douglas and the Mossman sugar district (N.Q.) is
a narrowest-gauge railway of a dozen miles in
length. It is reported to be 2ft. wide, but it seems
to have shrunk. A diminutive engine, with a
fearsome whistle, hauls two weird contrivances
miscalled carriages, intended for the use of pil-
grims and their property, and it does the 12 miles
in considerably less than a day. The first-class
vehicle is Set apart for the use of Anti-Sosh sugar
cockies, commercials, parsons, actors, well-to-
do Chinkies, and corpulent Bungs; the second-
class is reserved for the Socialists, cane-cutters,
mill hands, and other people of no account. The
aristocracy's compartment is a cross between a
Melbourne tramcar and a brewer’s dray, while
the second is the offspring of a coal truck and
an antiquated horsebox. It possesses the usual
characteristics of a half-caste—has the vices of
both and the virtues of neither. Lugged along
behind these is a meat-safe on wheels, used to
convey the weekly roast to the sugar-selectors
along the route. The guard’s-van completes the
outfit and needs no description. It doesn’t
deserve one. I recently bought a ticket —3s. for
sassiety, two bob for the mai-riage-tie breakers—
and embarked. An hour after the ad vertised time
the lilliputian locomotive emitted several piercing
yells, the guard wiped his whiskers on a train
flag, and then three abortive attempts were made
to loeomote. The perplexed engine-driver de-
scended and anxiously scanned the vicinity to see
if a stray goat was butting against the train.
The entire staff rushed up —another ipan
and a youth—hitched on to the end, and
after a sudden jerk and then some more
jerk, a joyous- syren announced to the in-
habitants that our efforts had been rewarded
with success. In less than a quarter of an hour
we had got into our stride and were bowling along
at fully three miles an hour, when a jerk, fol-
lowed by more jerk, culminated in a stoppage.
THE LOVE OF MAN.
SHE: “There's that girl Bertie's engaged to. He says she's a prize."
HE: “ Then the must he a cash prize.! Burt's no amateur
The loco, had reached a wood-heap. The
manager, ticket-seller and fare-collector, station-
master (at both ends), fireman and guard immedi-
ately descended, rushed to the engine, and threw
chunks of two-foot logs at the driver, who stacked
them carefully away. Then the manager, S.M.,
fireman and guard took its collective position in
the van, waved its commanding arm, and we were
off again. A mile further on there was another
stop. A large tank denoted it to be a station.
The engine wanted water. While the engine was
drinking, the staff walked through our com-
partment. Then it stopped and gasped.
With pained surprise it had espied a pas-
senger drinking out of a bottle. “’Ere,” it
commanded, ‘‘you stop that! You musn’t
do it. You can’t do it. It’s agin the
lors.” The beery one eyed the staff malignantly.
As the staff sported no uniform except a half-
white shirt and a pair of dungarees, the drunk
failed to recognise Authority. “You put that
bottle down—or throw it away,” outraged Author-
ity said. “ Wot/'’ snorted the pilgrim, “ throwit
away! Why, it’s nearly fvM ! You go to’ell.”
“ What did you say ? ” gasped the staff, “ what did
you say?” “I sez ‘You—go—to—’ell.’” The
staff was dumbfounded. At that moment, how-
ever, the weird cry of the loco, split the atmo-
sphere, and the staff dashed hurriedly away.'
Then there was a jerk, some more jerk, and we
had started for the next wood heap.
Died in the Dunwich (Q.) Asylum, the
other day, aged 90, Dr. J. J. Sewell, who began
practising at Maryborough (Q.) as far back as 1850.
“ Flinderino ” has a tale to tell :—-
I once had a job on a big Western-Queensland station
exterminating kangaroos. It was the time when the long
drought was on. I was on my lonesome, about 10 miles
from the home station. My camp was pitched alongside
a dam which at one time was a fair-sized lake, but had
shrunk to a mere waterhole. It was the only water for
miles around. One day, after I’d been three months
on the job, making yood money all the time,
I took a trip to the township, some twenty
odd miles away. Before going back to camp I
bought a lot of tucker and sundries at the store, also a
brand-new bucket, which I gave seven-and-six for. A
kerosene-tin would have done me just as well, but I took
quite a fancy to this new bucket. On the week following
my return to camp, I went up to see the boss one day,
and when I got back my new bucket was missing. I dis-
tinctly remembered leaving that new bucket upside down
on a stump, but now it had entirely disappeared. Spirited
away, so it seemed. Mind you, I paid seven-and-sixpence
for that bucket.
I hunted everywhere for that bucket, but couldn’t
find it.
A few weeks later I was lying in my bunk smoking,
just after supper, when I heard a peculiar sound in the
distance. It was just like somebody tapping a wire fence
with a piece of stick. As I listened the sound grew
louder. “Clank ! clank ! clank ! clank ! clank !” Then
it suddenly stopped. I got my rifle and crept to the
door of the humpy. And what do you thiuk
I saw? So help me goodness, there was an old buck
kangaroo stooping down at the waterliole ! I up with
my gun, but something told me not to shoot. Presently
the kangaroo stood upright, and strike me if he didn’t
have my brand new bucket. Mind you, I gave seven-and-
six for that bucket. The old buck kangaroo then started
to carry away my bucket filled with water. I followed
him up the hill and over the next hill. The bucket was
heavy, being filled with water, and the poor old fellow had
to put it down three or four times and take a spell.
At last he came to a patch of scrub, and I lost sight of
him for a few moments. Hurrying up, I searched
around, and, so help me goodness, what do you think I
found him doing? Leaning up against a dead gum were
two poor old feeble doe kangaroos, dying of thirst. And
the old buck kangaroo was giving them both a drink out
of my brand new bucket. Mind you, I gave seven-and-
six for that bucket.
And did I shoot the’roos? No damned fear! I just
goes up to the old chap and says to him, “Take the
bucket, and keep it. You deserve it, old fellow !”
“ Radical No. 2” writes on Queensland’s
mixed political situation :
“Radical” (B. 7/l/’O9) is clearly neither a sincere
Democrat who deplores the Kidston-Philp combination,
nor a Kidstonian who regards it with favor. He is mani-
festly a true-blue Philpite. The tone of smug self-satis-
faction and elation at Kidstoh’s alleged impotence in the
hands of the Philpites has the true Tory ring, and there
is the print of the cloven hoof in the piffle about “ the
ever-increasing shadow of Philp’s reviving popularity.”
As an individual, Philp never was unpopular, but as a
politician his odor is appalling, not so much on account
of his own doings, as because of the horrible and unwhole-
some company he kept. You can spoil the fragrance
even of the rose if you put it in a strong enough environ-
ment—and Philp was never quite a rose.
The obviously-bogus “ Radical,” who has managed to
get in a fistful of dirt at Kidston along with his “ slim ”
puff of Philp, has no right to speak for those Democrats,
either in or out of Parliament, who have thought fit to
stick to their leader. And the fact that Kidston managed
to push through the last session, and to successfully
apply the guillotine, and to secure a solid majority
in every division, is a sufficient answer to the remarks
anent the Government’s instability. The fact is
that Kidston is no more at the mercy of Philp and
his late followers than is any other leader at the mercy
of his pledged supporters. When the Kidston and Philp
parties met in joint caucus, 20 of the former and 23 of the
latter pledged themselves to support Kidston as the
leader of a combined party. Since then one or two of
both sections have ceased to take.as active an interest in
politics as formerly., Kidston had only three portfolios
to fill, with a large number of patriots willing to fill them.
He had also an ex-colleague who had missed the ’bus to
the woolsack. So, on the whole, he had a delicate, if not
difficult, course to steer, and the marvel is that he man-
aged to get through so. many turbulent and divergent
currents with such splendid success. It is said by his
enemies that he saved his political neck by scurrying
into recess. Well, seeing that Parliament sat right up
almost to Christmas Eve, and that the Government
faced about half-a-dozen want of confidence motions
in fewer weeks, it isn’t clear that, recess wasn’t
the best, if not the only, harbor to make for. The most
militant politician likes to see his fighting bear some
fruit. Kidston saw that the session had degenerated into
a cheap mud-slinging show, and as the mud all came
from the same throwers, and was badly aimed at the same
mark, he got tired and sought variety by attacking his
opponents with the guillotine. And, thank Heaven,
peace has reigned in the land ever since.
Kidston may be as bad as his worst enemies allege, or
as good as he apparently thinks himself, but, anyhow, he
deserves full credit for what he has done in the past, and
some honest democrats, who can raise themselves out of
the mire of partisanship, are willing to wait and see what
he does before condemning him either as a renegade or a
Tory tool. So far, he has stuck to his avowed programme
and principles, and carried his own points, and he is much
more boss of the situation than Bob Philp or any of the
doddering ancients mentioned by “ Radical.” Any popu-
larity which Philp has gained has been through bis loyalty
to Kidston, and if he continues to follow that astute and
capable leader he will undoubtedly wind up by being as
good a Radical as any of us.
Nevertheless, had the Labor wire-pullers been moder-
ately sane, instead of wholly loony, they would have
stuck to the Kidston-Labor cojtljtion, founded by Morgan
and Browne, instead of maktyfethe reformation of Philp
and co, a matter of consequence' and necessity.
Coasts of Dream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE window of my sick room fronts
A screw-tormented bay,
Where porcine Commerce squeals and
grunts,
And wallows day by day.
Fat, vulgar tramps, in moving cloud
Of smoke, encircled round,
With bull-voiced sirens bellow loud
For pilots—outward bound.
Gay liners, sleek with paint and brass,
Like youths in evening-dress,
Between the looming headlands pass
In patent haughtiness.
The lusts of travel, like a net,
My sick-bed fancies snare;
My thoughts on inward currents set
To glories otherwhere.
The liner’s but a huge hotel;
She holds no charm for me ;
My Soul demands the heave and swell
Of decks that lip the Sea.
I lie and muse a while, and so,
Like pictures in a dream,
Australian coasts I love and know
Through mist and sunburst gleam.
Palm-clad and fringed by sleepy hills,
With snuggled towns between,
Where aye the horn of Plenty fills,
The Illawarra green
Throws out her curving arms of sand :
Where garden slopes recline,
She calls, a Queen of Fairyland,
A Bride of fern and vine.
’Twas here in Youth’s deep-buried day,
With, all the .World a song,
Beside me on the headland lay
My maid of Gerringong.
So blue were then the seas and skies,
, So red the heart of Spring,
So gay the painted butterflies,
And swallows all a-wing !
Oh take, dear heart, the golden bowl,
And drink while yet you may.
Time’s river will not backward roll,
Nor Youth nor Love delay !
My Memory Ship is sailing slow —
A magic coast it seems,
Where Lhave idled to and fro,
And dreamed my idle dreams. . . .
Good, fighting, red fat schnapper strain
The dripping lines to-day
'Where lately was the cow-whale slain
And towed to Twofold Bay.
On Malacoota pipes the swan,
And calls the mating teal,
And black-tinned mullet shoals dart on
Before the coining keel.
Gome South’ard where the lobsters spawn
In green Cape Conran weed !
Come South and watch, on seas of Dawn,
The whale calf play and feed ;
Where, swirled across a wicked bar,
The Snowy’s course is run,
And Mario light pales out afar
Before the coming sun !
The Gippsland Lakes are deep and wide,
The Gippsland trees are tall;
And on the long, lone beach the tide
For ninety miles doth call.
But south of “Wilson’s ” rolls the swell
Of greyer, colder seas ;
And fronting for’ard you may smell
A sharp Antarctic breeze.
I close my eyes, and lo ! the room
Is heavy with the scent
Of lemon and magnolia bloom,
And odors orient.
Now sweet as lovers’ words there falls—•
And softly as the leaf,
A hymn of CAPRICORN that calls
The sunlight o’er the Reef.
Cape Byron lifts his drowsy head ;
The Yamba lights burn low ;
And gaily grows the morning red
Along Don Dorrigo.
With tropic dews are wet the tall,
Green fields of cane and corn ;
The japk snipe and the ibis call
A welcome to the Morn.
From brush and scrub and wide lagoons,
From reed beds, swamps, and brakes,
On shoreward slopes and seaward dunes
The fertile North awakes.
This young sultana from her bed
Of sandal, pearl, and gold,
Steps forth to meet the Day with tread
Imperious and bold.
The mango and guava send
A fruity fragrance forth ;
A hundred scents, commingled, blend
The altar of the North.
Who breathes its subtleness a time
Shall walk divorced from peace ;
And pine in ev’ry alien clime
Until his life days cease. . . .
Alas ! a lotos-eater, I
Its opiate sweetness knew,
Ar.d to my sickroom, as I lie,
It steals the window through.
Aye ! surely as all flesh is grass,
The far lands fairer seem,
So roving hearts for e’er must pass
Down Queensland’s Coasts of Dream.
N.S.W.
EDWIN J. BRADY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 16, 1909. ,
My Dear Thargomindah,—
This week the air is full of learning and the
streets of badge-decorated delegates in somewhat
dilapidated garments, flitting up the Jacob’s
ladder to the Grammar School to listen to much-
learned discourses. I wonder does science in the
female obliterate the love of clothes? Our visit-
ing shes mostly wear insufficient frills, and their
draggly skirts flap round their ill-shod feet with a
sound as depressing as the bang of a, wet gate on
a cold night. The accumulated brain power was
taken up to the top of One Tree Hill on Monday
afternoon, and there, with true scientific disregard
for consequences, the President of the Australian
Association for the Advancement of Science held
his reception. The long line of drags and buses
left North Quay blithely enough, and about 3u
minutes later hauled up at the foot of a great
elevation. Here the misled searchers were
dropped out with a lying intimation that
the top was easily reached. So they started
off with their souls full of enthusiasm.
It was a long, long climb, and the sight of various
motors that whizzed cheerily past only made the
puffings of the elderly and the fat more pro-
nounced, But all things have an end, including
the hill, and at last the weary ones found the
President planted upon the perilous slope, ready
to say “How-de-do?” just as if he hadn’t seen
them all before. I think the President intended
to indulge in a little light conversation, but as
most of the receivees came up purple and speech-
less the attempt was a “ dead nark.” Besides, the
spot chosen was so slippery that a single false
step might have landed him or her in the river.
Your only “Peter Luftig,” alias Peter Airey, has
been asserting his independence with a will. On
the arrival of Prime Minister Andrew Fisher, a
banquet afloat was arranged, and of course Peter
was cordially invited. When he got aboard there
wasnominal-Premier Kidston waiting to shake the
various paws. Recognising that this person was
merely a figure-head of the moment, and remem-
bering several impolite remarks that Kidston had
thrown at him during the session just past, Peter
gently declined the flapper. Then Kidston
grew fierce, and throwing the dignity that he
has never possessed over the side, he de-
manded the space whereupon pink Peter sat.
As he continued his demand in a loud voice—
despite the fact that the gathering had been given
for the benefit of Andrew Fisher’s friends, and
that it wasn’t specified on the invitations that
only persons who were willing to shake hands with
Kidston should come—there was nothing to do
but get, so Pe*er got.
The two vice-regals have arrived in town, and
were in the forefront of the radio-activity on
Monday night. They also took it out of the new
Government motor, doing no end of little excur-
sions, and wound up with a garden party on
Friday to the Plain Brains of the Ass. for the
Advancement of Science. But the activity on
Monday was evidently too much tor her Excel-
lency, and when the guests rolled up on Friday
they found the firm, pale Lord doing the honors
on his lonesome. His Lady had sagged down so
much that she couldn’t appear.
Solicitor Noel Drury, whose romantic marriage
and widowerliood in a day were chronicled some
two years ago, has announced his re-engagement.
The other half of the contract is Miss Doris
Simpson, daughter of the Grosvenor Simpson
couple of the up-line hamlet of Granchester.
More of the McConnel clan are off to the Cold
Land in May—the Ned couple, who are quite the
most popular of the lot. By the way, Miss
Elspeth M'Connel, who was recently thrown
from her horse and kicked on the head, is slowly
recovering.
A sad affair was the death of Mr. Percy Bow-
man, a son of “Old Billy Bowman” of Mount
Brisbane. He went down the paddock to catch a
horse, and didn’t return. A search party found
him breathing his last; he had been kicked on the
head. A very similar fate overtook his father.
“ Old Billy Bowman’s” leg was broken by a horse-
kick, and he was allowed to bleed to death on a
dray while being brought down to Ipswich for
treatment. The jagged bone had cut into an
artery.
It seethes with disappointments and heart-
burnings, does that maelstrom of life commonly
known as the Political Arena, and many an
enthusiast goes into it with a light heart, only to
emerge with a bruised susceptibility. Such a
case occurred in our midst only the other day,
when the strong nominal Premier was wishing
his cranky team the usual seasonable untruths.
He said so many pleasant things which he obvi-
ously couldn’t mean that an enraged follower at
length arose in his wrath and demanded to know
why his devotion to the unholy Coalition had
not been more adequately recognised. “ Haven’t
I supported you against my better judgment?” he
moaned. “ Haven’t I pretended to believe in
you ? And now, when you had an opportunity
of doing something for me, you go and pass me
over for others. It makes me sick. Haven’t las
much brain and ability as that ? ” (pointing a finger
of scorn at the self-satisfied Minister for Back
Doors and Eggs). “Don’t I know more than that ?”
(pointing fiercely to the Minister for Corned Beef).
“ Haven’t I been longer at the game? ” But here
a kindly friend in misfortune put a sympathetic
arm round him and led him with gentle firmness
to the side (they were floating up the river at the
time), while the Minister for Light Refreshment,
who had expected to be the next one pointed at,
sat pallid like a ghost, and his legs sagged beneath
him.
The year (our jubilee one, by the way) is to be
of varied interest, it seems. We are to have a
Henley-on-the-Brisbane, an exhibition of more
than ordinary proportions, and the last idea is to
hold a Marathon race from Ipswich. It will be a
great event. Ipswich (the place where Jimmy
Blair comes from) would make anyone run his
best to leave it.
Talking of Henlev-on-the-river reminds me that
our bonny Isobel Roberts returned from your
State by the last Orient boat. The lady is the
secretary of our local Ladies’ Rowing Club, and
makes things hustle on the Brisbane stream.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
For the first half of the present financial
year (July 1 to December 31, 1908) Queensland
was the only State where the revenue showed an
increase as compared with the corresponding
period of 1907. Things panned out something
like this: —
New South Wales .. Slump .. £453,713
Victoria .. .. ~ .. 320,367
Westralia .. .. ~ 102,752
South Australia .. ~ ... 59,306
Tasmania .. .. ~ -. 36,013
Queensland .. .. Improvement .. 120,593
Apparently the tropical north is coming into its
own at last, and if the twin curses of big loans and
Bob Philp don’t fall upon it again, there should be
a great period of prosperity immediately ahead.


Queensland: the Queen State of the
Commonwealth,
No. III.
BY J. D. FITZGERALD .
LAND, LABOR AND WEALTH.
If we take a glance at the growth of Queensland s
wealth-producing capacity, a few comparisons will
show the tremendous advance made in a few years,
and they will hearten the in-
tending immigrant, and decide
the Australian who is hesi-
tating as to which State to
throw in his lot with. In 1860,
the population of Queensland
was 28,000 ; to day it is nearly
600,000. In 1860 the acreage
under cultivation was 3353; to-
day it is over 600,000 acres.
In the former year the stock
numbered horses, 23,504 ;
cattle, 432,890; sheep, 3,449,350;
pigs, 7174. In 1907 there were
488,486 horses, 3,892,232 cattle,
16,738,047 sheep, and 133,246
pigs. This is an expression in
figures of the applied energies
of the vigorous colonist, and a
testimony.to the wonderful pro-
ductiveness of the soil. The
result is great aggregate
national wealth, increased to
enormous dimensions by the
products of the big mining
centres. It is, however, but a
circumstance to the wealth of
the future, for the conquests
of to-day are mere outposts,
to be used as starting points
for fresh endeavors for the increase of the cor-
porate wealth of the community—an increase
which grows with a momentum as stunning as that
of the Barron Falls at Cairns.
And, as this enormous wealth-building in-
creases, civilisation is advancing, culture goes on,
education takes a higher form, and science moves
with bolder strides. To some the accession to
great wealth may mean merely trips to Europe,
picture galleries, “long-drawn aisles and fretted
vaults ” of cathedrals in German, French or Italian
A PINEAPPLE FARM, QUEENSLAND.
towns, or even “ white parasols, and elephants
mad with pride.” To others it may mean the
possession of the wherewithal to benefit the natiop.
And, under the fresh, breezy conditions of Aus-
tralian Democracy, which find eloquent expression
in Queensland, the workman is included in the
happy circle of those who gain by the national
increase and the continuous chain of “fat” years.
If not, he sees that he becomes so, for he has his
representatives in Parliament.
Now the State of Queensland sets itself to
attract to its shores all desirable classes of
white x ,ersOTls —whether Britons or aliens —
who will become direct producers, or who
do not fear to come into close grips with
the soil. Thus there is special encourage-
ment offered to farmers, agricultural laborers,
men accustomed to live stock, miners, domestic
servants ; men with small capital, accustomed to
an out-door life, and seeking a profitable avenue
for investment; men without capital, who have
nothing but energy, strength and hope; and
young men who are not afraid of pioneering work
in the great forests, on the great tablelands or
the plains, and in the mines. For such as these
there are lands and homes and situations, and
the chance of achieving wealth or competence by
honest effort.
An agricultural laborer, who has secured work
in Queensland through the Government or private
agencies in Britain, can come out free. His Aus-
tralian employer will pay a passage fee for him,
and must guarantee him a year’s work at wages
approved by the State, and provide him with
suitable living accommodation. What are the
prospects of a vigorous, ambitious man if he comes
to our shores? The Government, on the advice
of the Agent-General in London, will grant free
passages to his wife and children. If he is careful
and saving, he can put by a small stock of capital
with which to take up land of his own.
He can walk erect and free from the moment of
his arrival in the State. He need not touch his
hat to any one—the squire is non-existent in these
free lands, and the parson is a man and a brother,
not a privileged tithe-taker who wants formal
obeisance. While he is saving up, the settler’s
children are educated by the State, under a
system which is free, secular, and compulsory.
There are 455 State schools in Queensland, and
many provisional schools, and the utmost care is
taken, without regard to expense, to give the
children of even the remotest bush village educa-
tional advantages which the County Council
scholar of large towns in Britain would envy.
Then there are denominational schools and pri-
vate schools of a high class.
Such an immigrant, with prior experience of
land or stock in Britain, America, or the continent
of Europe, would not be long before he saw his
way to starting for himself. He will have had
time to become acclimatised; if a Briton, he will
have acquired a vote, together with his wife and
his sons and daughters who are over the age of
21; for in Australia adult voting is in vogue. If
a foreigner, he can obtain naturalisation within a
short period, and his change of national status
changes also that of his wife and children.
When he has saved £lOO, he can make a very
IMMIGRATION BUILDINGS , KANGAROO POINT, BRISBANE.
fair start on his own in fruit-growing ; with £l5O
to £2OO he could start dairying. The land is avail-
able in prodigious quantities ; and with ever so
small a start, he can work up. Let us take a few
typical cases : Mr. James Deerain, of Bromilton,
Beaudesert, Queensland, is an example of what
can be done. He came from King’s County, Ire-
land, to Queensland, in 1862, and engaged in
cotton-growing at the Lower Logan for some
years. In 1872 he selected 300 acres of land. He
grew maize and potatoes. “ About the fourth
year,” he says, “ maize was bringing a good price.
and I had planted about 50 acres in a belt of scrub
along the river bank. This was all planted with
the hoe, and produced a very heavy crop—over 80
bushels to the acre.” Next year he took up 280
acres for his wife, and bought some dairy cattle.
He is now the owner of 1600 acres of freehold pro-
perty, well stocked and improved, and his family
are all on the land. His verdict is—“No other
country is like Queensland for a man with limited
capital.”
Here are two other cases : Mr. Westcott, a
LUSCIOUS GRAPES IN A VINEYARD , QUEENSLAND.
Devonshire man, came to Queensland when he
was 17 years of age, and after four years' working
with sheep on the Darling Downs, he came to the
Maranoa district and selected 160 acres, and has
gone on adding to this- area, until to-day he has
2000 acres of freehold and 3000 acres of leasehold.
He goes in for mixed farming, but chiefly for
sneep. “ I never regretted coming to Queens-
land,” he says, and no one will doubt him. Here
is an ordinary case : Mr. Neagle, of Capella,
came to Queensland in 1882, and has followed the
varied occupations of stockman, contractor,
miner, and grazing farmer. Sixteen years ago he
turned his attention to sheep, and at the present
day he holds a selection of 12,000 acres, with_<ooo
sheep and 50 head of cattle and horses. lor
land settlement,” he says, “ there is no place
better suited, or more profitable, than Queens-
land.” And it must be remembered that these men
won their way long before the modern scientific
farming and grazing had come into vogue, and
without the aid of constant State experiment
and picked herds and stocks, imported sires, and
analysed wheats and soils. If they could succeed
under their pioneering conditions, what chances
have the men of to-day, heirs of all the knowledge
and experience of the successful men of the past
epoch ! .
In this place it may be as well to emphasise the
fact that it is useless for any intending immigrants
to think of settling down in the towns, unless, of
course, they have independent capital. Competition
in the towns is as keen, probably, as it is in Birming-
ham or Glasgow. The land is their best avenue to
independence. Assuming that our sturdy immi-
grant has fulfilled his year’s contract, and has
acquired further experience and a little capital,
he can then go forward seeking fresh worlds to
TYPICAL QUEENSLAND GRAZING LAND.
conquer. He can select State lands, and by ful-
filling the conditions, eventually acquire a free-
hold, or he can purchase a freehold privately, for
which he would have to pay from £3 to £2O per
acre. If he decides to take up State lands, he
may obtain a free pass on the Government rail-
ways to enable him to visit and inspect the land
and the district. When he has selected his land,
the Government carries his family, goods and
chattels free to the railway station nearest to
his selection. He may get his building material
and fencing-wire at reduced rates ; the State will
sink wells for him on country where there are no
streams, and he can pay for his land in easy instal-
ments within 20 years. When he has given an
earnest of his capacity to carry on the work with
diligence, the Government Agricultural Bank
comes to his assistance, and advances money to
him to enable him to stock his holding, or buy
implements and machinery, charging him less
than bank rate and allowing him 25 years
for repayment. He is allowed to mortgage
his holding, and the Bank will advance 10s.
in the £ of the value of his stock and plant.
He could begin with mixed farming, such as
wheat or maize growing, dairying, sheep, pig and
poultry raising, horticulture and bee farming.
Some of the most successful farmers in Queensland
have begun that way —building up their herds,
adding cow to cow, as it were, paying from £5 to
£8 for each, and larger and even fancy prices for
specially well-bred milking cows, of the short-
horn, Ayrshire, Holstein, Guernsey and Jersey
breeds.
One can form some idea of the value of the
dairying industry of Queensland by the figures for
1907, which show that 60,895,502 gallons of
milk were produced, of which
52.623,129 gallons were used
for butter production, 2,663,283
for cheese, and 5.609,090 gal-
lons were consumed mainly for
domestic purposes. And an-
other significant comparison
will be found in this, that of
the milk made into butter
1,961,0781 b. were made by
farmers themselves; and the
rest, mostly manufactured by
the butter factories, from milk
sold to them by the men on the
land. As showing the manner
in which the growth of the ex-
port trade is extending, the
butter exported in 1903 amount-
ed to 1,223,4141 b., while in 1907
it had risen to 12,137,8671 b., or
12 times the amount of the
period ; so that, while the value
of the butter export in 1903 was
£49,804, in 1907 it was £503,582.
The Department reports that
Queensland butter is rising in
favor on the London market,
where it nieefs such formidable
competition as Irish, Canadian,
Danish, N.S. W. and Victorian.
This success is the result of the
careful supervision of the Gov-
ernment, which insists on grad-
ing and marking all butters ex-
ported. This greater care has
acted beneficially in two wavs. It
has increased the vigdance of the farmer, and has
improved the processes of Queensland butter pro-
duction on the one hand, and has raised the price
and increased the returns on the other. Efficiency
and scientific processes will tell in the quality of
the product, and will have their effect in the
world’s markets.
! Thus, without laboring the point, we see the
opportunities for competence and wealth open up
to the intending immigrant, while paternalism in
governmental functions makes all paths smooth
for him and for his family. It is not now, as
formerly was the case in the pioneering of the
United States and Canada, or as it is now to a great
extent in the South American States, a plunge
into uncivilised conditions, away from railways,..:
far from access to markets, schools, and modern
comforts, and with an elementary or rough
and ready governmental organisation. 1 here are
no wild beasts, no savage races, no deadly plagues,
no Lvnch law. no rule of the knife or the revolver..
Railways tap every district in advance of agricul-
tural settlement and when the policy oi the
Government is worked out, light-line railways
will tap newlv-opened agricultural districts, and
will act as-feeders to the main lines running to the ;
coast and to the shipping. So that the whole
chain of transport between the remotest settle-
ment district and Mark-lane, London, is arranged
in advance; and, meanwhile, all that efficient
organisation, public and private, can do to get
perishable and other goods safely to the great
world’s markets is done, so that distance as a
handicap is reduced to a minimum. This point
of view is one which will commend itself to the
intending settler, who may feel confident that
whatever kind of produce rewards his toil and enter-
prise, can obtain a ready sale, and that, by the
system in vogue in Queensland, he is paid monthly
for the produce which he supplies. Then the
King’s writ runs throughout the wildest spaces of
Queensland, and a law-abiding nation needs no.
coercion to do its duty towards others.
With 160 acres of scrub land, therefore, and by
growing his feed crops and conserving his fodder
by methods which will be described later, his land
may be able to sustain from 40 to 70 milking cows "
and as the earning capacity of a good dairy cow
averages from 15s. to £1 per month, it will be
seen that within a few years the adventur-
ous immigrant will have cause to, bless the,
day that he left his native shore, and came;
to assist in Ailing up the waste spaces of the
giant State of the Commonwealth. Such a case
was that of a Lincolnshire man, Mr. Buttery, of-
Crow’s Nest, who came an invalid to Queensland
20 years ago. He took employment for a year to
gain-experience and build up his health. In 1888
he selected 160 acres at 2s. 6d. per acre, half scrub
and half forest land. He grew maize and pota-
toes until seven years ago, when dairying came to
the front, a pursuit “ which has been the making
of hundreds of farmers,” he says. “The cream
cheque comes regularly every month,” he adds.
“ I myself have been handicapped by poor health,
but the farm that cost me £2O is worth nearer
£2OOO than £1000.” Who then would risk Cana-
dian snows and Siberian tyranny while a delect-
able climate, national organisation, millions of
acres of land, and splendid markets await the
settler in Queensland ?


CURED HERSELF
ANDjJTTLESON
Mother Had Ringworm—Boy Had
a Very Bad Place on Thigh
Spread and Grew More Painful —
Medical Treatment Failed,
USED CUTICURA REMEDIES
WITH PERFECT SUCCESS
I have used Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment •with most perfect
success. Twelve
years ago I used
them as a com-
plete cure for ring-
worm, after hav-
ing had a medical
man in attendance
and recently, my
little son, Norman,
had a very nasty
place on his thigh.
We did not know
how it was caused
but I had medical
treatment in N—
for it. But as
time went on it
. , , „ got larger and
more painful. Remembering how I had
used Cuticura for ringworm, I tried
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment
for my boy and they quite cured his
J®g. After that a similar place came on
his arm which I am still treating, but
it is almost unnecessary, as it has nearly
gone and the child is quite well. I
shall always have pleasure in recom-
mending Cuticura Soap and Ointment
for any disease of the skin whenever I
see an opportunity. Mrs. Phoebe An-
drews, The Laurels, Tharston, Long
Straitton, Norfolk, Oct. 9,1906, and Jan.
15, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
J
ITCHING TORMENTS
Prom little patches of eczema, tetter,
milk crust, psoriasis, etc., on the skin,
scalp, or hands of infants, children, or
adults are instantly relieved and speed-
ily cured, in %he majority of cases, by
warm baths I with Cuticura Soap and
gentle anointings of Cuticura Ointment,
the great Skin Cure.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants. Children, and Adults
consists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuti-
cura Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Re-
solvent or Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate
Coated) to Purify the Blood. A Single' Set often
Cures. Sold throughout the world. Depots: London.
27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix:
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: U. S. A-
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
THE
FEURICH
PIANO.
T*HE universal opinion of leading
musicians is that the FEURICH
PIANO is—“a glorious instrument
in every respect." It possesses
marvellous tone power for brilliant
execution by the pianist; while,
on the other hand, it has a soft,
delicate, caressing quality that
makes it a perfect delight for the
singer. The touch is remarkably
quick in responding, and perfect
in repetition. Splendidly finished
in every way, and truly artistic in
design, the FEURICH PIANO is
without doubt a noble possession
alike for the amateur or professional.
MOST MODERATE EXTENDED
PAYMENTS ARRANGED.
OLD INSTRUMENTS TAKEN IN
PART EXCHANGE.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co. Ltd.,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY.
*tfm)
The summer has arrived—there is m doubt of it
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using onlv
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. ” After
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping, “4711” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and give you that peculiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
$
iLtHEALTH
dogjfinp your footsteps
Are you always suffering ? Per-
haps it is constant headache. Or
pain after eating, and nausea. May-
be you get suddenly dizzy and tired
without any reason. Perhaps you
have a pain near the heart, and
feel as if you were choking after
going upstairs. 111-health will con-
tinue to dog your footsteps until
you cure the Indigestion which is
the cause of these symptoms. Take
Mother Seigel’s Syrup and all these
troubles will vanish as they did in
the case of Mr. A. Wadsworth, 181,
Ann Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
In a recent letter he says:
"My appetite declined and my strength
left me. When lying down at night, I felt
suffocated, and was obliged to take what
little sleep I could get in a sitting position.
I took all sorts of medicines without finding
a remedy, and feared I was in consumption.
At the last, three large bottles of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup completely restored me to
health, and I have remained well ever since.”
MOTHER
SYRUP.
xvc
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boot,
22/6
Ladies who golf or take much walking 1 exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/G.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
85]
YJ<
%
A
Safe Fat
Reducer
There have been
thousands of dif-
fer e n t methods
tried for reducing
superfluous flesh,
but most are entire
failures, or else
lastingly harmful
and injurious. If you are overfat vve can reduce
your weight, safely and permanently.
“FATCURE”
is the only safe, harmless and lasting cure ever
discovered that will absolutely cure obesity. Its
efficacy has been amply demonstrated in thou-
sands of cases. “Fatcure” is a vegetable extract
compound put up in tablet form, pleasant and
easy to take, and, if desired, can be taken secretly.
In average cases it reduces weight by from 5 to 6
pounds a week, and over a pound a day in many.
After you have been using “ Fatcure” a few days
your breathing becomes considerably easier—the
pressure around your heart becomes noticeably
less, and your general health improves rapidly.
11 Fatcure ” makes heart failure a very remote pos-
sibility, and fatty degeneration an impossibility.
FREE TRIAL SAMPLE..—Send a 2d. stamp to-
day, and let us send you a Free Trial Sample and
our interesting booklet—Plain Talk on Obesity.
Investigate our claims and you will see that you
can readily reduce your weight. Write or call
for full particulars at once.
The Wat worth Obesity Co., Suite J,
Linden [Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
[2
KALODERMA
SOAP. JELLY. POWDER.
For the Complexion .
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND STEEL FOR EVERY
xvc
vcxv
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
o
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
tion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
or threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradually
becomes independent of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria..
X
> >v
v
V
*
5
&
*
N>
N-
N
fV
<5,
9 A*
&
<o
SV.
GCfc
cv
N>
*
v
K
* / /
xvç
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6«
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
-fIERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/0.
SHIRTS from 4/-
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
x
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5 V The Bunch,
/ Post Free.
We make this Special Offer tc
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal hote.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOUFINE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] io
A Hot Sunday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T wu Master Cook-the Devil-made the day.
When I arose I saw a round, red spot
High in the sky, and heard a maiden say :
Well, I declare to goodness! Ain'., it ’ot ?”
" ith that remark she raised a weary broom,
And with it smote upon the wooden stair ;
Once, twice she hit, and vanished in the gloom.
“ Them stairs is done ! ” I heard a Voice declare.
Then piped the early locust on his tree—
Suggesting boilers being madly boiled—
Till a wild boarder shouted angrily
To all the world : “ Why can't that thing he
oiled?”
But no voice answered. Far away the broom
Thumped intermittently upon its way
Dike a Dost Wooden Deg that sought the tomb,
Whilst hotter grew the molten, breathless day.
I raised with care one green Venetian slat
And saw beneath the glassy Mosman tide;
On the far wharf three hopeless figures sat,
I heir tins of precious, smellful bait beside.
Three lines hung limply in the lukewarm wave,
And, in a row, they waited there for fish
To come and eat the shrimp that naught could save
1 rom going bad. (O ! vain, mad, hopeless wish!)
Then grasped an unseen Hand the breakfast bell,
And with its empty clamor smote the morn ;
The boarder on his stretcher rose and fell,
And laughed a horrid laugh of bitter scorn.
“ Bacon and eggs ! Grilled steak ! I know what’s
there!
Always the same d—d hot and hopeless tack ! ”
(I pictured him, with a dishevelled stare,
Dying distraught on his indignant back.)
I won't go down ! ” With a defiant snore
He turned and slept the feeding hour away,
Whilst to the bath the other lodgers bore
Their washing gear. (And hotter grew the day.)
Anon, in gasping, light-clad ones and twos,
We Went downstairs, where, round the groaning
board,
The boarders groaned o’er futile chops and stews,
And shouted out, “Disgraceful!” and “Oh
Lord!”
All coldly sat the landlady within—
The coldest thing in all that lodging den ;
Without, the ninth-class cook, as hot as sin,
Seized wand’ring chops and warmed them up
again.
An atmosphere of cooking, heat and strife
Flavored the talk of boarders fled and gone;
In ev’ry corner mutiny was rife
And food was “off” ere ever it was “on.”
The Sun, still climbing, smote the reeling hills
And warmed the locusts till they made One
Screech.
(I love the honest insect when it fills
A blist’ring day with noise that drowns all
speech.)
The morning passed in plans and angry plots
For getting out; whilst, with fresh hope im-
bued,
The ninth-class cook put on his useless pots
To make some more infuriating food.
Straight, at the dinner-bell, the boarders fled
Unto the board to ascertain their fate ;
And to all things they asked the maiden said,
“That’s off!” So once again they were too
late !
So, on the Wrecked Ambitions of the cook—
The Pie That Might Have Been—the Stew That
Missed —
They fed themselves, and with hot anger shook
Saying the menu was a lying list.
The afternoon in white-hot heat and rage
Melted away and dripped like molten steel;
And here and there a boarder turned a page,
Or ate cheap fruit, and cast abroad the peel.
So went the afternoon, until the sun
Hung in the heavens like a redhot ball.
And it was near to six ; then everyone
Made ready for the dinner-bell’s last call.
It came—and the Assyrians came down
On the cold wreckage of the cook’s mistakes.
(The cook himself had hied him into town,
Deaving behind some cold, insulting cakes.)
The day closed down in steam and breathless
wrath,
Unfurnished boarders, scattered here and there,
Booked towards the South and scanned the silent
North,
And stirred with paper fans the stagnant air.
Then night arrived to veil in deepest black
The glassy Harbor and the sleeping hills,
And here and there a boarder had a snack
Of wine and biscuits —or two liver pills.
High on the G.P.O. a red light glowed,
And on it ev’ry boarder’s eye was glued,
When someone said, “A buster’s on the road ! ”
And someone muttered, “Oh, that it was food!”
An hour or so they sat defying sleep.
And waiting for the southerly to “ bust.”
Ere from the Bay it made its flying leap—
And it was Devil-hot and filled with dust! 1!
It was the End ! The chairs were dragged inside,
The windows shuttered and the front door
closed ;
Abroad upon the wind, the Fiend did ride;
Within, Exhausted Vacancies reposed.
That Master Cook—the Devil—made the day ;
The ninth-class cook , in an unholy mood,
Arranged his kitchen in some witch's way,
And made one small dust bin of Devil’s food.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Cut Q
Price.
on
Plows
We have in stock 538 Ptows
of standard makes on which
we have made cuts in price
of from 20 to 40 per cent
Of some kinds we have but
one or two sizes, but if the
sizes suit you the prices are
sure to, as they show a great
saving over the lowest pro •
curable elsewhere.
The Plows are all new, in
perfect condition, and of that
high standard of quality
associated with the names of
DEERE " and “OLIVER
Every one of them, whether
it be single furrow mould-
board, multi-furrow mould-
board, or disc, is fully '
guaranteed.
Any Plow buyer who gives
an order before getting our
Post Free Booklet describing
and pricing these Plows fails
to consider his pocket book.
INTERNATIONAL
Harvester company
OF AMERICA
(. Incorporated)
Roma Street. Brisbane: 37 Broadway.
Sydney; 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne ;
Bank Street. Adelaide; 75 York Street.
Launceston.
THE BALLET GIRL
xvcxvc
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Fraa, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Prae, la.
B*nd Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.O.s SYDNEY .
51- WortH POST CARDS for 1/- Post Free, l/3«
50 Beautiful Post Cards which would cost one penny to threepence in any store in Australia
to-day. We have determined to reduce our mammoth stock, and advertise our Business by-
giving you 50 Cards for 1/- The biggest bargain ever offered. Cheaper and superior to
stationery. Will give you satisfaction or return you the money. Every day we are mailing
repeat orders. Send your order to-day, direct to us and save money.
AUSTRALIAH PAPER CO., Dept. B.j P °i92°-194 Castlerea|h a street, P Sydney.
Under Vice«Reg'al
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkei,),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlerea<rh Streets.
®*r TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
t
/
t
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. « Bridge Sts., Sydney
AIIDCH BV Cl Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
RUPTURE
vcx
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give wav to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. our ea 1
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical au on y, ias *
F ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person ill
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again it t ey
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the wor d.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drills cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’S Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drivesoutdisease.no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
-L,„nVi into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
ieVtimoTtaf S : P p™v\ a . “'r ll t ion S Our blit is sinrpie, easy ,o use a/d is guaranteed to give a strong current.
Jt has”pe£it! attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price *1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
9
\\
//
&
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write ,
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
THE McLAUGHUN CO.,
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12
The N.S.W. Agency-General began in its
present form in 1863. Residence in London was
prescribed, and the title of the official was “ Rep-
resentative Agent of the- Colony.” Before that
the work of the agency was farmed out. Bulwer
Lytton held the job for a period, and Donaldson
for another period. The office, from the date of
inauguration in 1863, has been filled by the fol-
lowing : Edward Hamilton, Mayne, Cowper,
Forster, Stuart, Cooper, Samuel, Salomons, Cope-
land and Coghlan. Jersey and others discharged
the duties from time to time, but were not strictly
in the service. Stuart resigned before entering
on service.
Charged with the grave offence of making
payments without warrant, Victorian ex-Premier
Bent displayed all the slipperiness of an eel or a
Swinburne. With the air of a martyr, Adolphus
admitted that he had expended a sum of
£1*20,305185. 7d. without authority, but he wailed
over the woes of the toiler and declared the
money was required to pay the men at the New-
port (Vic.) railway workshops. There was much
crude pathos in Bent’s picture of the worker
facing Christmas without his wages, that being
the woe which Thomas says he averted. It is all
very beautiful, and also very thin. What the
State wants to know is (1) Why Bent shut Par-
liament up without getting supplies so that he
could pay the men legally ; (2) why the Governor
let him do it; (3) where he got the £120,305 18s. <d.?
The big-landlord curse weighs heavily on
Tasmania, and one of its biggest exports consists
of farmers’ sons in search of land. During 1908
the natural increase in Tasmania by excdss of
births over deaths was more than 3100, but as
nearly 2500 more people left the island than
entered it the actual increase of population was
only 641 souls.
In the first boom of his Closer Settle-
ment fad, Victoria’s T. Bent was like a brass god
with a new tin tail. But what must he think of
his scheme now ? Under the Closer Settlement
Act, £500,000 for the purchase and subdivision of
private estates became automatically available
each year ; so that, since its inception five years
ago, the Closer Settlement Board has had the sum
of £2,500,000 with which to buy land. Of that
sum, however, it has only been able to spend
£1,406,525, leaving a balance of £1,093,475 unex-
pended. The land couldn’t be got, for the Huge
Landlord wouldn’t sell ! And the expended
million and a-half has seemingly been worth
about a shilling in the £ in its results to Victoria.


CURES
CATARRH.
*
RAMEY'S
MEDICATOR
CURES: Catarrh, Deaf-
ness, May Fever, Asth-
ma, Neuralgia, Head-
ache, and Diseases of
Nose, Throat and Ear.
Price. 10s. post free,
Includes Medicator, In-
halent, and Ointment,
with full directions. If
required, extra Inhalent
2s. 6d., Ointment is.
Illustration shows the
Medicator used in two
ways—blowing into the
nostrils, and inhaling - .
Briefly, Catarrh is inflammation of the lining: membrane
of the nose and adjoining passages. If the inflammation is
not arrested it invades the ears, throat and lungs, desfoys
the senses of taste and smell; impairs the sight and heanng ;
causes baldness and rots away the frontal bones of the skull.
Dyspepsia and Consumption can also be directly traced as
starting from the catarrhal discharges. The Ramey Medi-
cator is designed to treat the affected parts by direct applica-
tion. By its use, medicated air is slowly forced through the
nostrils and head and into the lungs. Our inhalent is a disin-
fectant containing carbolic acid. Long-standing cases of
Catarrh, Deafness, Headache, Asthma, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Bronchitis, Colds, La Grippe, etc., yield readily to the head-
ing properties of our treatment. It kills the germs and re-
stores normal conditions. It is a well-known fact that our
method of treating catarrh and kindred ailments is endorsed
by thousands who have used it. Why pay a specialist a large
sum of money for doubtful results when you can cure yourself
by this simple home treatment? The Ramey Medicator is
highly nickel plated, and should last a lifetime. The medicine
is put on a sponge in the enlarged part of the Medicator, be-
tween the mouthpiece and nose tubes. Full directions with
every instrument. Send ios. postal note to the Sole Agents
for Australasia: STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
THE SON-O-PHONE CORNET.
Play any tune you want.
A REMARKABLE IN ST RUM ENT.
No knowledge of music necessary.
Simply hum into the Son-o-Phone
and there you have it.
ONLY 2s 9d. POST FREE.
mmm
The Son-o-Phone Cornet is the simplest and most
successful Brass Musical Instrument ever invented.
Any man, woman or child that is able to hum a tune can
play it. It is invaluable to Church and Private Pic-
nics, etc. It is. without doubt, the greatest success
out for social entertainments. AVberever there is to
be a gathering of people, music is the drawing card.
The Son-o-Phone will furnish that music in the easiest
manner, with surprising effect. The Son-o-Phone is
very easily played, anybody can play it straight off ;
simply place the Mouthpiece of the Comet to your lips
hum through it any tune that you are familiar with,
leaving out the words, and you’ll have success straight
off, and you will be overjoyed with the marvellous
results. It is made of solid metal, brass finished,
highly polished, 7J inches long, 3f inch bell.
Price only 2s 9d post free anywhere
A i. Smith & Co
74 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
Machinery.
F°,i SALE —ONE 28 B.H.Pi SUCTION CAS
ENGINE AND PLANT. Practically New. Made
by HORNSBY and SON.
THE PIONEER RAILWAY SPRING CO., LTD.,
McEVOY STREET, ALEXANDRIA.
Government Notices.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACT.
SUNNYRID6E
ESTATE.
COWRA LAND DISTRICT.
THE Cranky Rock and Tenandra portions of
the Sunny Ridge Estate, recently purchased
by the State Government, have been subdivided
into
24 FARMS,
and will become
AVAILABLE FOR APPLICATION
on the
15th FEBRUARY, 1909,
under the provisions of the Closer Settlement
Acts.
The farms range in area from 257 f acres to 973
acres, and in value from £1385 to £3020.
Full particulars and directions for applying,
together with lithographs and descriptions of the
various farms, may be obtained, free of cost, on
personal application, or by post, from any Crown
Lands Agent in New South Wales, or from the
Information Bureau, Department of Lands,
Sydney.
The Estate is situated on the southern bank of
the Belubula River, being distant about 16 miles
west from Lyndhurst and from 10 to 20 miles from
the town of Cowra.
The Woodstock railway platform (207 miles
from Sydney), on the Blayney to Harden railway,
is distant from 7 to 18 miles.
The Estate is favorably situated as regards
climate, the average rainfall being about 26 inches
per annum.
There is a good water supply in the Belubula
River, and there is also permanent water on other
parts in natural springs, and supplies can be ob-
tained by shallow sinking ; the facilities for con-
servation in tanks and dams are fairly good.
The Southern portion of the Estate consists of a
large proportion of rich agricultural lands, the
balance comprising agricultural and rich grazing
country, the latter predominating on the Northern
portion.
A large part of the Estate is suitable for the
growth of wheat and other cereals, the grazing
land being well adapted for sheep or dairying in
connection with mixed farming.
TERMS : —5 per cent, deposit, balance (in-
cluding principal and interest at 4 per cent.) in
annual payments of 5 per cent., spread over a
period of 38 years.
Persons who lodged applications for any of the
farms referred to herein will be allowed a refund
of half the rail fare paid by them on their visit of
inspection, and on any journeys they may require
to make to appear before the Land Board in con-
nection with their application. Successful appli-
cants, their families, and such belongings, in-
cluding live stock, as were in their possession
immediately prior to the making of the applica-
tion for land, will be carried at half rates, pro-
vided that, in the case of live stock, it is not more
than sufficient for the land acquired. Persons
desirous of obtaining concessions in respect of
railway fares may obtain a form from any Crown
Land Agent in the State, which must be’given to
the Railway Station-master when obtaining a
ticket, or, if unable to obtain a form, must ask the
Railway Station-master to take their name and
address, amount paid, and number of ticket.
Robert McDonald,
Under Secretary for Lands.
5e2
riIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
.X Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is :
Packet of Ten, lOd.
JERDAN’S “HOME” BATTERY
FOR YOUR PAINS
Medicine is all right so far as it goes, but our
“ HOME ” BATTERY is superior in that it
reaches the spot quicker, and is more direct in its
application.
It requires little attention, and does not get out
of order easily. A footplate is supplied, and the
power is derived from dry cells that cost only a
few pence a year at most.
Let us send you the Battery.
If you are dissatisfied, we will refund your money.
SPLENDID FOR ALL NERVOUS
COMPLAINTS.
GREAT FUN AT PARTIES, etc.
m
Price 35/-
Post Free.
JORDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &, Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Chance
to. .
Get a
Grain
Drill
Free
We wish to know what is the greatest number
of acres that a careful farmer has ever succeeded
in putting in with a Grain Drill —not in any
one season, but during all the seasons he has
used it.
To induce practical farmers to write us re
their experiences in this matter we shall dispose
of ten 1909 Pattern Grain and Fertilizer Drills
(value —15 disc —£41 nett cash), on the follow-
ing terms: —
To the owners of the 10 drills having put in
the greatest acreage of grain as reported to us
up to February 28th, 1909, and in the order
of their respective acreages so reported —
-Ist—A New Grain and Fertilizer
Drill ABSOLUTELY FREE and
FREIGHT PREPAID to customer's
Railway Station.
xvc
Delivery
Free on
board
Trucks or
Steamer
at any city
, named
below.
Terms —
Prompt
Cash at
time of
shipment.
Cut this
advertisement
out.
It's worth
money
to you.
In order to protect other correspondents, win-
ners will be required to reasonably verify their
claims re acreage put in.
We will not be liable for errors in distribution
of Drills under this offer.
Winners may select Drills of a kind and size
to suit themselves —" Deering” or McCormick”
—disc or hoe — 11, 13, or 15 coulter.
Drills supplied under this offer are to be
latest pattern and fully guaranteed.
Every farmer who writes us re above will be
mailed by March 15th, 1909, a full list of all
awards hereunder, giving names and P.O. ad-
dresses of winners.
Winners can have Drills shipped immediately
awards are made.
This competition is open to all kinds and
makes of Grain and Fertilizer Drills.
gjffijgT 1 * When writing re this subject, address only Dept.
c/o the below address of our Branch House
in the State in which you live.
International Harvester Company
of America (Incorporated)
37 Broadway, SYDNEY. 545 Bourke St., MELBOURNE.
(258) Bank St., ADELAIDE. 75 York St., LAUNCESTON.
gAPILLARINE’S CONSISTENCY
as a Moustache Producer,
If you could know the secrets of a lot of men who pass you daily you would know
that they owe their fine manly appearance to the moustache that CAPiLLARiNE
produced for them. For over 25 years it has been a complete success in Australasia.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY.
CRAI6 & 654 Seorgc St., Sydney
Established 25 Years.
wrv
CAPILLARINE,
10/6 a Jar,
Posted Free in Plain
Wrapper to any
address.
yONDERBERPy
m
THEWONDERBERRY
A luscious Berry ripening in three months from seed.
I,uther Burbank’s Greatest Creation.
U , e '^ an enormous rich blueberry in looks and taste. Unsurpassed for eat-
cooked, canned or preserved in any form. The greatest-garden fruit ever introduced
«P£}? <lua y valuable in hot. dry, cold or wet climates. Easiest plant in the world to grow suc-
?u^fi nB -i any where and yielding great, masses of rich fruit all the year. The greatest boon to
cAi» w I y / ar • eV n r ln troduced. Everybody can and will grow it when known. We are the
sole introducers in all parts of the world.
Seed One Shilling per packet, 3 packets for Two Shillings, postpaid.
Also °nr Great Catalogue of Seed, Bulbs. Plants and New Fruits for 1909, FREB, Nearly
150 pages, with colored plates and many startling novelties.
JOHN UISWIS CHILDS, Floral Park, New York, U. S. A.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.’
Post Free 6d. from "The
tiulietin ’’'Office
* Bathurstian ” writes :
Last week’s cable message, which stated that “the
estate of the Rev. Robert Eyton, of Cobar Heights,
Bathurst (N.S.W.), had been sworn for probate purposes
at £15,000,” cleared up a much-debated question in the
(( , s ' £ ’ ril section of Ma. In Bathurst and environs, where
Bob Eyton lived for years, the problem of the extent
of his banking account was of abiding interest. It was
one of those topics, lacking the discussion of which no
bar-room parley was satisfactory and complete. The
Bev. Robert held no cure, deanery, bishopric or
other clerical job in or about Bathurst. Never-
theless, he preached (or should it be “ he praught ” ?)
energetically and well (there was, as a fact, no one in his
class in the district in this regard); and he did it in
several churches. “Was he paid?” queried the local
gin-crawler of his bibulous friend. “ And if not, why in
the name of blank did he do it on these hot days? ” The
general impression was that “ Old Bob,” as he was widely
and affectionately known, was, parsonically speaking - , an
amateur. Yet he lived in a big - house, kept a squad-
ron of horses, and did himself very well in many
wavs. One of the ways in which he did himself
badly was in the clothing line. He was the worst-
dressed man in N.S.W., if not in the Southern
Hemisphere. His riding kit consisted of a battered
’straw,” a Norfolk jacket that looked as though it
uas in a permanent state of protest at having been riven
from its home in the dust-hole, and old dead pants thrust
into dusty socks, the which sprouted from the dreariest
conceivable pair of “Jemima ” boots. A pungent writer
was the old man, a wondrous fine Greek scholar, a kindly
soul in the sense that no cadger ever left him empty-
handed—and a good old democrat. He was one of
the few Bathurst residents of means who had the
nerve at last Federal elections to wave Syd. Smith’s poll-
ing-booth canvassers aside and openly record a vote for
Carr and the Laborite Senators.


Creates a b autiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines afid hollows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Solti by all Chemists', and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY. Ltd.. 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
2
[
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
Lime Jixice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for m 2.
“ MONTSERRAT ” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine “ MONTSERRAT.”
“ PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
Flat's
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS. -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Store's , etc.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND City S< or U Sutourban Prooerties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any o
tralian States or New Zealand gWT- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any nne.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Ben. jai mm
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe M.L.C. ,
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.a., F FJL E
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMEROJN, secretary.
Xovcity!
Alo Joot- No smoKin9
Lujhf once •
Well tried!
XUJiULI)
1
y2!*^*ißßßnninr"irnn' nT,:
■ ItlllU*
inn
Spirit |n can °|awP-
lndoor
Slins€t Wind proof—
£atavia-/»
IXI Candle Power.
Al«w Twencent
Ker<wne incandescent
clamps -
v
vc
INVERTED
Burner, compare
7SC.P
Li mi re
Australasia
441 Kent Srreer, Sydney.
230 Flinders Lane,Melbourne.
Perry Bros. Brisbane*
ISS#’
.-.-r
vxxrnmpfmw.
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
Gel a copy of the latest B.S.A. Handbook and learn how to distinguish the GENUINE B.S.A.
FITTINGS from the shoddy imitation. It costs you nothing and may save you a great deal. Post free from- -
D. Y. RENNIE, representing B.S.A. CO. LTD., 5 Stock Exchange Beading. MeSmomt.
BLAIR'S
'GfIUT & BHIUMAIIS N
PULLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUt and i
JIHEUMATISI^ 1
x
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
BLAIR'S GOUT and
rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PER F E CTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at I/1 >2 and 2/9.
BLAIR S HAVE STOOD
THE TEST OF TIME.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
■H PILLS H
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
tiSSUF
It aets like a ehaFm in
DIARRH(EA.
'<o6
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA & -
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago. &e.
It is extensively user! Jw Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, have
numerous written testimonials of its wonrierfuljjficacv.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 £d. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each .
WARNING —Every bottle of the
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the *
GENUINE
ELEPHANT
FREEMANS CHLQRODYNE,
” Trade Mark, on the wrapper,
which was invented by Kichard
without which it is an imitation.
Agents; Rocke, Tomfsitt & Co.. Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chloeodynk. Ltd., London, S.E., England.
■
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ Censor ” writes :
Members of the Vic. Board of Health profess to justify
their existence by drawing their fees, passing resolutions,
and sending contradictory circulars to the local municipal
councils.
They have plenty of legislative power in the matter of
treating food supplies, and they exercise it to some
extent, but just as important are the questions of hous-
ing accommodation, cleanliness, and sanitation. Other
things than clean food are essential to public health.
Municipal councils generally are represented by the
owners of cheap tenements, and some members of the
Board of Health are alleged to be really the “ run-em-
ups”of municipal life.
They have subdivided land with narrow streets, built
cheap' and nasty houses, with rooms badly venti-
lated, and not large enough to swing that
unprofitable cat which everybody hears about. (This
animal is always quoted as if, in every well-ordered house-
hold, the house-pussy was whirled about once a day by
the tail, and as if the lack of cat-whirling space made a
residence practically uninhabitable.) But apart from all
question of space for the furious revolutions of a pro-
testing cat, it may be said that the buildings are huddled
as close together as sardines in a tin, leaving no yards
worth mentioning, and no breathing space worth allud-
ing to.
Take a walk down some of the narrow ways of Rich-
mond, Collingwood South, or Port Melbourne, and see
how the workers live.
Many of these squalid tenements, built in narrow right-
of-ways, disgorge people with sickly faces, children with
rickety limbs, all prematurely old and haggard, 'and
showing here and there the ghastly faces of the con-
sumptive.
Tire dens have been built since the early days of Mel-
bourne, and with their evil surroundings, their small air
space, their dampness, their improper ventilation, and
their imperviousness to the sup, they have generated un-
told millions of bacilli, rCady to fall upon the poor worker
who is forced to inhabit them at a rack rent.
Year after year these houses have given up their dead
from typhoid, consumption and other infectious diseases.
As soon as one tenant has departed for his mansion in the
skies, another takes his place. In the interval between
the dead and the quick nothing is done in the way of
removing the stinking paper on the walls, or the filth in
the crevices of the floors and skirtings. The grime is
thrown in with the building. There is no extra charge.
In all houses there should be an annual compulsory
fumigation. All walls (should be painted, and proper
means of ventilation adopted. Failing which the
premises should be condemned, pulled down and burned.
Here is scope fora democratic Board of Health to do
good to the community, by preventing the spread of
disease and making the. homes of the workers cleaner,
happier and brighter.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.,S'. W.
CAe LEADING
HOUSE
FOR.
‘Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selects
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s nr more
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more. m ° re ’ and ° n
°^ r Special vSnap
COLLECTOR GUN.
CANT
B
BEAT
, No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38§in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W.; 3s 2d, Interstate.
, ,'V'
%
mm
■••Wlllllll
I
m
mm
m
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 editiorl, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tines Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
r landers, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bill’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Curb, lsposted. MyNkighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr, Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus. , Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. Tiie Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
Is 3d. Tiie Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papewng, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
xvc
FRENCH ART STUDIES, SOO kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING OARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Oamille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every MAn His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking. Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CyCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
N ature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
Sa m d^Sfcl^ nB , th s t , occur t 0 the ni > n ds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition j ust arrived.
n inH^ ISFA ,? T GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
“• c ~ e red f dlt ‘°" ° f J h,s ? reat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is Bd. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Xrainino, Is. Elements op Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
ss<6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The W'aybacks, Is 2d.
All these prioes Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. m~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
»
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER. OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho genuine
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy is
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage’ Bd‘
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7n 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances.
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to'Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook.
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking_ and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
THE BULLETIN POST CAEDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion**
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
v#»«ir«s.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
ta^ en up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
fw? S a Ph ’ w ' have . be en instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of exoense, in a legitimatf
SOOfre^mlc^neI 13 MAKE A START by g ™g S away
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement who wfll
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of“wonderful merits
th^ lr a- r i e ?l ds .. and home circles ’ using our new and p pufar
asked for, and nothing to pay on "the vou^eceive^if'wfclaimthat this^^th 61308 ! 51
machines to make application at once, and enclose’ a stamped f i° r ° ue of these
may advise when the case containing Phonograoh will be “nt as the machine* w P u'k S ° that , w s
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. 0.P.0., Sydney. N.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A /u Perb librar y yolume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
P ■' 1 H °^i 1 * best drawm £ s - Full Bulletin size
xvcxc
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there ara
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take. * s
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem.
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON
Proprietor, 39 Hunteb-stbeet, stdnet. * ’
Sample bottles and full particulars, ty vott
Is# 4d. (stumps) to make 5 gallons spray. *
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difflcnlty in expectoration. Asthma, NerronsConirhs.
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
reeved by GKIMAULT & Co's INMAN CIGAB-
ETTE3. Sold by all Chemists.
== Britisb-flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d* FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
. Australians visiting London are cordially
in vited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway)
LONDON, W.C.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
a m magazine.form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


A NEW STOMACH
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES RESTORE LIFE-
LESS ORGANS TO NOR-
MAL CONDITION.
Many a sufferer from Dyspepsia, Indigestion,
and kindred ailments of the digestive organs,
carries around an absolutely useless stomach —a
dead load, and a breeding-ground for ever-
increasing disorders. The muscles are seemingly
worn out, the mucous lining has lost its secretive
power, and food taken into the stomach lies there
and ferments, causing sour eructations, belchings,
heartburn, dizziness, and other distressing con-
ditions. Many sufferers have given up in despair
until they have been induced by some interested
friend to try a tin of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are the
dyspeptic’s sure and only hope. They are a
natural restorative of healthy action to the
stomach and small intestines, because they supply
just the elements that the weak stomach lacks.
If you are afflicted with any of the symptoms
above described, be assured that your digestive
organs are losing power; they need help, and
there is no more sensible help to be given them
than to supply elements which will do the work of
digestion for them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules have been
found by the test of the most prominent scientists
to have remarkable digestive powers, one grain of
the active principle of these tabules being
sufficient to digest 3000 grains of ordinary food.
It is plain that no matter what the condition of
your stomach, or how far your disease has pro-
gressed, one only of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules taken at meal time will do the work—
give your stomach an opportunity to regain its
lost powers, the muscles will be strengthened, the
glands invigorated, and you will be a new man.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are obtainable
everywhere at 2/6 per tin.
<£)/>Sh£LD°n’s
I Iff l
gf
Shlldon Dftuc Company. )$}"
e *■1° U.i M Jyrf/>«y '»*' //Vl
Winchester
P
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles and Pistols
Winchester make of
cartridges in all calibers
from .22 to .50 are accu-
rate, sure fire and relia-
ble. In forty years of gun
making we have learned
many things about am-
munition that no one
could learn in any other
way. When you buy
Winchester make of
cartridges you get the
benefit of this experience
Buy Only Winchester Make
jL
7)
u Tfie dogs bark, font
* tfie (aravanpaffesZ
dfrarff/ewproverb.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and 234 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ICONGO ROOFING]
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below—
ilanujadwed ly BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co-.
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.,
Sydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne; George Wills
& Co., Brisbane; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth,
West Australia.
V’^rtr
%
Jon
'W'
, »*
- " n ° QO
(fi'l!
ttL-r
f Lr rff>l
rrr[
r®
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
v
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop,
n n -i
■ IIC© dw I •
Postage to an y Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price dEI 7s 6d ;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and ail kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St., Brisbane
The Shepherd Kings of Canter-
bury.
THE FIRST DAY OF HERETAUNGA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Heretaunga homestead stands bold-
fronted on the great shingle bluffs that mark
the first rise of the plains to the rugged
plateau of the Mackenzie County, and it holds its
Gothic gables high, and flaunts its shimmering
greenhouses and conservatories as though aristo-
cratic to the core.
But the gentry of Old Canterbury looked askance
at Heretaunga, and Squatter Beaton did not com-
mand a troop in the Yeomanry, neither did his
family attend the tennis tournaments of the
mighty. Beaton’s hunting crop had more gold on
it than any other hunting crop in Canterbury, and
the checks of his suits were larger than those of
old Neville Mortimer himself, but never a
Shepherd King stayed beneath the Heretaunga
roof.
Scattered through Old Canterbury was a curious
race of social outcasts —the men who had started
as squatters’ managers, but had taken up land
and grown suddenly affluent. There were several
of them, and their associates were a few men who
were too large to be called cockatoos and too small
to be designated squatters; also the small army of
rather well-to-do horse-dealers, who roamed about
the country buying and selling.
And all this crowd looked upon Heretaunga as
its Mecca, and Samuel Beaton as its leader, cham-
pion and prophet. Every election saw Beaton
stand for Parliament and be decisively beaten,
and it was 20 years before he had a real chance to
get there, only to find himself more hopelessly
crushed than ever.
★ * * *
The chief point in Beaton’s favor was that he
knew he was a bad lot, and was anxious to pre-
vent hereditary tendencies telling too strongly on
his children. He sent his boys to Oxford, and
the girls to some famous seminary in France, and,
to do the young Beatons justice, they returned
from Europe gentlemen and ladies—outwardly, at
any rate.
Before the first of the children arrived with
his bevelled edges thick upon him, Beaton
revised the visiting list at Heretaunga. Andy
McKellar, the horse-dealer, had been a lifelong
friend, but Beaton never hesitated, and put it to
Andrew briefly and emphatically :
“You know, Andy, I’m a bit of a bad egg my-
self, and I’m anxious that the boys and girls
should know nothing of it. I think I’ve pretty
well lived it down, and the hospital is taking me
cheque regular now, and a lot of the squatters are
quite frequently at the sales, and sometimes
crack a bottle of port or champagne when the
buying is over.”
“Bah! They’ll drink with any one!” scoffed
Andy McKellar, who had a glimmering of what
was coming.
“No, they won’t —and they’ll never be friendly
with me as long as I live; but me eldest boy’s
coming home next month, an’ I’m going to make
him skipper; an’ they’ll be friendly enough with
him.”
“Yes, they might, now he’s a uni varsity man
same as their own—and eddication’s like blood ; it
will tell.”
“Exactly!” said Beaton. “Well, a house is
judged by the people that frequent it, and when
me boy comes back, you’ll have to drop out. Andy
McKellar, horse-dealer, isn’t fit company for a
Shepherd King. Of course, you and I’ll be as
friendly as ever, but when he comes back it’s to
be his house, an’ if you want to have a talk with
me for the sake of old times, drop me a line and
I’ll meet you at the pub.”
For a moment Andy McKellar was speechless,
and Sammy Beaton beamed on him. At last Andy
recovered the power of speech, and his language
was frightful to hear. Beaton laughed wildly at
his vitriolic abuse, but the old man’s temper was
rising fast. Suddenly he shook his heavy gold-
encrusted hunting crop in the horse-dealer’s face :
“Stop, Andy McKellar, or I’ll brain you, you
blasted horse thief ! Stop ! Stop, I say ! ”
But McKellar wouldn’t, an,d he kept going till
the big, loose-limbed old man rose in a fury in his
stirrups and knocked him out of his saddle.
The “ breaking of the news ” to McKellar was
the most violent of the scenes. Most of the other
disreputables were sufficiently under Beaton’s
thumb to have to. accept the decision quietly,
although they did it with very bad grace.
* * * *
The clean sweep had been made long before
Arthur Beaton arrived home, and the great home-
stead at Heretaunga seemed strangely quiet and
forlorn to the old couple. Mrs. Beaton had been
a publican’s daughter, and liked to see plenty of
strange faces round, and loved the idea of keeping
open house. But as the children drifted home
one by one the monotony grew less tiresome, for
there was a baker’s dozen of young Beatons.
The old man, free from the care of the property,
threw himself violently into politics. _ Taking his
son’s advice, he became a philosophic Conserva-
tive or amateur Liberal, whichever way it struck
the hearer. It was a huge compromise. There
were two years to go till the election, and the old
man set to work to nurse the electorate in good
time.
And while his father plunged into politics
Arthur Beaton rode round the country and en-
deavored to make unto himself friends among the
old gentry.
It was a sad failure. When he rode up to the
homesteads and presented his card, he was invari-
ably shown into the office—never into the morning
or drawing-room. The squatter produced whisky
and seltzer and cigars, but never extended an in-
vitation to stay to dinner. So Arthur Beaton,
wondering why, returned home with a vague idea
that he and his had no place in the aristocracy of
Canterbury.
Riding out from Timaru one sultry day with a
burning nor’-wester parching man and beast, he
came to the great stone gates of Esmerelda Home-
stead. A pony carriage, driven by a little lady
in a black lace costume, with long, straight hair
curiously tumbled about her broad forehead, and
bright eyes, dashed up. She wasmnattended by
groom or boy.
Arthur Beaton sprang down and undid the
heavy gates, and when she had driven through,
the lady in the carriage pulled up.
“ I have not the pleasure of knowing your
name, sir; but you are a long way from any-
where, and it is lunch-time. Will you join me?
You will be very welcome.”
“Beaton—Arthur Beaton, of Heretaunga !” he
said, as he swung the gates to.
“ Well, I am Miss Ormsby, of Esmerelda —and
I rather think we are next-door neighbors, but
we have each got such a large area that we are
never in sight.”
“I am only back from Oxford a few weeks,
Miss Ormsby; and am practically exploring a
new country.”
When Arthur Beaton mentioned his name a
faint flush had suffused her features, and she
drove on, leaving him to follow on horseback.
It was a pleasant meal, and she showed him
over her home, with its copper friezes and panel-
ings, its curious walled-in garden, and its wonder-
ful collection of art treasures. By the time he
had seen it all, and had had afternoon tea, the
nor’-wester had died down, and Arthur Beaton
started for home with a feeling that he would see
more of the lady of Esmerelda. In fact he had
prepared for it by asking if he might call again,
and had received a standing invitation to drop in
for lunch or afternoon tea any time he was pass-
ing. She had mentioned that she did not receive
many visitors, and that he was not likely to find
much society at Esmerelda, but he was welcome
to call whenever he felt inclined.
He determined to call often.
Curiously reserved as to his doings, he never
mentioned these visits, and the name of Esmer-
elda or its proprietress was never mentioned at
Heretaunga.
They became exceedingly friendly, and his
visits seemed to arouse a genuine pleasure in the
rather sad-mannered little lady of Esmerelda.
He told her of the improvements he was making
at Heretaunga, and found that she took an intelli-
gent interest in wool-presses ; and also that she
was well primed on the subject of the relationship
of soil to wool —in which she taught him a lot he
never dreamed of before.
And all the time old man Beaton went scurry-
ing round the district begging and buying votes.
One day as Arthur sat in the walled-in garden
at Esmerelda its little chatelaine suddenly ex-
claimed :
“ By the way, I hear that your father is going
to stand for the Esmerelda seat this election ?”
“ Yes, he has his heart set on a political career;
and he has been working the electorate most in-
dustriously for the last two years. He seems to
be absolutely sure of winning.”
She shook her head.
“ Try and dissuade him from the idea —get him
to withdraw by any means. It would be most
unfortunate if he were to continue his candidature.
Listen, they have engaged Edward Forrester to
speak down here the week before the election. Do
you know Forrester?”
“ No, who is he?”
“ A curious old-young man—the antiquarian of
Canterbury. He knows everybody’s family his-
tory from the day he arrived in Canterbury right
down to last month ; and if there were any evil
things done in the wild old days, Forrester will
lay them bare, and point the finger of scorn.”
“ I am sure there is nothing in my father’s
career he can point his finger at,” said poor
Arthur Beaton, with a slight ring of resentment
in his voice. Then the lady of Esmerelda saw
she must either say no more or dive into ancient
history. So she said no more ; but it struck Beaton
when he was leaving that afternoon that she was
somewhat depressed. Anyhow, there was a
curious intensity in the fervor of her farewell,
and he felt as though she half expected something
was going to happen to him
When he got back to Heretaunga he sought out
his father and asked him if he thought it wise at
his time of life to be mixing in the stress and
tun.io .1 of a Parliamentary struggle. He pointed
out that the death-rate among politicians was
very high—nearly everybody died after once
taki’ • to 71' •' itics.
T .a fearful average staggered the old man, but
his heart was fixed —into Parliament he would go
if he stepped straight from the top of the poll
into his coffin. Seeing he was obdurate, Arthur
tried to dissuade him no more.
But other people raised a warning voice, and,
most important of all, Edward Forrester himself
rode up to Heretaunga one day, and for half-an-
hour begged the old man to withdraw.
Arthur was away when Forrester paid this ex-
traordinary visit, and all the rest of the members
of the family were anxious to see their father in
Parliament, where they were sure he would soon
become Premier. So Forrester got a chilling re-
ception and a rather gruff send-off.
The repeated requests to him to withdraw for
his own sake made the old man angry, and he re-
doubled his energy. The other side, strangely
enough, made no sign ; and Beaton was able to
truthfully report that he had splendid meetings.
His cup of happiness was full when scapegrace
George, of Duntroon Waters, offered him his
woolshed in which to hold a meeting, stipulating
only that, in order, not to estrange him too utterly
from the Wool Kings, the right of reply and
question should be conceded.
Beaton, who was in a beaming mood, agreed
instanter, and set to work to flood the electorate
with notices of the great meeting he was to hold,
per favor of Algernon George, Esq., of Duntroon
Waters, at the woolshed of that important and
valuable property. He was anxious that every-
body should roll up and all comers were invited
to ask any questions in order to satisfy any
legitimate doubts.
Duntroon Waters represented a quarter of the
electorate where Beaton had hitherto been unable
to penetrate for want of accommodation. That
part of the district was solid against him, and the
apparent defection of Duntroon Waters a week
before the election was likely to lead to most
important results.
It did.
* * * ■*
The decisive night came clear and star-lit.
As he drove into this stronghold of the enemy
Beaton talked with his lieutenants, and they all
agreed this was the Battle of Hastings—the
question was who was to play the part of William
the Conqueror. Beaton opined that the part
suited him—fell on him, in fact. Was he not the
attacking party? Certainly. Very well then,
push on and let him get into the fray.
George, of Duntroon Waters, had done the
thing properly. Great balls of kerosened waste
on iron rods showed the gateway surmounted
with a notice painted on canvas: “ This way to
THE WOOLSHED AND THE MEETING TO HEAR Mk.
Beaton speak.”
The men’s cook had done the sign, and although
his execution was magnificent his grammar was
infernal. All the way from the gate to the wool-
shed the track was lit up by more balls of burning
waste, and when Beaton arrived at the shed he
was delighted. Great swinging kerosene lamps
made a splendid light, and all the chairs the
station possessed, barring the drawing-room ones,
seemed to have been carted down. Behind them,
(Continued on next page.)


Typical Bile Bean Cures.
Mf? MJFairKa.ll
Enthusiastic confidence in Bile Beans has been
gained from personal experience by the two
ladies and gentleman whose photos grace this
page. The advent of Bile Beans into any home
means regeneration in health for the members
of that family, who ever after remain staunch
and lifelong supporters of this great family
medicine.
L
V
NT C Tuck^PM
Bilious from Childhood.
“Ever since childhood,” writes Mrs. M. J. Fairhall, of
Hackett Terrace, Richmond Hill, Charters Towers, Q., “I
have been subject to Biliousness. Among the many symptoms
which troubled me were Windy Spasms, Poor Appetite, Spots
before the Eyes, and a terrible pain between the shoulder
blades, for which 1 had to take morphia to relieve me. The
climax was reached in an illness which the doctors said was
caused by my Liver being congested. I was compelled to
move down south to Newcastle for a change, with all my
family, and it was while in this town that I came across Bile
Beniis. Even from the first few doses of this medicine I felt
a great improvement in my health, and a box and a half
entirely cured me.”
V’
M M ■ Skeuxkv
Constipation and Headache.
Mr. Chas. Tucker, of Eaglehawk Road, Long Gully, Vic.,
says:—“Constipation and Headache-affected me for several
years. I tried all sorts of medicines* hut could not
gain really permanent benefit. Happily, Bile Be ans. were
brought to ray notice, and I secured a supply. From the first
dose I steadily improved, until at the present time I am in
perfect health.”
A Mother’s Praise.
Mrs. M. Shanks, of East Street, Mt. Morgan, Q., says:
“The sedentary nature of my occupation, that of dress-
maker, has a natural tendency to impair the health, and I am
a sufferer, at times, from Sick Headache, Biliousness and
Constipation. I always keep a box of Bile Beans in the
the house, however, and a dose or two of this famous medicine soon puts me in good
working order. My children also take Bile Beans whenever inclined to be Bilious,
or run down, with no appetite, and their effect is wonderful.”
A Bile Bean at noon and a Bile
Bean at night, whenever sluggish
liver or disordered stomach
manifests itself, is the royal
road to perfect health. Bile
Beans quickly cure Indigestion,
Biliousness, Headache, Sum-
mer Fag, and ail family ail-
ments. Is. Hd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, of all chemists and stores.
BILE BEANS
F o* Biliousness.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wHicH excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This bas been the
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in sucH a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for tHe Complexion.
George’s carpenters had fashioned benches, and
gentlemen were invited to fold their top coats for
cushions. At one end of the shed a platform,
raped with every known variation of the Union
- aclt contained two chairs, a table, a water-bottle,
t ' v<> F. , sses and, brazen and undisguised, a bottle
pr whisky.
Beaton looked round the shed. His eyes fell
on the whisky bottle, and he rubbed his hands
gleefully.
.1 say, Peter,” he said to his secretary,
when the gentry do things, they do them very
ni ??T"s' -^° w I. call that whisky real thoughtful.”
Do you think I’d better sample it first, sir :
just to make sure it’s not adulterated ? ”
, Peter, no; y’ ’d adulterate it with water
an microbes to begin with. I wonder who’sgoing
to take the chair.”
Squatter George appeared on the dais and
looked at his watch. Then he glanced over the
packed shed. The front seats were full of squat-
ters, their sons, and their trusted henchmen.
I here were two reporters there, one from Christ-
church, far away as it was, and one from Timaru.
George caught sight of them, and, leaning over,
spoke a few words in a low tone. He appeared
to be inviting them to come on the platform, but
the man from Christchurch made signs that they
preferred to stay where they were—election meet-
ings in Old Canterbury were occasionally stormy.
Again Squatter George looked at his watch, stuck
out his chest, mixed himself a glass of whisky and
water, tossed it off, patted his waistcoat and sud-
denly plunged into a speech.
Gen’l’men—fellow electors. Mr. Beaton de-
sires to represent us in Parliament. Whether we
desire to be represented by Mr. Beaton will not
be known till this day next week. Hitherto he
lias been unable to get a hearing in this corner of
the electorate—that is not fair. So I have offered
him the use of my shed to-night in which to
address you ; and, knowing that he is in a hostile
quarter, I demand fair play for him in my shed.
I know I shall not have to ask twice. What my
views are in this matter I am not going to say ;
but Mr. Beaton will address you here, and after
his address is concluded he will answer questions,
and it will be open to anyone to speak in favor of
a vote of confidence or any amendment thereon,
f will now ask you to elect a chairman, and then
invite Mr. Beaton to begin his address.”
•‘What about taking the chair yourself?” in-
quired someone.
George’s hawk-like face puckered up for a
moment, and then he shook his head.
“ I don’t think we can do better than ask the
Colonel to officiate !”
The stately figure of Colonel Mortimer strode
on to the dais. He rinsed the glass, mixed him-
self a nobbier, and wiped his moustache.
‘‘Will Mr. Beaton kindly come on deck?” he
said suavely.
Mr. Beaton did with alacrity. The Colonel
rose and, for the first and last time in his life,
shook hands with Beaton. Beaton beamed. The
Colonel pushed the grog and the clean glass
towards him. Mr. Beaton wetted his lips.
‘‘Gentlemen of Esmerelda, Mr. Beaton will now
address you ! ” and the Colonel fell back into his
chair as though he had been shot.
Beaton’s address had been careful! v prepared
by someone with brains, and the startled Wool
Kings recognised the fact. There were points in
it that appealed to almost every man but the very
richest. It was a glorious and magnificent com-
promise, and sounded better than it analysed.
Beaton’s personality was in his favor, too. Tall,
robust, with a leonine mane of white hair and a
great red face, he appealed to the manly men as
a manly ruffian who had fought and robbed and
prospered in spite of law and rivals. They gave
him a splendid hearing, and applauded liberally
whenever he made a telling point or rounded off a
period gracefully.
When he was half way through his speech there
was a slight interruption. Looking round for the
cause of it, Arthur Beaton was astonished to see
the lady of Esmerelda Station sweep in and seat
herself beside a thin, weird-looking youth who
wore a black silk knickerbocker suit surmounted
by a stock and scarf of palest primrose. His hair,
which inclined to be long, negligentlv
round an intellectual face, and his effeminate
appearance was balanced with a mouth and jaw
like a steel trap. Miss Ormsby was evidently
trying to persuade bim, and to every request he
shook his head playfully. Then she grew angry,
and a faint echo of her voice floated through the
building. She was commanding. The weird
sitter made a gesture of decisive refusal. Then
the lady rose and the young man followed her
out.
Beaton waited courteously till the lady had
passed out, and then resumed his speech. Arthur
Beaton felt half-inclined to leave the meeting then
and ride home with her. Often and often after-
wards he wished he had.
Beaton finished his address a few minutes before
10 p.m. and sat down prepared to answer questions.
Some yokel at the back of the hall got up and
moved a vote of confidence. The reporters in-
quired the name of the mover, and it turned out
to be “ Mr. Bill Hawke, a working man.”
Before anyone could second it an awful shout
went through the shed :
“Forrester, Ed ward Forrester ! ”
The tall thin youth, with the black silk suit and
pale primrose stock, rose and waved his hand at
the shouting crowd. The Colonel was on his feet
bellowing for order, and failing to get it. Squatter
George sprang on the dais and rapped his hunting
crop wildly on the table.
“Anybody second Mr. Hawke’s motion?”
yelled the Colonel, when some sort of quiet had
been restored. For a moment it looked as though
it would lapse, and then Squatter George nodded
at the Colonel:
“I second it !” he said briefly.
“Now, then, you tigers, any amendment?”
oared the Colonel.
“Forrester, Forrester, Forrester—we want For-
rester ! ” roared the meeting.
Forrester got up and beat the air with his long,
ladylike hands.
“Get on deck, go up—platform ! ”
He went up.
“I’d like to make a few remarks, Colonel.”
“Do you move an amendment?” the Colonel
roared at him with a twinkle in his eye.
“ Very fair, very fair ! ” murmured Mr. Beaton.
“ Certainly, Colonel, certainly ! ”
“Then move it, sir, or I’ll turn you down.”
“ Very well, Colonel. I move as an amendment
that this meeting expresses absolute lack of con-
fidence in Mr. Beaton as Parliamentary represent-
ative. I will give reasons for this rather drastic
amendment. Mr. Beaton is quite unfit to repre-
sent any civilised community in Parliament, or
anywhere else. Gentlemen, we have laid it
down as the unwritten law of Canterbury
that this fair _ province shall be represented
only by men of integrity and fair fame. We are
not class bound—we prefer a gentleman, but we .
never bar an honest man who has risen from the
ranks by grit and brain-power. Does Mr. Beaton
come within that category ? ”
“ Yes, a thousand times, yes !” shouted Arthur
Beaton, springing to his feet.
Forrester looked at him a moment. Then he
bowed.
“ I see that you believe every word you say.
\vell, sir, it is my unpleasant duty to disillusionise
you. 1 shall take you back to the early days of
Canterbury days before some of us were born,
and when the rest of us were mostly in the
cradle. In fact, 111 take you back to the first day
of Heretaunga. In those days Samuel Beaton,
the man who has addressed you to-night—who
has dared to ask you to send him to represent the
constituency of Esrnerelda, named after the
station he plundered—was manager of Esrnerelda
Station. You all know to whom Esrnerelda be-
longed. Lo that man Ormsby, the fighting Eng-
lishman who had hunted whales through Arctic
n kirctic st'as, who had fought pirates down
the Sounds, and who, while on the verge of old
age, became a mighty land-owner. And you
know, too, how the finger of God touched him so
that his flesh corrupted, and he hid himself from
his friends and his family, and spent his latter
days roaming round the country, building up his
vast properties for the benefit of the little baby
gjrl in Esrnerelda homestead. As you know,
ilsmerelda, in those days, was a vastly bigger
property than it is to-day, and Samuel
Beaton lived at the out-station 40 miles
away from where the little baby girl Ormsby
was being . reared. The Heretaunga grazing
lease ran out, and, strange to sav, was not
re-applied for in Mr. Ormsby’s name. It was
taken up in the name of Samuel Beaton. That
was treachery to his employer—a dying man—to
begin with.
Now, strange as it may seen to you, Samuel
Beaton there (pointing to the fat man cowering
in the chair) “had never seen Mr. Ormsby. Like
most of that wonderful man’s man igers he had
been engaged through a solicitor. But one after-
noon, just as the sun was beginning to dip behind
Mount I onrpeaks, there came a weary traveller
to the cattle-yard at the out-station. He was an j
aged man, strangely huddled up in bandages, and
he: carried a valise over his shoulder, and his
clothes and boots were somewhat better than
those of the average traveller seeking work. He
climbed on to the rails of the big stockyard, and
there he was interviewed by about Gft. 2in. of
young stockman.
( I say, old man,’ said the fathom of humanity,
‘ you’d better make yourself scarce. Beaton don’t
like strangers round here. You cut down to the
men’s hut and get a feed—tell the cook Long Jim
sent you—and then get away quiet like, for, by
Gr—, I believe Beaton ’ud set the dogs on you.’
“ ‘ This is Esrnerelda, Mr. Orrnsby’s station,
ain’t it?’ inquired the stranger.
“‘Yes, but Beaton runs it—for Gawd’s sake
get away before he comes. He’ll be here in half
an hour.’
“‘Oh, I don’t mind him. Old Ormsby said I
could always get a job at any of his stations.
jlhat’s a tine lot of heifers over yonder.’
■ Yes, they’re Beaton’s—ain’t you goin’ ? ’
“ ‘No. I’m goin’ to wait till'Mr" Beaton comes.
I’ve a standing right toajobon any of Mr.Ormsby’s
stations. Where are those chaps taking that lot
of yearlings to ? They’re the best in the yards. ’
“‘Yes, they are—and they’re Beaton’s,’ said
the stockman. ‘ And that lot’s Beaton’s, and so
are they,’ pointing to another yardful. ‘They’re
all Beaton’s excepting them scrubbers over there—
they and all the rest of the scrubbers is Mr.
Ormsby’s—Gawd help him ! ’ Don’t forget when
you go down to the cook to tell him Long Jim
sent ver, an’, if there’s a row about it, I’ll pay for
it. Yer an old man to be looking for a job.’
“And the old man sat and smoked on the rail of
the stockyard where the fat yearlings were, while
the sun rushed down behind Mount Fourpeaks,
till, with a great barking of dogs, THAT” (and
he pointed to the figure of Beaton huddled in the
chair, dripping perspiration) “came galloping
and swearing through the twilight inquiring why
the cattle hadn’t all been drafted out. Then he
caught sight of the bent form on the rail.
“‘What the Hell are you prying about here
for?’ he said. ‘Get out and off the station
before I set the dogs on you. Can’t you read ?
Every approach tells you swagmen are not
wanted here, and will not be allowed to stay. Get
out! ’
“ ‘ Mr. Ormsby said I should have a job on any
of his stations when I asked for it—and I under-
stand this is Esrnerelda Station ? ’
“‘Come off the fence, and begone!’ roared
Beaton, seizing the aged cripple and dashing him
to the ground.
“ ‘ Hold hard, boss—don’t you hit that ole
man ! ’ said one of the stockmen.
“‘You mind your own business, and come up
to the office for your cheque as soon as you’ve
done your work. Are you going ? ’ he shouted to
the little old man who had picked up himself and
his belongings.
“‘No, you infernal ruffian,’ he said, quietly
enough, drawing a revolver. ‘ Kaise your crop to
me, and I’ll shoot you dead. My name is Orms-
by, and I’ll see you up at the house immediately.’
Forrester paused—a long pause during which
one could have heard a feather drop, and then
resumed :
“Mr. Ormsby gave him 24 hours to take him-
self and everything belonging to him off Esmer-
elda. He did it, and a corrugated-iron shanty
was run up hastily on the site of his present
homestead. And that, gentlemen, was the first
day of Heretaunga. I maintain that Mr. Samuel
Beaton’s proper place is the dock, and not the
Legislative hall. And I tell you these things so
that you may know the character of the man who I
asks your votes. So much for his legal wrong-
doing—but more remains. He and his wife,
mercifully forgiven for having stolen the founda-
tion of their fortune, were not content with having
robbed that afflicted man. They struck at his
daughter—you saw her here to-night entreating,
commanding that this exposure should not be
made.
“ Now, gentlemen of Esrnerelda, I ask you what
sort of a childhood did that girl lead. Throughout
the length and breadth of Canterbury there was a
whisper that she had inherited the affliction of her
father, and society, shuddering, shunned her. It
was a ghastly, lie, spread from Heretaunga by
means of servants —that was the only way they
could spread it; they hadn’t the entree to one
decent home in Canterbury.
“I have made careful investigation, and can
prove every word I say. The two papers whose
reporters are here to-night are indemnified against
loss through any libel action Mr. Beaton may
bring against them, and I make this statement for
the public good, and will prove it true in any
Court in which Mr. Beaton may seek redress. I
did not attack him unawares—l saw him and
begged him to withdraw from the contest. He
would not, and I had no option but to take you
back to the beginning of his career. Is he a fit
man to represent Esrnerelda? ”
And Esrnerelda decided he was not.
* * * *
And that glimpse of her, begging and storming
for mercy for his father, was the last; Arthur
Beaton ever saw of the lady of Esrnerelda.
C. A. JRFFRIES.


<‘Four years ago I had to stop shearing, as I suffered
so with rheumatism, caused by the damp sheep. As the
\
liniments and medicines I tried
did me no good, I thought seri-
ously of going to the hospital,
but was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. From the first bot-
tle I began to get better. I took
seven bottles in all, and I now am
free from pain, and can eat and
sleep grandly. I feel like a new
man.” A . H . Watson,
Gfawler, S. A.
This is one of very many letters testifying to the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in cases of rheumatism. Keep your blood pure by using
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. There are many
imitations that will do you no good. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J\ C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ride only
BROOKS
ly^
mJ
SADDLES
All
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
Agents stock them. Art Catalogue
J. B. BROOKS &Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,’
England.
free.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in D/ARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS , ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing 1 Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
v
Superior to
, INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
* Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name 1®"
xc
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-roam, and all places where flies
PCS
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, Will
not soil or injure
nrtiong whom arifc >—
Sydney— Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd..
O'Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co.. Pitt St.;
Feldheim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoo &00. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, vou : l] in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight,Failing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
BEWARE
of drinking impure water and
incurring the risk of
TYPHOID.
xvcxvc
THE ABBOTT
Australian
FILTER
has been proved by the severest bacteriological
tests to effect a complete barrier to the direct
passage of water-borne diseases.
Fountain Filters, Pressure Filters,
from 20/- each. from 20/- each.
Used by leading S.S. Cos., Public and Private Institutions.
Write for Catalogues to —
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
283 GMSUE STREET, SYDNEY;
m 08LLIHS STREET, MLEWdWE,
THE SPLENDID GIRL
is the thoroughly healthy girl. Her splendor is not that of mere
artificial beauty, or of a studied grace and dignity of movement. It is
the splendor of transfiguring health. She is the embodiment of physical
well-being, her charm is the ever-irresistible human attraction that
buoyant health has for us when allied with beauty. She does not
possess any weird physic force, but she does possess health in all its
force and fulness. Most girls interested in the development of attractive
qualities make the mistake of seeking to enhance beauty before attending
to health, forgetting that health appeals to our sense of the beautiful
far more forcibly than any other charm. With all thy gettings, O
Young Lady, get health ! Make an end of indigestion, headache, nausea,
nervousness, languor, and depression of spirits, and never forget that
the woman is sure of both Health and Beauty who
TAKES
BEJLCHAM’S
PILLS
w.
■&
'm
es
Hoo-kangaroo-ray!
is merely the jubilant expression of the owner
of the latest and best Australian invention—
The “gteel Itfings” Windmill
which is built in Australia to suit Australian
requirements. It has a bearing on each,
side of the windwlieel, consequently it is
easy running, and being very strongly
built and having a large sail area, it is
50 per cent, more powerful than any
one-bearing windmill yet constructed. The
use of a “ Steel Wings ” does not entail
a frequent and expensive repair bill.
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO. LTD.,
Head Office & Works: BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
City Branch Office: 107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write to Dept. C for Catalogues or Estimates.
PRICE, 21s,
A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
men
NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
pptp five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
* rtCiCi “Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over FCG
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The l jst
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete JEm —
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. No similar book has ever been pub
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sri „
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Mon living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally ©r by letter. Note Address:—
DR. MARTIN , M.D.,
Please mention tkis paper when writing.
EJmley Houso,
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Made in Australia.
"v
»Bv»
We manufacture in Australia
many rubber goods that are
required in everyday use.
They are made from the best
rubber, and the processes are
right up-to-date and surety
for good work. The lines
we make include Packings,
Jointings, Gaskets, Elastic
Stockings, Wristlets, Rubber
Sponges, Calf Feeders, etc.
Just send a post-card indi-
cating in which lines you are
interested and we will forward
our price-lists and samples.
It will be well worth your while letting- us quote to you.
PER Dm A U RUBBER Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers of High-Grade Mechanical Rubber
Goods, 270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CLEAR YOUR LAND OF RABBITS
with the TYREE RABBIT DESTROYER.
CLEAR YOUR TREES OF PESTS
with the TYREE SPRAYER.
PROTECT YOUR FRUIT with the
AUTOMATIC BIRD SCARER.
LIGHT YOUR HOUSE with the
TYREE ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR.
SEND FOR COPIES OF TESTIMONIALS TO
TYREE LIMITED ,
314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/i!
*
[Water 9
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by usii
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPINC
ENGINES
vc
write for
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
a efficiency.
Rider
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES- IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
vcx
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
Head Office Address
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
“ CURRAGUNDI," BULLARAH,
27th November, 1908.
MESSRS. MOFFAT-VIRTUE, LTD.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
Dear \Ve’finished shearing here on thesth ins^? nt t, r h ~''} r W-
through 80,250 SHEEP with 15 SHEARERS. .The Moffat-Virtne
Machines went splendidly without a hitfch lr ® 8t “ t 0 J"
is our fifth shearing with your machines. All the machinery is as
good as new still. Y ° Ur SIDDINS, Manager.
xvc
PROMPT ATTENTION
TO ALL ENQUIRIES
GUARANTEED.
LIMITED,
7 Bent Street,
Sydney.
Sub-Agents :
VICTORIA : D. A. 8kene, 4-64 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie:Street, Adella e.
QUEENSLAND : Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoom ba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.)Co. Ltd.. Melbournei Road, Pertn.
HEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
MERCHANT
Technical Staff.
N.B. Ltd.
ENGINEER'S.
Electrical and Mechanical.
E. S. &A. BANK CHAMBERS: KING & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
KINDLY ALLOW US TO GIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY REQUIRE.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
PUMPING PLANTS.
Johnson & Phillips Gabies (N.S.W.)
LARGE GAS ENGINE UNITS, etc.
Ferranti Ltd. Morganite Brushes, etc.
HEAKNES
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief ; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4-/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARIME,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED STEAM
For Every Possible Service.
Large Stocks carried.
Write for Catalogue and Prices.
xvc
Boiler Feed Pumps.
Tank or Light Service Pumps.
Duplex and Triplex Pumps.
Combined Boiler and Pum[
Belt Driven Pumps.
H P ftRCftORY A CO 74 Clarence Street, Sydney,
■ Vi ■ ffm & Hm, I U Wbj agents for Australia and new Zealand .
Selling Agents: SMITH & COOKE, Melbourne; PHILIP FRANKEL, Brisbane; McLEAN BROS. & RIOG, Perth.
PUMPS, and the Simplest of ALL is
THE PULSOMETER.
FOR. IRRIGATION SCHEMES.
MINING WORK.
„ SAND and SLUDGE PUMPING.
FOR COAL. AND ORE WASHING.
Note.—No Engine, Belt, Gil Packing, or Foundations
operates as well suspended as stationary.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and ITelbonrne, Sole
xvc
