

The Whisky for Men of Taste.
«<*» A A ** <*> o A
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—pok-
ing and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Sarco Fuel Saving
Appliances.
See Wild Cat Column.
HOBA-rtT.
- adfo—
[alley’s OrleotfieteL
pIONEEf>
*■ LEATHER BELTING * V.
Guarantee®.
J. C. Ludowici <& Son, Ld .
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand I
INDIGESTION
Heartburn, Diarrhoea, Biliousness, etc., can be
speedily cured by the use of LANGEBEK’S
PEPSIN EXTRACT.
Pamphlets, with a half • hundred leading
doctors’ testimonials, with numerous descriptions
pf cures of all Stomaoh and Digestive complaints,
are enclosed with each bottle, or will be forwarded
free on application to the sole agents.
LANGEBEK’S PEPSIN EXTRACT is ob-
tainable from most Chemists and Medical Vendors
in N.S.W., and will be posted free on receipt
of 3s. (stamps taken) to any part of the Common-
wealth or N.Z.
E. QOMMESEN & C0., A S,
DE MESTRE PLACE, off 310 George Street, SYDNEY.
Cui ,
SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
ciV a.
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
drink
BECK’S LAGER BEER
SHEARING
16 Young St.,
i
§
MACHINES
Sydney
e ro °f is growing more and more
popular, with its many important ad-
antages for the Australian climate.
® i ygienic value cannot be over-
es timated.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
REINFORCED MALTHOID makes
the ideal flat roof, and whether it
be used for sleeping, dining or
lounging upon, will always remain
waterproof.
WAGGONS.
<AKINQ PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
fe M CM* fh * 8 ■% xf W m
s 2 s R is A M I J - k*
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
REFRIGERATORS
economy
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
H ELI DON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
A'ents.
The Bulletin
Vol- 30.— No. 1548. ]
[Thursday, October 14, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


OF THE DAY,
WITH PARTICULARS OF THOSE REVIEWED
ON THIS PAGE.
George Bernard Shaw, by G. K. Chesterton, price 6s., posted 6s 6d
Tto , K!S3St;££'‘“' °' Wlre, “ »'«J revolution b.SouU, America, by
S^SSSSSoSfeSfcSiy.^ P "“ “"PO-ied 9>.<U. To
Thompson, Francis : Poems selected, 6s., posted 6s. 6d.
Thomas, McAlister : The Geology of Ore Deposits, 9s.,
p. 9s. 9d. Henry, O. : Gentle Grafter, 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
Douglas, A. P.: Dominion of New Zealand, 9s., p. 9s. 9d.
Oldmeadow: Ernest Antonio, price 3s. 6d., posted 4-.
By author of Aunt Maud.
Colvin : South Africa, Romance of Empire series 7s
p. /s. 8d. Swinburne, A. G.: Shakespeare, 2s., p. 2s. id.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH
STREET, SYDNEY.
Sp Brifi$b=jFI«strala$ian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Dt-i rp , Arl HOST FREE, £1 per year,
* 1 VJH* j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting 1 Loudon are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where Kies
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. 5s.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Powkr.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT8,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the ]Lung8.
B ,
o a
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/S post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I9 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Chesterton on Shaw
Shaw is still one of the few-glittering per-
sonalities who command attention ; Chester-
ton is a writer who is always readable, so
G. Bernard Shaiu, by Gilbert K. Chesterton
(Sydney Book Club), promised to be particu-
larly interesting. It is. Of course it is not
a formal exposition of the life and -opinions
of G.B.S. There is no necessity for that, as
Shaw has been explaining himself since he
G. B.S., by CHESTERTON (in “Biography
for Beginners").
first found anybody to listen to him, and a
volume of biography and criticism by Hol-
brook Jackson was published in 1907.
Chesterton has already dealt with one aspect
of Shaw in Heretics, and condemned him for
measuring the common man against a hypo-
thetical superman and blaming the common
man for the discrepancy. The great man
does not despise small things. “The greater
and stronger a man is,” said Chesterton,
“ the more he would be inclined to prostrate
himself before a periwinkle.” To Chester-
ton a periwinkle is full of unfathomable
mystery—for Chesterton is a mystic. With
the clairvoyance of the mystic he recognises
Shaw as one of the elect—but a heathen
mystic. Chesterton is a Christian mystic.
His mysticism enabled him to see Pickwick
as a fairy and to understand why Cockneys
are fond of jokes about bad cheese.
Bad cheese is funny because it is the type of
the transition across a great mystical boundary.
Bad cheese symbolises the ch.-inge from the
inorganic to the organic. Bad cheese symbolises
the startling prodigy of matter taking on vitality.
It symbolises the origin of life itself. And it is
only about such solemn matters as the origin of
life that the democracy condescends to joke.
He claims to be on the side of the democracy
whose instincts, he says, are always right,
and boldly takes his stand on “Beer and
the Bible.” He refreshes himself liberally
with beer, and feels sorry for the joyless
life of Shaw, who is a vegetarian, an
abstainer, and swears by Jteger.
The old Beer and Bible Britishers have no
abler champion than Chesterton. He is a
reactionary who goes forward amongst the
enemy with a club. He is a Christian
apologist who does not apologise, but asserts
his doctrine with the calm assurance of a
Papal bull. He is that rare bird—a visionary
with a sense of humor. Chesterton’s logic
will not bear analysis, but you don’t worry
about that as you watch him juggle with
words. He takes some prevailing opinion,
puts it in his hat, waves his wand, and
behold, it has dissipated into nothing! Or
he takes some current “Yes,” tosses it in
the air for the space of a paragraph or two,
and exhibits it transformed into “No.” When
he came to seriously consider Bernard Shaw,
he found that “ the three most popular
phrases about Shaw are false ” —first, that he
desires “problem plays”; second, that he
is “paradoxical”; and, third, that in his
dramas, as elsewhere, he is specially “a
Socialist.” After some Chestertonian argu-
ment, the expected conclusion is reached :
He can write the most energetic and outspoken
of propaganda plays, but he cannot rise to a pro-
blem play. ... If by paradox we mean truth
inherent in a contradiction, it is a very curious
fact that Bernard Shaw is almost entirely without
paradox. Moreover, he cannot even understand
paradox. And more than this, paradox is about
the only thing in the world that he does not
understand. All his splendid vistas and startling
•uggestions arise' from carrying some one clear
principle further than it has yet been carried.
Anyone accustomed to Chesterton is not
surprised to find on another page—“the
plain and ringing paradoxes of the Shaw-
play. ... A paradoxical writer like Bernard
Shatv is perpetually and tiresomely told
that he stands on his head.” Chesterton
naturally thinks that it is a good thing to
stand on your head. It takes a hard head
to do it, and the view of the universe from
that position is worth while.
Chesterton finds Shaw the least social of
all Socialists. Shaw’s first novel, by the
way, was An Unsocial Socialist (not reprinted
with the other novels of his nonage), in which
he figured as the hero, Smilax, and expounded
a crude form of the Shawian philosophy.
Shaw as Socialist and revolutionist proved
rather disconcerting to his allies, for he
turned their own guns upon themselves.
This great game of catching revolutionists
napping, of catching the unconventional people
in conventional poses, of outmarching and out*
manreuvring progressives till they felt like
conservatives, of undermining the mines of
nihilists till they felt like the House of Lords,
this great game of dishing the anarchists continued
for some time to he his most effective business... .
He was one whose main business was, in his own
view, the pricking of illusions, the stripping away
of disguises, and even the destruction of ideals.
He was a sort of anti-confectioner, whose whole
business was to take tbe gilt off the gingerbread.
The most important aspect of Shaw is this
of the Progressive. It was after the dis-
covery of Neitzsche that he abandoned the
idea of progress and wrote the most typical
of his plays— Man and Superman. He
is also considered as an Irishman ; not
typical by any means ; in fact, a sort
of anti-Irish Irishman. “As an Irish-
man he is an aristocrat ; as a Calvinist
he is a soul apart.” “His instincts
upon all social customs and questions are
Puritan. His favorite author is Bunyan.”
It was as a critic that he first gained
a footing in literature. Shaw was in
the position of an entertainer with a good
show in the tent, but no audience. He
needs must go outside and attract the crowd.
The crowd was away as usual, worshipping
dead authors. Wlmt better way of attract-
ing attention than by reviling their gods ?.
“He cast about for something to attack
which was not merely powerful or placid,
but was unattacked. ... He found the
thing ; he found the great unassailed Eng-
lish institution—Shakespeare.” His own
plays had a hard fight for recognition, but
they won it at last. Chesterton gives his
view of the dramas and the philosophy of
Shaw, and after you have read it you may
understand Shaw better—you will certainly
understand Chesterton better than when you
began.
The Nation prints a review of Chesterton’s
book by Shaw himself. “It is a fascinating
portrait study, and I am proud to have been
the painter’s model.” . . . He perceives that
I am an angel, and he is quite right. . . .
All the same, it is quite a misleading book.
Everything about me which Mr. Chesterton
had to divine he has divined miraculously.
But everything that lie could have ascer-
tained easily by reading my own plain dii'ec-
tions on the bottle, as it were, remains for
him a muculfed and painful problem solved
by a comically wrong guess. ”
As an account of his doctrine, G.B.S. con-
siders that the book is madly wrong, mainly
because Chesterton forgets that Shaw is a
man, and advances as proof of his super-
humanity or sub-humanity the statement that
he, Shaw, having' enough money in his
pocket to purchase unlimited beer, does actu-
ally pass by public house after public house
without going in arid drinking his fill.
“ Have I survived the cry of Art for Art’s
Sake and War for W ar’s Sake, for which
Chesterton rebukes W lustier and Kipling,
to fall a victim to this maddest of all cries—
the cry of Beer for Beer’s Sake ? ”
0 , . \f/
Shaws censored play, The Showing up of
Blanco Posnet , has been performed at
Dublin, which is outside the Censor’s
radius. It was a success, and the news-
papers almost unanimously failed to find
any objection to it on moral grounds.
G. B.S., by MAX BEERBOHM.
Tortured English
■ “J.(3.W.”: Got a delightful communi-
cation the other day from Mrs. Malaprop
and Don Adriano de Annado. They
had been at a great feast of languages,
and were good enough to send me (in the
shape of a story for publication) some
of the scraps they had stolen. It isn’t
so much what they said that interested
(though they said it in 6b5 folios of closely-
written foolscap) as the beautiful words they
invented, and the surprising meanings, they
discovered in old friends. When the heroine
laughed bitterly as she left the room, they
say that “ a discordant mocking laugh trailed
dismally behind her.” Did she shed a tear'?
—“a pearly dewdrop mounted to her eye
and fell recklessly over the brim.” Her aged
housekeeper, she who “ held the reins of
contrivance,” was reminded of something,
and “ a hundred memories flashed through
the roots of her stiff white hair.” Mrs.
Malaprop’s hand is to be recognised in the
description of the “ envious position ” of the
rich and beautiful girl, who is gifted,
moreover, with an ability to talk “politely
and with an innate fecundity.” This
last scrap was possibly stolen from Holo-
fernes, who was also responsible for dig-
nifying “ proof ” and “humble homes ” with
the well-culled words “probative demon-
stration ” and “ obstruse inhabitations.” It
was probably from Dr. Johnson that “som-
niferous draught ” was conveyed to do duty
for an opiate, and I recognise him, in
collaboration perhaps with Mr. Winston
Churchill, in “prevaricated occultation ” as
a pleasing synonym for half a lie. The
heroine never thought--rshe simply “con-
curred with herself,” so far ns her “ extenu-
ated nerves ” would- permit. When she
gazed at apple-blossoms, she admired “ the
ceraceous blending of their melting shades,”
and “a grateful Thank-you emanated on her
flowery breath.” She “answered assuas-
ively ” when the servant suggested a cup of
tea —she drank tea sometimes, for all she was
a “ veritable incarceration of purity of soul.”
Instances of such ‘ ‘ nice derangements of
epitaphs ” as these, taken haphazard, might
be multiplied a thousand-fold from this
amazing collection of verbal misfits. Yet
the writer of the story is evidently cultured
to some extent—knows many English poets
well enough to interlard the narrative with
frequent quotations, sometimes well-chosen ;
spells correctly (generally) and writes a good
hand. Whatever makes some literary
aspirants use innocent words so vilely 'l
“A.E.”: Kipling’s latest horror, “The
City of Brass,” touches the limit of imbe-
cility. England, of course, seeing as ’ow its
Kipling, gives the “ O-h-h-h-h ! ” which one
usually associates with children watching a
flight of rockets; after that says nothing.
America, however, speaks her mind: “If
he must be a street preacher against the
Asquith Government or anything else,” says
the New York Sun, “ if he must howl to the
reverberant heavens for more blood and
steel, let him do it in prose that has the
form of prose.” The same paper is even
goaded to this revision of its earlier estimate
of him : “We swear by the ‘ Jungle Books.’
Terence Mulvaney and his friends can never
leave us. But did Mr. Kipling ever write
any poetry ? The ‘ Recessional ’ is the
cheapest semi-religipus, patriotic common-
place. The * Barrack-Room Ballads ’ and
Departmental Ditties ’ are mighty fine in
their way, but they are only excellent good
music-hall warbles. In vain does that
quivering mound of paradoxes and of senti-
mentalities, Mr. G. lv. Chesterton, invite us
to consider the poetry of letter-boxes and
fire-alarms, and tell us that Mr. Kipling has
seen and sung the beauty and the tragedy of
things common and despised. Let it go at
this for this time : Mr. Kipling’s poetry at
its best is a tour de force ; at its worst, as in
tiie ‘ City of Brass ’ (and, one might add,
‘ The Mendacious Mendicant ’), falling on
us in these days of molten brass, it is an
international outrage.’
“ They said (meaning of course everyone
who believes in anyone’s rights save Fat’s):
“ Who has hate in the soul. Who has envied his
neighbor.
Let bun arise and control both that man and his
neighbor.
They said : Who is eaten by sloth. Whose
unthrift lias destroyed him.
He shall levy a tribute from all because none has
employed him.
They said : Who has toiled. Who hath striven
and gathered possession.
Let him be spoiled ; he hath given full proof of
transgression.”
One noticeable thing about Michael J.
Tully’s Verses from a Pocket Book (McGill,
Melbourne) is that most of the verses are
short ; often only four lines with an ample
margin north and south. If the four
walls of the quatrain are bare, they must
be very wonderful walls to be interesting
for their own sake. Tully should take to
heart this specimen by F. D. Sherman:
Hark at the lips of this pink whorl of shell,
And you shall hear the ocean’s surge and roar;
So in the quatrain’s measure written well,
A thousand lines shall all be sung in four.
\f>
- “ Morning Glory ” is one of the best things
from the pocket book :
Now let the sky be black as night,
The road be rough and long,
I still shall walk with footstep light,
And on my lips a song.
Since one fair face hath smiled on me
Heaven’s gates are backward rolled,
And evermore my world shall be
Dawn-flushed with rose and gold.
There would be hope for M. J. Tully but for
this solemn prayer :
0 Poets, living and dead, whose deathless song
Hath been my bread of life and gospel sweet,
Suffer me ever, ’midst your quiring throng,
To sit in silent worship at your feet.
In liis own intei’esb we say “ Don’t.” Poets
are an irritable race, and a “ silent wor-
shipper ” is likely to aggravate the best of
them. Some large, choleric bard might trip
over the humble one and kick him clean off
the base of Parnassus.
[The reviewer certainly failed to perceive
the intended seini-humer of the poem ;
nor did a hemi-demi-semi-gleam of conscious
humor appear elsewhere in the volume.
Of course, personal knowledge of poets
was understood. The “courage” referred
to was in claiming the title of poet,
preaching about poetry, and at the same
time complaining in bad verse and bad
grammar of the other fellows who made
“the proud name of poet” seem poor in-
deed. The proem was a mistake.]
R. Crawford protests
He the Red Page notice of my * ‘ Lyric
Moods.” Browning’s line, “I only knew
one poet in my life,” is the motto of my
proem, and when I said “ I have not known
a poet but myself,” I took it for granted that
even the humblest reviewer would a\e
understood it in the sense that I die no
know another poet personally. It duin
require much “courage” to make such an
assertion, and the reviewer’s conception o
my semi-humorous remarks is most unfair.
Other writers have hobnobbed and had then
nights out together. I merely wished to
suggest that I had not had any experience of
that kind, having lived so secluded that 1
had not made the acquaintance of even one
poet—myself, of course, excepted ! I he
rest of the review is, as the reviewer admits,
largely a personal impression. 1 am content
to leave my little book of verses as a humble
contribution to my country’s literature, feel-
ing sure that whatever good is in it will
endure. It is little that the best can do,
though scribimus indocti doctique poemata
passim.


JL
a
Tk Latest Fashions at Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
c*>easa^a/ue
\u
V;
sim
JO6l
* 4S>
/UK
859
806
Anthony Hoedeens’^^,.^^^
No. 54— White Muslin Blouse, trimmed Swiss Embroidery and Insertion, long sleeves, 13/0
No. 1061 — Black Taffeta Blouse, Yoke of Lace and Applique, Valenciennes Lace Cuffs and
Collar, 37/-
No. 5170— Ivory Japanese Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes and Net Lace Insertion, 23/6.
No. 859— Ivory Japanese Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes and Guipure Insertion and rows of
full tucks, 27/6.
No. 806 — Black Taffeta Silk Blouse, trimmed Silk Lace Insertion, Hemstitched Tucks and
Buttons, 27/-
No. 5121— Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, trimmed Silk Insertion and Hemstitched, large
tucks fastened in front, long sleeves, 19/6
i
nifi
//
to
c Yf
IX
6398
W 6
ZSO3?7(.’SSf ...
Wm&D
fcXL &
ice r
\-
m
No. 6388— Black Sicilian Cored Skirt, with inverted pleat at back, trimmed Strappings
self material, 18/9 ; Outsize®, 20/-
No. 1716 — White Muslin Skirt, trimmed Embroidery Insertion, and fine pin tucks, 10/6.
No. 687— Stylish Directoire Skirt of Black Canvas Voile, lined Rusil, trimmed side panel of
Silk Strapping's, and band at foot, 45/-
No. 1135— Black Japanese Silk Skirt, trimmed wide and narrow tucks and gathered at
waist, lined throughout, 25/6.
No. 93— White Organdi Muslin Skirt, trimmed fine and wide tucks and embroidery 8/6.
All the above numbers stocked from 3Sin. to 45in. length, 23in. to 27iii. waist. Outsizes’, 2/- extra.
The shrine of Fashion
at
The New Palace
Emporium
is replete with Novelties
for the delectation of
our lady patrons who
are able to pay a visit
to the celebrated Green
Room, Many exclusive
Model Costumes, charm-
ing Model Evening
Gowns and stylish
Motor Coats are shown.
As we have but one
only of each, they can-
not be illustrated, but
the superb collection
offers an exceptional
opportunity for the
selection of a high-class
model garment, possess-
ing all the charm and
individuality of a
made-to-order gown.
Consult our Spring and
Summer Fashion Port-
folio for all that is new
in the Realms of Dress.
It will solve the problem
of economically con-
forming to the prevail-
ing modes. Write for
a copy, posted free on
application. It illus-
trates all that is new
in the world of dress —
dainty Washing Cos-
tumes, stylish Recep-
tion Dresses, the
newest Blouses, per-
fectly-cut Skirts, the
smartest Millinery, the
latest shapes in Foot-
wear,new Corset Models,
Ladies' Lingerie, and
Sunshades.
To country patrons
who desire to copy any
of the styles illustrated,
we shall be pleased to
forward, free on request,
patterns of the neces-
sary dress materials.
&
m
m
418
ISOif
134
M
>5
103
iPOS
c^7Pcftt>
An THONYEoSDEmS'c^^^J^hc^.
No. 1904— Cream Japanese Silk Shirt Blouse, trimmed small and large tucks, 10/6.
No. 134— Black Taffeta Silk Shirt Blouse, trimmed fine tucks, Guipure Lace Collar and
Cuffs, 19/11.
No. 418— Mavy Taffeta Silk Shirt Blouse, fasten in front, three-quarter sleeves, 27/6.
No. 103— Black Japanese Silk Shirt Blouse, finished fine and large tucks, 10/6.
No. 1943— Tussore Silk Shirt Blouse, trimmed tucks and Ruche, 10/6.
No. 1905— Cream Japanese Silk Shirt Blouse, finished wide tucks only, 9/6.
Wtf//
to i ( c\ur
CjArz'r/
630
rtONY
Hoedefns
Suwouf
ski
m
cA
//1
No. 1191 —Useful Skirt, in Black and Navy Sicilian, wide and pin tucks at foot, gatheied
. at waist, 16/6 ; 0.5., 17/6.
No. 56— White Organdi Muslin Skirt, trimmed wide Embroidery and narrow tucks, 12/6.
No. 305— Black and Navy Skirt, in Panama or Sicilian, trimmed Self-Strappings and
Buttons, 13/6.
No; 630— Smart Gored Skirt, inverted pleat at back, Black and Navy Panama, 19/6 , also
Black and Navy Serge, 17/6, 21/-
No. 55 White Muslin Skirt, trimmed Embroidery, panel front, wide and pin tucks, 15/9.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace
BricKfield
Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
S. SMITH & SON’S
%
II
(L.TO.)
“STRAND”
WATCHES
ARE THE
BEST VALUE
obtainable:
Special Terms to
Shippers.
18 ct. Gold English Lever, £l6 16s. Od.; Crystal, £l3 ISs. Od.
Sterling Silver „ £6 6s. Od.; „ £5 Ss. Od.
Write for Catalogue WATCHES, Clocks, Jewellery, Speed Indicators.
HOLDERS OF SIX ROYAL WARRANTS.
THAT YOU HAVE
WRONGED ME
doth appear in this :
You have not noted that
WILL ANDRADE
is Special Agent
for Samuel French,
Ltd., London, and
has the Largest Stock
of Plays In Australia.
Write for New Cata-
logue, post free anywhere.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle —Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. Ne w
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-.
B3T-/WVO ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
t
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altogether.
Co ni p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct o ns ;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:— (l)The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
cmLooims
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
BEETHANfS LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
forIHeSKIN
in HOT
or GOLD
dimales.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
V&SXHAM's
Lait
a/ro
Reg
M BEETHAM & SON.
CHELTENHAM, EMC LAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
BEETHAM'S LAiT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INViGORATiNG
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets. Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Directo
Sydney Branch bffice at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
TRY THIS HAIR HEALTH TEST.
It will tell you the state of your Scalp or Hair.
e -,r
HARLENE HAIR TEST
FREE
COUPON
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO.,
95-96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,— Having carried out the inter-
esting Hair Test described in your
article, I wish to apply for one of the
Free Outfits for seven days’ “Hailene
Hair Drill,” to which this coupon en-
titles me.
I enclose 3d. postage, and shall be glad
If you will send me the outfit to the
following address:
Name
Address
106
A WEEK'S TRIAL OUTFIT FREE.
Try this Test to-day.
Ir, will tell you at once the state of
health of your Scalp and Hair.
Take your stand before a looking-glass
and give your hair a thorough brushing,
afterwards passing your comb through it
three or four times.
Now look at your brush and comb.
Entangled in the teeth of the comb, or
among the bristles of t he brush, you will
perhaps find two or three hairs, long
or short, dry or greasy, discoloured or
the reverse, possibly accompanied by a
certain amount of dandruff or scurf-dust.
If so, this is proof that your hair re-
quires immediate and careful attention.
These few hairs upon your brush and
comb are a certain and unfailing indica-
tion that you are threatened with Hair
Trouble of some sort or other.
But, fortunately, there is time yet to
assist your hair to recover its strength
and luxuriance and beauty, to eliminate
every weakness or disorder that may
attack it now or in the future.
Make the test described above, and if
it result in your finding any fallen hairs
or scurf-dust in your brush and comb,
then All up the coupon with this
article and forward it, together with 3d.
in stamris for postage, to the premises of
Mr. Edwards, the world-famous Royal
and Court Hair Specialist, and discoverer
of the well-known “ Harlene-for-t he-
Hair,” and “ Hair-Drill,” and you will at
once be sent, or presented with, a Free
Outfit for a Whole Week’s “ Harlene
Hair-Drill,” containing everything yon
require (including full instructions and a
seven days’ supply of Harlene) to elimi-
nate the hidden weakness that is under-mining your Hair, to stop
your Hair falling out or losing its colour, and to renew its_ strength,
vigour, and luxuriance. If at the end of the week you desire to con-
tinue the treatment (as you are pretty sure to do), you can obtain
further supplies of “Harlene” for “Hair-Drill” at any leading;
chemists’ or stores, or direct from the Edwards’ Harleun Co., 95 to
96, High Holborn, London. W.C., in Is., 2s. 6d„ and 4s. 6d. bottles.
CLEMENTS TONIC
IS
the best-known remedy for the cure of
Debility in Men and Anaemia in Women.
It is unequalled for the rapid and sure
cure of Insomnia, Brain-fag, Nervousness,
Hysteria, Stomach Ailments, Biliousness,
Bladder Irregularities & Sick Headache.
NO HOME SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
Mr. J. BLACKMORE, the well-known Sydney unbeaten athlete
and pugilist, speaks of this splendid invigorating medicine thus:
“Gentlemen.—My opinion of your medicine, ‘Clements Tonic,’ as an invigorator
for the nerves, for creating appetite and vital strength, Is that it is unequalled. I
speak from practical experience, for I have almost an unbeaten record, and several
times whilst training for my ring battles, most critical unless in the pink of con-
dltlon, I have judiciously used it with gratifying results. It preserves stamina, in-
creases nerve-strength and confidence, and is invaluable to all men, especially athletes.
1 recommend it because I know its health value, and of all medicines, at times necessary
to take, I regard it as the best for the nerves and blood.”
Witness—F. Fowler, J.P. (Signed) J. BLACKMORE.
All chemists and storekeepers sell Clements Tonic, price 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per
bottle. It is invaluable for all workers, athletes, housewives and business men.
For the creating of rich, good blood, making the nerves as strong as steel,
keeping the stomach healthy, the appetite keen, athletes can rely upon it.
It never fails as a restorative agent of sound health.
Manufactured
solely by
Send 6d. for Sample Packet of “ The Bulletin ” Post Cards.
214 George Street, Sydney.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.
[2


“ For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
&
•n
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
Mger’s
"Cherni Sectoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr
to anyone, on ten days*
highest grade HEAD
Coventry factory
approval, our
Coventry Flyers
at lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port In the World.
„ ACTIVE AGENTS
easily made. Write at once, usmg sufficient postage
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine. p
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ d.„ 2so LIVERPOOL.
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
DOCTOR
“ I suffered from night sweats,
great'weakness, pains in my
chest, and coughed up great
quantities of phlegm. The
doctor told me I had a pre-
disposition to
consumption,
and advised
SCOTT’S Emulsion. After
taking SCOTT’S for a short
time I felt quite strong and
well, and the same doctor said
my lungs were completely
IIIEREI
healed,
thanks to
SCOTT'S
SCOTT’S
Emulsion.” (Mrs.) Elizabeth
Windsor, 17 Thomas Street,
Camperdown,Sydney,N.S.W.,
1/9/08. Doctors order Scott’s
in preference to other emul-
sions because
experience
has shown
them that Scott’s saves life.
There is only one SCOTT’S
(with SCOTT’S “fishman”
pasted on the salmon-coloured
package) and it has been sa-
ving life for
33 years past.
This is why,
when you hear
the word “ emul-
sion” you always
think of the word
SCOTT’S. Of all
chemists and
dealers in medicines.
n
WHEN THE WIND BLOWS
from three or four directions at the same
time it is quite natural to expect coughs
and colds—these should not be left to run
their course, but should be treated promptly
by taking
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
This splendid remedy acts like a charm
and will cure the most persistent cough
or cold.
The cost is so small that it is foolish to endanger your lungs and
perhaps your life by allowing a cold to run on.
All Chemists and Medicine Vendors stock “ BONNINGTON’S IRISH
MOSS.” but see that you do not get a worthless imitation—insist on having
“ BONNINGTON’S.”
IN USE 45 YEARS.
BOTTLES 1/6 & 2/6 EACH.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
** OUR. JACK ** Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
P< GLASS
wk?:*
Halted mj*-K
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
HoHlek’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples - 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W,
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
BUST
DEVELOPMENT !
*
-a
Nature intended woman to possess a Bust
Measurement in proportion to her height.
Are you deficient ? Let us tell you
how FLESH-FOOD develops the bust
to normal and increases the weight.
Send 2d. Stamp for Full Particulars
and FREE SAMPLE of Treatment.
Falliere Flesh-Food Co.,
m Dept. 5, Linden Court, Sydney a
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Caeo, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Largo Bottles, ?£
WmiF, FOR FRK'F I,IST *
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
WOOBMILHE
HEELS
Relieve
Shock
i (lirtf 1 glad grandpa wears Rucker (tgels
WOOD-MILNE Rubber Keels have
revolutionised footwear. The old-
fashioned leather heel is rapidly
becoming obsolete. It is universally
recognised to-day that rubber is the
correct substance for boot-heels,
softens the shock of walking on hard
streets, and gives ease and vigour to the
walk. Moreover, Wood-Milne Rubber
lasts far longer than leather, and so
•prevents the boot from losing shape/”
2127
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped:—
w(<
Ml!
M
Kind’s, Queen’s, Fiddle,
Rat-Tail, Old English, Albany,
Qadroon and Fancy Patterns.
I'M
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
'•* 1 : :
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write for
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write tor our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6.000 Illustrations Post Free to any part ol the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Serfs.
To others, the careless, the idle, the wealth that
the warm earth yields
At the touch of the summer sun and the spring-
tide showers;
Ours is the ceaseless unrewarded labor of the fields,
The weary trail of the harrow and plough is
ours!
The sun that smiles through the morning roses,
waking the rich
To turn again to their pillows of idle ease,
Long ago led us forth to the furrow, the stack
and the ditch,
And the open wind-swept leas.
Shadows of evening that redden the flame in the
rich man’s grate,
Driving the bolt on his door where the crimson
curtains are drawn,
Sign us the path we follow, spiritless, slaves of
our Fate,
To our pauper ingles and dead fires, dull as we
left them at dawn.
If there be justice hereafter, then, pitiful, grant
us, ye gods,
That those who have bound us serfs to the end-
less hours of the land
May wander from dawn to dark, souls trampled
to clods.
From ashen fire to furrow—thus alone shall they
understand !
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
When Earth’s Last Picture is Painted.
When life’s last passion is faded, and our hearts
are withered and dried,
And the lips that we kissed are ashes, and the
girls that we loved have died,
We shall rest in the graves of Pagans—but,
dying, our lips shall smile,
If only our hearts remember the kiss of a sin
worth while.
Yes, you that were good shall be happy—shall sit
in your golden chair—
You never forgot your virtue in the night of a
girl’s dark hair;
Go, model your saints contented, who knew not a
heart at strife;
We are sick of the sound of sermons—at least, we
have lived our life !
It may be the Master shall praise you—it may be
the Master shall blame ;
But Pagans admit no Master, nor bow the knee to
the same;
You live in a painted picture, by passion and pain
unmoved ;
We die—but we found our heaven in the arms of
the girls we loved.
VICTORIA.
KETTLEDBUM.
The Milliner.
At eventide we often meet
Two strangers in a narrow street.
The windows stare in level rows,
No free bird sings, nor green leaf grows,
Save here and there a gutter-weed,
To emphasise the greater need.
A dreary street; I’m sick of it
But there’s a damsel opposite.
Her attic seems a goodly place ;
My window bears a sterner face.
Two pots of red geraniums fill
The desert of her window-sill.
Above, with caged desirous wings,
A tyrannous canary sings.
All day she sits and sews and chats
With bird and blossom—trimming hats.
As punctual as ten each night
She stands, a dream of pink and white,
Her hair a maze of linen knots,
And waters her geranium-pots.
Two strangers in a narrow street
We pass, two strangers when we meet.
It seems her level mind revolves
Around immutable resolves.
Her heart would seek a warmer fire
Had she the pinions of desire.
But toil hath banished love; these parts
Have petrified the gladdest hearts.
Her veins are clogged with needle-rust,
Her vision dimmed with feather-dust.
A needle is no use at all
To pick the lock of love’s wide hall.
Two strangers in a narrow street,
’Twere very strange did we not meet.
Her thoughtful eyes incurious yet
Would speak if first they could forget.
She solace seeks on Chapel Hill . . .
My soul is frankly pagan still.
To nibble love she would not dare,
Yet banquets on the altar-stair.
Illiberal the heart of her
That shuts out love, the comforter.
Though I should hate to make a fuss,
My heart grows daily mutinous;
A dull infinity of toil
Is barren of more worthy spoil.
’Tis strange such sweetness gains content
In hoarding thought while youth is spent.
Her tragedy is masked ; we meet,
Two strangers in a narrow street.
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING’S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
engaged for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
SI
inn
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “Th
Bulletin. ” Office
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
V. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
There are only two kinds of
; A ; • ' ' I ",*•. ■' *•/ C
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
I
(Australian made)
and others.
TABLE DECORATIONS.
We have a very complete range just now of Fine Quality Silverplated Centrepieces, Rose Bowls and Specimen
Vases, so if you would pick while the stock is at its best, you had better not delay. If you cannot call, write
for our Fine Art Illustrated Catalogue. , Sent to any address. We pay postage to any part of the Commonwealth.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney.
No. J5BB. —“New Design ” Silver
plated Rose Bowl, £l/7/6.
No. 365 A Fern Pot,
4|in., 18/6 ; 4fiii., 22/6 ; (Sin., 32/6
No. H 8949. —A 1 Quality Silverplated
Centre-piece. Price, £4.
No. JsS7.—Silverplnted
Sugar Shaker, 17/6.
No. H4BB. —Fluted, Chased,
and Silverplated Fern Pod,
4iin., 12/6.
No. F 6542. —Engraved
and ,Sil.verplated
Flower Vase. 6Jin.
high, 11/6.
No. GB3o3.—Very Handsome Flower and Fruit Centrepiece.
,No glass to break. A 1 Quality Silverplate on Nickel
Silver, £7/10/-
1 --1
No. JGlO. Magnificent Flower Centrepiece, A 1 Quality Silverplate,
■' with Chased Tops. Price, £5/5/-
No. JsBtj. Silverplnted
Sugrar Shaker, 13/6.
No. JSSS. —Smaller size,
10/6.
No. .jy37.—Ster-
ling- Silver Flower
Vase, 25/-
No. G 3159.— Sil-
verplated Flower
Vase, llin., 30/-
No. G4299.—Chased and Silverplated
Rose Bowl, £l/15/-
No. G4S9B. Small size Silverplated
Rose Bowl, 7/6.
No. G 2426. — Silverplated and Chased
Centrepiece, £5/5/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1548.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1909.
Price 6d.
A STREAK OF BAD LUCK.
(1) Last session; nearly caught the ’bus. (2) Next session; 'bus almost out of sight again.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Maomcod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin ivould oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bum.ktik,” is the proper
■superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
•officials. The person may not be there; the official
.always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
’The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The rigid to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Terse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, WOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications roill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
HIS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded■ without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
■transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bui,lutin' original humorous
tor other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
i merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
.any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
much artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Turn Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies «/Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High liolborn, London, ll’. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency<, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. g. a .—l sserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Lews Stores, Fort Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x lhin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
ffluTZ&'txllelz/Ti.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1909.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave a nd gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
finest Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
Thb Bullktin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence o-f
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
■for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
NEWEST DEVELOPMENTS OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
Prime Minister Deaicin has always been known
as an affable person of mild discourse and gentle
habits; but the affability to which he and his
Government attained last Thursday is beyond all
Alfred’s past records. A few weeks ago,
Gregory Wade, State Premier of N.S.W., tried
one more experiment to see just how far he could
go with impunity in his career of pompous insult
towards the Federal authority. In the matter of
the Australian capital he had so far carried every
point, and most men would have been satisfied ;
but Wade’s yearning to see if a humble
Deakin will stand being kicked just once more
seems insatiable. The Australian Parliament
had passed an Act fixing the capital where Wade
wanted it. The area was such as Wade con-
sidered reasonable. The Federal port was to he
where Wade desired, and the scrap of seashore
that the Commonwealth was to control at that
port was narrowed down till Wade felt satisfied
that it was small enough and mean enough. The
Australian Government had hired N.S.W. sur-
veyors to mark out the boundaries of the pro-
posed territory, and it was understood that after
deferential and sufficient consultation with Wade
that person showed no signs of disagreement, ob-
jection or cantankerousness. There was apparently
only one thing more to be done—the formal sur-
render of the scrap of territory by the N.S.W. State
Parliament. And then Wade apparently couldn’t
refrain from one more exhibition of his unspeak-
able importance, and one more attempt to see if
there was a shred of independence or self-respect
left to the Fused Ministry. He wanted to
find out if it was the Perfect Worm. When
submitting the proposals to the N.S.W. Legis-
lature he offhandedly reduced the area of the
proposed Federal territory, cut out a great
area of land and put in a different and a reduced
area in its stead, knocked out two of the streams
which have always been spoken of as part of the
possible water supply of the Federal city and
substituted others of which no one had previ-
ously heard, and otherwise altered the agreement
in a large general way off his own bat.
At this point anyone might have thought
that the Fused Government would have
said something. It might at least have been
expected to remark that it ought to have been
consulted, and that it wasn’t simply Wade’s
office-boy. But apparently it didn’t. On
Thursday night it introduced a Bill to
repeal the Act of last year—the one by
which the site was originally accepted,
largely on Wade’s dictation—and to accept the
new area which Wade has now laid out.
If the measure passes it will then be submitted to
the N.S.W. State Legislature, and when Wade
has made any other alterations he thinks fit, and
the Australian Parliament, by an amending Bill,
has accepted his new alterations, the matter will
begin to wear a comparatively settled aspect.
* « * *
The new arrangement takes out of the Federal
capital area most of the little bit of fertile country
which previous arrangements had left in it. It
also excises almost all the little population which
the area contained. It cuts it off from the
railway line. The great purposes of the
movement engineered by Carruthkrs, Wade and
the Sydney morning papers seem to be (1)
to have, if possible, a small obscure capital which
won’t overshadow Sydney or seriously compete
against it; and (2) to have the capital so close to
Sydney that, whether large or small, it will be
within the business radius of these same Sydney
morning papers and under their journalistic con-
trol. The Yassberrasite fills the bill in both respects.
It is a place which, when it stood by itself and was
called by its own name of Canberra, got
one vote in the House of Reps. But the idea
was struck of calling the place Yass-Canberra,
and throwing in, after a vague sort of fashion, a
great area of varied river and mountain and plain
out of which a capital site was to be chosen. And
then, when the great loose area had got a majority
of votes, and all sites outside it had been
eliminated, the real site finally narrowed down to
the same old despised Canberra after all. The
whole business is a striking example of what can
be done when a small minority of furiously earnest
political axe-grinders is on one side and a big dull
indifferent majority on the other. N.S.W. cared
so little about insisting on the capital being within
its borders that it gave a considerable majority for
the original Constitution Bill, under which the site
was left an open question. Sydney, as a whole,
cared so little about having tiie capital right up
against the office doorsteps of the Telegraph and
Herald and Evening News that it was impos-
sible to raise a single public meeting of protest
against the selection of Monaro. But the Sydney
papers invented a huge bogus public opinion on the
matter ; and many N.S.W. politicians, who knew
the alleged publicopinion to be wholly bogus, recog-
nised that they wanted the support and approba-
tion of these papers at election time, and brought
along their own votes and all those that they could
influence. And many other politicians reckoned
that the capital didn’t concern them, as it wouldn’t
be in their State in any case, and so they let
things slide. Thus, with one thing and another,
the despised Canberra, starting with one solitary
vote, is now the place on top. And Gregory
Wade, about the most utterly inefficient State
Premier in Australia, has dictated the details and
particulars and area and boundaries of the Federal
territory. And Alfred Deakin, once regarded
as Australia’s leading statesman, feeds respectfully
out of Wade’s hand.
* * * *
In fact, Alfred has become so respectful that
he doesn’t even ask what use there was in the
Australian Government appointing surveyors to
mark out a Federal territory when Wade throws
their report and decisions and recommendations
into the State waste paper basket and retixes
things himself. Deakin was always respectful,
but since he Fused he seems to have carried the
thing.to excess.
• * * *
The capital question has, in a great measure,
been allowed to go by default. Hardly anybody
except those who lived close to a possible site
have regarded it as seriously worth fighting for.
Yet it is a thousand times more important
than the Kidston-Bowman shindy, or the
Murray-Bent row, or the struggles of Verran
and Peake, or the occasionally wild proceedings
of Newton Moore. All these people will soon
be out of politics, and very soon after they will
be dead, while the Federal city may last and in-
fluence the fate of Australia for 10,000 years after
the last of them is dust. Of course, when it
was decided that it must be somewhere in
the comparatively well-peopled south-east corner
of Australia it lost many of its possi-
bilities ; but it isn’t too late to undo. even
that mistake. The selection of the capital
site might, do a great deal to decide the direc-
tion of future population movements, and on
that matter the whole fate of this country may
one day depend. For the building of a city and
the making of the necessary railway connec-
tions must, if the city is in a desirable
spot, start a flow of population towards the
new metropolis, and if the flow went where
it was most needed it might create the first
beginnings of a barrier which would one day dam
back the tide of Asiatic invasion. Again, if the
capital was placed where there was abundant
room for a great Federal experiment in the
public ownership of land, the result might
be an object lesson which would influence
the whole land system of Australia. And the
site will largely influence the future policy of
the Commonwealth in other respects. A capi-
tal where the Tory daily papers of Sydney can be
delivered in time for breakfast will be a place
with no great independent press of its own, but
dominated journalistically by State Rights and
Foreign-trade papers from outside; a place differ-
ently situated would grow a strong press of its
own —possibly a wholly Democratic press domin-
ated by large Australian ideas.
* * * *
Furthermore, the location of the capital means
votes —at times it may mean enough votes to turn
the scale of policy. The Labor men are cer-
tainly very regular in their attendance under all
circumstances, but many other members are not.
With the Parliament in Melbourne, Wise, the
Gippsland democrat, is generally there, while
Reid and Bruce Smith, the Sydney Tories, are
mostly not there. With a capital close up.to
Sydney Wise will probably be often away, while
Reid and B. Smith will be always on hand—a dif-
ference of three votes. And this is only one
instance. The planting of the capital close up to a
city which, with its environs, returns Wilks,
Reid, Liddell, Fuller, Johnson, Bowden,
Dugald Thomson, Bruce Smith, Cook, Henry
Willis and Motor-car Kelly must add enor-
mously to the effectiveness of the Tory 7 and
Foreign-trade vote. On the other hand, a capital
situated far from the haunts of these individuals
and also far from the clubs frequented by Agar
Wynne, Fairbairn, Knox of the Hat, Iceberg
Irvine and Robert Harper would enor-
mously increase the value of the Labor vote, for
the Labor member is almost always on the spot.
In fact, it would be possible to find a capital site
ten times more desirable in the national sense
than Canberra, which would not only lead to the
almost continual absence of half these prominent
1 Tory gentlemen, and the resignation of the other
half, but would also make it impossible to find
other Tories of equal standing and influence to
take their places. In time, when the new capital
had become a city with all the luxuries of civilisa-
tion, the Willy Kelly kind of member would
gladly return to it, but many things would
happen in the interim. The Federal capital
question may look a harmless, theoretical, aca-
demic sort of matter, but it is loaded. And it
isn’t merely loaded in one barrel either.
THE QUEENSLAND ELECTION AND
SOME SIDE ISSUES.
The Queensland State election has not panned
out so well as was hoped for, nor even so well as
was expected. The Labor party has gained four
seats or thereabouts, but it has gained them at
the expense of the wrong people, and the result is
that the, Kid-Philp Coalition has now, apparently,
a majority of nine and the Speaker, whereas in
the deceased Parliament it had only a majority of
one and the Speaker. It is the Middle party
which has gone. It consisted partly of members
who had been Laborites and who followed Kid-
ston when he was a Labor leader in a Coalition
Government,! and when he was Kidston and had
no visible prospect of becoming Phidston. Any
of the Independents who weren’t old Laborites
were old Liberals who had also followed Kidston
till he became Kid-Philp. This crowd hung on
too long when Kidston began to dabble with
the Phii.P iniquity, because it couldn’t believe
the thing was real; and when it drew out
it found itself an isolated and hopeless fragment.
It would have none of Philp, and the Labor
party would have none of it. Still it voted
steadily and honestly with Labor, getting little
thanks for so doing, and kept the Kid-Philp
majority down to one. Now it has mostly
vanished, and a lot of the intellect of the Queens-
land- Assembly has gone with it. Some of its
seats have gone to the Labor party and a few to
the Coalition Iniquity. So the Labor party,
though it is four votes stronger than it was, is
eight votes further from upsetting the Coalition
than it was. And if some of the four remaining
Independents decide to value their seats more
than their honor, and, being unable to get into
the Labor camp, resolve to go into the Coalition
camp, Labor will be even further from upsetting
the Kid-Philp combination. It looks somehow
like a lost opportunity. Labor has won
some seats, but it has only won the easy
seats, and the worst of the battle is yet to come.
It is fairly near to success, but if its opponents
sit tight and their constituents do the same it
might as well be 1000 miles away. Casual deser-
tions would soon settle the Kid-Philp combina-
tion as they did the Gillies-Deakin combine in
Victoria ; but then a party which slaughters the
deserters who come into its camp can’t expect to
be helped that way. This seems a pity. If the
glad hand was held out to the deserter the Labor
party might any day get the votes of sufficient
disappointed office-seekers to put it in power with
all the portfolios—or all the important ones—in
its own hands, and if it used that power in a way
which convinced the State of its ability it might
get enough votes of its own at next election to
keep it in power.
-*•***
But as the Labor party in every State dis-
courages the deserting politician who approaches
its outposts by night and whistles surreptitiously
to the sentinel, it has to depend entirely on its
prospect of making converts among the people—
that is to say, in the Queensland case, it has to
depend on its prospect of persuading the people
to put all the political authority into the hands of
a body of men not one of whom ever before saw a
portfolio save in the distance—or possibly at
close quarters for a day or two. There
isn’t one man in the prospective new Labor
Ministry who can say: “ See what I have
done”; all they can say is “See what we are
going to do.” And it is questionable whether the
Labor party, either in Queensland, N.S.W. or
Victoria, is tackling this very difficult proposition
in quite the best fashion. There seems to be too
much prominence given to whirling orators like
Joe Lesina and Tom Mann, who don't make
converts. They may be interesting speakers—in-
teresting in a way—when exhorting an audience
that is already solid for the cause and
doesn’t require either conversion or exhortation,
but if either of them were put up to address an
indifferent or semi\hostile or wholly hostile
audience he almost certainly wouldn’t gain a
single recruit. That type of man is great at
addressing those who don’t need to be addressed,
but at addressing those who do need to be
addressed he counts for nothing. In fact, he
counts for less than nothing, for when he speaks
to the believers, which he is very fond of doing,
he speaks to an audience which doesn’t care to
hear his sober arguments because they are its own
arguments which it already thoroughly under-
stands; therefore in order to keep his audience
amused with something new, he often goes
into loose diatribes which, when they appear in
print, only furnish arguments for his opponen s.
The kind of orator who resembles DANTON is or
no value in a war which is conducted at the ballot
box, where the result depends on securing e
support of the majority. Danton didn’t ca.re one
copper about securing the support of the majori y 9
all he wanted was to so inflame the courage of tne
minority that it would rush the majority with &
gun in its hand and wipe it off the face of the earth.
His eloquence had a fixed purpose ; he told the
community to break its chains, and when he haa
roused it sufficiently he created armies, ana
defeated his foreign enemies in the field, and sent
hostile politicians to the guillotine. 'lhe same
kind of language, when nothing more serious is
intended than the jostling of a policeman at
Broken Hill, leads nowhere except to discredit.
And a section of the Labor press suffers from the
same drawback as a number of the Labor oratois.
It only appeals to those who are already con-
verted. Outsiders no more read it than the
average Gentile reads the Hebrew Standard.
* * * *
Furthermore, the State Labor leaders in Par-
liament are often a disaster. There have been
Labor leaders who were deposed because they
truckled to the enemy and went back on their
programme ; but the writer knows of no case of a
Labor leader being deposed because he was lazy,
narrow-minded, incompetent, parochial, and a
man whose personality rather scared away .than
attracted new adherents. So long as he stuck to
the creed, his position has been secure. This mis-
taken loyalty has obtained for the party some
very unfortunate leaders—eminently respectable
men but unfortunate none the less.
Worst of all, the State Labor Party is almost
everywhere too conservative. It has a chance in
every State to be the real National and All-
Australian party, and to attract to its banner
everybody who is a whole-souled Nationalist and
a good Australian; and it usually throws the
chance away. In big Australian matters it
reaches out a great deal too much for the small,
parish-minded vote, and doesn’t get it because
Kidston and Wade and such people have
secured it already. There is hardly an item
in the State Labor programmes that a good Aus-
tralian could object to ; but many things that
good Australians put foremost in their creed
are left out through sheer indifference. On
the question of the reduction of the overgrown
N.S.W. State Legislature the local Labor party
was more conservative than some of its lory
opponents. On the question of the Federal capital
it was apparently as anxious to keep the Australian
metropolis within the sphere of influence of the
Sydney Anti-Labor morning press as the worst
Tory of them all. When the anti-borrowing
agitation raged, a few years ago, it was almost
driven to include in its policy a vague declaration
against excessive borrowing, but the thing was
such a mockery that the party’s own secretary
was allowed to scoff at it in the Assembly with
impunity. On the transcontinental railway ques-
tion, which is an all-Australian matter, the view
of the principal Queensland Labor organ seems to
be the same as that of Sayers and Chataway and
Sledger— that the line ought to be diverted into
itsown State regardless of consequences. When it
was shown that the stupendous public debts of
Australia could be gradually extinguished without
the process costing the working-man a penny, the
same paper was just as hostile as the Courier or the
Sydney Telegraph, only in a worse fashion. The
Tory papers professed to regard the scheme as
being a bad thing for capitalists and contrary to
the interests of the banks, and worked up a repu-
tation for erudition by discoursing learnedly
about the bogus dangers of it, while the attitude
of the Labor paper was rather that the class it
represented didn’t take any darned interest in
finance. In a country where the madness and
dishonesty of bygone Tory politicians have piled
up debts and deficits until finance has become one
of the greatest questions of the day, it is disastrous
for Labor to be represented by some of its own
organs as if it stood apart from this question, as
if it hardly cared to know good finance from bad,
and as if any old finance would do for it, the
matter being really of no importance. It is
almost a suggestion that if it gets to the Treasury
it will be even more reckless than Philp or Wade ;
yet if one can judge by the doings of such
Labor leaders as Price, Watson and Fisher, the
implied aspersion is quite unfounded. The atti-
tude can’t make many friends, and it is calculated
So lose a great many possible friends. For there
are many people who believe in honest finance.
They helped to put the Caeruthers-Wade push
into office in N.S.W. because of Carruthers’
fluent promises to almost, if not quite, abolish the
loan disease. They find they have been shame-
fully deceived, but they don’t vote for the local
Labor party because it doesn’t take the trouble
to promise that it won’t be as bad as Wade, or
that it won’t.be even worse.
■* w * *
It all seems a careless throwing away of
good votes and good advertisement. The
Federal Labor party has to be a party with
large national ‘ideas. It has to have fixed
views about the transfer and repayment of the
public debt, about the division of the Federal
tariff revenue, about the settlement of the Nor-
thern Territory (which will make an im-
migration policy necessary), about the two
transcontinental railways (it can’t take them
through every State), about defence and many
other things. It must have opinions on these
matters if it is ever to get office, and it has to rely
on its opinions on these and similar matters in
order to get votes. All the votes which the
Federal Labor party gets on these large issues the
State Labor party should get as well, together
with all that it can secure on purely local questions.
But the Federal party is wholly against borrow-
ing, and State parties refuse to even protest
against the maddest loan extravagance; the
Federal defence policy is scoffed at by certain
State peace advocates who want to leave this
country a prey to the first enemy who comes
along ; the Federal transcontinental railway policy
is met by State parties clamoring for purely
State interests; the scheme for the repay-
ment of the public debt which was fathered by
J. C. Watson and supported by many of his
Federal colleagues is denounced by a State Labor
paper as a “juggle”; State Labor leader
McGowen fights alongside the Tory Wade and
along with the Tory Herald and Telegraph on
the Federal capital question and the matter of
the division of the tariff revenue : and in many
other ways there is jealousy and disunion. The
party which elects the State Labor members is
the same party which elects the Federal Labor
members, or it ought to be the same ; but appa-
rently it is quite a different party, or else the
party speaks with two voices and has two
minds and two points of view. And this dis-
union can’t possibly make for success. W hen
the Federal end of the Labor movement preaches
Nationalism, and the State end preaches State
Frights, the case is no better than if one aspect
of it preached White Australia and the other
aspect preached nigger labor.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Senator Millen’s Federal Water Supply.
When Senator Millen was boosting the Federal
Capital Site Bill through the Senate he was
strong on the alleged abundance of water in the
Cotter for the supply of 250,000 people at 100
gallons a day, equal to a supply for 625,000 people
at Sydney’s rate of consumption—just as strong
as if the Federal Government’s specially-appointed
officers hadn’t estimated the Cotter as only equal
to the reliable supply of a population of 50,000.
There is something amazing about the respectful
fashion in which the Fused Government has
thrown its own officers’ figures overboard and
accepted in their stead those handed out by
Gregory Wade. Millen struck one bad snag in
the course of his proceedings. He was whooping
largely and loosely about the splendid Yassberra
water supply when Senator Russell brought
him down to . earth by asking the exact
rainfall at Queanbeyan—the nearest rainfall
station. Millen said he didn’t know, but he
was “sure it was very liberal.” It is a pity
Millen didn’t know, and considering how many
dozen times the official figures have been pub-
lished, it was also amazing. For his information
it may be mentioned that the average f ‘liberal”
rainfall at Queanbeyan is 23in., which is only 4in.
better than the very poorest rainfall in all the
coastal and tableland country of N.S.W., 25in.
less than the rainfall at Sydney, and 42in. less
than the fall at Kiandra, where some of the
affluents of the Snowy have their origin. And in
1902 the rainfall at Queanbeyan was down to llin.,
which was the lowest record in all the area in-
cluded in the Coastal District, the table-land and
the western slope—in fact, out of the 97 meteoro-
logical stations for which returns are given in the
N.S.W. “Statistical Register” for 1907 (pages
731-2) there were only 15 which had a worse rain-
fall in the dry year than the awful Queanbeyan,
and these 15 were places like Broken Hill, Menin-
die and Mount Hope in the howling west. These
are the official figures based on the records of
the N.S.W. Observatory and published by the
N.S.W. State Government’s own official. Yet
the Wade Administration has the gall to issue a
Parliamentary paper which says the “estimated
rainfall” about Canberra is from 35 to 37 inches.
The Capital and Its Influence on the
Transcontinental Railway.
There are more things hanging on to the question
of the Australian capital site than appear on the
mere surface of things—which remark is some-
thing of a platitude, for almost everything has
more hanging to it than appears. The selection
of the Yassberra site, and especially the humble
and polite adoption of State Premier Wade’s off-
hand and high-handed alterations upon the
original agreement re that site, constitute an
admission of the claim that N.S.W. should have a
voice in Federal affairs quite ap/.rt from, and in
addition to, the voice of its Federal members—
that Wade should be a sort of honorary Federal
Minister, and that the N.S.W. Assembly should
be regarded as a Species of supplementary
Federal House. Further, it is an admis-
sion of the Congested Population doctrine
—the doctrine that the fat pig should be
specially greased, and that because the County of
Cumberland, in which Sydney stands, is the most
densely peopled section of Australia, therefore the
new population which a Federal city will collect
should naturally be there also, or as near there as
possible. The clamor to make the transconti-
nental railway a semi-coastal line from Port
Darwin to Sydney will naturally gain weight just
hereabouts. For if the Federal capital should be
as close as possible to the most densely peopled
part of Australia, it is equally logical that the
transcontinental railway terminus should be there,
and that everything else should be there. Further-
more, a voice will arise to say that a line from
Port Darwin to Sydney would be practically a line
connecting the North with the biggest city and
seaport in Australia and with the Federal city
at the same time, and that no other possible ,
line could do so much connecting. In fact, one of
the great reasons for the clamor to have the capital
close to Sydney is that it may supply argument
for another clamor that the transcontinental rail-
way should end at Sydney in order to furnish
direct communication between the Northern Ter-
ritory and the capital. It having been practically
admitted in the Federal capital case that the
object of Federal public works is not to open up
new country but to add to the population where
it is already densest, it is difficult to see what can
be said against this new demand. Then Gregory
Wade having been already permitted to have the
loudest voice in the settlement of the Federal
capital, he and his State Parliament will naturally
expect to have the same sort of voice in the deci-
sion re the Federal railway, and there is no reason
to suppose that the affable Deakin will be more
strong-willed in one case than in the other.
So it is fairly possible that out of the Federal
capital question will, indirectly, come the
great smash which will postpone the settlement of
Australia’s most urgent national questions for
many years. For if the agreement with S. Aus-
tralia is altered, the new proposals must be sub-
mitted to the State Legislature at Adelaide. And
if the Ministry there isn’t so humble and respect-
ful as the Fused Government it may reject the
whole affair. Then there will be no transfer of
the Territory ; and no Federal transcontinental
railway to Port Augusta or Adelaide or Syd-
ney or the Federal capital, or any other
place. Also it is fairly certain that there
will be no transcontinental railway to Perth,
partly because that is included in the same agree-
ment, ,and partly because, if S. Australia has to
resume the construction of the Port Darwin line
out of its own slender resources, it will have no
money to spare with which to pay its share of
the cost of the western transcontinental. And
S. Australia holds the keys, both as re-
gards the northern line and the western one.
Further, if the agreement for the transfer of the
Territory falls through almost anything maj?
happen in the dim future—even a private laud-
grant railway or the return of the Territory to its
old status as a British Crown colony, with nigger
labor to follow. If Gregory Wade is to be
allowed to run Federal affairs on the lines of the
Congested Population policy in the large fashion
that lie now professes to do, all these things are
possible. Worse still, some of them are probable.
-
The Parson’s Dog.
“ Heilry HoRSECQ|iLAR ” writes
I see that an Adelaide parson, one Depledge-Svkes, has
been heaping flitter denunciations on this country tor its
White Australia, policy. A strange crowd are these
parsons. When they get started in real earnest on the
rights of the colored man they always say tha God made
the black and the brown and the yellow jusG as lie did
the white, and that it is therefore unchristian to refuse to
mix with these tints. As the parson wasn’t there at the
tithe he doesn t really know who made the colored races,
but that matter may pass. Assuming' that God made all
men, then it is equally certain that He made all sheep
and all dogs and all other animals. Yet Depledge-Sykes
cer tainly doesn’t believe in the free admission of
all dogs. He would probably scorn a mixture of dogs in
general. He wouldn’t own and be followed in the street
by a dog that was so shockingly mixed in its de-
scent as to be just dog, but no particular
kind of dog. Depledge-Sykes wouldn’t hesitate
to despise and reject the dog that God made
if it came to be a question of mixing up the pedigree of
his dog. If he owned a pure-bred and expensive New-
foundland slut, he wouldn’t breed from it and a Skye
terrier, however good the terrier was, and then match
the progeny with half a dozen other breeds. They might
all bp good breeds in themselves, and all the works of
JjtOD just like his own original animal; but if Depledge-
Sykes knows anything about dogs, he would shout
mongrel at the final result, and chase it off his door-
step. It is wonderful—really wonderful—how strong a
parson can be on the need for keeping the breed
of dogs or sheep or cows pure, and bow little he
cares for doing' the same with the breed of human
beings. The difference, apparently, is that the animal is
his own dog or cow or sheep, and if it becomes too much
of a hybrid he will lose money on it; but the other
mongrel isn t his human being, so he won’t lose money.
In fact he may gain money, for the mongrel, being in-
ferior, is usually cheap, therefore the mongrel man can
be obtained for low wages ; and it is worth while, in
some people s opinion, to adulterate the human race to
any extent in order to save a little in wages. A dog, on
the other hand, doesn’t get any wages, and as he becomes
unsaleable when mixed, the cash interests are all on the
side of racial purity. This fact seems to explain why
even the most violently pro-nigger parson will often,
reject the dog which God created with as much con-
tumely as if the animal had been built by the Devil. He?
knows which dog to reject, because dogs are of different,
sizes, shapes and colors. They were apparently made-
like that so that he would know which to reject. Men ara-
also made in different shapes and colors, so that each race,,
if it is wise, may know which to reject. Thus the Japanese
draws the line at intermarriage with the hairy Ainu, andl
Rev. Depledge-Sykes wouldn’t wed an aboriginal lady ©in
any Of course, it is asserted that the adnais-
sion of all kinds of niggers to the country is one thing
and intermarriage with them is another ; but, all the
same, it is safe to bet that if Parson Depledge-Sykes. has
a valuable pure-bred she-dog he doesn’t take any risks by
letting the dogs of all nations get into his gardens Im
fact there is many a parson who, if he keeps a valuable'
breed of white dogs, will furiously chase a
shabby, blackish-brown dog out of his garden, sand evem
beat it with bis umbrella, on the same dav that he per--
forms the marriage ceremony over a white girl 1 and a.
strange blackish-brown man. Still if Parson Depledge-
Sykes, or anyone like him, can point to a mixed black andl
brown and yellow and white community which hasn’t-
in termarried (or got mixed without intermarriage), orif he'
can show a pack of 14 different kinds of dog, or a herd of 141
different kinds of cattle, which didn’t lose its distinctive'
characteristics in the course of years j and if he can show
a nmlatto-cwm-yellow race anywhere which has been a*
great, elevating and improving influence in the world, on-
if he can produce a thoroughly mongrel dog which is-a.
desirable, high-priced, beneficial, uplifting sort of dog,,
then the case calls for reconsideration. But I for one'
never knew a black-labor parson who didn’t draw the 1
racial line rigidly as regards his dog, if he had a dog. Hie-
generally seemed to think a heap more of his dog tham
of his congregation. And considering what kind of senti-
ments the congregation allowed him to utter without a
word of protest, I thought a lot more of the dog alho-—iiff
it was any kind of a dog.
—
How Freetrade Killed a Natural Intaastrxt
A saddening death-notice appeared in the Mel-
bourne papers lately. It was in the “Sales by
Auction” column, and invited the public to line
up and bid for the plant and machinery of the
Standard White Lead Co., of Footscray. Up to
three years ago the co. was using its £35,000
worth of plant in turning out better white lead
than the imported stuff. The foreigners and
their agents adulterated and sold cheaper, but-
the genuine article still held its own. Then the-
importers proceeded to wipe out the Australian
article. When the co. started, pig lead was £ll a-
ton and white lead was £27 10s. The importers,
cut their price down to £25 a ton; but the Aus-
tralian co. still held on. Pig lead rose steadily
to £lB a ton, and ever as it rose the-
importers’ figure for white lead fell till
it got down to £23. That was a difference
of only £5 between the raw material and the im-
ported manufactured article; and either the-
foreign manufacturers or the Australian im-
porters were obviously selling at a loss. But
they were killing the Australian industry—the-
natural industry of the country where the lead is-
produced. The Foreign-traders and Freetrade-
Laborites in the Federal Parliament had fixedi
the duty on white lead at £1 a ton —a protection!
of about 4 per cent. —and when the last lot off
tariff revisers declined to give Australian manu-
facturers and Australian workmen a chance to-
live by raising the tariff to £5 or £lO a ton, the-
cotnpany had to shut up finally and sack its-
employees. That was over two years ago, and
mark the result—since then imported white lead,
has been steadily put up to £32 a ton, and is to-
day quoted at £29 10s. to £3O a ton, though-
pig lead now stands at but a little over
£l3. Does anyone want any stronger evi-
dence of the blastiferous" folly of a “ revenue-
tariff ” of that description? When a ring
of outsiders wants to secure control of the-
Australian market in some line where the indus-
try is either unprotected or insufficiently protectedi
it has two alternatives. It may buy the goodwill!
of the local businesses, supposing they are for sale,,
or it may spend the amount of the goodwill, or
part of it, in selling at a loss till it ruins the local
man, who generally can’t retaliate by attacking the-
enemy in his own market because the enemy’s
market is efficiently protected. There are four
reasons why it is more convenient to ruin the local
man than buy him out. (1) The process is often
cheaper. (2) While the invader is ruining the
big businesses which he wants to acquire he
is also incidentally ruining and clearing
out of the road any small competitors
in the same line who might otherwise be
troublesome later on, even competitors that-
he has overlooked and never heard of —in other
words, he is making a clean sweep. (3) If he
bought out his competitors, he would have to pay
current value for their plant, buildings and.
machinery in addition to paying for their good-
will, and then these assets must either be a heavy
loss to him or he must make use of them by manu-
facturing here at current wages ; whereas by the-
ruining process he doesn’t need to encumber him-
self with new factories and pay extra managers-
unless he likes, and if he does like he gets the
property at auction for a song. (4) If he bought
out his unprotected or insufficiently protected
competitors he couldn t proceed to recover in a
single year the amount paid for goodwill bv simply
doubling prices ; for if he tried such a thing new
competitors would spring up on the instant. But
when he has ruined his local competitors bv
underselling he can double Jiis prices and
recover his losses in a few months if he likes.
New competitors don't spring up, for they have
been terrorised by the fate of their predecessors
in the business—a fate which they perfectly well
know will be theirs also if they try to compete
against the importing ring. The only remedy in
such a case is to make the duty so sky high that
the process of freezing out the local manufacturer'
becomes too expensive, and the contract of keep-
ing him frozen out too large and risky.
The Flemington Insanity.
'Thus “ A Sheepman” :
A number of infuriated bucolics met in a Sydney hotel
last Saturday and hurled abuse at N.S.W. ; s imported
Railway Commissioner for his “ inability to provide
adequate transport for their stock.” One speaker
opined that “ the trouble was that the pas-
toral business had outgrown the railways.” (What
he meant, of course, was that it had out-
grown the capacity of the railways to drag its products
to Sydney—the only port of discharge permitted by the
Capital-bloating politicians whom his sort assist to
•elect.) Another concurred, and mentioned drearily
that “had the rolling stock been equal to the
•demand last year 5,000,000 sheep would have been
-saved. There were now 2,000,000 lambs in the
•country ready for export, and unless they were
landed by a certain date their value would be nil.” And
so on. And then someone blandly argued that “ the sole
necessity in the matter was the duplication of the rail-
way lines at the yards ” —which is the only panacea
offered to date by those who favor the maintenance of
the existing trucking system. It is equivalent to talking
of the Protector as the sole necessity for the defence of
all Australia.
There are two clamant necessities in this matter. One
is the immediate shifting of the saleyards to some
rational site (preferably to the State-owned one in
the neighborhood of the abattoirs); the other, the re-
modelling of the railway’ communication thereto. Flem-
ington is a cul desac. The sheep-laden trains run into it
and unload, and when they have unloaded they’ are
forced to back out again tne way they came. Later the
animals discharged by them are laboriously’ conveyed to
•their doom at Darling Harbor. This was a foolish arrange-
ment 30 y’ears ago ; to-day’, with countless thousands
>of truck sheep flitting across the State week bv week it is
’simply demented. Maoriland, with 21,000,000 of sheep,
or thereabouts, exports annually twice as many as N.S. W.,
which has 44,000,000 of the woolly quadrupeds; but
.Maoriland sends its sheep away from about eight ports,
■not from one. On the other hand, the export sheep trade
•of the Ma State is increasing prodigiously. When N.S.W.
gets to the same exporting proportion as M.L.,
and has four times as much animated mutton
as at the present time clamoring at the narrow gate of
the dead end which is its solitary saleyard, that which is
now chaos will become sheer h —II. In any State where
there is an effective S.P.C.A., and where the idea doesn’t
prevail that any horror is justified provided the horror is
connected, however remotely, with “ business,” the
present N.S.W. saleyard system would be knocked
violently on the head in short order if only on the score
of its ghastly inhumanity.
At the meeting above mentioned, one John Penny
said that he “had seen five lines of trucks full of
sheep standing a whole day at Flemington.” The writer
can go one better than this. He has seen sheep which
arrived at Flemington on a hot Saturday morning, stand
cooped up in trucks unfed and unwatered all that day,
all the following Sunday, and for so much of the next
day as elapsed before the slaughterer’s knife ended their
suffer ings. Even from the soullessly commercial viewpoint
this sort of thing isn’t worth while. It is not merely a crime
—it depreciates the value of propputy. What is urgently
needed is that the State should, without delay, take over
the saleyards business. One or more lines should be run
to the neighborhood of the abattoirs at Darling Harbor,
and these lines should be looped so that the trucks which
carry the stock there should not have to pile up
in Indian file waiting the remote chance to back
out when their burdens are unloaded, but should
be enabled to run clear away with the least possible delay
or congestion. The proposition is too self-evident for
argument. It is alleged, hopelessly, that Premier Wade
has committed himself in certain quarters against any
reform along these lines. It is no argument against the
scheme—only another argument re the undesirability of
Wade as Premier.
♦
When the Big Landlord Goes—An Example.
The evil done by the great landlord in blocking
the country’s progress has been frequently dilated
upon in a general way and convincingly enough.
Now and again the story gets into figures, and
then it is even more convincing. For instance,
Willaura (Vic.) was formerly a mere sheep-walk ;
but lately one or two estates thereabouts were cut
up into small holdings, and then the dead place
came to life, even like Lazauus scuffling out of
his tomb. The Railway Commissioners supply
these returns re the business done at the little
local railway-station, as an example of how things
have been moving since even a fragment of the
incubus was shifted:—
Annual Annual
Average, Average,
1899-1904. 1905-7909. Increase.
Passengers outward 2562 5,839 3,277
Wool (tons).. .. 392 399 7
Live stock (tons) .. 175 519 344
Other goods (tons) 5355 19,897 14,542.
Revenue .. .. £4812 £14,327 £9,5161
These are the results of a partial cutting up of the*
great adjacent estates ; if they were all cut up She-
revenue would probably be more like £40,000'
than £14,327. Yet even so far as the process has-
gone it has done wonders in a very few yeans
Closer settlement hasn’t diminished the wool p»o>-
duet in the least—in fact, wool has grown a little? "
and everything else has sprinted enormously. It.
is only necessary to consider how much the lamcll
can produce under sensible methods, and how-
little it did produce when the great landlord
pottered around in his miserable inefficiency
wasting golden opportunities, and then the vast-
ness of the blight becomes apparent. Roughly
speaking, it seems that the big land monopolies
are costing Victoria—judging by these results of
only five years’ work —more than half its possible
population, a good deal of its wool business, two-
thirds of its Cattle business, and two-thirds of its
railway revenue. And when Willaura has put in
another 10 years under the new order of things it;
will probably supply evidence that the big land-
lords are costing the country a great deal more!
even than the present figures indicate. Yet alii
that the big landlord gives Victoria in return for/
the ruin he has caused is the pleasure of seeing:
him hang around. He does the State the honor
to infest it and to be supercilious within its
borders, and that is really the whole lot.
Puritanical Legislation; Some Results.
Pkemier Wade’s legislation, which sought to
make of the luckless N.S.W. female who pursues.
the oldest of the professions a homeless outcast, is;
now close on a year old. It is significant that,
after adequate experience of it the two' classes;
that should know best—the doctors and the police!
—damn it with especial fervor. It does not appear
to have achieved any particular good, moral or
social, and the evil that has resulted from it sticks
out for the community to see from dawn to dusk,
and after. It is certain that the sinful woman
has not decreased in number. In fact, she has
become much more obvious than she was, for
the legislation which was devised to -make
her homeless has driven her to lead a
sort of restaurant or hotel or open-air life.
Public resorts which formerly never knew her, or
which only knew her as a belated customer, now
resound to her merry laughter. She pervades the
streets by day in a business capacity, so that the
virtuous ancient, on his way to his daily toil, is
liable to be publicly addressed by her and put to
shame before his fellows. Furthermore, the
somewhat less virtuous ancient finds himself re-
cognised, with embarrassing results, on trams, at
street corners and the like, far more frequently
than of yore. These are the least serious
aspects of the case. It is a dreary old fact
that the daughter of the city acts as a
sort of insurance on the morality of her
sisters who haven’t “ fallen.” Thus Scotland pays
for its frenzied CALViN-istic discouragement of
the Scarlet person with about the biggest illegiti-
mate birth-rate on earth, just as Germany -an',l
other Continental countries which view the sex pro-
blem in saner fashion are rewarded by a high aver-
age of feminine purity and a high ideal of “young
girl ” morality. Certain diseases have increased in
Sydney beyond all knowledge and out of the
recollection of the oldest medical inhabitant, since
Wade’s new laws for the forcible promulgation of
purity started to operate, and medicoes lay the
blame on the semi-professional army which has-
arisen on the ruins of the business of the former-
daughters of Rahab—an army which lacks both
the guile and the experience of the band which
preceded it. Another 12 months of the present-
regime should see the streets of Sydney approxi-
mating more or less nearly to those of London -
which are the most appalling for a moralist to
look upon in the world. It should place it, as a
disease centre, with the worst of the British sea-
port towns. And it should witness the coming
upon the town, in the partial and amateur sense
of many young women who, in other circum-
stances, would never have been led from the l
narrow path. In the circumstances, the thing
seems hardly worth while.
♦
The Bulletin has received this letter from Mel-
bourne re the Patent Act Amendment Bill:
Editor Bulletin,— We cannot understand the attitude
of shoe manufacturers who make out such a pitiful case
for perhaps the largest and most far-reaching machinery
company in the world.
It has been said that the case has not been known
where the arbitrary clauses of the United Shoe Machinery
Company’s leases have been enforced. This is not a fact,
as notes enclosed on case which recently came before the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council—the ease of the
U. S. M. Co. versus Brunet— will clearly show.
It is also said that manufacturers prefer to deal with
the U. S. M. Co. because they have found the outlay and
Dad’s Philanthropic Plan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All these ships are to remain under the control of the
Commonwealth during the time of peace, and are to
pass into Imperial control whenever required for war pur-
poses. ... As the Minister of Defence explains his
policy, the whole of our navy may be taken to the other
end of the world, should the British Admiralty so desire,
on the outbreak of war. If this be the real meaning of
the Defence scheme as expounded last night, then we
virtually increase our subsidy to the British navy from
£200,000 a year to £750,000 a year, and in return Great
Britain humors our vanity by permitting us to call the
ships we pay for an “ Australian unit.”— Melbourne Age.
I knew an old philanthropist, a farming man was
he,
Shrewd at a deal, but still withal a man of
charity.
He had three sons—three hefty lads—Josiah,
Jim and Joe,
And each of these had his own land, and made a
goodly show.
But still the farming methods of Josiah, Joe and
Jim
Distressed their good old parent and disturbed the
mind of him.
“These sons o’ mine appear to be a sight too
slow,” thought he ;
“They need a better class o’ stock and more
machinery.”
Wherefore this old philanthropist, this shrewd old
farming man,
He sat him down and pondered long, and th'*s
evolved a plan—
A simple scheme, beneficent, and calculated so
That it would guard the interests of Josiah, Jim
and Joe.
“ I have acquired,” reflected he, “ a lot of tillage
land—
Much more than I can work ; and my affairs get
out.of hand.
If I can but amalgamate their properties and
mine,
And call the whole the Empire Farm, the prospect
will be fine.
Then rose the good old farming man and called
his sons around,
And thus his philanthropic scheme did earnestly
expound :
“My sons, it grieves my heart to see you strug-
gling on the land ;
And I’ve decided, after thought, to lend a helping
hand.
“ You all have been good sons to me, and this is
my great plan :
We shall amalgamate the farms and work them as
one man.
But first you need machinery ; your methods are
too slow.
The cost of this will fall on you— Josiah, Jim and
Joe.
■“Josiah I’ll allow to buy a good, upstanding
team ; , ~
And Joe a separator, for there’s coin in milk and
cream ;
To Jim I give permission—lie’s a fav’rite son o’
mine—
To buy a brand new harvester of up-to-date
design.
“Josiah, he will feed the nags, and Joe can buy
some cows—
And these be privileges, mind, not ev’ry dad
allows—
While Jim can mind the harvester till harvest
comes around,
When you can fetch it, with the nags, and work
it on MT ground.
“ And, as Joe’s cows come into milk, he’ll fetch
i ’em up to me,
’Long with the separator; I will work it—do you
see ? ”
But, strange to say, they did not see—Josiah,
Jim nor Joe.
They said rude things that plunged their parent
into deepest woe.
They called him many ugly names, such as “ a
mean old man ” ;
And told him pretty plainly.their opinion of his
“plan.”
“ We’ll buy our harvesters,” said they, “ and work
’em on our own ;
And if you get hard-pressed—why, you can have
’em for a loan.”
'The poor old farmer bowed his head. “In-
gratitude ! ” he cried,
“And after all I’ve done for you, my offer is
denied !”
And dad, to-day, is forced to plough and harrow,
dig and sow,
For they were most ungrateful sons, Josiah, Jim
and Joe.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney:
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Adams' Tattersall's Hotel,
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS' CAFE.
loss too great where plant has been got outright, and that
the tender treatment of this powerful company, whose
system makes such a small outlay necessary, is preferable
to being your own boss.
Why drag in the public? They do not participate in
the U. S. M. Co.’s “ generous ” conditions. Internal com-
petition will look after the public.
The expansion of this company is due not to the un-
bounded satisfaction which it is claimed to have given,
but to the fact that it lias, until recentty, practically
controlled the shoe machinery output of the world.
The conditions to-day have made it possible for us to
build this factory, fitted up entirely with non-royalty
plant, mostly made in England and Australia, and not
one machine supplied by the U.S.M. Co., the whole being
ordered and bought outright, which we believe no other
shoe factory in Australia can say to-day, excepting, per-
haps, Messrs. Bedgqood and Co., of this city. This shows
the hold that the U. S. M. Co. has on the Australian shoe
manufacturing industry.
Some machines we wanted and could not buy. We
therefore employed our own mechanics and built in our
own machine shop, at 50 per cent, or so less than the
U. S. M. Co. would charge (if they did sell outright).
There is not one machine which the U. S. M. Co. con-
trols which could not be built in Australia to-day at 50
per cent, lower price, and there are many machinery
manufacturers in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide who
would jump at the opportunity if the field were thrown
open to them.
Eight years ago, before we were burnt out, and a good
many years before that, we were making shoes under
U. S. M. Co.’s royalty, and other tied-up conditions ; but,
knowing what it meant, we would never have gone into
the business again if we could not have owned every
machine in our factory.
We were about the first, if not the first, in Australia to
put in U. S. M. Co.’s royalty machines many years ago,
the first in Australia to use a non-royalty plant, and the
first and only factory to-day specialising in men’s welted
shoes, of which We will be making 1000 pairs a day before
this year closes.
If the manufacturers who went in that deputation had
one ounce of blood and determination, they could have
the U. S. M. Co. just where they want it, same as yours
truly,
The Marshall Shoe Company.
Some Westralian papers have been squealing at
The Bulletin because it lias been trying to get
that State to be honest and make its revenue equal
its expenditure; and they have been producing
figures to show that Westralia’s taxes per head are
the biggest in Australia. Just when the squeals
were loudest the sixth annual report of the State’s
big Goldfields Water Supply scheme came out;
and it contained these remarks :
Unless the yearly deficits are to be allowed to not only
continue but to largely increase, there is no other course
but to exact considerably larger contributions. .. . The
average price realised for the whole consumption through-
out the pumping system is under 4s. 2£d. . . . The average
cost has been over 6s. Id. for actual cash disbursements
and nearly 7s. 7d. if full depreciation is provided for.
To give out 7s. 7d. and get in 4s. 2£d. would be
bad enough, but even that isn’t the worst the
State that won’t pay its way has been guilty of.
Thus :
After making necessary allowance for the 60,000,000
gallons supplied for sluicing purposes at Is., 6d., the full
cost to the State of water consumed on the goldfields for
the past year amounts to about 7s. 3Jd. for actual dis-
bursements and to 9s. l£d. with provision for full depreci-
tion.
But instead of charging 9s. lid.-—the cost to
the State—the State has simply charged any-
thing from 4s. 9d. to ss. 3d. In other words,
it has only been collecting at the most 60
per cent, of the cost, and the other 40 per cent, or
more it has been presenting to the big mining, cos.
partly out of loans and partly out of general taxa-
tion. Naturally, under these circumstances, it
has had one deficit after the other ; yet instead of
blaming itself for the trouble, it has howled at the
Commonwealth, and its Speaker has expressed a
wish to boil Bigjohn Forrest in oil, or something
like that, for his share in getting the State to
come into the business. Westralian taxation may
be high, but a State which pays subsidies on this
scale to its rich mining companies needs even
higher taxation if the financial ship is going to
avoid the rocks.
The City Council of Sydney meets many
strange adventures in the course of its city improve-
ment work. Recently a pub in Engine-street was
resumed, and Mr. Publichouse demanded £4300
for the unexpired portion of her lease, etc., while
the brewers claimed £2363, because it was their
tied house. That meant a demand for £6663 on
account of one obscure pub, apart from the
value of the land and building. And this
was quite regardless of the facts (1) that the
license, which gave the pub its value, was a mere
annual affair and the people who granted it could
cut it off at any time; and (2) that the local
option movement makes the cutting off exceed-
ingly probable. The Council compromised by
giving the people concerned a 50 years’ lease at a
moderate rent of a much better site facing a new
street, so that they may continue beer-selling
under brighter auspices in the old locality. This
sort of episode is a commentary on the insanity of
trying to bring about closer settlement by buying
up big estates on the voluntary system instead of
compelling the owners to subdivide by the
graduated land-tax method. When the extra
price or bonus demanded for disturbance of a
dusty little pub in a back street is £6663, how
much above the actual value of the land is likely
to be charged for disturbing the owners of, say,
40,000,000 acres ?
♦
A battalion of Victorian bank directors, land
and finance company chiefs, and other big mort-
gagees called on Treasurer Watt last week to tell
him that the proposed land-tax—a trifling sort
of impost at most —would ruin them entirely.
Their chief trouble was the proposal to tax their
properties in the aggregate instead of separately ;
it meant that, instead of paying perhaps an eighth
of a penny in the £ on a few of the properties
they held, they would have to pay 3d. in the £ on
the lot. But Watt wasn’t impressed. He knew
the fact—that the big mortgage concern may be
just as great a curse to the State as the private
land monopolist, just as bad a hindrance to settle-
ment, just as great a danger to the country. Go
where you will round Melbourne you will see
vacant blocks, bush paddocks and unoccupied
holdings that have lain idle for years, and the
Oldest Inhabitant tells you—“ They are in the
hands of a bank.” The bank is waiting until in-
crease of settlement and enterprise on the part of
other people shall have given its land a value
which it has itself done absolutely nothing to earn.
If Mobray’s land-tax will break the banks of this
dangerous practice, and force them to lend their
money less on unproductive and more on pro-
ductive enterprises—such as manufactures—so
much the better for everybody.
♦
The elderly, respectable member of a Tory Upper
House is almost always solid on the fact that the
birth-rate is declining, and that the decline is a
dreadful circumstance. That is his precept; the
following is a fair example of his practice:—
GENERAL HOSPITAL, LAUNCESTON.
WANTED, HOUSE STEWARD.
. Applications from qualified Chemists for above
position will be received up to the 16th October.
Salary, £lOO per annum, with board and lodging.
Applicant must be unmarried, and furnish testi-
monials with application, addressed to
Hon. G. T. COLLINS, M.L.C.,
Chairman Board of Management,
Launceston.
And apropos of a recent powerful clerical pro-
nouncement on the same subject of the birth-rate,
The Bulletin has as yet received no explanation
of the following advt. which it printed in its issue
of August 12, and now reprints for the sake of
further publicity
NEWCASTLE CATHEDRAL.
VERGER WANTED FROM SEPTEMBER 1.
Duties, entire care and cleaning Cathedral, Hall, etc.
Wages 30s. weekly, fees and house.
Married man WITHOUT CHILDREN preferred.
Written application with copies of testimonials to
H. H. CLACK,
Bolton-street, Newcastle.
This paper doesn’t seek to be needlessly un-
pleasant. All it says is that such advertisements
offer a premium to celibacy, to “prevention,” to
abortion and to child-murder. All over the ad-
vertising columns of the daily press are dotted
just such incentives not only to the limitation,
but to the destruction of the birth-rate, and even
when it isn’t specified that the celibate or the
childless couple will be preferred the applicant
often finds, when he or she calls round, that the
preference is there all the same. The employer
of labor is generally a fairly affluent person, there-
fore they are, as a rule, fairly affluent persons
who insert this kind of advt. And curiously
enough, the people who are so shocked about the
declining birthrate are also, in almost every case,
fairly affluent persons.
In some respects, the Victorian House of Land-
lords is the worst Upper House in the Common-
wealth. It is full of pursy, ignorant, consequential
men like Manifold and Harwood. The moment
anything new is proposed these men begin to
breathe heavily through their whiskers, and look
with angry suspicion at the speaker. As a rule,
they do not understand the proposal; and that
makes them more alarmed and more suspicious
than ever. So, as soon as they get a chance, they
balance themselves on their feet and curse the
new idea. They are the men who use those
time-honored phrases: “the time is not ripe,”
“revolutionary proposals,” “repugnant to all
right-thinking persons,” and so on. A few
days ago John Weary sent them his
amending Electoral Bill. Owing to the drop-
ping out of the preferential voting clauses,
there is not much left in John’s Bill to look
at, but it turned out that there was still
plenty to scare the wits out of the Manifold and
Harwood type of councillor. As a matter of con-
venience, the ratepayers’ roll has for many years
been used as the basis of the State electoral roll.
Now that Victoria has adult suffrage this system
has become obsolete, more especially as the
Federal electoral department has its rolls com-
piled from a direct canvass of the electorates. So
John Weary proposed to drop the ratepayers’ roll
and follow the sensible Federal system. At once
the abolition of the ratepayers’ roll was seized on
by the Fats as a scandalous business. In a pained
and shocked tone Abbott and Melville spoke of
the proposal as a sort of wanton sacrilege, and
the whole House sighed in sympathy with them.
Apparently the ignorant old fossils look on the
ratepayers’ roll as Magna Charta, or something
equally important, and they expect that its aboli-
tion will end in the appearance of Tom Mann as
Premier.
“Syndicate” is a word that became very
popular with some of the Empire Commerce dele-
gates as soon as they started to inspect Victoria.
They saw that God’s own country wanted people,
and talked of supplying the needful. Syndicates
would do the trick, they said. They would buy
the land and sell it to settlers on deferred pay-
ments. ' They would also select the settlers and
arrange for their passages from the land of Bull.
Which shows how this paper and the average
Britisher differ in their estimation of the value of
syndicates. Apparently a Briton would create
a shindykit for almost anything, whereas this
paper would cremate one for almost nothing.
A Wesfcralian Leg. Council constituency
has resurrected journalist J. F. Cullen, who
dropped out of N.S.W. politics with much sud-
denness m 1894. That Parliament only began its
life in August; and in November Cullen found it
necessary to resign for the usual'reason, and when
he asked Willoughby (North Sydney) to sympa-
thise with him it elected E. M. Clark instead.
That Willoughby election was also about the last
appearance of Parkes s old Treasurer, J. F. Burns.
When he scored 86 votes he took it as a hint that
it was about time he quitted.
John Young, formerly one of Ernest
Giles’s exploring mates, has died in the West,
where Giles himself passed over a few years back.
Young had a mixed career altogether. He was one
of Earl Mayo’s escort when that Governor-General
of India was stabbed by a brown convict at the
Andaman Islands, in 1872. Two years afterwards
he came to Australia, and after doing his bit of
exploring, was exhibited to the Queen, the Czar of
Russia, and other bored people, and received the
Geographical Society’s medal. Later on he held
important offices in New York, but came again to
Westralia a few years back.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Flag Lieutenant.”
Her Majesty’s “ The King of Cadonia.”
Criterion “ The Taming of the Shrew.”
Palace “ Married to the Wrong Man.”
Tivoli* Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Catch of the Season.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
King’s “ The Great Rescue.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
The Asche-Brayton recital of “ Julius
Caesar” at Sydney Town Hall was a rare and
sombre show. The screens of black velvet 25ft.
high which constituted the background were
magnificently gloomy; they gave you the idea
that a giant had died and that you weren’t to
laugh. Cross limelights placed in the galleries
behind black velvet screens threw a radiance on
Caesar and his subjects when light was needed ;
when a scene was over and what was a street was
due to become an orchard or Caesar’s house, the
radiance was shut off for a minute or so in order
to let the imagination do its own scene-shifting.
Oscar Asche was the mighty Brutus of the show ;
he brought down the house time after time, and it
seemed as if he would also bring down the groaning
stage, so much did it creak beneath his tread. His
satisfying bass reached the most remote corners
of the great, crowded hall, and his sincerity and
strength appealed to an audience which had to
keep on apologising to itself for the Mark Antony
of lan Penny. Mark was distinctly trying; in
J. Caesar he was provided with a first-class body
to weep over, but he failed to convince most
people that he had quite forgotten his friend
Penny, or that he was really sorry for Caesar. In
the “Friends, Romans, countrymen” outburst
his short-range elocution left the folk in the back
of the edifice quite unenlightened as to the cause
of- his excitement. Some of them might have
gone away under the impression that he was an
auctioneer selling the body of Caesar for dissection.
Herbert Grimwood as Cassius wasn’t particularly
lean or hungry, and his eagerness when endeavor-
ing to rouse Brutus to the homicidal stage should
have caused suspicions as to his motives. As
played this time, Brutus had better grounds for
distrusting Cassius than had Caesar. Stage-
manager Fritz Russell looked the part of Caesar,
but there was more than a touch of melodrama in
his acting ; he stressed every line heavily, and
seemed to be oppressed with the greatness of the
character. The women of the piece took things
more easily and therefore more naturally. Lily
Brayton as Portia was gracious and womanly, and
her elocution was joyously clear and distinct.
Constance Robertson made a graceful Calphurnia.
Among the players of smaller parts, Elfrida
•piemen t (Lucius) deserves a word of praise.
“THE TAMING OF THE SHREW,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Petruchio (Oscar Asche).
“ P-P-Petruc.hio
is comiwj.” —
Biondello (R. F.
Anson).
“The Taming of the Shrew” proceeds
with much vigor at Sydney Criterion every
night bar'Sunday. It is an invaluable lesson to
citizens who chance to have taken Wimtnen’s
Leaguers to wife. Shakspeare’s no-breakfast cure
for uproarious females makes appeal as- much on
the score of economy as on that of effectiveness.
** * *
“The Tame Cat” is to be let out of its
bag again. At the Criterion next Saturday
afternoon this brilliant modern comedy by Arthur
H. Adams is once more to purr over the foot-
lights in aid of the Bush Nurses’ Association, and
it will pursue the wild mouse in the presence of
the Governor-General and Lady Dudley. “ The
Cat,” on its first appearance last year, attracted a
record house ; and the author has again and again
been asked to give it a second run on the roof.
But he waited till it was fully grown—that is to
say, till it had been reconstructed, pruned and
improved. “The Cat” was specially chosen by
Lady Dudley for the inauguration of her charity
fund. The cast is headed by Mrs. John Sandes,
and Messrs. G. Fletcher, Leslie Casey and G.
Sapsford, and Miss Hlsie Prince (who contributed
so much to the first performance) will again take
part. Mr. Casey, whose valet, Bobble, was so
clever a creation, relinquishes that part to appear
as the alleged hero. Cecil. This part was origin-
ally played by the author, but the author is wiser
now. He and Mr. Casey will share the stage
direction.
“ The Flag Lieutenant,” which was burnt
out of Her Majesty’s a while back, appeared again
at Sydney Royal on Saturday night. The play is
worth seeing a second time. Dicky Lascelles is a
type of hero that has not often been exploited on
any stage, and he is none the less convincing—and
hence interesting—for that. He is drawn from
inside information. His creators have had the
courage to postulate that the bravest of sailors,
the most charming of men —aye, an officer of
“the Yacht” itself—may stoop, in a moment
of weakness, to the furtive redistribution of
personalty which the eoarse-tongued law-
yer terms “embezzlement,” and which one
more often associates with underpaid and over-
married bank clerks than with bachelor R. N.
lieutenants. Messrs. Trevor and Drury are justi-
fied of their daring. The audience views Dicky’s
lapse with a lenient eye. After all. he isn’t found
out. And he “atones” by deeds of incredible
valor and chivalrous self-sacrifice. Setting aside
Lascelles’ financial laxity it is strange that his
type hasn’t been presented oftener in Service
plays. The elaborately futile and self-deprecia-
tory British officer (naval and military) who has
a certain amount in him at bottom, is as frequent
in real life as he is picturesque. The dramatic
possibilities that reside in the r6le of the amiable
ass who, in the moment of stress, rises up unex-
pectedly with squared jaw, flashing eyes and all
the other appurtenances of heroism, and does some-
thing very fine indeed, are plain to demonstration.
Another effective, if more conventional, character
is Major “Bill” Thesiger, the eternal type of
incompetent who has “no luck,” and who can’t
grasp the reason why.
* * * •
Thomas Kingston plays Lascelles with
more snap and humor than of yore. He looks the
part, acts with admirable restraint, and all round
makes a likely sort of Society tar. Cyril Mackay
is a thought wooden as Thesiger, but then it may
be fairly argued that the original Thesiger
was a wooden sort of person. Titheradge
is an incomparable old Admiral. There are two
new-comers to the cast—Miss Calvin (Viola Hood)
and Lewis Waller lan (General Gough-Bogle) and
both do well. The excellence of the remaining
characters has been remarked in a previous notice.
** * #
“The King of Cadonia ” abdicates finally
at 11 p.m. or thereabouts on Friday night next.
On Saturday the players at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) don the garb of old New York, and
appear in the play which has made Amurrka’s
city of sky-scrapers, ham barons, and Trust mag-
nates the famous place it is. Miss Dorothy Court
will be the Belle, and W. S. Percy purposes to
enact the Polite Lunatic.
m* * *
Matrimony has for mankind the same sort
of fascination as a precipice; people steal to the
edge to look over and fall in. Then the awful
account in the paper gives a thrill to the distant
reader who is unable to get to the fatal scene and
inspect it personally. The man who christened
the present Sydney Palace drama found this slab
of truth somewhere, and made the best use of it.
“Married to the Wrong Man” appeals to the
curiosity of all who are interested in matrimony ;
and as everyone is more or less interested and a
lot can’t restrain their curiosity, the Palace is a
very full house these nights. At the same time,
it is doubtful whether the Palace show makes
the best use of its opportunity. Many women
think they are married to the wrong man
but aren’t sure, and a drama which explained the
finer points by which the wrong man could be
identified in a doubtful case would fill a great
want. But the violent methods of melodrama
leave no room for finer points. In a general way,
if a woman has m irried a gorilla she knows that
she is wedded to the wrong ape; the matter is
obvious, and there is no disputed point for the
dramatist to clear up. Therefore, he merely
wastes time by harping on the subject no matter
how garishly he may harp.
** * *
The star film on view in Sydney just now
is a thriller, entitled “Dashed to Death,” at
Spencer’s Theatrescope at the Lyceum. Re-
cently, Spencer took his machine out to the
Alexandra Hospital for Children, and people who
wish to see how they can spend spare cash in a
proper way can get much valuable light thrown on
the subject at Spencer’s show. At the Glaciarium
West’s Pictures reveal the startling information
that the infamous Black Hand Society, which ter-
rorises the United States’ eastern seaboard, is in
reality a benevolent institution. A banker who has
grabbed the orphan’s talents is terrorised into
making restitution ; and there is no mention
made that the society charged the orphan any
commission either. Another entertaining item is;
the tale of the Cobbler who would be Caliph, and 1
suddenly obtaining his wish wasdriven dotty by the
conspiracies among the harem and was fain to go>
back to his trade. Asacobbler he had only one wife,
who lived mostly with her relatives ; and when he
got about 300 who lived permanently with him
one day was quite enough. The Bijou has a num-
ber of amusing films, but in the mass its pro-
gramme for this week is just about identical with
West’s.
Spencer’s Theatrescope has made a scoop
by securing the Australasian rights of Shackleton’s
films of his journey through Antarctica. They
will be exhibited on their own, with musical
effects, at Sydney Town Hall. At a private view
through the week, the writer saw another illusion
vanish. Hitherto he had been proud to belong to
the same race as the men who struggled through the
realms of everlasting ice to plant the British flag
furthest south ; and was inclined to take to drink
to celebrate the fact that an Australian, Professor
David, had actually planted the Empire flag on
the very tip of the southern Magnetic Pole.
But the pictures reveal a land of ghastly and
terrific aspect, and in the wilderness of snowy
glare the faces of the men appear black by sheer
force of contrast. They are silhouettes mov-
ing over the abomination of glarv desolation.
The reaching of the South Pole is not worth the
misery it entails. Peaceful, law-abiding penguins
are slaughtered for food. The poor little ponies
look out pathetically while being urged along, each
day’s dreary march over the glaring snow bring-
ing them one day nearer being turned into steaks.
When the ponies have all gone, one sees,
Shackleton and his men toiling along, dragging a,
sledge that runs not too lightly over the frozen
snow. The sledge is loaded up with provisions.
And the utter uselessness of it all smites
one in the intellect. The films are re-


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
■m BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years’ Reputation .
markably well done. The announcement that a
rival show will shortly produce Dr. Cook’s pictures
is going to carry the Arctic controversy into Aus-
tralia, for till this announcement was made no
one dreamed that Cook had taken a bioscope with
him, and how in thunder he managed to lug it
along when he and one Eskimo made that “dash
for the Pole ”is a mystery. He may have done
it, but writer has his doubts.
** * #
Lewisham Hospital is going to earn a
bit of dross on Tuesday (19th), when
a euchre party and dance will be given in the
Paddington Town Hall. Cards at 7.45 p.m. ;
supper at 10 p.m. ; dance at 10.30 p.m. And for
all this the price is only 2s. 6d. It seems a shame
to take so much for 30d. The Misses Asche are
hon. treasurers for the festivity, and Mrs. W. N.
Bull is the hon. sec. Mr. Oscar Asche and Miss Lily
Brayton have promised to dash along to the hall
in time to tread a measure in the dance half of the
programme.
** * *
In these days when no woman allows
herself to grow old, it is not a surprising thing
for aMa to get married in one act. Mr. J. C.
Lee’s “Marrying of Ma,” reproduced at the
Palace Theatre on Saturday afternoon by the
Playgoers’ Club, occupies three acts. Ma is coy
but the suitor is persistent, and the farcical
comedy went very well to a friendly house.
** * *
Mr. Laurance Phillip’s second recital, like
his first, went right to the hearts and brains of
the genuine music lovers —the ones who desire their
melody to be of the classic order, with music
made by masters and reproduced for them
by a masterly interpreter. The Philistine
whose ears almost grow whilst he is hearkening to
a giddy thing from musical comedy would not
abide the virtuosity of a Laurance Phillip even-
ing. He would go out whilst the pianist was in
the middle of a colossal tone-poem and look
for a hurdy-gurdy playing ragtime music.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli, which lately called itself
“ the home of the stars,” has no planets in stock
just now. Several new turns have lately whirled
on to the bill, but there is nothing of blinding
brilliance amongst them. Brown and Robertson,
two male duettists, the Dartos and Lottie Kay
are the fresh illuminants. Miss Athmore Grey is
still revolving in the Salome dance and creating a
serious Biblical atmosphere which has to be
dispelled by cheerful prancers like the Two Bells,
x red Bluett makes comic songs funny, and
sketch artists Blake and Granby also dispense
hilarity ; while Ronald George makes good music
out of several unlikely-looking instruments. The
Seals have another week or so in which to flop
before their season closes.
*# # *
Ip a week during which two shillings
would buy the best seat in any Adelaide theatre,
the most vivid features have been two shows at
the Town Hall—one a fine rendering of Elgar’s
“Dream of Gerontius,” the other a miscellaneous
display by the mercurial United States lads, just
back from a successful Westralian tour. Secure
at last from any dread of having to walk back to
Yankeeland, the young visitors are making
Adelaide P.-D. lively. The Allan Hamilton Co.
has now got the Royal going again with the old-
time but still stirring “In the Ranks,” and a quick-
change season is to follow.
** * *
After an absence of two years or there-
abouts, old friend Blandolt brought his co. back
to Melbourne notice last Saturday— not at the
Royal, where so many of his thrillers first saw the
limelight, but at the King’s, where he is to reign
in place of Billanderson for 10 weeks. A few
hundred people came too late to welcome him in
his new home— i.c., the standing-room was fully
applied for ere they arrived, and their money met
with a firm but polite refusal at the doors.
Which was the more encouraging to Bland,
because “The Great Rescue” was expected to
be the same amazing spectacle that brought his
Royal season to an end two years ago. As a
matter of fact, this is the amended version which
ran for many recent weeks in Sydney, and what
with the changes in the cast and the alterations
in the drama, the present show amounts to pretty
much of a novelty. Speaking very candidly, one
would say that “The Great Rescue,” even in its
improved form, is pardonable for the sake of its
scenery. It is a triumph of the late lamented John
Brunton. Beautiful spectacular effects are most
ingeniously produced, and as an entertainment
for the stone-deaf, Blandolt’s venture is admirable.
Considered as a drama of Australian mining in-
terest, and subjected to a crushing criticism,
“The Great Rescue” wouldn’t crush worth a
pennyweight to the ton. Nine-and-twenty names
appear on the bill, and of these 29 people the best
remembered of the former company are Bland
Holt (in a jaunty, middle-aged hero part), Arthur
Sty an, Harrie Ireland, Jennie Pollock, Max
Maxwell (who underlines too many of his words),
Brown, Harford, and Maurice Kemp. The new
names are Bessie Major, Muriel Dale, Leslie
Woods, Godfrey Cass, Frank Litton, etc.
Some of them are supposed to be taken seriously,
especially Woods, -who plays a sinful young cad
in a crude manner, and Cass, who straddles his
legs and squares his elbows with a view to im-
posing himself upon the audience as the weighty
first-born of “Lord Stafford, Earl of Bedford.'”
This widespread representative of Britain’s old
nobility wins the hand of Jennie Pollock in com-
petition with the crude young cad. Which, con-
sidering that Jennie is to receive £1,000,00()’from
her father to start housekeeping with, seems to
justify the anger of the rival claimant. The cap-
ture of a strapping girl and £1,000,000 by an
imported person who shoves the atmosphere
aside with his lordly limbs is an exasperating cir-
cumstance, anyhow. But, as was previously
remarked, the drama is pardonable on account of
its decorations.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the revival of “ Miss
Hook of Holland ” appears to be suffering some-
what from the after effects of the Shakspeare
boom. Bright absurdity, set to music, is just now
a weaker attraction than it was a while ago, but
the Feast of Gee Gee draweth nigh, and the'pub-
lic that got drunk on poetic drama will soon be
thirsty for beer and skittles as before. ‘‘ Hook ”
is sparkling beer and capital skittles. The
humor of the dialogue and the situations
? r , ™? sfc of them) is so easy and eccentric
that the mannerisms of the lady principals
sta,nd out conspicuously against the horizon, like
pelicans on a bare and level plain. Miss Orford
is s eemi n gly incapable of doing anything un-
affectedly, and in her obvious attempt to be viva-
cious she even labors to be unattractive. Miss
p w ;? n T . ose 1 " as pnly one kind of pose ; and Miss
. .. tnncoln (whose voice is not wearing well) is
inclined to be self-conscious in her style, and fin-
mcking in her enunciation. The heat and burden
or the Hook joke are borne by Brett, and
Oromwell with his suite of unemployed, and the
joyful chorus, whose principal duty'is to divert
!? a H® n^ 10n from the narrative when its lost,
abandoned character might otherwise exbite cen-
sure.
** # *
„ Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the story of
Cinderella, ’clothed in modern costume and an
atmosphere of Mayfair, is supplying a demand for
something different from ordinary musical comedy.
t.rnu™ 6 , s h o *' quite decided to enthuse over
Ihe Catch of the Season,” but the house was
crowded on the second Saturdav night of that
interesting novelty, and all the jokes which nobody
could miss were loudly recognised. Many other
jokes and a lot of pretty comedy points are less
obvious to the roaring multitude. Not until these
nave been caught on to will the latest Williamson
show be registered as an A 1 success. Meanwhile
the performance is acquiring a keener edge.
Cord Dundreary’s stutter needs further abbrevi-
atron ; also the drawing-room graces of the
Hibson Girls and other chorus members
of the Smart Set will bear considerable
toning down, or toning up. Nevertheless the
s ” o^. ta kes one’s fancy all the time. The Angela
of Miss Dango is a bright creation, whether dis-
cussing thick bread and butter with the Duke or
exploiting a phenomenal Irish brogue at the ball.
Ihe acrobatic ballet and Dundreary’s song earn
double encores, and the music, with MacCunn in
charge of the orchestra, is an improving asset.
Unfortunately the most truly humorous feature of
the first-night performance has been withdrawn
1 r on ? c ’ rcu^a C° n . in the interests of Loyalty. One
of the human illustrations to Duke Higginson’s
songof “ Fame ” was a bogus King Edward—not
robed in his stars and garters, but dressed in a
tweed suit, with race glassesslungoverhisshoulders.
u G moc k Edward was a fairly good imitation of
the real personage, but because he stood not more
than sft. sin. in his tan boots, and looked very
like a time-worn Hebrew who wanted dusting (as
old gentlemen at the races are apt to look) the
picture gave offence to Loyalty, it was said. So
good King Ned was cut out of the song. The
Bulletin misses him sorely.
* -* * *
Melba jare wells yet again in Melbourne Ex-
hibition Building next Saturdav night. The “ In-
flammatus” (with chorus), the Jewel Song, and the
mad scene from “Lucia,” will be submitted to a
public which is getting as familiar with
these numbers as it is with the opening
staves of “Gor’ Save.” Seats in the vice-
regal paddock itself are to be obtainable for a
mere 10s. 6d., and accommodation may be had
elsewhere for 55., and even for a paltry half-
crown. Constant practice is making of Melba, in
addition to her divine gift of song, an incompar-
able fareweller; and a record house is expected.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus will burst forth on Mel-
bourne again at the old spot—known nowadays as
Wirth’s Park—on Saturday (16th). In view of
the Mel bourne season, some new people and many
new things have been added to the show. The
Wirth’s announcements have ever been impres-
sive. This year they are thrilling as well as im-
pressive, and the circus will be expected to live
up to them. To prevent disappointment it should
be mentioned that the Earl Dudley who performs
unequalled feats in the arena is not the G.-G.
from Government House, but a gee-gee from the
Wirths’ stable.
* * * -M
The latest turns at Melbourne Opera
House are not adding any special lustre to a
bill which is strong only in variety and remark-
able merely for its dearth of dancing sisters. One
of the new-comers—Dolly Harmer—professes to
be a comedienne “of the Nellie Barren tvpe” ;
but the difference between her and the
bygone burlesque lady is almost as broad
as it is long. The other new-comer—
Bertha Sturt—is a comely vocalist, with a
voice of sombre sweetness. She seems re-
luctant to let it go. She sings slowlv, and gasps
a good deal the while. Also she is easily affected
by the words of her ditty, and when she gets to the
second verse of “Caller Herrin’” the expression
she puts into it is terribly sad. You feel that if
bonnie Scotch Bertha were to take on the
National Anthem she would break her heart.
“ Merry Andrew”: Premier Wade’s assur-
ance that the water supply at Canberra is “ prac-
tically permanent ” is a most important matter,
and may be expected to convert many unbelievers
in that heavenly spot into ardent advocates of it.
A “practically permanent” water supply is one
which is always there except in the dry time,
when it is most needed. I bought a farm with
that sort of water supply, so I know.
“ F.Q.” writes to the Religious Editor
Meandering round South Melbourne on the morning
after that suburb had won the football premiership, and
revelling in the holy calm that was broken only bv
certain swelled-headed persons who vainly besought Bun<>-
for just another pint of the dog that'bit them, I ran
against a tabernacle whereon was a sign stating that the
Rev. Mr. Passtheplate was about to discourse”on “The
Profanity of Job’s Wife.” There was no further informa-
tion vouchsafed—the sign didn’t mention who this man
Job was, or his wife’s maiden name, or whether she got
fined, or took it out, or what. Marvelling why so much
fuss should be made of Mrs. Job and her trifle of lano-ua°-e.
when all “ South ” had been full of it the night before” I
pondered a little, till presently a shopwalker stepped
from the tabernacle door and persuaded me inside. Then
I marvelled still more, for it appeared that this Jobess
had been dead quite a while—so long ago that In
Memoriarn notices had ceased to be inserted. In fact
even the language that the lady used ' was for-
gotten. So I passed out, wondering on the mysterious
ways of such as the Rev. Mr. Passtheplate. For they go
on picking useless and superfluous holes in the character
of a lady centuries after she is dead ; and yet they frown
fiercely upon you if you are honest enough to sav about
such as Bent the day after his death the very things they
themselves had been saying about him while he was
alive. Is it cowardice or cant, or what is it ’
AT POVERTY POINT.
Thomas Kinsrston introduces a touch of genuine real-
ism into “ The Flag Lieutenant ” by departing to engage
the Bashi-Bazouks of Crete with a double-barrelled shot-
gun. Of course the use of fowling-pieces is forbidden by
the law of Nations as between civilised white and white.
But there is an unwritten understanding that in regard to
niggers and a certain type of mean white any old weapon
may be employed. In the Tirah and Malakand campaigns
the choke barrel of a straight and truly held Purdy
was found most effective, time and again, against the
rash savage who, venturing too far from his mountain
fastness, projected his ebony cranium from behind a rock
and immediately stopped a full charge of No. 1 shot with
the same. The advantages of treating an enemy >vith a
shot-gun are : First, it is possible to aim with one of these
weapons in about a twentieth of the time it takes to aim
with a rifle , second, it is at least 20 times easier to score
with this brand of arm than with any other; third, and
most important in dealing with the untutored black
brother who is dangerous till quite dead, the human who
gets in front of a charge of shot is put out of action abso-
lutely and finally. The trained white soldier mostly
fights at long range, so the shot-gun wouldn’t be of much
avail against him even if it were allowed, but for the
class of uncivilised or semi-civilised warrior who leaps to
close quarters with strange howls it is quite invaluable.
“Jean S.”: To my thinking, Scene 1, Act II., of “ The
Catch of the Season ” aims too much color at the ob-
server. The scene is a din of yellow and gold. Pale
canary girls are poured on buttercup ditto; buttercup
ditto are spilt on cadmium similar ; while, as a back-
ground, there are the fanfares from the brassy curtains
hanging from the comedy pillars in the ducal ballroom.
I think that in the use of gold and yellow a stage manager
ought to exercise more prudence than prodigality. Yellow
is refined in limits, but in excess it starts to bray. As for
gold, it is the sort of stuff that you see on the frames of
hairdressers’ mirrors, surrounded by flies, a smell of
hair-wash, and the pegs on which customers hang their
hats while they are getting their hair amputated for 6d.
“ Spot Light ” : “ E.M.K.” errs (B. 7/10/’09) on the sub-
ject of Maoriland theatrical bookings. The J.C.W cos
have done well enough there. The Nellie Stewart'tour
was a big success. The Julius Knight combination found
the holding capacity of most of the theatres it showed in
all too small, and the “Merry Widow” folks did passi no-
well. It is true that the Maorilanders didn’t take
madly either to “ The Hypocrites” or to “Cinder-
ella, but that - isn’t to say they have gone off
their theatrical feed altogether. As to “a conference
of managers, with the object of excluding Ward’s islands
from their operations for two years,” I can vouch for it
that “The Firm ” won’t send any delegates. J.C.W. is
tearing too much money from the land where the nioa
died.
The religious editor sees red: The Asche-Bravton re-
cital of Julius Caisar ”at Sydney Town Hall was
a study in white, black, red and purple. The togas
and the limelight were white; the background was
clack ; Csesar’s main garment was purple; the
language and the sentiments were also purple : and the
blood was red. During my life I have witnessed 5942
plays and read 42,341 books about blood, bloodshed
purity of blood, nobility of blood, want of blood, eleva-
twn of blood ("Beware! my blood is up!’’) ; and blood
spilt, shed, squandered, borrowed, transfused and kept
pure. But in all these plays and books there wasn’t as
much as a drop of the fluid. People just babbled use-
lessly of blood, and you had to imagine it for yourself.
Oscar Asche, with a reputation as a great producer to
Keep up, actually produced blood—or something
which resembled it so closely that you could
have felt faint without much effort. After the
noble Romans had each perforated Caisar in turn,
they clustered round the fallen hero and fumbled
among the rich, purple robes. When they rose with real-
istic red smears on their bare sword-arms and resumed
then- conversation about blood, you felt that this was
indeed the real thing. The art of slaying—either in hot
or cold blood—was there. There was no scenery to
distract the eyes of the auditors ; for the time being the
actor was to them the only man in the world with the
only light in the world beating full upon him. The
attention of all simply must follow the beam of illumina-
tion, and whatever he said must be listened to. And if
under these circumstances, his elocution was deficient or
his mannerisms too pronounced, he simply cried out for
destruction; for the simple reason that it was almost
impossible for the audience to wrench its attention off
hup. Mark Antony’s self-satisfied smirk before the
frowning and imperious Cassar was sufficient to warrant a
court-martial at any minute. No self-respecting Imper-
ator of the Whole Darned Earth would have toler-
ated such conduct. Csssar objecting to respectful
Cassius on his left while M. Antony smiled
0,1 his right made both the illustrious Roman
and Shakspeare who wrote him appear as asses. And
neither of them were that. The trumpets that blared
whenever Caesar moved and the harp that the boy played
to Brutus were the only strains of music in the whole 2£
hours of utter solemnity. For the rest there were the
dead black background, the fine old purple speeches, the
white limelight and togas, and the good, red blood pro-
vided by the gigantic and beneficent Oscar Brutus Asche.
“ Ceph ” arises in mild protest: I reft this from B.
(7/10/’O9) in re “ The Catch of the Season ” : "Hiss Fanny
Dango is hardly so young and charming as the character
she plays, nor is her voice equal to the musical require-
ments." It seems to me to have been penned under con-
siderable of a misconception. The part which Fan Dango
is now playing was written originally for Ellaline Terriss !
Without delving into the subject of the latter lady’s pre-
cise age, I will say that I have been applauding her in-
terpretations of adult characters at intervals for the
past 20 years. On the London premiere of “ The Catch,”
Ellaline Terriss was ill, and Zena Dare (who is in the
early twenties) was substituted for her. But as soon
as the fascinating Ellaline got better, Miss Dare lost her
job, and it reverted to the convalescent—indicating,
amongst other things, that the author and management
didn’t consider maturity a bar in the r6le. The Dango
lady I know not, except from the wrong side of the foot-
lights ; but if she is 30 I will engage to eat the big
drum. As to the “ musical requirements ”of the part,
there aren’t any. It contains two catchy little ditties
wherein the melody is supplied by the orchestra, and the
lines are “spoken” (after the fashion of Lottie Sargent
as Melitza), and an innocuous little duet. It is what is
known in the profesh as a “ soubrette part.” How, one
of the chief characteristics of the normal soubrette is that
she can’t sing, and isn’t asked to. Ellaline Terriss liter-
ally doesn’t sing a note in any piece she plays in ; neither
does Zena Dare or any of the other leading British or
French soubrettes. And neither does Fan Dango.
It may be accepted as a musical-comedy axiom
that a dancer-actress never sings. These ladies,
and others of their type, look to make up by
their graceful prancings and their charm and the
perfection and numerousness and gleaming whiteness of
their grinders what they lack in vocal power and ability.
Of course, Fan Dango can’t sing, and she has no voice to
do it with if she knew how. But in her line she strikes
me as near the top of the arboreal vegetable. She is an
exquisite dancer, suggestive at times of her famous sister
at the latter’s best; she has charm ; and she is a dainty
and sound little actress. What more does the main role
in “ The Catch ” deserve or demand of any woman ?
Sydney’s newest “theatre”—a picture show—adver-
tises “Any seat in the house, 3d. ; children, Id.” You
can’t get it good for less.
“ Canopus’H: If there’s anything deader or more
mournful than a gone-bung amusement resort, I don’t
want to strike it. It’s more dead and mournful than a
cemetery in rainy weather. There’s one out at Bondi
(Sydney), wherein a depressing array of ragged amuse-
ment-device spectres flap their torn canvas in futile pro-
test at a forgetful world, what time the breeze hums
dirgefully through their tottering gimcrack frameworks
and broken glass panes, and the once gaudy paint fades
into a dingy monotone, and the ironwork gathers great
store of rust. Where a one-time carnivora and omnivora
collection used to rag'e, a strange foreign mixture of
'plant life has sprung up. The crops include lucerne,
cereals, nut plants, date palms, etc., and a heavy crop ot
scrub and weeds riots among the dbbris. The rabbit
hangs around, and the frog laments, and the water oozes
where the brass used to blare and the girl was accustomed
to be bugged. To help along the general gloom of things
a faithful watchman ever and anon tolls a -time bell
amongst the ruins as a summons to the crowd which isn’t
there, just the same as when it used to was before it
ceased to be.
“10-2-4”: Bland Holt, who disbands his co. at the
conclusion of his Melbourne season, is a victim at the
altar of the prevailing theatrical tendency to raise, or, at
the worst, keep up, existing prices. Wherever Bland
went he charged low rates, and it is a theory firmly
embedded in the minds of those who own or hire theatres
that if the public has paid a low price for one show,
it expects all other shows that appear at the same
place to charge similarly. This they think is bad for the
house and for costly shows in general. So Bland has
been deliberately “ frozen out” of all the big theatres.
He cannot book a date anywhere. When his forthcoming
two months at Melbourne King’s are sped, he will
be an actor-manager without a theatre or any prospect
of getting one. It is a pity. For one thing, Bland em-
ployed an army of mimes who, though competent in their
lines, will find it hard for the most part to get stage
billets with any producer of less flamboyant works. The
retirement of the famous melodramatist will also be
rough on a number of happy inoffensive folk who are not
exactly actors. The crowd of scene-shifters, limelight
experts and stage hands generally that will be unloosed
on the labor market doesn’t bear thinking about.
And, furthermore, there is the undoubted fact that
a big section of the plav-going public will suffer
by Bland’s retirement. He filled a well-defined
want. There is a class which doesn’t pretend to
appreciate either Shakspearian drama or comedy
or modern “society” plays, and which abhors musical
comedy. Its soul yearns for something meaty at a
moderate figure, and Bland was wont to supply the
goods. That these people represented an extensive por-
tion of the community the consistently big houses of the
mummer who is fleeing into private life indicated. Bland
is understood to be quite affluent enough to build a
theatre of his own if so disposed; but, seemingly, he
isn’t disposed. Whereat many a simple, blood-lovino-
citizen will find cause for grief in the near future.
A curious fact about “The King of Cadonia,” whose
reign ended on Friday night, is that the success of the
show—Lottie Sargent, who played Melitza—was in the
nature of an afterthought. She is the wife of baritone
Green. J.O.W. knew he wanted Green, but he wasn’t so
sure that Green’s spouse was indispensable. But Green
wouldn’t come without her, so she was engaged, and
within a week she had made so extremely good with the
crowd that blank wonderment was voiced broadcast that
her virtues hadn’t been recognised on an instant’s scrutiny.
JULIUS CESAR AX SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The giant screens of glossy black arose,
The pallid limelight beat upon the throne
Where smileless Caesar sat amid his foes,
With Casca darkly eyeing his backbone.
Then Casca, with wild hate and frenzj' drunk,
Drew from his robe his sword, and stopped the talk
By plunging it deep into Cajsar’s trunk,
Thus urging him to struggle up and walk
Straight at the other blades that ringed him round.
They ran him through without the least remorse,
Until he, writhing, fell upon the ground,
And turned into a perforated corse.
And there he bled (while undertakers who
Had come to see the play moaned on their chairs,
And from tail pockets black-edged kerchiefs.drew—
The same that they exhibit on the stairs,
When through the door the “ dear deceased ” is borne
With shuffling reverence unto the hearse,
Drawn by the pair of horses black, forlorn,
That look as if they fed on plumes—or worse).
Then there was further talk of Blood, and all
Knelt down around dead Caesar. When they rose
Their bare sword-arms were red ! (Down in the hall,
The undertaker breathed hard through his nose.)
“ I come to bury Caesar ! ” Who said that t
He didn’t , though ! He left him on his bier
And went behind to get a fireman’s hat,
While Antony, who wore a weary sneer,
Climbed up into the pulpit with a will,
And with sad smirks and sadder, wilder sneers
Requested unwashed Roman Jim and Bill
Once more to lend him their plebeian ears.
And so they did. Then into them he poured
The sentiments which Shakspeare has supplied ;
And Bill and Jim with honest fury roared ;
Also, when ordered, they broke down and cried.
Then came the interval with light and chat
Ere darkness fell once more, and all afraid
Looked fearfully at each proud Roman’s hat,
Saying, “ It is indeed the Fire Brigade ! ”
Superintendent Brutus unto Sparks—
(No ! Cassius, of course ! Forgive me, please !)
Spoke angrily in loud, indignant barks,
And tramped about in kilts which left his knees
Uncovered to the draughts that stole about,
Chilling each noble leg and waving arm.
Later they made it up, and Cass went out.
Then Brutus sat and waited the alarm.
And presently it came ! Did Brutus jump
Upon an engine and beseech a most
Tremendous horse to hurry towards a pump ?
He didn’t! Who the deuce would hose a ghost ?
“At Philippi ! ” The dread appointment made,
The shade glode off and vanished in the gloom ;
Superintendent Brutus, sore afraid,
Followed It heavily to learn his doom.
Right up to time, the Ghost—-half-soled and heeled—
Arrived and signed to Brutus that his life
Was wanted. So, relinquishing his shield,
Brutus knelt down and with his carving-knife
Destroyed himself. It needs but to be said
That Cassius, upon the self-same plain,
Compelled a prisoner to kill him dead ;
And ’twill be realised what grief and pain
Played havoc with the undertaker’s day ;
For all these great, uncoffined dead were dragged
By amateurish passers-by away
Who cared not how their burthens lolled and sagged
’Tis good enough for rapt Shakspearian
Enthusiasts untidy Death to cheer ;
The sad, light-stepping undertaker-man
Whose job it is to reverently steer
Departeds to the tomb such sights bewails,
And says they are demoralising. He
Contends that wood, a hammer and some nails
Essentials are for all eternity. <
N.S.W.
KODAK.


CUP MILLINERY
at the FRENCH CLOVE HOUSE
You want something: specially smart and
becoming: for Cup Week. It is not too soon
to decide about your hats now while we have
all thesa lovely models to choose from.
We import our models direct from Paris,
and always get the very latest ideas—the
v- ry latest innovations of the fashion world
from its very centre —so that you can depend
upon our goods bearing the stamp of La
Mode.
Many beautiful hats are described in our
new catalogue. Won’t you send for one ?
We will post it to you immediately upon
receiving your address.
We can supply you with all the dainty
accessories to your Cup toilette—Gloves,
Hosiery, Belts, Bags, Scarves, Combs and
Race Coats.
Send for ojr Spring: Catalogue.
AXTENS & CO.,
24-50 The Strand, Sydney
EDUCATION BY POST
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish ihe readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is.in noway connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the. results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ pome Study,” post free.
Only Address — Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street. Sydney.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Do You Know What You Miss
By not taking up Photo-
graphy as a Hobby ?
LET US TELL YOU
PHOTOGRAPHY is practically the only hobby that combines pure amuse-
ment, instruction, re-creation of the mental faculties, and, at the same
time, becomes a useful factor in Private and Public Life.
You not only derive keen pleasure from its practice Now, but in after years
your accumulated pictures become treasures to you for the memories they recall
of friends, scenes, and incidents long passed away—this is the experience of
Thousands who have taken up Photography.
There is absolutely No Excuse for neglecting this pastime, for a child can
readily understand it, now that Cameras are so simply worked and everything is
made easy ; and expense is annihilated, for you can obtain from us a Camera, to
hold six plates, for seven and sixpence ; or one for twelve plates for fourteen
shillings, or a guinea. The “Victor” No. 1 Magazine (twelve plates), or the
“Folding' Victor” No. 1, for thirty shillings. Outfits of Plates, Chemicals,
Papers and useful accessories can be had from five and sixpence upwards. In
any case, send us a card, and we will be only too pleased to give you all infor-
mation about photographic requirements.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
The Old Established & Reliable Photo. Material & Camera Merchants,
386 Georg'e Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
An incredible pedestrian turned up on a
steamer that arrived in Port Phillip Bay one day
lately. He said that, since the middle of 1905, he
had been trudging round the globe for a stake of
£20,000 put up by a Yankee millionaire—Ezekiel
P. Flapper or some such name—and had only to
plod to Sydney to claim the coin. He had origi-
nally set out from that city with three companions,
so he said ; but two had been assegaied in Central
Africa, while the other had succumbed to fever in
New Mexico. His tale further mentioned how he
climbed over Africa from the Cape to Cairo, and
killed niggers; how he swarmed through China
and slaughtered Boxers; how he met Ned VII.
and Kaiser Bill; and how he won the V.C. in
Chowth Africa by saving a gun under enormous
fire. About here a sort of silence fell on the com-
pany, and a faint vo ce like the breath of spring
remarked that it was a crowded life. Also the
feet of another faint voice were heard rushing to
the ship’s library to consult the list of V.C.’s in
Whitaker’s Almanac.
The building fashion of erecting a crane
on a high temporary platform in the centre of the
building space, and utilising it to hoist dressed
stones and swing tons of bricks across adjoining
roofs isn’t as popular as it used to be with the
general public. The man with the umpire’s
whistle who soars gracefully up on top of the load
and holds the chain carelessly with one hand,
doesn’t command the admiration of the passing
crowd any more. Since the smash in Pitt-street,
Sydney, last week, when a vast mass of chain,
timber and booms came down with a howl on to
the roadway, a lot of people look upon the ele-
vated person with positive aversion. They tell
their friends that he amounts to a public danger,
and that the possibility of being crushed into their
boots by li tons of bricks and 12st. of unionist
artisan haunts their dreams.
THE TYPEWRITER.
SOFT-HEARTED BACKBLOCK CLIENT (to lawyer) :
“ Ah, now that you mention the North Pole,
perhaps you wont think me so rude if I tell
you something I’ve bin wantin’ to say ever
since I saw you on Saturday; and that is
that you oughter buy that pore girl a stove.
Every time I come in I hear her teeth chat-
terin' mos' frightful! ”
“ Ah Hoss” ; The Chinese at Albury think
it was Harry Holland’s fault, or the fault of his
friends, that he had to do five months in the local
gaol. “He all li,” maintain the pigtails, “if he
play to Joss.” It seems that on the eve of the
trials some people visited the Chinese josshouse in
Albury, and, in a sportive mood, went through
the regulation petition to Joss on behalf of Mann,
Rosser and Lyons. The officiating pigtail an-
nounced in each case that the jury would acquit.
Holland’s name was mentioned, but by that time
the joke had grown wearisome, and no fee was
paid or petition offered on his behalf. In fact, a
remark was made to the effect that Joss was an
over-rated institution. “A 1 li,” said'the minis-
tering Chow ; “Hally go gaol.” And hb did.
DOCTOR (in a hurry): “ What’s the matter? Age? Married or single?”
DEAF Patient: “Sir?”
DOCTOR (louder): “Married or single man, and ivhat’s your complaint?”
PATIENT (dazed): “ Married, sir.”
The Bulletin receives this letter :
Sydney, Sept. 23, 1909.
Dear Sir, —As to the Vedanta movement throughout
the Western World, of which Sister Avabamia, who is
now lecturing at the Royal Chambers (3£ Castlereagh-
street, corner Hunter-street), is the colonial representa-
tive. I enclose a general outline of Vedanta, by Swami
Abhedananda, the present head of the Vedanta movement
throughout the Western World, successor to the late
Swami Vivekananda, who first introduced this teaching
(although it had existed for thousands of years in India)
to the Western World at the World’s Fair,'in Chicago,
Illinois, U.S.A., in 1893.
This letter is written to make clear what Vedanta is
and to remove an erroneous impression that many people
have that it is meant a philosophy, confined exclusively ,
to the sacred scriptures of India.
Entreating your favorable consideration of the enclosed,
I remain,
Very respectfully yours,
, J. S. Warner,
P.O. Box 1064.
This paper has struggled with “the
enclosed ” as if it was trying to tear
up a big tree by Jjandy and is very
little “ forrarder.” i The l document in-
cludes allusions to Veda, Rig-Veda,
Allah, Buddha, Brahma, Yoga, Kar-
ma Yoga, Bhakto Yoga, Raja Yoga,
Jnana Yoga, Krishna and sundries.
It seetns to set forth that Vedanta
is a sort of spiritual omnibus, with
room inside it for all the creeds; it
can swallow the lot and leave'them
to fight things out in its stomach.
The only thing it can’t swallow is
blank Indifference, and that animal
' —which is even bigger than Vedanta
—just sits down on the edge of the
pavement and laughs a horrid laugh
as it watches the spiritual omnibus
rqll away, with the fighting creeds squashing each
other’s hats inside all for the love of God.
, * * *
The Deputy Commissioner for Old-Age
Pensions in N.S.W. has handed the papers some
correspondence from a pensioner who says he can
not only live, but save money, on 10s. a week ;
and the marvel sends statements of account to
provp it. Here is one week’s outlay -
20th: Rent 25., milk Id. 21st: Milk Id, bread 3Jd.,
22nd : Morning paper Id, milk Id. 23rd : Tram fares 2d.,
paper Id. 24th: Milk Id,-bread 3£d., paper Id., sugar
2£d. 25th : Milk Id., paper Id.
So this sybarite rioted for six days on four
penn’orth of milk, two loaves of bread and a pound
of sugar. And here’s another week of wild
dissipation :
10th: Rent 25., matches 2d., raisins 3d., sardines 5d.,
peppermints 3d., meat pie Id. 11th : Bread milk
Id., methylated spirit 6d. 12th: Milk Id., bread l|d.,
sausage-meat ljd., beer and lunch 6d. 13th : Beer and
lunch 3d. milk Id. 14th : Milk Id., beer and lunch 3d.
15th : Milk 2d. 16th : Butter 6Jd., bread 3d., arrowroot
2Jd., tomatoes 3d.
Ever since old-age pensions came into existence,
the “ thrifty” pensioner who could live in luxury
on 10s. a week has been a popular myth among
certain people, and Capital has been shaking in
its shoes lest these bloated fellows might accumu-
late oof enough to knock down the rate of interest
on mortgages or make a corner in something.
“Briner” writes on a marine matter: —
A few notes on Krupp, from Cassell’s Magazine, just
to hand. In 1896 the Krupps leased the Germania Ship-
building and Engineering Works at Kiel, on the Baltic.
In 1902 they bought the place outright. They
have trebled its capacity. It has the finest ship-
building plant in the world. The Krupp combination,
land and sea, is the niost disturbing factor in naval con-
struction. The German Government advanced Krupps
£2,500,000. Between March, 1908, and March, 19,09,
Germany began nine Dreadnoughts. Krupps had shaken
its magic wand, calling forth the monsters. While such
marvels have been wrought on the Baltic, Krupps’inland
works have been so developed that their capacity in the
output of guns, mountings, turrets and other armament
material exceeded that of all the British factories put
together. In only 12 months their myriad of workers
has been increased by 38,000 men. Even three years
ago there were 184,000 people dependent on Krupps,
56,000 being skilled workmen. The number of workmen
and their dependents has increased to over 250,000. Essen
is brooded over by day with a great mantle of heavy grey
and black smoke, lowering like a thundercloud.
By night there gleams a fierce, blood-red . canopy.
Now listen to a speech bv McKenna, head of the
British Admiralty, delivered only two or three months ago:
“We do not know, as we thought we did, the pace of
German warship construction. There is an extraordi-
nary growth in the power of constructing ships of the
largest size. Two years ago Germany had scarcely a slip
capable of carrying a Dreadnought. Now there are 14,
and three more building. What is true of the hulls is
also true of the guns, armor and mountings. Two years
ago the possibility of Krupps and other great German
firms supplying the component parts of eight battleships
in a year would have seemed ridiculous. To-day it is a
realised fact.” The Edinburgh Review, this July, has a
tfenchant article on the British navy. It showed the
public distrust through miscalculations. For instance, ■
it was assumed by the naval authorities that Britain
would stand alone with the one mighty Dreadnought! .
That vessel would be a broom to sweep the seas. The
U.S. captain, Mahan, exposed the folly of this hypothesis.
Britain should have been content with thingsasthev were.
■** * *
The ink on Murray’s new Marriage Act
was hardlv dry before the measure put its paw on
a hasty bridegroom’s shoulder and gave him
lodgings. He called himself Ernest Elton, and
he transpired at the Rev. Mr. Hoskings’ manse
at Fitzroy one evening in company with the widow
Buck. They desired to be made one ; but the
rev. joiner explained that three days’ notice was
now necessary unless a J.P. gave them an order
showing that the joinery was urgent. Being in a
hurry, the pair sought the first J.P. adjacent;
but he declined to view the case as urgent. Also
he assured Elton that his application would look
more promising if he walked straighter. Elton
then took something to straighten his walk as
advised, and called on J.P. No. 2. No. 2 was
out;, but Elton presently invaded the Rev. Hosk-
ings’ again, and showed a permit. Hoskings,
however, noted that there was a discrepancy
about the alleged beak’s initials, and again de-
clined to do the job. Love’s ardor was somewhat
damped by now, but the lovers made another
attempt, and presently arrived with another per-
mit to marry, purporting to be signed by a fresh
J.P. Just there the Law came along and told
Elton that, as that particular J.P. was then out of
town, an explanation wouldn’t be out of the way.
Elton has since been invited to make his explana-
tion to a jury; and, meanwhile, Kathleen Buck is
still a widow.
“US” AT ’OME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were some things which might be indicated,
simple steps, perhaps, which would bring the colonies
more closely into union with ourselves. He would like
to offer to the colonies commissions in the army and
navy, appointments in the Indian Civil Service, and in
the corresponding African Consular Service, the appoint-
ments to be in proportion to the population of the differ-
ent colonies wjth that of the whole Empire. Every
colonist appointed would become a centre of Imperial
interest.— Lord Hugh Cecil, M.P.
Behold a Great Discovery !
■“ Us ” at Home have discovered him.
■“ Us ” —“ Us ”of Shoreditch, likewise of Poplar, Bethnal
Green, Wapping, Hoxton, Whitechapel, Stepney, the
Isle of Dogs, Hackney Wick, the Old Kent Road,
Limehouse, West Ham, Haggerston and Barking.
“Us !"
British Cheesemongerdom !
The British Empire !
WE have discovered him !
A New Leader!
A Statesman !
A Cecil!
He hath unfolded a Plan—a method of binding the
Hempire together.
Commissions in the Army and Navy !
Appointments in the Indian Civil Servioe ! !
Ditto in Africa! !!
These for the “ Colonist! ”
THESE !
Therefore let the “ Colonist ” rejoice, let him bash his hat
and blow upon a penny trumpet in his extremity of
mirth, and make a great tintinnabulation in the high
places.
Thus shall the Hempire be welded together.
Every “ Colonist ” a centre of Imperial interest.
On him shall rest the eye of Uncle Bill. And of Dad.
And Ma. And little Tommy. And the Smiffkinses !
Whoop !
Sops for the “Colonist.”
The pore blanky “ Colonist.”
He who grafteth in Australia.
He who laboreth in Canada.
He who perspireth in Chowth Africa.
He who buildeth .up the Hempire :
Sops !
This is the scheme of Cecil.
Fall down upon your faces, all ye who do dwell afar off—
ye whom we, the cheesemongers of the Hempire, do
graciously permit to exist.
This is our Hand.
Ye may kiss it.
Very reverently let the blanky Colonial receive this
boon !
Let him abase himself!
These are our gifts—
Appointments !
In proportion to the population of the different
“Colonies” with that of the whole Hempire—
A job in India,
Or a clerkship at Mandalay ;
Permission to sit down alongside of Kipling’s nigger—
This is the reward,
A guerdon for the colonist.
Exult!
We who have stayed at home, in our frowsy back lane,
sanding our sugar and industriously making shoddy
and mungo—especially mungo, which sounds better
than shoddy—we are It.
We direct the stars, how they shall move ; the earth, how
it shall revolve upon its axis.
We have found Cecil.
And Cecil hath discovered the scheme—the jewel without
price.
Therefore, kneel!
Be abased before “ Us.”
“US.”
“ Us ” at ’Ome!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
storm and wreckage impressions by
The recent Sunday gale that tried hard to drown half
the yachting population of Sydney was a desperately
sudden affair. I met it in the Lane Cove hills just after
it had given itself the order to charge and was sweeping
down the river on its way to the boat-covered harbor.
Black clouds skimmed over the edges of the hills like
smoke from a factory chimney, and the surface of the
river turned grey and wrinkled and old as the advance
guard of squalls fled across it. The artillery of the storm
boomed and rumbled and crashed far in the rear, and the
driven rain pelted on iron roofs like rifle fire. More and
more clouds swirled over the hills, and the racing
wind moaned and shook the trees with its hiud-legs and
skimmed along the troubled waters on its way to the battle.
The gale forces poured over the hills and swept down
faster and faster until the roar sounded like a regiment
of express trains doing a record run. After that it
started to die away evenly and rapidly until the whole
country side was quiet and tear-stained, like a girl just
recovered from hysterics. By that time the thermometer
had fallen downstairs 20 degrees, and the people who
had arrayed themselves in summer clothes were asking
each other wistfully when the next boat left for Sydney.
It departed with a loud, hissing shriek at 6.15, and on
the way down at intermediate wharves it picked up three
shivering boat-wrecked crews, dressed mostly in sweaters
of 10 different colors and rowing knickers which concluded
somewhere between the waist and the knees. It was night
by then ; an icy wind was blowing steadily, and the cold,
watery-looking moon made a track on the black tossing
waters which looked like broken ice. The boatwrecked
youths clustered as close as they 7 could to the engines of
the river steamer, and under the calm, unruffled electric-
light sang the usual sort of comic songs, calculated to
raise a blush on the most hardened hippopotamus. Now
and again they tried a patriotic ballad. By the time the
wet w'harves of Circular Quay were alongside they were
almost w'arm with blushes and patriotic ardor. At the
exit gate they managed to get quite hot. It appeared
they had gone sailing without much money, and the
little they had taken was hopelessly lost at the bottom of
the sea. So much they explained to the gatekeeper
in a chorus of shouts. The Private Enterprise gate-
keeper from the centre of the exit shouted back
at them that they had no right to get on
Private Enterprise ferries without cash, and reso-
lutely refused to allow them to escape. A riot
was threatening over the matter of 3s. passage-money,
when a boy was hurriedly despatched for something
which might have been Wade, the manager, a policeman
or the fire brigade. Everyone was shouting together as I
left to catch the Neutral Bay boat. And outside on the
footpath I met more half-nude and barefooted yachting
hoys, shivering and penniless, dodging homeward among
the spruce Sunday night crowd.- Then and there I regis-
tered a vow never to go out on the deep dressed in a
pirate’s cap, a sw'eater and running pants 2Jin. long. It
is a fearful costume to have to walk home in.


Some people wdl trade in anything—even
graves ! An enterprising Melbourne undertaker
has just been detected buying up odd lots of soil
in the Melbourne Cemetery and re-selling to the
relatives of tne departed. Mostly his price is
about four ti mes that demanded by the cemetery
trustees, so even in a graveyard there are plenty
of good openings for energetic men.
Women’s Labour Union.
One hoar of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
one hour alone of-’ labour per day she has
'he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlight way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the' rernbs, and you
will surely join the Women's Sunligtu
Labour U rvoi*.
BLOSSOM
F
'OLKS had ought to say
what they mean unless
they mean something they
hadn’t ought to say.” That’s a
fact, and we really mean what we
say when we tell vou CHERRY
BLOSSOM BOOT POLISH is
the best you can use. It’s easy
to apply, quick in polishing and
very economical.
Try it yourself and prove its
worth. Black and Tan tins at
3d-, and 6d. from most dealers.
Write us if you cannot get supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Btreet, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
••
Write for our New Catalogue.
The New-Shaped
PANAMAS
THAT style is a fleeting: thing: is
amply demonstrated by our
new season’s Panamas.' Vast
improvements have been made in
the plaiting-, shaping and color.
The plaiting shows much better
finish, being now absolutely perfect ;
in shape, the brims are somewhat
narrower and have a sharp turn up
edge, which is capable of grand shade-
giving qualities when turned down.
In brims we have all widths from
2£in. to 3£ln., and are prepared to
send anywhere in Australia, on
receipt of remittance, with particu-
lars of size of hat and width of btim
required.
Peapes’ Specialty
in Panamas,
211-
Other Prices—ls/6, 18/6, 25/-, 30/-,
35/- Posted 9d. Extra.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
That unconscious humorist, Archbishop
Clarke, was exceptionally funny when addressing
the Melbourne Anglican Synod on the painful
subject of what he would call illegitimately
religious marriage ceremonies. In 1908, he said,
more than one-fifth of all the marriages registered
in Victoria took place at matrimonial and adver-
tising agencies, where the licensed solemniser is a
mere flockless shepherd who ties the knot for a
few “ bob,” and lives on the game. “ The Courts
of Law,” remarked his Grace in gaiters, “were
constantly exhibiting the moral results of such
marriages.” How characteristic of Church argu-
ment is this confusion of cause and effect! Arch-
bishop Clarke professes to attribute the fre-
quent divorce result of cheap marriages to the
fact that they didn’t begin at “the altar”
instead of to the obvious fact that they were
marriages made in haste, often by people who
hardly knew each other, and that tuese people
went in for cheap marriages because they hadn’t
even saved up the price of a home and a little
furniture. In fact, the cheap and rapid marriage
is often a homeless marriage, and when the bride
and bridegroom go their several ways pending the
time when they will have a dwelling of their own,
or else start a cheap hash-tower life, the union
hasn’t sufficient cohesion to keep it together. And
the Arch, proceeded, with a perfectly straight
countenance, to propose that the Church should
meet the difficulty by providing cheap and hasty
marriage on'its own account.
A DISTINCTION WITH A DIFFERENCE.
He: “The conceited puppy! And you were en-
gaged to him before I asked you to be my
wife? ”
SHE: “No fear; he vas engaged to me.”
Port Adelaide is going to lose an old land-
mark— the 170 ft. chimney stack of the English and
Australian Copper Co., built in 1861, when the
Burra ore used to be brought down 100 miles by
bullock-waggon for treatment. The Burra is
pretty dead now, and Wallaroo and Moonta have
their own smelters. A quarter-million bricks
were brought from England to build that stack ;
and now the busy Hindmarsh brickfields are
within four miles of it. The stack has not smoked
for nearly 20 years, and wheat stores are pushing it
off the face of the earth. The only people who
will miss it will be sailors on the Gulf close by,
who have found it a very handy landmark. But
it is not singular in that respect. There is a little
old abandoned mine-chimney on a hill at Glen
Osmond, 10 miles from the sea, which gives a
ship’s bearings so usefully, when caught in line
with Adelaide G.P.O. tower, that the Marine
Board has taken it over and keeps it white-
washed.
* • * *
The Church is often fairly strong on the
theory that our colored brother and sister are our
equals and our fellow-creatures and the works of
God, just like ourselves; but it doesn’t make a
great success at living up to its creed. For
instance, the young woman whom the Rev.
Nicholas Hey, of the Mapoon Mission (Q.), tied
up and mercilessly flogged with a stingray’s tail
(he got another man to help him, apparently on
the ground that it took two strong men to
thoroughly flog a girl), and whom he afterwards
kept in chains for several days, was a half-caste. It
is safe to assume that if she had been all white even
the Rev. Nick wouldn’t have ventured to treat
her in such a fashion. And it is safe to assume
that the Presbytery which telegraphed Nick an
assurance of its unflinching confidence in him as a
man and a pastor, wouldn’t have dared to do such
a thing if he had tied up and flogged a white girl
in similar wise. The Church is apt to be very
much surprised and scandalised when the worker
draws the color line at the whole nigger, but it
seems to draw a very sharp line as regards the
nigger’s back, and at the same time it seems to be
blankly unconscious of the absurdity of its own
attitude.
* * * *
On Eight Hours Day a well-known and
almost historic pharmacy in Woolloomooloo (East
Sydney) blew up with a sudden curse. The roof
rose in two pieces, and then fell down burying the
men who were working in the pharmacy. The
front wall shot across the street; the back one
piled itself against some solid masonry ; another
wall went clean through an adjoining shop; and
the fourth wall, which was mostly glass, and not
wall, vanished quite, as the poet said. Tongues
of flame licked across the two streets which formed
the corner on which the pharmacy stood. In the
hotel opposite two barmen were injured, and every
ceiling in the place was wrecked. For yards
around the place was littered with fragments of
broken glass, and three shops looked like the base-
less fabric of a dream* It was Sydney’s record ex-
plosion. Into the piled-up heap of ruin that had
once been a chemistry dashed a man with bare
feet and rescued the pinned-down manager of the
plaoe, while his assistant was dragged out by
other men who wore boots. The manager has since
died. In the meanwhile, all Sydney is inquiring
how it happened. The manager’s story was that
he was boiling olive oil and camphor (to make what
is known as camphorated oil) over a kerosene
stove ; that the oil suddenly boiled over, and that
he knew no more till he awoke in the hospital.
It seems a remarkable way to make camphorated
oil, for if he was boiling the camphor in an open
vessel, as he said, the vaporised camphor would
pass into the atmosphere instead of into the oil,
where he wanted it. A plug of dynamite could
not have made a more thorough wreckage, and it
takes quite a stretch of imagination to conceive of
vaporised camphor, quite uncompressed, doing all
that mischief. Another theory is that, when the
oil boiled over, it ran into some enclosed space
wnere escaped gas had collected. But gas
that was not mixed with an equal quantity of air
would not explode ; neither would it have very
much force unless it was compressed to at least
two atmospheres. If it had mixed with the air
the smell must have been detected. In an ordi-
nary gas engine the mixture is compressed to
three atmospheres. The only feasible expla-
nation is that the manager was experimenting
with high explosives and unexpectedly made a
great discovery which, as he has since died, will
probably vanish with him ; or that he had some
benzine stored in the cellar, which was sunk into
something like solid rock. It is possible that the
benzine leaked and mixed with the air in the
cellar, which was just below where the deceased
was boiling the oil, and when the burning oil
reached it the cellar formed a cannon. And the
shop above was right on the mouth of that cannon.
-*« * «
“ J.’ ; —his discourse :
Curious the intellectual difference between the well-to-
do of Melbourne and Sydney. The advantage is all with
the Yarra-side cit3 r . Take the Oscar Asche shows. They
are emphatically worth while from a literary and artistic
view-point, and were rushed in Melbourne like mad, and
what was more, intelligently appraised. Here, the only
Asche show which has been presented to date (“The
Shrew ” to wit) has caused scant excitement amongst the
bulk of playgoers; and yet it is the one in which
this sbund company acquits itself most admirably.
What' is called the Society of the place has
stayed away (except on the first night, when vice-
regality attended) with remarkable unanimity, and the
bulge has been on the pleasing but utterly unimportant
“Cadonia.” Consider, again, the reception that was 1
accorded the incomparable Norman Lindsay picture
exhibition. Here is a black and white artist much of
whose work is unsurpassed by anyone now living. He is
the most genuine sort of local product—locallv born,
bred and educated. His fame is cosmopolitan ; the
critic of a Paris paper described his “Pollice Verso” the
other day as “the finest bit of black and white work
achieved by any English [sic] artist in half a century.”
And yet to his show came practically none of the pro-
fessional or leisured classes of the city—the people whom
one would naturally suppose to possess cultivated taste-
arid the sales were made, almost exclusively, to wealthy
traders and the like. The daily papers, reflecting the
views of the folks they most revere, praised the show
protestingly where aught but praise would have been
grotesque, and “crabbed” it hotly where any shadow of
an opportunity offered. In Melbourne, contrariwise
Society turned up at the show in droves. Governor Car-
michael, as fine a judge of a yood picture as Australia
holds, asked to be allowed to open it. People fell over
themselves to buy at the first figures asked. The papers
were unanimous as to the good thing that was in their
midst. The measure of Sydney’s artistic perceptiveness
may perhaps best be gauged by the fact that nine people
out of ten whom one meets labor under the delusion that
Lionel Lindsay’s cartoons in the Evening News are some
of the choicest samples of brother Norman’s pemvork
The Oldest Inhabitant continues his re-
marks concerning ancient pubs :
Pubs named the Grace Darling—mostly wharfsiders—
seem to have no luck. Years ago one near Adelaide was
first closed and then turned into a blind and deaf asylum;
and now the one in Harbor-street, Sydney, after being
turned into an open-all-night refuge for women, has been
resumed by the City
Council and is to
be demolished.
SYMPATHY.
“How selfish you are, George! If you hadn't
lost your money the poor bookmaker would.”
“ Moana ’’ writes ;
Par (B. l'.)/8/'O9) concerning the crafty individuals who
are evading the proclamation against the murderous-
sized wheat sack by importing the giant in pieces and
sewing it up in Australia, reminds me that Maoriland
biffed the big sack into outer darkness in one hit, without
fuss and in a whole-hearted manner. Last January, the
following railway notice appeared in the M.L. Gazette
“On and after February the first any sack of produce, of
any kind whatever, carried on the Maoriland rail-
ways, will be charged for at four times the
usual rate if it exceeds in weight 2001 b.” That
settled the whole thing. The farmer raged and
the Chamber of Fatmen roared, but the Minister of
Railways turned a deaf ear. Now the storm has sub-
sided and the big sack is no more. The old-size sack is
still used in some cases, but it is only filled to the 2001 b.
limit. If we make another change, it will be to the
cental bag, containing 1001 b., which is the handiest size
of all.
A Melbourne man has found out a way to
discover wrecks. Every ship is to carry two
aluminium buoys, fitted with mirrors, and charged
with some “electric fluid ” which would burn for
a month. One of the buoys is to be tethered to
the ship by a coil of wire, and the other is to be
a free and independent rover, fitted with a pocket
into which the captain is to every day drop particu-
lars of the ship’s whereabouts. The idea of the in-
ventor, E. H. W. Crossley, is
that the mirrors will flash by day
and the “ electric fluid” will be a
signal by night; and if a search
ship, or a ship that isn’t search-
ing, happens on either of the
two buoys it will know that
something has happened. At
present the Board of Trade com-
pels every British ship to carry a
rocket apparatus, but the man
behind the new idea reckons that
there are advantages in having a
light that would burn for a month
instead of one that will last only
a minute or two, and possibly
can’t be used at all if the disaster
is too sudden. How the thing
would work out when it was wanted
to work hasn’t apparently been de-
monstrated yet; but the Fitzroy
draughtsman who has hatched out
the idea has a sheaf of letters from
Lloyds’ surveyors and such-like tell-
ing him that it looks all right on
paper.
■fc * *
"‘Iota”: Dr. Springthorpe’s
recent outcry against haphazard
marriages swelled to a hoarse roar
the other day, when four members
of one family were received
into the Sunbury (Vic.) In-
sane Hospital. They were
the imbecile offspring of a de-
fective father. The pity of allowing mar-
riage when at least one of the parties
is mentally afflicted becomes a definite
menace when children of such marriages
arrive. Mentally-defective children are
usually the offspring of defective parents,
though phthisis and specific diseases also
play their part in'causation. To ensure a
healthy and strong race, no person afflicted
with any of the three troubles mentioned
should be allowed to marry. The need of
population is great, but the need of
healthy population is greater. We, in our
common-sense, reject the Chow and his
like that we may keep the race pure.
But the imbecile is equally undesirable.
His value as a member of the community
is nil; rather is he a burden and a poten-
tial evil. Dr. Springthorpe’s remarks
deserve to be repeated with numerous
foghorns, ’so that some of our sleepy
legislators may possibly awake to the
evil.
* m * *
‘ ‘ Maitai ”: Pakatoa Island, near the
Hauraki Gulf (M.L.), is given up wholly to an
inebriates’ retreat, which is run in accordance
with the policy of Booth, whose crowd is subsi-
dised by the Government to keep the business
going. Four convictions in nine months entitles
a man to 12 months, and in some cases to two
years, exile from beer, with special Sal’army
treatment. Although about 60 miles from the
nearest pub, the folk shelved at Pakatoa didn’t
forget their privileges when the licensing poll
came along ; and the result of the voting for pubs
or no pubs was encouraging—for Bung. Thirty
had hopes of again blowing the froth off a long,
’un ; nine hadn’t quite made up their minds;
whilst 12 swore by lemonade. From that it
doesn’t look as though incarceration at Pakatoa
does much injury to the prisoners’ taste for beer,
and the Government might seriously consider
whether it hadn’t better take the inebriate busi-
ness in hand itself.
. The Killjoys of the Kerristian World are
suffering the shock of a discovery that their patron
saint, John Wesley, used to lapse into secret cipher
when he wrote in his diary of his “ love affair”
with Sophia Hopkey. The cipher passages had
for four years been worrying a holy Methodist —
one Nehemiah Curnock—who published the stand-
ard edition of Wesley’s journal; but at last he
found the key to the secret, and now he is going
to tell the world some tilings which “throw new
light”oti thelifeof thelong-haired saint whocourted
Sophy when she wassingleand made himself piously
unpleasant to her after she married somebody else.
Thk Bulletin hopes that the new light is not less
beautiful than the light streaming upon John in
the well-known picture of his death-bed, or the
halo which plays about his head in so many
chapters of the history of Methodism. But a
cipher invites suspicion of unholiness in a
man who uses it for diary purposes. Consider
the case of the late and thoroughly naughty
Pepys. This recent elucidation of John’s
mystery reminds one further of how Armand
D’Arcay, in “A Village Priest,” unravelled the
meaning of the guilty cipher passages interlined
in a copy of “The Vicar of Wakefield,” by that
revered hypocrite, the late Judge D’Arcay. They
also were love passages.
AS IT APPEARS TO A PEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If a tariff was to be the only alternative (to the Budget
proposals), he would cease to defend the principles of
Freetrade.— Rosebery’s cabled speech.
What horrible threat is this, me Lud,
That falls with a dull and sickening thud
On the ears of the English nation ?
How it must tremble in dire alarm,
To learn that the aristocratic arm
You flung round the principle of Freetrade,
You will withdraw if you can’t evade
The Budget’s dire taxation !
And it—the Nation ? What WILL it do,
When, thanks to the efforts of men like you,
Its industries are protected?
Will it cast its dull and hopeless eyes,
Up to the leaden, commercial skies,
And shriek from the depths of a numb despair,
For the glorious “ cheap-loaf ’’ days that were
Ere Freetrade was rejected ?
Will it curse Lloyd George and his Budget Bill,
As having worked a tremendous ill,
In causing your disaffection ?
Or will it (as haply it may, me Lud),
When Protection has carried the day, me Lud,
Awake to say, as it doubtless will,
“ The Budget was great, but greater still
Is the principle of Protection ! ”
MAORILAND.
RING. S. CLARK.
TWENTY THOUSAND YEARS AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A prehistoric skeleton has been found in the post-
tertiary rocks in the Department of Dordogne, France,
dating back 20,000 years.— Cable item.
One, of course, is quite unable
To declare the yarn a fable,
Though the capers of the cable
Send some fables to and fro !
But it’s rather rough on Adam
And his apple-chewing madam,
If in fig-leaves others clad ’em
Twenty Thousand Years Ago !
Some iconoclastic scribe’ll
Have a further chance to libel
The compilers of the Bible,
Moses, Solomon and co. !
Since it quite destroys the glory
Of the Snake-and-Apple story
If mankind were tough and Tory
Twenty Thousand Years Ago !
Yes ! It really seems that Science,
With the Devil in alliance,
Sets Religion at defiance !
And one grieves it should be so !
And it makes one’s grief grow thicker,
Man distilling grapes for liquor,
Maybe “getting on the shikker”
Twenty Thousand Years Ago !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all coiners at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by —
Arthur Leplastrier & Co,, Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers fin-
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 h, and 1501 b. per square inch, by Rustcn
Proc+or, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR
BELTING
«£c/s
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mininsr purposes. Sole Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDICO
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
On the whole. State revenues continue to move
up ; and the outlook is good. It is much too early yet to
say what the next season is going to be ; but it has made
a promising start. The most awkward business trouble
ahead is the disposal of surplus live stock. The export
markets are already fully supplied ; and yet it isn’t safe
to carry the stock that is at present running on the
country. Big mobs must therefore be shifted ; if not,
then, given even a moderately dry summer, there will be
heavy losses—which, of course, will be put down to
drought, whereas they should be put down to overstock-
ing. In Queensland the trouble is getting acute, and
stockowners are incubating a co. whose business it will
be to find an outlet of some sort for the surplus. At
present, however, there are no serious troubles actually
pressing on any of the States, or, consequently, on any of
the Treasurers—the worst troubles are prospective.
Hence the revenue figures show up well:—
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Sept., July-Sept.,
1908. 1909.
N. S. Wales .. £3,141,684 £3,123,452 Dec. £18,232
Victoria .. 1,781,262 1,830,961 Inc. 49,699
Queensland .. 1,259,371 1,278,412 Inc. 19,041
S. Australia .. 773,369 778,790 Inq. 5,421
Westralia .. 701,657 744,212 Inc. 42,555
Tasmania .. 194,663 196,210 Inc. 1,547
Still, with hardly an exception, the outgoings are heavier
than they were a year ago. N. S. Wales, for instance,
spent over £3,000,000 of loan money last year on works;
and that means that about £llO,OOO a year' more has to he
got in merely to pay the extra interest bill. So far, how-
ever, from getting in anything extra, N. S. Wales has so
far collected less ; and the shrinkage is pretty general
throughout the departments. In Victoria the position
isn’t really a$ good as it looks in the comparison printed
above ; for the whole of the improvement and £12,996
besides has been due to larger refunds from the Common-
wealth, and those figures are not likely to be sustained.
Queensland railways are responsible for most of the
increase in that State. In S. Australia the improvement
is pretty general. No detailed figures are available as to
Westralia ; and in Tasmania there are no changes of any
consequence either way.
Expenditure figures are, as usual, very scarce :
State Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Sept., July-Sept.,
1908. 1909.
N. S. Wales .. £3,470,893 £3,519,341 Inc. £48,448
Queensland .. 744,262 750,554 Inc. 6,292
Westralia .. 771,243 760,919 Dec. 10,324
Westralia holds out some hope at last: there is a month
in which the revenue actually exceeded the expenditure.
So far, Newton Moore has done nothing really vigorous ;
yet he is stopping some of the drift. He is shaking up
the public service on the one hand, and is getting in a
trifle more revenue on the other. He lias, among other
things, cut into the huge subsidy granted to the big
mining cos. of Kalgoorlie, in the shape of water
supplied at tfar under cost price after allowing
for depreciation of works. At the end of the
first quarter in 1908 N. S. Wales had paid out £329,203
more than it had collected ; this year the totalis £395,889.
And the Loan expenditure is bounding along; £496,119
has been spent already, and there have been large pay-
ments out of revenue in anticipation of Loan votes. It
is pretty certain that the Loan expenditure is going to
exceed £3,000,000 again this year. The cry is that it is
good business, and the returns from railways, etc., for
the last four or five extra-prosperous years are relied
upon to prove it. AVade and Waddell never mention
that, in addition to what it has borrowed, their State has
received froin the sale of lands £55,000,000 or thereabouts.
Unless the w’hole of that vast amount of money has been
spent on things for which there is nothing whatever to
show, the public works of this State ought to be giving a
vast deal more than mere interest on the borrowed
money.
* * * *
Though it is an outrageously big borrower,
S. Australia has some good ideas about its debt. For a
start.it has to pay one-quarter per cent, on the total
public debt into a general sinking fund every year. It is
a poor trifle ; but it is better than nothing. Then under
the Surplus Revenue Act (1906) all surpluses have to go
the same way. A Treasurer can’t collar last year's sur-
plus and “ blew ” it in extra allowances, etc., this year.
Under that Aot £1,061,524 has been absorbed in
buying up the State’s 10 U’s. Unfortunately it
isn’t a proper sinking fund ; for most of it has
been used to pay off maturing loans. A proper
sipking fund would continue to grow. If the State
bOKjrowed from it, the State should pay interest on
the loan just as’ it would to any other Cohen ; and that
interest should be used to buy up more of the Treasury
bills, stock, etc., issued by the State. Further, Treasurer
Peake has now adopted the sound policy of paying off
out of revenue the cost of loan flotations and the dis-
counts, etc. ; last year £25,000 of revenue was used in
getting yid of this paper asset, and the same is
being done this year. Probably the public doesn’t
realise what these discounts," etc., amount to.
Here is a case. In N.S.W. last year loans amount-
ing to £5,212,393 were floated—£4,7so,ooo in London
and £462,393 in Sydney. That is to say, N.S.W.
undertook to pay back to the lenders £5,212,393.
Yet the total amount which it received was
only £4,920,820. Thus it must pay hack £291,573 more
than it actually received. Treasurer Peake, of S. Aus ,
says that that amount should be made good out of
revenue; and there is no doubt whatever that it should,
seeing that it isn’t represented by anything whatever in
the shape of assets.
* i
The S. Australian is one of the very few rail-
way departments which publish balance-sheets. The
N. S. Wales department doesn’t; and so the fact is care-
fully kept in the background that the railways of the Ma
State still owe the ordinary revenue a very large sum
vvhich has been drawn in the past in order to make up
the difference between earnings on the one side and work-
ing expenses and interest on the other. On June 30 last
this shortage in the N.S.W. railway accounts was
£3,241,352; but you won’t find that in the Railway
report, though you will find it mentioned in
the Auditor-General’s report. In S. Australia a
proper balance-sheet is published ever}’ year ; and this
shows that, as the result of the recent years of prosperity
in S. Aus., the deficit has now been reduced to £975,245.
The past 12 months’ record was ;
Earnings £1,639,258
Outgoings 1,440,779
Surplus .. .. £198,479
On the £14,157,245 spent on the lines that are open, the
net revenue (earnings, that is, in excess of working ex-
penses) amounted to £4 19s. 4d. per cent. ; which looks
very fine, and yet would have been about 7s. 6d. per cent,
better if the Broken Hill traffic hadn’t been interfered
with during the year. That Broken Hill traffic is mainly
responsible for the glitter of the S. Australian railway
figures ; for it is inexpensively handled, being practically
all through traffic —a full train is made up at one end and
emptied at the other ; and there is fair loading both
ways. But that traffic can’t last. Just lately it has been
swollen by the rush to use up the zinc tailings which have
been accumulating for years. And the mines themselves
rtiust have an end. S. Australia’s plain duty, therefore,
iS’ to go ahead, resist the constant call for reduced
freights, etc., and wipe off the outstanding railway deficit,
at the same time paying off corresponding debt, of
course, so as to reduce the interest bill. Then, when the
end of Broken Hilt docs come, the farmer and wool-
grower won’t have to pay interest on a quantity of debt
which isn’t represented by anything except paper and old
rails.
* * * *■
The South British Insurance Co. (Maori-
land): —
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £27,560 17i p.c = £11,310 £16,250 £197,082
1900.. 39,488 20 ~ ~ 12,926 26,562 223.644
1901 .. 36,976 22* „ „ 14,541 22,434 246,078
1902.. 44,896 25 „ ~ 16,157 28,739 274,517
1903.. 43,925 25 „ ,', 16,157 27,768 302,585
1904.. 75,532 30 „ ~ 19,388 56,144 358,729
£32,314 Reserves transferred to Capital 326,415
ioaa f 58,6.11 25 p.c. = 25,000 33,691 360,106
" (New Share Premiums .. 9,411 369,517
1906.. 72,103 27* p.c. = 27,500 44,603 414,120
1907 .. 48,121 30 „ ~ 30,000 18,121 432,241
1908.. 40,308 30 ~ ~ 30,000 10,SOS 442,549
1909.. 53,991 30 ~ „ 30,000 23,991 466,540
The gross profits for the year were £59,625. From that,
however, £3053 has been contributed to the officers’
superannuation and provident funds, and various small
items have been written off leaseholds and furniture,
reducing the total profit to the £53,991 shown above.
The reserves are as follows: Formal reserve fund,
£310,000 ; reinsurance reserve (which isn’t wholly a true
reserve, because it has to cover unexpired risks),
£130,000 ; investment fluctuation reserve (front which
£lO2l has been written off), £2Oll ; and undivided profit,
£24,529. The investment fluctuation reserve, of which
over a third has been wiped out during the year,
is now very small; and the poverty of this fund
at present sets one looking up the assets and
the return they give. Landed property stands at
£208,485 ; mortgages, £167,590. Furniture is valued in
the books at £5034 ; and the whole of the remain-
ing assets, totalling £285,031, consist of cash, public
securities, and other liquid items. What propor-
tion of the landed property and mortgages is held
in Maoriland there is no way of ascertaining. The chances
are that it is very considerable ; and the chances of a
shrinkage in values in that direction are also pretty,con-
siderable. Up to now, however, the interest return is
excellent. On the average of the money which may be
regarded as invested (excluding, that is, branch and current
account balances and a few small miscellaneous items like
furniture) last year’s interest and rent receipts were at the
rate of £5 13s. Bd. per cent.—a return which meanssevere
writing down hitherto, or very successful purchases in
the beginning, or risky securities ; and the last alterna-
tive is the least favored. Anyway, the assets which one
can judge look good enough. It is probable that the eo.
charges itself a high rental for its own premises,'which
would have the effect of producing a hig-h interest
return, and would also magnify the expense rate while
cutting down the apparent underwriting profit. * There
must be some such explanation for the high rate of
interest earnings, especially in view of the large
holding of fixed deposits and other low-interest bearing
assets.
The progress of this great co. is further shown
hereunder :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65-0 p.c. 24'0 p.c.
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60’3 „ 26’9 „
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60'4 ~ 277 ~
1907.. 333,131 218,314 92,032 65'5 „ 27'6 ~
1908.. 317,620 200,414 102,438 637 „ 32’2 „
1909.. 310,437 185,203 96,225 59'6 „ 30'9 „
The heavy expense rate in 1908 was due in part, no doubt,
to the change in the co.’s constitution. Up to then it
had been a 00. with an unlimited liability; but very
wisely the directors then decided to register as a limited
co. The paid capital is £lOO,OOO in 200,000 shares of 10s.,
liable for another £4 10s.—a liability which is no doubt
more comforting to the policy-holders than to the share-
holders, though the latter can get a long drink of consola-
tion out of the corpulent reserve funds. But apart alto-
gether from the uncalled capital the position from the
policy-holders’ point of view is very strong. The
size of the risks can only be judged by the size of the
premiums ; and for every £lOO of net premiums last year
the 00. has £l7l of funds in hand. Or put it another
way : Suppose next year’s premiums, interest earnings
and expenses to be the same as last year’s, then during
this year the co. could meet losses of £BlO,OOO, or £25,000
more than the total losses of the past four years. And
the reserves are being piled up rapidly. Last year
for the first time the interest earnings paid all of thedivi-
dend, leaving the whole of the underwriting profit to go
to reserve for the greater assurance of policy-holders.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne)
Dividends.
, ’ Writ- Nominal
Pref. Def. Ord. Total ten Re-
Julv, Profit. p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. Off. serves.
1900.. £18,554 7 7* 6 £11,300 £5,518 £1,741
1901.. 14,583 7 7* 4* 10,250 2,995 3,079
1902.. 10,414 7 7* 1 7,800 1,873 3,820
1903.. 17,304 7 7* Nil 7,100 7,860 6,164
1904.. 21,770 7 7* 5 10,600 8,661 8,673
1905.. 17,578 7 7* 5 13,200 3,712 9,339
19J0.. 26,131 7 7* 5 16,780 4,445 14,245
1907.. 35,301 7 7* 5* 18,210 11,056 20,280
1908.. 44,940 9 9* 9 25,120 7,500 32,600
1909.. 50,183 12*13 9 31,700 4,500 46,583
The capital was originally £170,000, in 80,000-7 per cent,
cumulative pref. shares, 20,000 7* per cent, rron-cuntu-
lative deferred shares, and 70,000 ordinaries. For their
Australasian patent rights the Dunlop people took the
70,000 ordinaries, the 20,000 noil-cumulative shares, and
£45,000 in cash ; total £135,000. The price of the good-
will was £125,000 ; for the other £lO,OOO the promoting
eo. supplied what plant, furniture, etc., it l ad. Subse-
quently other purchases were made, and other leases,
patent rights, etc., were secured; so the item now
stands —Goodwill, trade marks, patent rights, leases,
etc., at cost £151,240, less written off £13,716, £137,524.”
The goodwill items therefore probably stand now at about
£130,000. When reserves have been built up a bit higher,
the proper thing will, of course, be to wipe them out on
the one side and these goodwill items on the other, so
that nothing will be presented as assets which can’t be
handled. No doubt the right to the Dunlop patents,
etc., is very valuable— until something else comes along;
and when that something will come along no tnan can
tell. Competition is no doubt increasing all the time.
Tne only safe thing is to prepare for it by wiping
out all values that are not represented by substantial
assets.
The original capital was £170,000. But thisco.
had the luck to arrive just in time to share in the benefits
of Federation and Protection for Australian industries.
Promptly it became a great deal more than a
tyre-making concern. To get the money for the new
enterprises it issued 88,000 more cumulative preference
shares and 20,000 more ordin ,ries (100,000 more cumula-
tive pref. shares were authorised, but only 88,000 were
issued). The present capital is therefore £278,000. The
total debt to the public at present is £45,375. But the
liabilities vary considerably from time to time; the
total mainly depends on the size of the stock. Just now
the stock is smaller than usual; and so, consequently,
are the liabilities. Even now, however, the stock
is valued at £130,768; and with figures as big as
that it is obvious that the profits put forward
must necessarily be approximate only, for there are pos-
sibilities of large variations in the valuation of stocks of
this size and kind. Accepting the figures submitted, the
co. has had a wonderfully good time. And yet the ordi-
nary shares, carrying a 9 per cent, div., are quoted at
only just about par. Part of the explanation is that, in
the terms of the prospectus, these ordinary shares are
unlike most ordinary shares; for, while the prefs.’ divi-
dend can go up to any height, the ordinaries’ div. can’t
go beyond 9 per cent. But this point is worth noting :
the cumulative prefs. can’t get more than 7 per cent., and
the lion-cumulative prefs. can’t get more than 7* per
cent., until the ordinaries have had their 9 per cent, j" and
the 7 and 7* per cent. div. on the two lots of prefs. means
only £13,260. In other words, as soon as the net profits
allow the prefs. to get £13,260, the next £BlOO belongs to
ordinaries ; so that if the net profits total £21,360, there is
enough to pay the ordinaries their full 9 per cent.
* * * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co.
(Sydney)
Expenses Total
and Out-
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Deficit.
1899 .. £11,782 £5935 £4674 £10,609 £627
Assurance
Fund.
1900 .. 11,544 5164 4737 9,901 1,016
1901 .. 12,255 5517 5933 11.450 1,821
1902 .. 12,506 5019 6537 11,556 2,831
1903 .. 12,684 4454 6706 11,190 4,325
1904 .. 13,425 5273 6689 11,962 5,788
1905 .. 13,956 5467 7081 12,548 7,196
1906 .. 14,738 5871 7060 12,931 9,003
1907 .. 15,919 6291 7401 13,692 11,230
190 S .. 17,796 7041 5094 15,135 13,891
1909 .. 18,644 7418 8375 15,793 16,742
This little concern issues all sorts of out-of-the-way
policies; it covers ihe risks of death, accident and
disease, and struggles to combine the benefits of a
friendly society and an insurance office. It does also a
little Ordinary insurance business; but even in this
section it accepts policies for as little as £25. Of course,
under these circumstances the expenses are exceedingly
heavy. The Ordinary business is not distinguished froin
the other ; yet, lumping all together, the expense rate
averages nearly 10s. in the £ of total income :
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1902 ..£52 0 5 percent. I 1906 ..£47 18 Opercent.
1903 .. 52 17 5 „ 1907 .. 46 9 9 „
1904 .. 49 16 6 ~ 1908 .. 45 9 8 ~
1905 .. 50 14 9 ~ | 1909 .. 44 18 4 ~
The expenses include 5 per cent, dividend on share
capital (£4791); this capital, and a good deal of the
insurance fund also, is invested in Government securities.
No doubt this little bit of capital makes things a trifle
safer for the insurers ; but it practically boils down to
this —that the shareholders are getting 5 per cent, for
an investment in public securities which would other-
wise yield them 3f per cent., and it is possible
that they fnay get a good deal more some day. The
Bulletin doesn’t feel much inclination to throw even
half-a-brick at anybody who is familiarising the hack
streets with life insurance and accident and sickness insur-
ance ; but it makes this paper sad to see the back street
get only 10s. worth of actual insurance for £1 of its hard-
earned money. And yet this paper doesnlt. see how the
back street can get much more for its money until this
class of insurance is made compulsory and national.
The Tasmanian Farmers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd.:—
Dividends Profits
(6 p.c.) Left
and Oasii Written as Re-
July, Profits. Bonus. off. Capital, serves.
1900 .. £284 £172 £l5 £97
1901 .. 354 185 9 160
1902 .. 721 268 46 407
1903 .. 1011 375 108 528
Premiums on new shares, £8 .. .. £8
1904 .. 1096 609 129 ' 259 17
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. .. 77
1905 .. 1250 722 126 302 177
1906 .. 1679 966 56 264 670
Premiums on new shares, £9 .. .. 679
1907 .. 1355 238 66 930 700
1908 . 1506 999 122 86 999
1909 .. 14(59 1139 130 1199
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate only.
The amount of the bonus (6 per cent, on purchases) and
the dividend (6 per cent.) is estimated; and the usual
bonus of £5O to the staff nas been deducted from profits.
The unclaimed bonuses are accumulating, and are in-
cluded among the liabilities. If there isn’t one already
there ought to be some provision for clearing up this item.
In most concerns of this class bonuses which are not
claimed within the ensuing year lapse. Hitherto portion
of the bonus has been retained and used as capital;
but as the authorised capital of £6OOO has all
been subscribed, future bonuses will be paid in
cash, unless, of course, the capital is increased and
more shares are created. The co. owes the public
£5936; and it holds £5865 in stocks, £056 in cash,
and £3021 in book debts and bills, 'plough they were
growled about at the shareholders’ meeting, the outgoings
are distinctly reasonable; and provided the stocks are
valued right,"the position appears to be thoroughly sound.
Ballarat (Vic.) has its Co-operative Distribution
Society, Ltd., which has been at work now for 13 years.
It runs a grocery, boot shop, and bread factory—the
latter the most profitable of the branches—and is organ-
ised on fairly common lines. The shareholders are un-
limited in number ; the minimum holding is five shares,
and the maximum 200 shares. Interest at the rate of 5
per cent, is allowed on capital, which is apparently with-
drawable ; the bonus on purchases is called the dividend.
At the end of August the paid capital was £6925 ; pass-
books are issued to members, and the “dividend” maybe
transferred to capital at the member’s option. Twelve
months ago a “dividend” or bonus of 9d. in the £
on purchases was paid ; six months ago, nil ; for
the past half-year, is. 6d. in the £. For the half
year to the end of February the profit was £406, of which
£176 was written off to cover depreciation and £176 was
paid in interest to shareholders. For the past half-year
the profit was £993, of whicli £l7l was written off and
£155 was interest; and from the balance the “dividend”
or bonus on purchases is to be paid. The turnover is
much smaller than it ought to be—£Bs2B for the last six
months. Depreciation is well provided for out of profits ;
and there is also a reserve of £2015, in addition to any-
thing that may be left over from the' Profit and Loss
balance after payment of the bonus ; how much the latter
will call for isn’t mentioned. The society works almost
wholly on a cash basis ; its total debts to the public are
only £376, and its own hook debts are trifling. The
society’s progress hasn’t been rapid ; but its position
appears to be very sound and the management very
prudent.
* * * *
The chairman of the Australian Alliance Assur-
ance Co. told shareholders the other ilay that, even if the
co. wasn’t going to be swallowed by the London and Lan-
cashire, there would have been no dividend for the past
year. It is a pretty disgraceful confession to come from
the management of a concern which has had the chances
that the Australian Alliance has had. As already reported,
the L. and L. is to pay £lO,OOO for the goodwill ; hut as it
is also to take over risks as from August 30, and pay on all
losses reported after that date, really a trifle more than
£lO,OOO is to be paid for goodwill. In other words, the
L. and L. accepts the unexpired risks without collecting
any of the premiums. What price it is to pay for the assets
hasn’t yet been arrived at. The office held some insurance
on the Waratali ; and technically that vessel isn’t lost yet,
because a. vessel isn’t lost, from the marine-insurer’s
point of view, until it is posted missing at Lloyd’s.
When it is posied, the L. and L. will consequently
have to do the paying. If the old Australian
Alliance shareholders like, it is announced that
they can take shares in the London and Lancashire.
No doubt they can, seeing that the L. and L. shares are
quoted on the Stock Exchange. It isn’t mentioned,
though, that the co. undertakes to supply them at any
particular price. The last quotation for the shares, £2
10s. paid, was £23 ; and as the div. is 155., the return is
equal to about 3* per cent.* so the offer isn’t likely to be
rushed.
* * * *
“Floater”: Remarks upon the London and
Lancashire Fire Co.', in the “Wild Cat” lately, remind
me that i his concern is getting feverish in its fancy for
Australian businesses. Not so very many years ago it
licked up the fine, fat business of the National Co. of Aus-
tralasia, and has since taken over the thinner business of
the City Mutual Fire of Sydney. But it may be noted
incidentally that the L. and L. didn't gobble up the two
shows in quite the same way. The National was con-
sumed entirely ; but the City Mutual is being run as a
separate, subsidiary company. I felt quite convinced
that it was a subsidiary some time ago when I found that
its Melbourne address was 435 Collins-street, although it
occupied the same office as the L. and k.,
flourished its address as corner of Collins and Jtta
streets. At the same time I found that the distipprvxi
sub-manager of the L. and L. in Melbourne was display g
his autograph as manager for the City Mutual in thes _
city. Presumably the same procedure is occurring st ,
but I sincerely hope that it doesn’t get about. A* »
people might think that in giving their business to t
Australian City Mutual, they'were merely presenting
to the foreign London and Lancashire.
The Second Queen Building Society (Melb.),
formed about four years ago to take over the affairs o
ttie Queen Society,"lately decided to go out of business ,
and a liquidator is now in charge. The old Queen Share-
holders collected about £5570 in cash when that society
was wound up ; and the withdrawal of that money le
the new so-iety with only about £6500 of assets, which
are now being got rid of.
* * * *
The Vic. Labor leader has produced a Bill for
the appointment of a public trustee ; and Premier Murray
isn’t going to stand in the way of it. It ought to go
through the Assembly; but a serious accident may
happen to it when it gets to the Landlords, otm Pren-
dergast, can use an argument now which wasn t avail-
able till a couple of years ago—the British House of
Lords has passed a Bill creating a Public Trust Office,
and that it “supplied a long-felt want ” is clear
from the manner in which it has been rushed. Besides,
an office like this is wanted in every Australian State, not
only to act as trustee for private people, but to take
charge of public sinking and other funds ; and for that
purpose it’s more loudly called for in Victoria than in any
other State, because the practice of collaring public trust
funds has developed there into a habit. Three years or
so back, for example, it was decided that railway sur-
pluses were to he set aside for a special purpose, and
were not to be collared and turned into ordinary
revenue ; but already Murray and Watt have torn that
provision to rags, and have grabbed last year’s railway
surplus, and intend to grab this year's. If there were a
public trustee, independent enough to give vigorous
back-talk to the strongest Government, this kind of
juggle would come to a full stop.
In the last three months the Zinc Corporation,
Broken Hill, has produced 22,968 tons of zinc concen-
trates, averaging about 45'8 per cent. zinc.
10,519 tons of metallic zinc, or at the rate of 42,076 tons
per year. This is from only one plant; and there are
others. The Broken Hill Prop, is turning out about the
same quantity, and is likely to increase its output a
trifle. In the last four weeks its figures were 7141 tons,
worth 46'6 per cent. zinc. The Sulphide Corporation is
turning out large quantities; but it is working to
some extent on accumulated tailings. These will
last for about two years more, at the rate
they are at present being eaten up ; after that
this co. will only have its current tailings output to
handle. That will give 5000 tons, or perhaps a bit more,
per month. The lie Bavay Co. is also putting up big
■works, calculated to have a larger output than even the
present Zinc Corporation’s works. Supplies for this co.
will be drawn from the North and the South mines.
Block 10 and the British both have plants in view ; the
British will begin construction work straightaway. The
plans are ready and the money available. In two years,
then, even after the Sulphide Corporation has used up
its accumulations, there should be an output of from
400,000 tons to 450,000 tons of concentrates from Broken
Hill. Meantime an average of 350,000 tons or thereabouts
a year will be achieved. Last year the total was 275,000
tons—or 276,720 tons, including metal and concentrates.
An output of 400,000 tons of concentrates means
184,000 tons of metal, of which 85 per cent., or 156,4( 0
tons, will be recovered. This is putting things at the
minimum ; the probabilities point to something con-
siderably more. What is going to happen in view of all
this addition to the world’s supplies of zinc? Certainly
some of the plants have been running a while already;
but the Broken Hill zinc industry is practically new—in
1901, for instance, the total export was only 632 tons.
It is a very serious question whether the market can
stand such a large addition to supplies without reeling.
Of course, if other big producers were coming to the
bottom of their supplies of raw material there would be
nothing to be afraid of. There is, however, no evidence
that anything of that kind is happening. In 1901, when
the Broken Hill business really started, the world’s pro-
duction of spelter (metallic zinc) was 507,400 metric tons.
In 1907 it was 722,000 tons. Between 1897 and 1906 the
United States’ output increased from 89,618 to 202,002
tons, and that of Silesia from 95,549 tons to 136,326
tons. There are rumors that the big American
deposits at Joplin are about dead. The figures
wouldn’t tell whether that is the fact or not; but it is
just as well to remember that the same rumors have been
available for the last 10 years. Admittedly, the position
is vague. But this seems fairly certain : no market
which has been in the habit of absorbing only 500,000
tons a year can have an extra 150,000 tons suddenly
thrown on it without having its equilibrium upset.
Further, the processes which have been available to the
mines at Broken Hill are available to mines elsewhere.
It isn’t likely, therefore, that all the new production will
come from Broken Hill.
It may be that zinc consumption is increasing
rapidly. There is no information on that point that
is worth much ; for statistics can’t distinguish
clearly between metal that is actually absorbed and that
which has merely gone into stock. That some people
have serious feais can be guessed from the fact that a
“ convention ” was recently fixed up. But arrangements
of this sort have a habit of merely damming up stocks ;
and sooner or later the dam breaks, and then people add
an “n” to it, and there is trouble generally. If the pro-
duction lias got ahead of the demand, prices will have to
come down. That would mean, no doubt, increased
consumption on the one hand and the knocking
out of the weak producers on the other hand.
But, even reckoning the Broken Hill mines in
with the strong ones, it would still mean lower prices for
them. The future is uncertain ; but unquestionably
there are big- risks, which ought to be taken into account
not only by ttie Broken Hill and other cos., hut also by
the people whom the present big profits are attracting,
and who are once again disposed to treat Broken Hill
shares as “ investments.”
It is quite likely also that the West Coast of
Tasmania and other parts will presently be turning out
large quantities of zinc. The industry at Broken Hill
is due entirely to the discovery of the acid-oil flotation
process, and that is applicable only to sulphide
ores. Hence with ores or tailings that have become par-
tially oxidised there is a heavy loss—as the B. H, Junotion
was told when it proceeded lately to find, a buyer for its -
old dumps- 'E. J. Horpood, of the Broken Hill Prop,-,-
has, however, evolved a methdd which may make other
zinc-hearing ores amenable to the flotation process ;
apparently it involves nothing more expensive than
roasting at a certain heat. If this comes off in practice,
as it has come off in the laboratory, very large quantities
of ore which have not hitherto yielded much zinc will
be worked. And the West Coast of Tasmania will have a
better time than it has had lately; for there are .big
deposits of that class of stuff there.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction’s only revenue,J.ast half-
year Was a few pounds of: interest. Theljnill wasn’t
running; but underground a bit of prospecting and 'de-
velopment was done, the total expenditure being £6593.
The special report of James Hebbard, of the Sulphide
Corporation, who was called in, has already been referred
to. He says that it is useless to go on with the present
appliances, and that over £30,000 must be put up to give
the mine a chance, and the directors arestill hard at work
considering where the money is to come from. There is
£55,000 of uncalled capital (ss. 6d. on 200,000 shares);
and as some people are still willing to pay 6s. or 7s. for
the shares, it looks as though the uncalled money could
be got in. The mine has been erratic ; but on its position
alone it will always find some backers.
■x * * *
The management of Lobb’s Hole (N.S.W,) is
feeling more certain than ever that it is out of the bog.
The most important work done lately has been in the


Fraser {Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALviQORLIE.
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
'** • *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied- One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. VVm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger’.’ Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 316 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street. Fremantle.*
» * * *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity'and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or .belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revo'lve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
0 * * *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
mad a by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only, genuine,
reliable‘Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’ name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carrv large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [4
* * m *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October ’OB number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited as
follows “To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in 1873)
the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the force
of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained in
the insurance world.”*
Tenders invited for battery, engine, boiler and
quantity mining plant, Cowra Creek, Bredbo. For
absolute sale. Tenders close 25th. Particulars Gainford,
18 Bridge Street - *
* * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * »
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wra. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
■* * ■* .*
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consuriied, which is common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the, market for
all purposes, which is .evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
* ♦ * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Cbllins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
•**•«•*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. SiljßEßßkro and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * » . *
“Sarco” is a name now recognised among
engineers as synonymous with “ Fuel Economy.” Gibson;
Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, are sole agents
for the makers of Sarco Specialities, which regulate and
record combustion, draught, steam supply, and in fact
keep a continuous check on all sections of the boiler
plant, a check which results in a surprising reduction
in the fuel bill. The manufacturers intend to publish
periodically a “ Bulletin of Power Plant Practice,”
one half of which will deal with the question from a
broad engineering point of view - , and the other will be
devoted to Sarco Appliances. Gibson, Battle will send
these bulletins regularly to anyone interested in the
subject.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BOCHUM UNION
Sole Agents for
Steel Ralls, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables ■
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. U
winze sunk from No. 1 level. When the good stuff was
picked up again in the No. 2 level the managers started
to sink in order to prove whether the ore was continuous
between the two levels. At the date of the last report they
had followed the vein down 28ft., and as it was still in
the bottom they conclude that they will get it right
down to the level below ; and the two are 80ft. apart.
Geologically, it seemed certain that the vein—a true
fi ssure -would go down ; and having been picked up at
No. 2 (200 ft.) the chances are that it will reach much
greater depths. It is very small ; so there won’t be any
profits unless it continues to be very rich. And as to that,
of course, nothing can be said.
• * » *
A prospecting co. formed about 12 months ago
to test the coal seams at Wybung Head, about 25 miles
south from Newcastle, and on the Sydney side of the
Wallarah, has had both good luck and bad. The top
seam is showing on the cliff side ; and the co. went back
about a couple of miles from this point, bored more than
400 ft., and got nothing. Then it came about half-way
dawn to the coast, and at 222 ft. it recently got a 4ft. 2in.
seam, of which 3ft. sin. is clean coal. The Wallarah, next
door, has three seams; and of these the Austral-
asian, which the Wybung drill ought to strike next, is
10ft. thiyk in the nearest working colliery. The bore is
being continued to see if this can be picked up ; if so, the
first one will also be continued. The property is the most
southerly extension of the Newcastle field upon which
any work is being done ; and the Mines Department
(whose drills are being used) is consequently keeping a
keen eye on results.
The S. Australian Government has made up its
mind to go through with the business of purchasing a
coal property 7 in N.S.W. ; ancf £20,000 is down on the
Estimates to pay for the leases. It is satisfactory to note
that the property 7 is to be paid for out of revenue, too,
and not out of loans.
« * * *
Sec. Treatt writes to say that the recent small
test parcel of ore sent from the Canbelego (N.S.W.)
netted £2lB, and not Jil 18, after paying freight and
smelting charges. This improves the look of things :
jt brings up the net return to £4 14s. 9d. per ton.
* * ■* »
Last month’s profit from the Zinc Corporation’s
works, after paying all charges, was £7soo—probably a
few pounds more. That means £90,000 a year. At that
rate the pref. shares, which are entitled to the first 20s.
of profit, should be satisfied within two years. Afterthat
they take 20 per cent, per annum. The co. would be on
a very fine wicket if the thing were going to last for ever.
But it isn’t. The dumps at present secured will probably
be eaten up inside seven years; after that the co.
will have to scratch for a living. The tendency 7
nowadays is to pass the tailings direct from the lead mill
on to the zinc mill ; a better extraction is got that way,
and it also saves handling. After the present contracts
are completed, the Corporation will therefore be at a dis-
advantage. For the present, shareholders can only
regard themselves as interested in a concern which
promises to have a merry life, but a comparatively short
one.
* * * *
N.S.W. Assistant-Geologist Game is out at
Euriowie, in the far west, trying to tell, among other
things, why the lodes there have never paid a dividend.
They are bunchy, of course, like almost all tin lodes ; but
with tin at £l3O there ought to be more than a living in
them. There is nothing like a tin show for taking- the
public down in a small way ; all you've got to do is to
work till you’ve got a good face, and then whistle up the
company promoter. It was this that killed these far-
western tinfields. Which was, unfair to the fields; the
killing ought to have been confined to a few of the men
who handled the claims.
In spite of recent additions Broken Hill Prop,
still has only 1767 men at work, as against 4700 a year
ago. The underground workings are practically idle ; the
co. hasn’t resumed serious production since the labor
trouble. It is trying to make its money at present out of
zinc and custom-smelting for the other cos., and is saving
up its own limited ore until the market climbs a few steps
higher.
* * * *
Bulli, the late George Adams’ Southern
(N.S.W.) coal property, seemed to have got to the end of
its tether ; and the estate a while ago asked the Govern-
ment to come in and try to find some more mineral for it
to make money out of. The Department wasn’t sym-
pathetic, and so the estate took the job on itself. Re-
sults lately have been most satisfactory ; so Bulb takes
another lease of life.
•
8., M. and Co. moved out of the South Kal-
gurli the other day, and John Morgan moved in. What-
ever its difference with the co. may be, the firm can
certainly claim to have done tip-top work ; and it is
unfortunate that, after doing so well, it got into holts
with a section of the London Board, and cleared out.
Morgan is a manager of the hard and long-headed type,
and has had an extensive experience in the control of
Australian mines.
* * * *
Cables which recently passed between the
London and Westralian offices of the Golden Horseshoe
show that the 14ft. of oldwt. ore cut about a month ago
at 2600 ft. in the Great Boulder is right on the boundary of
the two properties. The core, however, was sweetened
bj 7 the first 2ft., which assayed lloz. After reaching the
boundary, the drill was extended 4ft. into Horseshoe
ground. Values for this distance averaged 7dwt., and
boring ended in ore.
* * * *■
Boulder No. 1 shareholders will be comforted to
hear that the St. George mill, which jibbed a few weeks
back through a breakdown of the engine, has again got a
move on ; also that the stopes are looking a little better.
They need to.
* • * *
That changeable body, the Sons of Gwalia
directorate, has decided to put up the monthly output a
leetle higher. Instead of fiddling with the return every
now 7 and then, why not fix it at a certain figure and leave
it at that? Somehow the directors don’t seem to know
their own minds for a month at a stretch ; and, as Lon-
don gets the tip first, Australian shareholders suffer.
-Meanwhile the mine is looking well throughout, and the
proposed increase in the output won’t hurt it.
* * * *
London and Australian Exploration Co. has
taken an option, through 8., M. and 00., on Fraser’s
South Extended, at Southern Cross (W. A.).
Paringa Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), tvas wound-up by
“ special resolutions” in London on Aug-. 27, and arrange-
ments w 7 ere made for carrying through the agreement
with the reconstructed co., known as the Paringa Mines
(1909), Ltd.
* * ■* ■*
Jacoletti Gold Mines (W.A.) is sick financially.
Accounts for 1908 show a surplus of £571 over working
expenses, ■ but the tell-tale balance-sheet reveals an in-
debtedness of £7237-(including £1784 for directors’ fees
and other extravagances). This is a bit more than was
owed when the year started, and, seeing that the cash in
hand when the term closed was only £340, it is surprising
that the wolf has been kept at bay so long. • Some “ pro-
mising indications ” are alleged to have lately been met
within the mine, and these, coupled with 4000 tons of
accumulated slimes of an estimated value of 16s. per ton,
appear to be the co.’s star assets at present. . Some time
ago an effort was made to raise the wjnd for a slimes
plant by the issue of priority shares, but as shareholders
sniffed at the proposal it fell flat. The problem now is
how to get more money to carry on with.
? As already noted, Hans Irvine turned down the
1 Pioneer, Meekatharra (W.A.). “I regret to say,” he
3 wrote to Pasterella and his mates, “ the work done has
r proved the shoots of gold to be very short and the lode
i very patchy.” Irvine then offered to consider the matter
j if the owners would take their price half in cash and half
from gold won after paying costs at mine, such costs not
i to get ahead of £2 ; but later he drew out altogether,
j This and the last crushing confirm The Bulletin’s old
i opinion that Meekatharra isn’t a district to put the
’ widow’s mite into. The Pioneer’s last crushing went
, 14dwt. over the plates, with sdwt. in the sands ; and that
wasn’t up to expectations. What probably sent Irvine
right about face was that a fault cut the reef out in a
i winze he sank below the deepest level, 180 ft. The lode
i in the Fenian is erratic, too ; but once you know the run
i of things you can pretty well tell where to look for the
i stuff in the next level.
J. A. Agnew, 8., M. and Co.’s partner and
pillar of strength in the West, has had a look at Meeka-
tharra ; and he commits himself as far as this: “The
main line of lode, on which is situated the Marmont,
Fenian and Ingliston group, is one of considerable length,
and this has been tested in the Fenian to a depth of
about 500 ft., with very high values reported in the
bottom workings. There appears no reason to doubt the
continuance in depth of good values in other portions
of the belt, and with a much more vigorous development
policy some of these mines would become fairly large and
consistent gold producers.”
* * * •
The Australian Mining and Gold Recovery Co.
has reconstructed. It was formed in England and Scot-
land originally to work the MacArthur-Forrest cyanide
process in Australia, and spent the first few years of its
life in vigorous litigation. In those days it was the Aus-
tralian Gold Recovery 00. When it wasn’t able to hang
on to the exclusive rights to the cyanide business it
reconstructed, and returned ss. per share. Since then it
has been doing a trifle in options, metal-recovery, mine-
valuing, etc., but has had little success, so the capital is
now reduced to £23,851, by writing off 4s. per 10s. share,
and by returning Ss. per share which it hasn’t got any
use for.
* * * *
Recent visitors to Siam and those parts state
that the Burma project from which the Lake View Con-
sols is trying to scrape up something which the Chinese
of many generations have left is likely to turn out
some metal, while the railway built through the jungle
may also bring in some revenue, and is likely to be self-
supporting anyhow. The Lake View itself is shaking out
some rich pockets, which, if they continue, may relieve
the minds of holders. What with the holding in Broken
Hill South Blocks and the Burma mines, and the im-
provement in the old mine itself, prospects have been
brightening lately.
From North Queensland : Mount Molloy is
still a blue duck, and the timber business is not half what
it was expected to be. The offshoot co., the Anniversary,
at Herberton, is being opened up ; but the ore is in
lenses, and not bulky ones at that. AtO.K. the co. is
committing slow suicide. It is smelting sor 6 per cent,
ore. If this is to go on shareholders had better get some
crape and look up the funeral service. Stannary Hills
has been belting away day and night on ore worth barely
1 per cent., and as far as costs go has been doing well.
The Vulcan has had a small improvement. If it could
show the same costs as Stannary, it would be Al. But it
has to crush at the other fellow’s mill, and pays 18s. or so
per ton to do so. Things will never be right till this is
altered. Chillagoe is now receiving Einasleigh ore, the
Eihasleigh Co. having opened up fair quantities. The Chil-
lagoe 00. is doing a lot of prospecting out in the
Einasleigh district, and is struggling hard for a recovery.
The Tommy Burns tin mine is looking blue again—one of
its fits, possibly. It is a thing of patches and gambles.
The GilmOre co. takes a very remote back seat
now, and doesn’t make any noise. The option and
proposed float of the Oandlish mines at Charleston
didn’t come to anything, and suspension has been granted
to most of them. Some of the shows that were until
lately locked up on the Etheridge have been getting good
crusiiings, up to 3oz. per ton. Those figures are a strong
argument for the alteration of the mining laws. The
N.S.W. system of secret complaints against non-working
is, in spite of its abuses, far ahead of the Queensland
system of a £lO deposit and a beggarly fine (£L to £10) if
the charge is proved. Numerous small crUShings have been
made at the Oaks (past Einasleigh), and an attempt (of
course) is being made to float a co. A variety of cats and
kittens will shortly visit the public from Gilberton, Percy-
ville, Mount Hogan, etc.
* • * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) did steady work last month
with its new furnace, which smelted 5434 tons for matte
containing 164 tons copper, 780 oz. gold and 53940 z. silver.
Fitzroy expects to receive £10,876, or a shade over £2
per ton of ore for metals worth over £13,400 ; so the
handling of matte and the extraction of the metals mops
up something like 10s. per ton of ore. It is so far an
empty boast to say that Fitzroy ore is worth 50s. per ton,
and that working costs are 31s. 6d., if the ultimate profit
only pans out Bs. per ton, or £2174 from 5434 tons.
Assays gave 3£ per cent, copper and 3dwt. gold, and the
return gave an average recovery of a shade under 3 per
cent., or 33 tons of ore to a ton of copper ; so furnace
losses were only a fraction over £ per cent, copper. The
good recovery is at present the bright feature in Fitzroy ;
later on low" costs may be a bright feature too. They
naturally will improve as things get to run more smoothly.
The new tram-line will effect a considerable saving, and
the export of blister copper instead of matte will be a
lift in the same direction.
* * * *
Cheered, no doubt, by the way the market is
picking up the big swag of Great Fitzroy shares, G. P.
Doolette has now taken an option over the Mt. War-
minster, in the same district —which is to say, outside
Rockhampton (Q.). Captain Osborne, who introduced
the Fitzroy to Philip Charley (whereupon P. Charley
passed it on to Doolette), had a dig at Warminster long
ago, and got bunches of copper, but nothing regular;
and presumably they’ll go on the hunt for the mineral on
a plan modelled on the Fitzroy's experiences. If the
thing comes off, the owners (it is largely freehold) will
get 35,000 shares in a co. of 100,000. K. M. Grant,
Kidston’s senior colleague, is one of the present holders.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, crushed 1.369
tons for £6867, which is the best return for some time
past. Altogether £123,000 has been taken out of the
mine this year, but the extraction of about 30,000 tons of
stone has made a big hole in the reserves. The main
workings from No. 5 down to No. 10 continue to produce
payable stone, and ground between No. 10 and No. 11 is
being opened with satisfactory results. There is also a
payable block of ground above No. 13 ; but the deepest
level (No., 14) has a long way to'go yet to pick up this
shoot. New Brilliant Freehold is also in better favor ;
nevertheless the Brilliant group is not overjoyed at
recent happenings. N.B.F. shaft is partly in diorite
country, and is somewhat disturbed by dykes and cross-
courses, so the formations intersected by the shaft are
liable to sudden changes. Then the report that the
Brilliant Block shaft is down 2031 ft. in grey granite, and
that a crosscut is to be driven in search of a reef at
2000 ft., has had a depressing effect. The market doesn’t
like the prospect of another long wait and the payment
of numerous calls.
* * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, came through
its half-year with a profit of £lO,Bll from 4283 tons.
Expenses were heavy, hence the profit of only about 50s.
per ton from stone averaging over £5. The monthly
yield has fallen off a lot lately, so the payment of £12,000
in dividends was rather a strain. Fortunately there is
£2362 on fixed deposit, which will prove useful for
prospecting for another reef. The Bonnie is to sink its
shaft and open out at a deeper level in search of a foot-
wall reef worked by Marshall’s Queen. At 60ft. above No.
1 level the rise carried 3ft. of good stone ; but since then
the reef has pinched to 6in. Most of the leading stopes
carry Bin. of medium quality stone, and the reef, gener-
ally speaking, is irregular and bunchy.
New ’ Brilliant Freehold prospects are not
enough to keep Charters Towers out of the miseries
again. The local market is an unfailing barometer.
When it got goldfields fever and saw Day Dawn reefs all
over the shop in the middle of last year, the local Ex-
change in one month handled 464,000 shares, worth, or
supposed to be worth, £94,000. Last month the sales
were 53,250 shares, supposed to be worth £B6O0 —the
poorest turnover in any month of the year. Freeholds
have, however, been a godsend to the local specker, who
must always have a bit on something. They started in
1907 at 3s. 9d. and last week touched 355. ; and if London
will “come in”—there’s a London office —they probably
haven’t finished going: .vet.
• * * *
Willcocks and James Stewart, who were left to
nurse the baby when the bank called on Glassford Creek
(Q.) to square up, are making a try to get their money
back. From the shaft sunk in the open-cut the lode has
been bitten into north and south, and lately stuff going
over 8 per cent, copper and 3dwt. gold has been broken.
The men who were- left in the soup deserve sympathy,
and the best shape that sympathy can take in this case is
a body of from B.per cent, to 10 per cent. ore.
Melbourne Stock Exchange handed out a bomb
the other day by enforcing the rule against quoting
vendors’ shares until the infant wild cat has been born
six months. The market has been flooded lately with
new floats, and as the public lost its head the demands of
the promoters became bigger and bigger. Many of the
latter went on the sound principle that a quid in the hand
is worth two in the bush of a wild cat, and there
was considerable unloading. Then the Stock Exchange
spoke, though later on it decided to wink at the
transactions in some of the Balfour litter. The pity is
that the rule isn’t general. The various Exchanges confer
now and then ; and they pass resolutions—which are not
binding. Even the charges and commissions are not
uniform ; and, while Melbourne put the just-mentioned
six months’ limit on vendors’ shares, Sydney will deal in
them the day after a co. is hatched.
* * * *
From Melbourne: Can one good thing come
out of Sodom and Gomorrah ? Yes, assuredly ! Here is
the Stock Exchange clewing up the busy promoter and
the grabber of free shares in mining floats. No vendors’
shares are to be given an official quotation for six months
after the co. has been listed. This means, in the mass of
instances, until the bottom has fallen out of the show, and
the call-payer has retired. All this trouble arose over a
Balfour dealer tossing vendors’ scrip to a broker who
knew that vendors’ scrip was taboo for six months. So he
tossed it back as not being legal tender. Whereat there
was as much spitting and snarling as over any back yard
wild-cat fight. Promoter No. 1, who had previously got
vendors’ scrip accepted, jingled his coin in the hearing of
Promoter No. 2, whose scrip had been refused;
and the men who had bought vendors’ scrip
for a turn-over, flinched when they found the stuff was
likely to be on their hands for six months at least, and it
might be for ever. The tangle had to be unravelled, and
that was done by letting everyone through. But it
mustn’t happen again, says the committee. So vendors’
scrip is no longer a popular form of settlement, so far as
the gentle promoter goes. He will want cash, or he will
have to dodge the rule ; and as cash isn’t always forth-
coming it is obvious he will be up to tricks. Still the
committee, being in a virtuous frame of mind, may be
able to beat him and force him into retirement for the
stipulated half-vear.
* * * *
“ Look east! ” is the watch-word at the Cathcart,
Ararat (Vic.). Shares were up to £6 10s. at the end of
last week, giving the mine a market value of nearly
£350,000, and with the prospect then of a further rise.
Nice for Harry Dodds, who got 5000 at about Is. 6d. ;
nasty for those who sold, including one hard-up who had
to let 3000 go for a call. Sam Bagley doesn’t need to do
any shouting now; the mine does it for him. So he
looks sleeker and happier day by day. If No. 12 rise
pans out like No. 10, there won’t be any holding the
market. Still, it is “ Eyes right! ” forif the lead fails to run
into the New Langi Logan, the guttermay be shorter than
is just now expected. Fox, of the Cathcart Central, pro-
poses to settle the point by joint boring on the New Langi
boundary. Good idea for Mr. Fox ; for if the lead doesn’t
go east, the presumption will be that the Central will
get the extension of the gutter before it turns into the
South Langi Logan. The boom in Cathoarts has brought
out a pot of floats—some good, some bad, the majority
indifferent. Even patches of Silurian have been pegged
out. The public is said to be on the feed, so “ work is
to be started immediately.” Nothing is yet said about
calls being started immediately. If vendors’ shares are
tied up forsix months, the sorting-out will, however, have
taken place by that time. Legitimate floats will have
settled down to master the water difficulty, and the
Cathcart will be on to rich ground. So the one ought to
help the other, unless the richness isn’t so great as the
market measure indicates.
■» * * *
A big quartz outcrop and a bigger outcrop of
cheek do wonders in Melbourne. Locale of most recent
quartz, Mount Balfour (Tas.); ditto of cheek, the Ex-
change side of Collins-street. The originals, who held
acres of Balfour leases, are mostly weather-beaten Tassy
West-coasters. The wrinkles the Lyell boom left are many,
and their owners don’t want to hang on any longer to a
quartz outcrop than a Melbourne promoter generally
hangs on to his free shares. So if Smelbourne wants its
outcrop to be near Andy Kelly, the West-coaster is pre-
pared to help to get it—for a consideration. Those who
don’t want to pay up send out prospectors, and then get
the public to pay up. A diary of some of the floats
could read .-—Thursday : Got a claim pegged out. Friday :
Syndicate floated; scrip shifting up ; developments at
field; want more ground. Monday : Shares booming;
big outcrop pegged out. Thursday: Another outcrop ;
shares up like rockets. Friday : New company formed ;
public a bit off the feed. Saturday : Public off the feed
farther; wired for another outcrop. Monday : Reply
received “Plenty outcrops available; would you
like two?” Answered—“ Of course. If boom continues,
will float off.” The good side to the Balfour boom is that
no cash has been grabbed. But 50 per cent, is the aver-
age grab in the shape of vendors’ shares ; and as the
market went up fast, shares have been better than cash.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta, S. Australia’s old-estab-
lished copper concern, doesn’t publish half-yearly
accounts, though it holds half-yearly meetings and
scatters a trifle of information at each. The surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities on Dec. 31, 1908, was
£141,476; on June 30 it was £150,888. That meant a
gain of £9412. To that must be added anything that
was spent on capital account, and the two divs.
of Is. (or £16,000 in all) paid during the half-
year. From the fact that the surplus has been
more than maintained it looks as if the shilling a quarter
can easily be kept up. The average price of copper for
the half-year was £5B 14s. 4d. >; and it stands no better
than that at present, though it was higher a month ago.
The Wallaroo and Moonta directors don’t take a very
cheerful view of the outlook for the metal. The total
output of refined copper for the six months was 2532
tons ; so a drop of £3 a ton would just about knock out
the half-year’s gain in liquid assets after paying the two
dividend’s, and a drop of £7 further would wipe out the
dividends. Wallaroo and Moonta’s costs outside the pre-
cipitation department are very high, and there isn’t
under normal market circumstances any too comfortable
a margin.
* * * •»
S. Australia can’t strike a gold mine with any
profit in it. In the Nor’-East, around Mannahill and
Olary, there are a dozen claims which always look good
enough to goon with just a little further; butthe journey
always ends the same way. The King’s Bluff, at Olary,
has just been forced into another reconstruction ; the
new co. is to be in 40,000 shares, Is. to begot in at once,
with threepenny calls in the future. The co. has hung on
for three years, and has done steady work, but the mine’s
performance has never come half way up to its promise.
T. N. Bluck, the co.’s consulting engineer, has
cabled a summary of his report on the Tongkah. A good
property, he says, very shockingly equipped. To curry
favor, apparently, with certain authorities, the Australian
co. had its dredges built one or two in Holland, and one
or two in Scotland ; and they evidently couldn’t be much
worse. As they can’t be relied on for steady work, or for
work at all in the toughest places, Bluck recommends
that three much stronger dredges be got—one suction
and two buckets. That, of course, means delay, and the
pushing of dividends into the distance. On the matter of
the dock and channel Bluck is more cheerful reading. He
disagrees with Freeman, and thinks the work can be done
inside the stipulated time, and that the embankments
can be built up all right without losing the tin under-
neath. The question, however,' isn’t rtierely whether
they can be built up, but whether they will stand up for
the stipulated time. Still Bluck isn’t a harbor engineer
any more than Freeman, and in view of the tremendous
importance of this branch of the business, the matter
should be put to the test at once. Bluck is a good
dredging engineer, but that his word doesn’t end the
matter is proved by the complete failure of the Araluen
Steam Shovel Co., which came into the world under his
wing and with his blessing.
aaa - •
One of the London financial dailies announces
that a S’African explosives co. has evolved a modified
form of blasting gelatine, which costs less and possesses
more advantages, tending towards lower working ex-
penses. Without impairing the strength of the stuff, the
manufacturers claim that they have eliminated the
elements that produced noxious fumes, thereby simpli-
fying underground ventilation. Most of the explosives
now used by the big mines in Australia come from
S’Africa, which last year fixed up an agreement, through
Knox and Schlapp, with the big mine-owned works ; so
the reported discovery is good news for Australian
miners.


2
D s?
FO3
ore'Miles PefGallonThan Anv <
VACUUM MOBIU OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson i Proprieior
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with all plans and (reports
available, to “MINE,” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCDLATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS U CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SUBURBAN DRAMA.
NED KELLY: ‘‘‘Shoot him , hoys, and let his fate
he a warning to all who dare attempt to cap-
ture the Kelly Gang.”
SERGEANT KENNEDY :‘ ‘ Spare me! I have a large
wife and family. ”
NED KELLY : “ What's that to us.” (Sotto voice):
“My revolver won't work.”
JOE BYRNE : “No, death to the traps.” (Sotto
voce): “I've got no cartridges left.''
STEVE HART: “ We'll shoot you like a dog.”
(Sotto voce): “My revolver’s only a dummy.”
SERGEANT KENNEDY: “I am dying for a drink;
I'll perish with thirst.” (Does so.)
Ned Kelly : “ To the bush, boys ; to the bush.”
“ Wang ” : Be “ Vulcan’s ” par about aged
equines, (B. 16/9/’O9). My next-door neighbor
owns a moke which has passed the thirty-second
milestone. The old boy is not particularly agile
in his movements, but judging by his general
behavior in his paddock he is good enough fora
few more years. Of course he isn’t overworked
these days; but be can do his fair share, and his
average time for the seven-mile trip to town is
under an hour. Another neighbor last week put
a bullet into a hoofed veteran that had scored
thirty-five not out. There used to be a horse-
relic in my native town that was reputed to be
something between 40 and 60, but as his
birth certificate had been lost in early youth I
hesitate to enter him for the old horse competition.
“ Leo Lear : ” The views of “Vigilans ”
on the subject of ticks (B. 12/8/’O9) don’t alto-
gether coincide with the experience of many who
have had the misfortune to bump against the
bovine parasite. But perhaps this can be ex-
pected, as cattle ticks are still among the incom-
prehensible things that Cohen (or was it Solomon ?)
mentioned, when he wrote his Abo. pars, before
the synagogue. Do all ticks carry fever ? Is
there any such thing as absolute immunity?
Should dipping be compulsory? Why do stock
that have been accustomed to ticks for years die
from tick fever when moved a few miles ? These
and numerous other queries will be answered in
manydifferentwaysby men of experience. Inocula-
tion is now considered by most Queenslanders to be
theonly way to save acleanmobfrom extermination
when the curse first comes along. The loss in the
process is about 4 per cent., which, when com-
pared with the enormous death-rate among beasts
not inoculated, is philosophically accepted by the
owner as all in the year’s luck. Bad virus
certainly causes many innocent cattle to pollute
the water supply. But if the virulent Anti-Sosh
farmer or grazier can only cram another gramme
of Sosh into his already Socialism-sodden system,
and use the virus supplied by the Government
department which specialises in such matters,
there is little to fear from bad virus. As regards
dipping, I have put through thousands of head
and have never seen one injured. With proper
care, there should be no more danger than in
dipping sheep. Station cattle, as a rule, have to
be checked in the crush, or they will rush through
too quickly and jump on those already in the
“slops,” for a cattle-dip stirred up is about the
color, consistency and odor of Melbourne’s Yarra in
the wake of a dredge. Milking herds don’t
usually bog in with the willingness of the wilder
tribes, and seldom lose a hair of their heads, or
tails, or general anatomy. But “Vigilans” is
right re the southern range of the tick pest.
Another decade will see it in John Weary’s State.
Dipping won’t stop the little beasts, as every
native animal carries the insect, and even birds
are found acting as host to the cattle man’s night-
mare. If one of my neighbors isn't an aboliar,
ticks would flourish at the South Pole. He says
he has put them in water on a frosty night, and
on being melted out of the frozen matter next
morning the insects stepped out gaily for the
nearest cows. As ice is scarcely a marketable
commodity in these parts till next June, I cannot
verify his experiment; but in the meantime per-
haps someone will find a chance to scientifically
deal with the frozen tick trade.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: “D.D.” does not
know of the station “Will-I-go-bung,” which I
entered for the queerest-named-station competi-
tion. Permit me to inform the Dotty Doubter
that there is such a station in the Tumbarumba
district (N.S.W.), and that it is owned by Mr.
James Cunningham, who. by the way, is very
fond of wombats as pets. Also by the way, I know
Go-Bung Station, near Enngonia. There’s a
rhyme about Enngonia (sometimes called Erin-
gonia) that used to tickle me—“At Enngonia,
Folk’ll stone ya, If ya say a word agin goat and
galah.”
“Jim 800 ” : “D.D.” (B. 23/9/’O9) doubts
the existence of a Will-I-go-bung Station, nomi-
nated by “Jimmie Pannikin”
for the Queerly-Named Station
Stakes. Will-I-go-bung is well
known to everyone travelling
about these parts. It is situated
between Batlow and Tumbar-
umba, and is bounded on the
west by Courabyra. Tareutta
Creek takes its rise on Will-I-
go-bung. This holding was
originally taken up by three
men, each of whom went bung.
Mr. Cunningham, the present
holder, then took it up and
called it Will -1 -go - bung.
“D.D.” says it is not to be
found in the pastoral directory.
Whether that is so or not. I
know that two years ago the
stock office in Gundagai issued
a permit for Davies and Ker-
shaw’s travelling sheep to
Will-I-go-bung. “Jimmie P.”
may be a lovely liar, but there
is no case against him this time.
BUTTONS: "Fire! Fire!! Fire!!! Get up, quick!”
MACDOUGAL: “ Min’ ye, if I do, I [?] pay for the bed;’
“Cross Nibs”: Was lured into taking
part in the trial flight of Whym’s aeroplane model
the other night, and gathered a dim idea of the
troubles that beset the inventor. The flight was
to take place in the paddock of Draggarde, the
local milk vendor; and about 9 p.m. I found
Whym, Draggarde and a weird-looking object
that resembled or suggested a cross between a
hippopotamus and a sparrow-hawk in the shadow
of the cowshed. They were busy laying a light
railway. When the track was completed Whym
placed a lighted match to some part of the
machine and started it with a shove. The thing
moved slowly along the rails, but, gathering
impetus, it suddenly soared into the upper
ether at an altitude of about 12ft. Whym
threw up his hat, rolled on the ground, and
emitted a series of wild whoops about im-
mortality and boundless wealth. Mean-
while something went wrong with the
aeroplane. It swerved, rolled, lurched
and zig-zagged, turned tail over turkey,
and came down with a whir. Just as it
seemed to strike the ground one of Drag-
garde’s cows rose hastily, made a con-
siderable outcry, and started across
country in a state of affright. All the
other cows also rose with more or less
noise, and Draggarde went mad. It seems
he does not like his cows disturbed—it
spoils the milk yield. He also started
across country and vanished in the night.
A sudden flare, a volley of oaths and a
chorus of threats from Draggarde gave us
our bearings. We found the smouldering
remains of the ’plane, an angry stranger
extinguishing the relics of a combusted
beard, and Draggarde blustering. The
stranger wanted compensation for loss of
whiskers, shock to the system, interference
with his night’s rest and barratry. Drag-
garde threatened prosecution for trespass,
insulting language, and attempted extor-
tion. Whym gave the stranger half-a-
crown, and assured him that he had been
favored by Providence in being brought in
at the tail end of the first flight of the
aeroplane that was to alter the history of
the world. The stranger left, Draggarde damned
all aeroplanes and everything that disturbed
his cows, and Whym gathered up the fragments
and suggested supper.
“ Wogi ” : Be “ Kola’s ” reference
(B. 12/8/’O9) to the tiredness of the Australian.
A packman, a stockman and myself (the boss)
were travelling cattle in the Nor’-West. Rations
ran short and for a week we lived on one flapjack
per diem. Then the packman diverged 40 miles
to a station in chase of food. Meanwhile the
stockman and I put the cattle in camp, the horses
being knocked up and the rain descending like
Old Boots. The stockman took hold of the horns
till midnight (after biing in the saddle since day-
break), and then slumbered with a saddle for a
pillow. I then went on, and the contrary beasts
got off the camp. No tucker that day.
The next day was, in regard to the ab-
sence of tucker, the counterpart of the preced-
ing one. It still rained like Aged Shoes. We
travelled the cattle till dark, and again the stock-
man went on till midnight. It rained like Vener-
able Hoofgear. When the mystic and ghostly
hour struck, the stockman shook me, hut in vain.
I was “queer in the head.” So he took hold of
them again till morning. Then he again disturbed
me, with the request that I should observe'them
HOW IT IS DONE SERIES: FIGHTING
THE FIRE FIEND.
while he ran up the two loose horses. About
here, the packman materialised with food. The
stockman greeted him soberly, ate a hearty meal,
and then put in a strenuous week mustering
cattle. The tired Australian may exist, but
assuredly his antithesis also prevails in large
numbers or bands.
MANNERS AND MEN.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the meeting of the Morwell Shire Council, the presi-
dent apologised for theabsenceof Councillor J. S. McLean,
in consequence of an injury caused by his being hit with
a piece of bread at a smoke night. The practice of throw-
ing things about at banquets was strongly condemned by
the president, who said that he hoped that the accident
to their colleague would act as a warning to those who
indulged in the foolish habit. —Melbourne Argus.
The common or garden bloke may be all sorts of a meal-
time hog,
And make a horrible horrible noise as he swallows his
share of grog ;
Plain Bill may sit with his crumb-rag tucked in the front
of his neck all night ;
Plain Tom may worry his turkey bones, to the uttermost
final bite ;
Plain Jim and Joe may boldly delve in the salt with a
careless knife,
But the councillor person must be polite, as he values his
social life 1
He must not finger his food, nor yet at a loaded knife-
blade suck ;
And it is not nice for a council bloke,
In the midst of a sparkling speech, to poke
Unusual fun with a flounder’s fin or the back of a greasy
duck.
When the council-bloke drags forth grey japes in his
dome-like store-house stacked ;
When the chestnut falls from the bough and bursts, and
the moss-grown joke is cracked ;
When the flowing howl at the banquet brims, and the
rafters resound with mirth ;
When the councillors chuckle and wheeze and roar at the
hoariest gibe’s re-birth,
It is not nice for the council blokes, with a racket like
animals,
To sling wild food at the ceiling—nay, nor with salads to
crown their pals 1
In the joyous meeting of brain and girth, at the coun-
cillors’ chosen pub,
It is not nice for the council bloke,
As soon as the blighter has ceased to stoke,
To wildly upset the gravy boat and to darken the air with
grub.
The hare, hald head that is gleaming bright in the flare
o’ the banquet lights—
It is not meant for the marksman’s skill! On the beautiful,
breezy nights
When the councillors meet at the groaning board and
loosen, as wise men will,
The cords of dignity, once in a while, and hasten to take
their fill—
When haps it thus, in the noble beard of the member for
Borkins Flat
There should not rest, as the evening wanes, good food-
stuffs, fried in fat !
It should not be 1 On a banquet night these manners are
far from right !
It is not nice for a council bloke
To lend a point to a worn-out joke
By throwing a pancake or devilled bone at a bald head,
gleaming bright 1
VICTOItIA.
FRANK HENTY.
“ Wonga ” (a Grippsland girl) writes
4 propos of the alleged “weird melancholy” of the
Australian bush, formerly discovered or invented by
Marcus Clarke, and dealt with lately by The Bolmtin’s Red
Page. I have lived most of my life in the Australian bush,
and I spent the best part of my childhood there, hunting
for ghosts and hears, and I never struck anything of that
sort skulking about until lately. There used to be queer
noises arising ofttimes from swamps in the dead of night,
but we put them down to a bunyip, or the spook of
the lost man who lay down in exhaustion and
was devoured by grass leeches. Since then, how-
ever, land-hungry settlers have taken up every
available foot of land and rung the timber
in the bush of my childhood, and filled it with tree
corpses. On the face of this earth I have seen nothing
more pleasant to look upon than a forest of live gum
timber, clothing valley, hill and plain with a rich living
green. And, on the other hand, I have beheld nothing
more gloomy than the same hills and valleys hideous
with leafless skeletons, spreading bare grey limbs against
the sky, and flapping sheets of dry bark in the wind.
This great army of unburied dead has got on the local
nerves till even the least imaginative are prone to de-
pression, especially when a great weird vegetable drops a
limb on the prize cow, or a bushfirefedby the melancholy
treetops runs riot through the settler’s home and living.
We have the weird expectancy now, but it is a tall, white
artificial expectancy, holding out clawy wooden Angers in
the moonlight, creaking in the wind like a rusted sign-
hoard hung on the forehead of a dead pub, and tottering
on its base like a high, bleached drunk who would fain
go home but hasn’t any home to go to.


Wolfe's
Schnapps
Wolfes
Schnapps
A PURE SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
THERMOS
HAMPERS.
You put hot food into the dishes and 10 hours
afterwards you open them up, and your meal is
just as hot as when put in.
A Squatter or Traveller may have his dinner
prepared in the morning and enjoy it steaming
hot at dusk.
We now have these Hampers in stock at the
above prices.
S :
Hamper with
2 Enamel
Pots, 455;
with 3 Pots,
635.
Plain Figures']
Cash. J,
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Re “Lad” and
“ Lantana,” and their friends the swagwomen.
During my divagations West o’ Darling for three
expanding and uplifting years I saw but one lady-
swaggie, though I often heard of others said to
perambulate Outback, such as “The Bush Bat,”
“The Patch Queen,” “Menindie Mary,” “The
Portia of Pooncarrie,” etc. I met the lonely lady
between Kallora and Louth. She used to hold
Bible-classes for a week or two at a time, at mail-
changes, fishermen’s camps, steamer woodgetters’
camps, and such Farther-Out settlements. She
did not drink or smoke, but she had all the other
vices of Jthe rabid teetotaler abnormally developed.
Closer in, I have seen no less than nine female
swaggies, either humping bluey or pushing the
pram, in other parts of Australia.
A recent item about the importation of
Chinese pork to England moved a correspondent
to write as follows from Proserpine (Queensland):
No European in China eats pork or fowls reared in
that dungheap, thears no farm fed pigs or fowls in China,
the stuf that whites in their own countrys feed pigs and
fowls on, the chovv in China eats himself, all over china
are burying grounds, where the dead chow is left on the
surface, till time, pigs, fowls, and dogs have cleaned the
bones, the bones is all the chow wories about, another
use they make of the flesh of the dead, (it makes no
difrence what disease they die of) it is mixed with night-
soile and goes through some proses, till it resembles astif
brown paste, it is put in wooden tubs for sale as
manure, mixing with w-ater makes a liquid of
it, it is pored over the garden stuff in the
usual chow style, this stuf is sometimes shiped
to Australia, but i suspect it is mearly a veahicle
to smugel opium, the perfume keaping the custom offlcals
off it.
if the white man only knew’ what a loathsome brute
beast the chow' really is, he would bar him and his pro-
duce from ever entering a civilised country, w'hat were
the chow doing in Chili, S. America a few year back,
diging up the dead buried in the cemetry at Santiago,
and selling them as pork sausages, and they do the same
or worse where ever they are allowed to settel down, the
man Terry (i think was his name) who shot a chow in
Maoriland a few years ago appears to be the only person
this side, who knew what a chow realy was if those
items were made public we might soon see the last off the
chow fiend, some vile whites are pleading that the chow
should have his opium, as it helps to kill him off and
ingurs no one els, they lie, the vermine, every chow' store
and garden is a place w'here white children are piluted
and learned to smoke opium, its about up to linch law to
deal with the Revrend ruffian who maries a white
woman to those unhuman brutes, and the femal put in a
lunatic asilum for life.
If the law wont protect youths from the stinker curse
(private enterprise make divies out of them) could some
company not make small cigars out of pure leaf and sell
at same price as the cigerett or ehoped tobacco roled in
pure leaf its the paper does the damage to the smoker of
the stinker.
You cant say to much in favor of the Macdonall range
route of the Port Darwin railway, the best claims in Aus-
tralia will be found theire, half way between Boulia and
telegraf line there is low ridges gold bearing in apperance
similar to the discription of the new find Tanima in W.A.,
the road to which from Cambrige Gulf to halls creek is a
good road for water, (have been over it), high ranges like
the Macdonels having the rainfal they have, must have
plenty of water in them on the surface, springs, or by
well sinking.
The clocurry copper mine when being worked by a
scotch co, a generation ago, had a lot of teams runing to
Normanton, they would not give any inflamable loading
to hairy bullock punchers, who used strong lingo, but
one load of 3J- tons dinimite and one ton of rails, had to
go up to the cloncurry, no bulocky only the hairy sort,
they gave one the load he got as far as Iffley, smoke
started to come out of his loading (the lingo done it), he
managed to unhook his team of bullocks and get away a
few hundred yards when the explosion oecured no trace
of the waggon ever was found, a chow who was coming
up behind the wagon disapeared with it, shortly after a
human skelliton droped from the sky in the streets of
Hong Kong, scientists recond it came from mars, people
here recon it was the chow who disapeared with the
waggon, after that bullock teams went out of date people
being frightened to trust their goods with them, in-
surance co. woudent insure, so horse teams take their
place and horsedrivers hairy or shaved cant curse worth
a godam, religious papers would be glad of an item of
this sort.
HE PASSED.
Customs Officer (testing returned Chinaman): “ What do you knovj about South Melbourne ? ”
Chinaman : “ Too muchee dam lallikin.”
“X.P.D” writes from Cairns (N.Q)
The Japanese pearling luggers, which mildly surprised
people at Cairns some weeks ago, by turning up there
100 strong without their approach being intimated in
advance, have been encountered again—or another lot
just like them. The coasting steamer Muriel last week
... , .. . „ _ ~
went through the middle of a fleet of about 140 of them
(that’s the number the skipper gives), between
here and Cooktown. The Muriel’s engines were slowed
down, and those on board had a long look at the
... , , . , „ ......
heathen and hls WOrks ’ Some of the boatS Were
sounding, and others had divers down. Now prospecting
for shell is usually done with three or four boats at most;
a j so princess Charlotte Bay is as far south as the Thurs-
, , ~ .uur
da - v Island P earlers have ever 8:0,16 ,n stren » th before !
and owners don’t neglect the best pearling weather
on the old ground west of the island that they
nlay send their boats somewhere else where they may
. . , ~ T t u. v. a v,„i:
or ma - v not sret shelL In fact ’ lfc 18 hard t 0 beheve 18
pearlshell that our numerous brown friend is after. I
have asked a number of seafaring men, also some of the
local Japs, what possible sense there was in the wander-
'nHs °f strange herd of ships, but couldn’t get any
answer which seemed to hang on to the fleeting tail of
probability until certain white men propounded the state-
ment that the Jap pearlers were doing the “ bullocking ”
P arfc work that would be finished by cartographers in
Japan. Of course, it is a well-known fact that the Japs
on the pearling and biiche-de-mer boats know more about
the navigation of the North Queensland coast than any
white men know ; but what the Muriel’s skipper saw is
ver y direct evidence as to there being a systematic survey
of the reef passages. One hundred luggers means about
600 men, and Japs aren’t the sort to put in weeks along
the coast just; that 600 men may enjoy the green scenery
and consider the works of God generally.
PROVIDENCE.
The Battered Gentleman: “’Ere, you told me
Spinker ‘ad lost ’is punch. Wot do you
think of 'im now ? ”
The Other: “7 should say a merciful Provi-
dence had given it hack to him.”
“ Iyles Innison ” : Australia runs to varie-
gated patches in the most unexpected places. At
Wilcannia (N.S.W.) a Chinaman was recently
given a flattering send-off by an enthusiastic
circle of white admirers; and at Milparinka a
storekeeping Chink is something considerable,
and will probably be elected president if ever
Milparinka “ seceshes ” and starts a republic on
its own. At Cobar, too, almost every pub has—
or had a few months ago—a Chinese cook;
indeed at one of the leading shickeries the sleep-
ing apartments of the almond-eyed chef and his
ditto-eyed “off-sider” were only separated from
the white servant-girls’ bedroom by a thin wooden
partition. And at Broken Hill, where, of all places
in Australia, no cheap and non-union foreigner
should be able to make good, Tin Cat and Lip
Sing wax wealthy and ostentatious in the laundry
and furniture-making businesses. They are sup-
ported mostly by inconsistent unionists who
wouldn’t be found dead in the same street as a
“scab ” —that is to say, a “scab” with a white
skin. But when he is yellow and wears a pigtail
no questions are asked—therefore the said
Tin Cat and Lip Sing don’t feel constrained to
answer them. The bitter irony of it all is that
the electorates, which ought to be ashamed of their
black-and-tan associations, are represented by
White Australian Labor men like Donell
McDonell, W. G. Spence, Arthur Griffith and
J. H. Cann.
* *■ *
“ Xela ” : “ Janor ” in his par. on bush
cookery (B. 30/9/’O9) forgets to mention the pump-
kin brownie, a dainty which is common enough on
some of the Western mining fields. It is con-
structed by boiling a pumpkin till quite soft and
thoroughly mixing the mess with dough, adding
sugar and currants, and baking in a quick oven.
It has a nutty flavor and a yellowish-brown com-
plexion.
* * *■
“ Marloo,” from the big scrub on the
N.S.W. North Coast :-
Scrub-falling-is the prevailing pastime among selectors
from August; to December, and the number of youths
who pass out per medium of the falling tree is heart-
breaking. Why nine out of 10 victims are youths is
easily explained. In place of the scaffold which was
formerly used, a shoe-board is in vogue. This consists of
a piece of cedar 4ft. by 9in. by 2in., with a specially-con-
structed shoe bolted to one end. The axeman chops a
hole m the trunk, inserts the shoe end, which grips
tightly, and then stands on the board. If he wishes to go
higher, Re uses his mate’s board and his own alternately.
Each rise is termed “ a lift.” A cautious man is content
with one or two lifts; but among the youths great rivalry
exists as to who can leave the highest stump on the fall-
ing. Many go up six or seven lifts, and a 20ft. descent on
a rope takes time. If anything goes wrong and the
descent isn’t managed in time, there’s liable to be a bush
funeral.
OUR BLACK BRUDDER.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He did not like the way some people handled the White
Australia question. He warned them against speaking
of the colored millions of India, subjects of the King, in
terms of contempt. (Hear, hear.) The policy of a White
Australia was a good one ; but he begged them not to
associate it with the contemptuous references to which
he had referred. (Hear, hear.).— Lovatt Fraser, of
London Times.
O, fellow Australians, listen, attend :
We must cease our contemptuous swearing
And cursing and sneering at Bull’s colored friend,
For our attitude’s too overbearing.
It is perfectly right we should keep ourselves white
But contempt is a national blunder.
Be as nice as you can to the camel-train man,
And speak like a friend to Ram Ohunder.
When a spindle-legged heathen comes round to the door
With the bundle of commerce, disturbin’
The peace of your home, he’d be hurt if you swore
Or attempted to knock off his turban.
When the smiling Ah Wong, from the isle of Hongkong,
A loud smell and some cabbages hawking,
Makes eyes at your missus, ’tis certainly wrong
Tb indulge in discourteous talking.
For, mark you, the hawker and camel-train lot,
Also he of the early “ spling callot,”
Are our own fellow' subjects, although they do not,
Like ourselves, own the boon of the ballot.
For somehow or other old England, our mother,
Has got a mysterious notion
Of blocking their voting, although she is doting
Upon our dear friends o’er the ocean.
And watch how the Britisher does it himself
When lie’s forced to abide with the nigger.
Is he rude in his way and contemptuous? Nay,
His is quite a benevolent figure.
He loves Abdul Khan as a brother and man ;
And he quickly by conscience is smitten
If on Khan by some chance he should cast a rude glance.
He’s a kind and considerate Briton.
The bonds of the Empire are somehow involved
In this business. So be not neglectful.
Though Bull says it’s right we should keep ourselves
white,
He insists on our being respectful.
And if you should find vour gorge rise, bear in mind
We must keep our rude sentiments under.
Be as nice as you can to the camel-train man,
And act like a son to Ram Ohunder.
VICTORIA;
DEN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a, hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A. Nirvanae:: Your vague dissertations upon
the democratic virtues of W. M. Hughes fail to touch
these points: (1) That when the present Parliament was
elected Dalgety was legally the Federal capital ; (2) that
the Yassberra site, for which Hughes was and is an ardent
barracker (it is as close as possible to his own electorate),
has arrived since the election without the people having
any chance to express an opinion on the matter ; (3) that
Hughes urged that the settlement should be rushed
through and nailed down because the special circum-
stances which made for the selection of Yassberra “might
not occur again,’’ and “ the next Parliament w’ould be
absolutely untrammelled” — i.e., the next Parliament,
coining after the first election at which the people had a
chance to express their opinion about the Hughes-
Johnson-Bruce Smith Yassberra dodge, might repudiate
it, and, therefore, the affair should be hurried through
before the people had a chance to speak. And even 20
.years of Democratic pretence wouldn’t wipe out the fact
that Hughes, when his own little business w'as in ques-
tion, could no more see that the people had a right to
a voice in the matter than any Tory of the old convict
days Martial: Fair, but too much like another pub-
lished 1ate1y....... C.S.R. : Don’t agree with you. That
Shepparton youngster wants reforming more than he
wants punishing A. Bay: Unsuitable F. W.J. B.:
You can make progressive bets at roulette at Monte
Carlo, either on the red, black, or any of the other even-
money chances, from five francs up to the maximum. The
maximum is 6000 francs (£240), and may be relied on to beat
the punter in the long run with sickening regularity....
A. Cloud : Grieved for the lady who will have to sorrow
till the time “ when she will grow as dead as I, here
caverneredin hot lime”; but, really, even if the poet didn’t
deserve hanging for “ opening wide the white throat of a
murdered man,” he w as at least guilty of these verses...
P.O.L. : You “hastened to a door-step standing near.”
Did you expect it to get up and come and meet you?
Also verses about ladies who press their blue eyes against
w'indow'-panes are undesirable things to have in a
well-ordered establishment Clarion: You’re “aware
that these verses would be better without begin-
ning and without end.” They would also be
better without middle, for your particular middle
is a muddle with which you shouldn’t meddle.....
H. Oxlade : Doggerel about anything is bad—but doggerel
about Bent!. . R. H. William: Ansemic verses and lady-
like prose, wallowing in platitudes S.T.R.: A bar*
racker’s bard is sometimes a degree worse than a bar-
racker J.C.B. : Bulletin never knowingly publishes
as original anything that has already appeared in print.
Verses trite J. Smith : Exhortation to “Rise the
Federal standard ” and “ Serve out chain-fire and
thunder,” and “ Abreast, aflame, foe’s ranks fire-rake
break ” more remarkable for its excitement than its
rhythm or coherency Ringbarker : Parodies —and
about cats!—are a weariness to the flesh.... Corney :
Lines are all right if measured with a rule, but the
accents fall anyhow, and the poem canters like a camel.
... Godfrey Gonfalon: Only a play upon words
L.R.8.: They are of that aggravating kind that is nearly
good enough but doesn’t quite arrive. .. Banana Parson :
Neither of them quite up to high-water mark....A.W.:
“ Johnsing ” cast out and rejected—not violently, but
still rejected... .F. J.: Doubtful about" Last Trip.” There
are two rhymes which do service so often that they grow
monotonous... A. B. C.: Doesn’t even pretend to be funny...
Oel: Far too wordy S.P.R. : Hopelessly unsuitable.
. .. N. B. McP. : “ But ”is very good at first, but it tails
off a good deal as it goes 0n... S. W. Granger : Rejected
contributors don’t, as a rule, complain of our remarks as
uncertain and long-winded. However, you want our
opinion of your poem in one word—Bosh Gee: All
said before and better. May use verses C.W.M. :
Conventional Bumble Bee : But we can’t call it any-
thing else—it is doggerel B. B. W.: “ School Incident ”
foolishness... Les R.: Reads like a fantasy founded on
bad beer G.J.W.F. : Purpose good, but method un-
convincing L.J.A. : Had hoped that bike-humor of
the falling-off variety was quite dead. Kill it again,
please Henry C. : Our troubles about the bards
unborn who will ever sing of Spring; so long as
they keep unborn, they can sing till they’re hoarse.
Also, write direct to Willie—not per The Bulletin
C.C.: Blackfellow joke as old as Ham. Quince disserta-
tion long-winded A. Bayliss : Strained potato merri-
ment prohibited M. Arnold : Beer-chewing humor of
“ Me and Jenkins” palls after the seventh pub has been
sampled. Also “ Mulcahy’s Flying Machine” is a dis-
appointing invention S.G.T. : Distance lends no
enchantment to the romance of the Suffragettes’ stomach-
pump R.V. : Socks item humorous, but too long, and
“ Suggs” rather horrible in an evening-newspaper kind
of way. Prayerfully' considering third Polstan : Not
interested in idyllic hash-houses The Wasp: No
offence taken; but your verses have no longer the
unconscious humor which lit up their way to the tomb.
~..M. Melvin: Stodgy Strathnaver: Sorry, but
they’re not in our line. The pork fantasy came nearest.
....Chaos: Painful rhymes : “strong”—“ gone,” “strife
—“night,” “hand”—“man.”... Phidias: “Basket” a
sort of three-legged poem with a camel gait and a list to
starboard, and it makes heavy weather in the trough of
the sea, especially when going uphill A. le B. :
“ Yellow Brother ” is only an ordinary, every-
day brother. Sheol is so full of just that
kind of brother that the door won’t shut
G. MrKnight: Stories should go well in boys’ paper
W. V. Browne : From a word-painting which is one huge
purple patch, good Lord deliver us ! J. Stewart: Too
much preface. Also, connecting links in the chain of in-
cidents too massive for chain D. C. Shanahan : Lyric
outpourings—“ Hello, Bill Jones, lemme shake your
bones,” and “ Sunshine and Gloom ” —flowed naturally
into the W.P.B G. H. Griffiths: Folly of Australians
leaving their own country for any other often urged in The
Bulletin. Other points in your letter also familiar....
Victoria : Rhythmless, badly-rhymed verses about roses
(“ wonders secreted in pink ”) as compared with diamonds
(“to gain which men are ofttimes indiscreet”), declined
with emotion John Macintosh: Pious yearnings and
versified protest against petty tyranny not up to the
mark Hoddie : You mustn’t try to get level with Her
by means of jumpy verses—not in this paper, anyway...
Great Scott: Yes; too awful for publication... Q.H. :
The main trouble is that your verses have no distinction ;
same old ideas treated in same old way, in more or
less faulty metre Weka (Wellington): Both infantile.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Eceric : One in the balance ; the other in the basket....
Hus : All fell into the fire and were consumed... .Malcolm
Mac : Try again. But wait and work for three years be-
fore you do it Charley : Drawing no good, but gag
nearly pulled through Horatio: Try us again
Isa Q. : The drawing is vigorous, but where does the
alleged joke come in ? Roland J. : A'O and egg joke
too suggestive.. ..Leonard P. : Unpleasant joke—and the
man you indicate is probably being very sea-sick himself
just at present D. Hop: Picture declined, with
thanks N.S.; One old Norman Lindsay jest. One jest
of doubtful age. One picture that would have been re-
jected in any case. One picture that would have had a
show with newer joke attached.


— Go on
f|| follow (\_
• V\v't' tfiou S
I)olden'«d,
else a, despise r of
, J*-t r
civ'ifify +wo« see^sf -
So empty ?’’
s'^wctjer' .' — .
''Turn out~7y er
Ok my |>ro|)te' t Tc. SotfrJ^
hny Untie !
DtffcXin' |et"hie fyoye *nfcn a^bout - hie lf)*t~’lv'e 0
sleeK *,««/ **d SucVi sleef .
Ar ,
A Vblnhto S J>&!To h
Sf>e*lC«v .’- I move —.
Voice I——•
u /\ V/ontovd
IlKe *«, •f'Buw'teon
'fro utled , hiuddy,
ill- see»»>ine >> f
WefT""of- ‘btd.M'fy.
1
i*>slr« **»«*+
of my fio^e£»>£,
\ °(" j 'ljj^*^|lrP®
: \ Mm\l y^.
V*r<r- WHiTsvf yoa-fi c * W
A- . : I . I. *
: J fc&r iris too droltnc. *n* . *
o*»1ool sou)*
Hcv>f»«cKe<4 (tW.W fc
in «> CorW**’**^' 0 ") •
" jf | were now to 'twere now
-fe be Wpy. 11
no, Orlando ; men yi
'Hiey vwe > D«c*mW wl«v> .
A BOOM IN BHAKSPEARE.—THE AFTERMATH IN MELBOURNE.


London, Thursday, d.fS p.m.
the interesting discovery of a skele-
ton belonging to prehistoric times is
reported from the )'renoli Department
of Dordogne.
the remains, which were found
amongst rocks of the post-tertiary period,
dale back 20,0(10 years.
Thus is the original l ory disturbed
just When he Is settling down.
An attempt was made to send one of Dr. Ccok’s boxes home by Coniniqnder
Peary s ship, but Peary threw his rival’s luggage off with violence.
OO S It' /
V o-'' \ o '
/g) T^IC,
The uplift of the negro.
A slight accident to one
of the gunbearers.
. , - - ■ •
“Death faced me on every hand. I was about to
fire when Kermit called out: ‘Don’t fire just yet,
Dad ; the light is bad, and I must give this one at
least 10 seconds’exposure. ’ ’’
(Copyright.—All rights reserved.)
My first tiger.
“ Struggle with a wait-a-bit thorn, and the worst of it was that a WiJd-nan-
of-the-Woods collared my sun-helmet and Kermit’s camera, and did what he
liked with me.”—Continued in some future magazine.
(Copyright.—All rights reserved.)
PICTURES OF FOREIGN TRAVEL.


When You are Kept Awake
At night with that troublesome cough, remember
that it can be speedily cured by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
* .
baw-sai
, AMR HOME OF TABLt ,
Sparkles with pure Natural Gas, which distinguishes it
from all waters containing manufactured carbonic acid gas.
GOLF. u - -
Cc FISHING-RIVER
Q and DEEP SEA. *
SURF-BATHING. BOATING. ■
<
%. Launch meets train at Nowra Pf
»3v terminus. Lunch on board.
VS Telegrams—MANAGEß, Q
A CREENWELL POINT.
. .AO
PERIONAL
ITEMS
Australia still has some distance to go
before it is as “white” as it ought to be. The
other day, for instance, the Holt liner Alcinous,
which has a yellow and brown crew, carried 40
bales of wool from Brisbane to Adelaide, where it
is to be made into blankets for white Australians.
Up to now it was-generally supposed that
Ey, the name of a well-known S. Australian
family, was the briefest in the Directory ; but a
Victorian funeral notice last week disclosed one
that runs it very close. This surname was D’O. But
for the apostrophe it would have won, because
“ D” absorbs no more ink than “E” and the “o”
is a tail less than “y.”
Hay Kirkwood, who in his day legal-
managed a score or two of Bendigo and Eagle-
hawk mines, died a week or so back. He was a
benevolent old party who had been in and out of
the Eagl’ok Council for a generation ; and when
the Kyabram craze hit Victoria he was persuaded
by the Kyabramapootras to go and make laws for
the district he’d been making culverts for. Old
Hay obliged them—just as he did the patent-
medicine man with a testimonial, and thereby got
his photo, in a hundred papers for a year or two.
Of course, when Eaglehawk had time to think, it
hinted to its old friend that Parliament wasn’t
quite the place for him ; and, as usual, he obliged
it by retiring.
“ TWEEDLEPUNCH” UP TO DATE.
Mr. G. H. Reid, on Friday evening, delivered the
annual address to the members of the Medical Society of
the Sydney University at the Tuniversity. He chose as
his subject, “ Mental Phenomenu.” He began by saying
that the best doctor now was one who gave the least
physic and had the best bedside manner, which had a
wonderful effect upon the patient. Of late years, he con-
tinued, “it has been found that man has two minds.”
Opening sentence from the Life Story (in
Lloyd’s Newspaper) of Dick Burge, ex-pug, who
has just hurst on the world after doing ten years
in connection with the Goudie bank swindles :
I do not desire to extenuate what was done, but I ask
that it may he vieW-eePfrom the standpoint of those who
have learned honesty in the atmosphere of the race-
course and not in the purer'atmosphere of the well-
conducted home and the of those who deem it
degrading to tell a lie,' or to seek to get the better of the
men who are engaged in an effort to obtain an advantage
over them.
What stfikes one even more than the clamorous
snuffle of the above is that it should be from the,
pen of Burge, the one-time bruiser, who at his
trial showed himself to be any old thing but an
intellectual. Seemingly they turn out a particu-
larly ready class of writer in the Stately Jugs of
England.
THE DOWNWARD DRIFT.
“The Colonial system,” said Cobden, ‘‘with all its
dazzling appeals to the passions of the people, can never
be got rid of except by the indirect prScess of Freetrade,
which will gradually and imperceptibly loose the bonds'
which unite colonies to us by a mistaken notion of self-
interest.”
The Kid: “ Well, thanks to his friend Cobdens
advice, we’re pretty independent of each other,
an each is goin his own way; and consider-
in’ the old man’s chances of hayin’ a nasty
smash if he don’t wake up it’s just as well
fme!” ’
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Old William Johnson (he is aged 80 and something over),
who- owned Don’Juan when that animal won the Mel-
bourne Oup in 1873, and thus'set the copious feet of the
late Joe Thompson on the road to fortune, is now a pro-
fessional tram-dodger at Broken Hill. That is to say, he
is an amazingly active man for his years, arid insists- on
going about a lot though nearly blind, and when the
Broken Hill tramway motor bursts out from the middle
of a dust-cloud it is ten to one that it finds Mr. Johnson
mooning along actively on the track. The other day
neither he nor the cram dodged with sufficient velocity,
and a broken leg and arm were Mr. Johnson’s share.
After all, it seems Premier Kidston, of
Queensland, doesn’t think so poorly of the poetry
he committed in his book-shop days that he wants
to forget it. He heaved at a liockhampton elec-
tion audience three verses which he wrote “a long
time before I was in polities.” The Bulletin
which, 17 years ago, printed one of Wullie’s crop
of poems, can still stand a verse of the resur-
rected ode :
German, or Frank, or Norwegian, or Danish ;
Ever}' white man that doth love to be free,
Come here and welcome, and help make Australia
Fair liberty’s home in the Southern Sea ;
And leaving the hatreds of race and nations ;
Follies that fattened old kingcraft of yore,
Teach to your children that freemen and equals,
Are all who draw breath on Australia’s shore.’
It is pretty easy jingle, with a rhyme to the
mile; but there have been worse “awful ex-
amples ” printed in The Bulletin’s “Answers to
Correspond en ts. ”
One of the latest applicants for land in
M.L. is something of a curio. He is the advance
agent for a continental crowd which is dying to
live close to Nature, and he calls himself Dr.
Schwartz, President of the Society of Life .Re-
formers. He doesn’t seem to care how few co\vs
the land will grow to the acre. The one tiling
really needful is that it possesses a warm climate,
for the Life Reformers intend to wear a look of
self-content and little else. The Herr president
says he has followers in Germany, France and
Switzerland ; and he promises to pour them in by
hundreds if the Government can offer him some
soil that grows the right Hot Air for Nude People.
W. Price, who has just got into the
Westralian Parliament on the Labor side, was
one of the men who organised the N.S. W. Labor
vote for the ’94 election. Price “worked”
Riverina and the Central division ; and among
other victories, J. C. Watson won the Young
seat. Hughes, Ferguson and Sleath were other
P.L.L. organisers at that time. Things have
changed with most of them. Price, a Queens-
land bushworker at the start, has thrown
up shearing and organising, and now humps
Matilda along the Inky Way; Hughes, the
umbrella-mender (he was a schoolmaster by pro-
fession but he brolly-mended for a while
at a crisis), is a barrister, and has been the
Commonwealth’s Attorney-General; Ferguson,
just then out of gaol as a “conspirator,” runs a
Sydney box-factory, and has been a Deform can-
didate ; and Sleath, who might have made a
bigger name than any of the others, has sunk
clean out of notice.
By “ Galleryite ” :
N.S. W. Treasurer Tom Waddell has two,characteristics
that differentiate him from most N.S.W. politicians—he
has never made an enerriy', nor anything similar to that
animal or beast of burden, and he is always genial and
friendly to all hands. The total incapacity of Thomas to
rouse a bark, let alone incite a bite, is wonderful, Also,
wonderful is the way these traits havA stood to him in
his political career. He has no particular capacity, and
not even his worst friend thinks he : has. Yet when
portfolios have been going Thomas has always been found
there or thereabouts. It was so in the forming of the See
Administration. Carruthers took him into the Fuse
which flowed the out-going of See. And finally
Wade found it impossible to avoid giving the amiable one
a portfolio, despite the fact that the Government follow-
ing contained many who were convinced that their Mini-
sterial appointments were already as much overdue as
the Warutab. But Thomas continued,to look benignly
about him, and to remark confidentially that it was a fine
day, that the weather was pleasant for-tbiit time of the
year, and that he was glad to see him 1 poking so well;
l and in a short time the Opposition was placated and the
dissentient voices died away into silence. Which is
always the way with Thomas. He is so sifiiply, yet so
effectively friendly, with personal interest and intimate
concern in his eyes, and a fatherly, neighborly, mately,
manly tone in his voice, that people forget that he has
blundered over a leadership, broken a party and bagged
an office. He is affable in a serious way, but it is some-
thing to be affable any way in a Ministry with only one
ocher member who wears a smile and laughs on provoca-
tion. That party is Charlie Oakes from Paddington, and
he is jolly although he is not paid for his job. If Charles
William Oakes only had a portfolio like Thomas Waddell,
he could laugh till both sides of the House ached.
Peter Bowling, of the Newcastle Miners’
Association, is hkvirig no luck lately. And he
isn’t quite the same old Peter either. He and the
Namoi Independent had a few words lately while
he was up that way organising. It was mostly on
the “Yah, you’re a thief!” and “Garn,
you’re a liar! ” principle; but the new Peter,
instead of, "going one better as the old
Peter would have done, weakly forsook the
argument and fired in a writ for £lOOO.
Then Peter had his next bit of bad luck ;
that mediaeval ecclesiast, Justice Prynnge,
was on the Bench,"and grabbed the chance
to turn Peter into a sort of Sunday-school
class. After which, the jury apparently
reckoned that Pieter was wrong in stopping
in the middle offthe argument and going
to law, and, having awarded him the
1-960,000 th part of what hp asked for,
told him he could pay his own Costs and
keep the change. 1 ’
“ Melb ” reminisces,about Fink :
On Saturday (October 2) there was a vivid reminder
of Farthing in the £ Fink, who left London in,a perpen-
dicular direction the other day. Mrs. Carmichael, wife
of the; gentleman who says “ I’m only a puir Scotch
mon ” and investigates spiders, inaugurated a charitable
, fSte on Saturday at the Grange, the mansion of Fink
when he was boosting. The Grange is at the corner of
St. Kilda-road and that road which turns up tp the
Church of England Grammar School, the route of the
Prahran and Toorak trams. The house was built by the
Victorian Government as a residence’ for the Commander
of:the Forces in 1868, while the'British redcoats were
still here, quartered in those bluestone donjons on St.
Kilda-road. General Trevor Chute, who whopped the
poor Maoris after 'Cameron’s rash blunders, was
the first occupant —an old, geezer with a nice
young wife, captured through his deeds of derring-do.
Not long did they enjoy the premises,'for the troops
were ordered to Bull Land in 1869, per ship Corona. Ever
sifice this white house has been a white, elephant, usually
empty. Now and again the Hahis'and the’Tucketts wield
a hammer over it', but no permanent tenant eventuates.
Fink took it 20 years ago. Now his, ghost will haunt it.
I enjoyed a leisurely’inspection inside on Saturday, the
place being in its chronic empty state. superb balcony
view. Ais" nice a place as you could take a bride into.
Pretty grounds. Some local stateghien wanted to shove
Mr. and Mrs. Carmichael into it ; but they like to be
farther away from the shop, at'Malvern.
They hanged Mrs. Rendall in Perth last
week for the slow murder of some children she
was supposed to be looking after. Mrs. Rendall,
who used spirits of salts, was a clumsy hand at
the business. Now, if she’d been a milk-vendor,
she could have watered and doctored the milk and
practised slow murder on a hundred children ;
and the State might have fined her 10s., if it took
any notice of the matter at all.
AT THE CONVERT MISSION.
“Arin ’ this night rescued nine young souls ue
this city frum the toils an’ perils ue dcr-r-rink,
dancing, picnics, cards, an’ theatres, ’oo, I
say, ’oo, can now say we ’are done nothink to
lighten an' brighten the lives uv th’ youth uv
this country?” (Thunders of applause.)
NO STATESMEN NEED APPLY.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
Bent, deceased, did many marvellous things in his
career, but nothing more astounding than his first poli-
tical jolt when he displaced lliginbotham. That was
almost 40 years ago. .. . lliginbotham labored under the
delusion that the people wanted a statesman. —Bulletin,
SS/9/‘O9.
Your are sleeping, Higinbothain, in your grave beside
the sea;
You were fearless, you were noble, and you preached
Democracy ;
But the people did not want you—and somehow it seems
to me
That the leaders cheap and nasty are the likeliest to
thrive ;
For a man may bid the people rise and face the shining
dawn,
But he’ll find they’ll vote for prophets of St. Cohen and St.
Pawn,
They will hail the priests of truckle, things that genuflect
and fawn—
You can bet your bottom dollar that the Insects will
survive!
You may sperid your life in fighting for the people in the
• slums,
But a crowd of fools will holler when they hang the
Empire drums —
They will yell like forty thousand drunken pande-
moniums,
And the crowd that you have fought for, they will
blindly pass you by ;
You may pour your soul and spirit into miles of printer’s
ink ;
You may urge the foolish people to sit down and “do a
think,”
But they’ll rush to breast the counter when the Fatman
bids them drink
No! the Statesman is not wanted, so he’d better not
apply!
Your are sleeping, Higinbotham—you have slept for
many years—
In your day the fool was mighty and the clown received
the cheers.
And the truest, bravest leaders still are hailed with
scornful jeers.
Still the all-pervading Insects in their chariots arrive ;
For it pays to be a jester and a fat and cheap buffoon.
Be a talker.be a trickster, shoot the glad financial moon ;
You must moderate your wisdom or you’ll walk in shabby
shoon—
Be a changeling and a fakir if in state you wish to drive !
If you wish to draw the wages of a seat in Parliament,
Do not be a Higinbotham—be a loud and greasy Bent ;
Be a brawler, be a boaster very cheap and insolent—
If the papers talk of honor, simply wink the other eye ;
If you’re tactful and compliant they will puff you every
morn,
For the Daily Press is sordid and its principles are worn ;
It will boost the priests of shoddy—with the sodden
gamp of scorn
It will smite the Nation-Maker, so no Statesman need
apply !
You are sleeping, Higinbotham, leader resolute and
strong—
One must crawl to win the plaudits of the cheap and
thoughtless throng,
One must howl the senseless stanzas of a blatant comic
song—
That’s the way for Office-seekers who are thirsting to
arrive ;
Waste no time on careful study of creation’s history—
Does it signify what happened to the Greeks in days b.c. ?
All you need is lungs and blather—you’ll be hailed as
Smith, M.P.,
And you’ll join the buzzing Insects in the useless,
droning hive!
Be a superficial person, in no subject deeply versed,
Pose as Brown the wondrous know-all —swear you saw
Gomorrah burst.
If a paying job be vacant, bound at onee and grab it
first—
Watch the Government intently from the corner of
your eye ;
If you see a chance of profit, throw your principles to
x Hell-
Rise and join your late opponents with a loud approving
yell;
When you run the hapless country with portfolios to sell,
Make this fact quite plain and patent—that no Scates-
man need apply !
You are sleeping, Higinbotham—as we all shall sleep at
last,
But the cheap and tawdry prophets with their gospels
hurry past ; *'
They are piling up the burdens—see the Debts that tower
vast—
Very strange it is, O Leader, how these Wades and
Kidstons thrive ;
Give the people slush in dray-loads, likewise give them
sport and beer,
Let the bookie lift his clamor in their large, distended ear ;
Praise the people for their wisdom, smirk and perorate
and leer —
That’s the Way these shoddy leaders keep their Govern-
ments, alive !
It is sad, O Higinbotham, sleeping quietly by the sea,
That these Little Things should batten on our proud
Democracy ;
But the voice of Common Knowledge shrieks the facts
derisively,
And your case, O fearless Leader, smites the doubter in
the eye;
Forty years we’ve travelled over, and your bones are laid
to rest,
But the Small Things in possession still this gracious Land
infest;
They are howling—hear their clamor north and south and
east and west —
Here’s a wreath of bitter verses that I place upon your
breast,
For ’tis true, alas ! as ever that No Statesman Need.
Apply 1
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
CORRECTION AND APOLOGY.
THE BRISBANE “WORKER’S” “SHOCKING
REVELATION."
SLANDERING “THE BULLETIN.”
Under the heading of “A Shocking Revelation ” an
article appeared in our issue of the 10th July, in which it
was stated :
“ People who wondered why Sydney Bulletin so sud-
denly ceased ils condemnations of the Kid-Philp coalition
need wonder no longer. A question asked and answered
in the Queensland Assembly last week has solved the
mystery. The sum of £2O per issue for 12 months is
being ladled out to the red-faced ‘ Bully’for advertis-
ing the advantages of this State as a field for settlement.
Just prior to the fixing up of the contract The Bulletin,
in the excess of its disgust at Kidston’s coalition conduci,
had declared it wouldn’t be found dead in the same pad-
dock with him. And those who still retained faith in the
democracy of the great Protectionist organ that isprinted
on Freetrade paper rejoiced exceedingly thereat. With
the formidable ‘Bully’ on their side, they felt that the
coalition would soon receive its quietus. But, alas, a
change came o’er the spirit of their dream ; the ‘ Bully’s ’
denunciation of Kidston’s treachery suddenly petered out.
A deathly silence about the coalition pervaded its columns
all at once.”
' W<; 7 find now that the charge is absolutely without
found'afion, and we very much regret the publication of
the article, and unreservedly apologise for any reflection
cast on the reputation of The Bulletin.
The Bulletin points out that it never made any con-
tract with the Coalition Government ; that its contract
was dated three months before the coalition took place ;
that when it denounced the Kidston-Philp Government
it was denouncing a profitable advertiser, and that not
only did it not in any way cease its hostility to the
Queensland coalition, hut that a perusal of its pages
would show that its hostility had never ceased.
The Worker finds that The Bulletin's account of the
circumstances is absolutely correct.
“ WORKER,”
Brisbane.
WHAT MAORILAND THINKS OF “THE
LONE HAND.”
Marlborough Press : Something really good in reading
matter and illustrations. Capital stories abound from
the introduction to the finale, and the proprietors of the
journal seem to be sparing no expense to secure the best
by the best for the benefit of the readers of Australasia.
Thu Lone Hand sticks at nothing, and is therefore well
ahead of all contemporaries in point of value and
excellence. . . . Kaikoura Sun: The current issue adds
success to success both in literary, letterpress, and deco-
rative excellence. . . . Woodville Examiner: We can un-
reservedly say that its reading is interesting from cover
to cover. . . . Wairarapa Standard: Fully maintains
this bright Australian magazine’s reputation for providing
well selected and'interesting reading matter. . . . West
Coast Times: Is quite equal, if not a little superior, to
any of its predecessors. . . . Kaikoura Star: The Lone
Hand improves every month, and the number now before
us is fascinating in every respect; it is really good.
Humorous articles, poems, etc., abound, and altogether
the issue is a splendid sample of an up-to-date magazine.
. . Marlborough Express: Altogether a fascinating number
iri every respect. . . . Feilding Star: Is a feature of the
bookstalls. The literary and artistic contents between
thecovers are also marked by originality and entertaining
qualities. Under the new editorial control this national
magazine is taking a distinctly higher and brighter tone
than previously, and the new policy should make The
Lone Hand appeal to a very much wider circle of readers.
. 1 .Grey River Argus : Itscontentsareasvaried and inter-
esting as usual, whilst its illustrations are highly artistic
and spirited. . . . Butter Miner: It is, as usual, beauti-
fully gotten up. Every issue is an improvement on the
previous one. .’. . Martinborough Star: As usual, it
sparkles and brims over with the very best that colonial
writers can produce. The illustrations are superb,
and the whole get-up of the magazine speaks volumes for
its enterprising proprietors. The Lone Hand is pre-
ertiinentl.v the magazine of Australia. . . . Inangahua
Times : The pictures are better, and the literary portion
better than usual. . . . Cheviot News: The Lone Hand,
Australia’s popular magazine, still keeps up its high
reputation. From cover to coyer it is full of interest, and
the stories and miscellaneous articles are cleverly written.


■ i
f*
fJr
•-
' .. \
m
>
&
,
it
Mra
■ «V
i#
f?fe »
H
:
I
m
'■■■■■
■V
H
£
.
:
-
■.
is*
; 'N
US
CAPSTAN
NAVY cur
TOBACCO
Cckpl&itv.-HerelDyer mecm to scy you're going to smoke
wkile you're ballin.g ?
FS sma,r\ —My ozxlK.l IIS OAP<3T^A^J!
CAPSTAN” NAVY CUT
(also in plug)
Manufactured Jy ft Q. WILLS.


Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDQWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, 0.P.0., SYDNEY.
111-health is what everyone hates ;
Good health is the best of all mates.
To secure it you must
Laxo-Tonic Pills trust;
The best asset we have in the States.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10|d. and Is. 6d.»
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
THE TRUE CAUSE
UF RHEUMATISM.
♦
Is Acid in the Blood and it Can
Only be Cured Through
the Blood*
*
A Man Who Was Cured Relates
His Experience.
Not many years ago doctors thought rheuma-
tism was only a local pain caused by exposure to
cold or wet. Now they know that rheumatism is
caused by the blood becoming tainted with uric
aoid. This acid contracts the muscles, stiffens the
joints, and irritates the nerves. Then the cold
and wet make the joints and muscles groan with
aching rheumatism. You blame the weather, but
the real cause is acid in the blood. If not
promptly treated the stiffness spreads and the
pain grows worse each year until you are a help-
less cripple, tortured day and night. If the dis-
ease touches the heart it means sudden death.
You can’t cure rheumatism with liniments,
plasters or hot cloths. You must go to the root
of the trouble in the blood. The one, sure scien-
tific way to cure rheumatism is Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, because they actually make new blood.
They sweep out the poisonous acid, loosen the
joints and muscies, and bring ease and freedom
where before had been pain and misery. The
following is a typical instance of how they cure.
“ I got a bad"attack of rheumatism shortly after
I was married,” said Mr. E. .T. Good enough, Chapel
Street. Thebarton, Adelaide. “ I used to have to
look after a boiler, and I suppose with the heat
and chills often I laid myself open to an attack.
It caught me in the back first. I woke up one
morning with it. I went off to work but had to
knock off at three o’clock and come home. Next
day I couldn’t get up at all. The pains had
spread to my legs and arms and I felt them in
every joint; knees, thighs and ankles and elbows
became affected. I was on my back for five days
unable to move by myself, my wife would have to
shift me in the bed, one limb at a time. Ihe pain
was terrible, I dreaded anyone coming near me or
touching me. The backs of mv hands became
affected and it hurt me to bend my fingers. I
could not move my arms freely or lift them up,
and when I did manage to get out of bed, I just
had to hobble about the house with a stick. My
ankles were so weak and so full of pain they
wouldn’t bear my weight. Later on my legs and
arms began to swell, and all the joints got shiny
and red, and I’d feel quite feverish. I went clean
off my food. The rheumatics were so bad I
couldn’t eat. At night time, especially, the pain
was shocking bad. I’d wake up every hour or so
towards morning. I couldn’t, close my eyes. All
the time every joint in my body had a dull pain
as if something was gnawing them. I was rubbed
with eucalyptus, but a few minutes after I’d feel
as bad as ever. At last, seeing what pain I was
in, mv mother advised me to try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, as they had benefited her. I took two
pills before each meal, and they acted splendidly.
The aches in my joints began to ease off quite
quickly and my" appetite returned. At last I
found myself completely cured. I’ve never had a
relapse in spite of rny "often working in the wet
and damp.’’
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of spring's.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
•281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at M klbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
UNDER THE ENEMY'S ENSIGN.—HIS
DAILY DEGRADATION.
Mr. Deakin looked relieved that another d-ty’s obstruc-
tive vituperation and abuse had drawn to its close.—
Fusion Press, sympathetically.
“ Thank God, I can at least lower it at sunset !”
The N.S.W. Government proposes to ex-
pend £2,650,000 in duplicating the main railway
lines from Sydney to Orange on the west, Goul-
burn on the south and Werris Creek on the north.
This enormous expenditure is, in a sense, neces-
sary, and eventually the duplications will go
further out. But just because the new facil-
ities will accelerate the rush of traffic they
will make the appalling congestion in the narrow
bottle-neck, of Sydney worse instead of better.
Already the city can’t compete with the rush,
and with more traffic things will be more
congested. Why, for instance, should the line
from Newcastle to Sydney be duplicated at all
just now ? Why not start at Armidale and dupli-
cate to Newcastle ? N.S.W. is spending another
gigantic sack of money to improve Newcastle
harbor so that it can accommodate lots of trade,
and at the same time it proposes spending a dray-
iload of money in order to drag the trade past the im-
proved harbor of Newcastle and bring it to Sydney.
As another and a still better idea, why not have a
■double line from Armidale to Port Stephens,
which is only a few miles from Newcastle, and is
such a splendid natural harbor that it doesn’t
require costly dredging.
It is estimated that as things are going
with the N.S.W. Government’s land repurchase
and closer settlement policy, it will only take
£25,000,000 to plant 10,000 new settlers on the
land, or £100,000,000 to plant 40,000 new settlers.
Carping economists may call it a slow and costly
process; but the gigantic intellect of Wade is
shoving behind, and he says it is all right.
Another effort is to be made to wipe out
the coupon system in N.S.W. The wonder is that
the thing has lasted so long, either there or in any
other State. The coupon arrangement is a cheeky
device, whereby a new set of unproductive middle-
men shoves itself in between the producer and the
consumer, and makes a living without adding
anything to the world’s aggregate wealth, and
among all the systems devised by middlemen for
middlemen it seems the most cheeky and the leas
useful.
Included in lou Ward’s luggage from
England was a new and gorgeous mace for the
Maoriland Parliament. Appropriately enough, it
is of silver, but is gilt-washed so as to masquerade
as gold—presumably on the off-chance that Isaac
Cohen won’t know the difference between it and
the real thing by-and-bye. Ward hasn’t men-
tioned how it was paid for, but no doubt the
bauble is another “permanent and reproductive
undertaking.”
If the Fusion doesn’t find its feet very
shortly, it won’t accomplish much this session. It
has now been running this country for over four
months, and has turned seven huge measures into
law. They comprise a Customary Works and
Buildings Appropriation Bill, two Supply Bills, a
Bill to amend the Old Age Pensions Act, a Bill to
amend the Audit Act, a Bill to appropriate cash
for the payment of pensions, and the new Coinage
Bill. And already the buzz of the summer fly on
the window pane, and the howl of the locust, and
the anxiety to discover whether Blind Staggers
has a chance for the Cup indicate that the usual
date for closing the session is not far off.
Apparently with his eye on the recent
ignorant remarks of Judge Rogers, of N.S.W.,
D. C. McLachlan, the Civil Service Commissioner,
has givdn the Post Office a table all to itself in his
just-published fifth annual report. The number
of post, telegraph and telephone officers taken
over when Federation was hatched was 9930, and
the average salary was £l2l. During the next six
years over 2000 lads were taken on ; yet at
January, 1907, the average pay was up to £134.
After that there was a much more rapid rush of
youths into the service—over 2700 in two years,
at an average of about £48 —and still in January
of this year the average pay for the whole service
was £l2Ba year, or £7 a year better than it was in
the last days when the States ran the show.
Some British warships dropped into New
York harbor on the occasion of a recent Uncle
Sam celebration, and the John Bull admiral and
the Uncle Sam admiral handed each other butter
on an ungodly dish. Here is a sample :
Admiral Schroeder of the U.S. navy declared that if the
armaments of the world were dictated by the same
motives as those ruling Britain and America, lasting
peace would be assured.
Why, certainly ! Of course the last three great
wars that the world has seen were caused (1) by
the United States’ attack on Spain ; (2) by
Britain’s resolve to annex the two Boer republics ;
(3) by Britain’s Jap. ally attacking Russia, which
it was only aide to do because it was assured that
Britain would keep off any third party. But why
disturb the greasy concord of the banquet with
recollections like that ?
“ Paddymelon” ; If this Yassberra foolish-
ness is perpetrated it will be only one more
example of the capacity for putting cities in the
wrong places. In that respect our record has
been awful. Sydney and Hobart are pretty
right—and that is all. Townsville, planted on a
shallow plate of soup, should be where Bowen is.
Rockhampton, Maryborough and Brisbane are
many miles too far up their respective rivers, and
are absurdly inaccessible. (Rockhampton should
be where Gladstone is.) Newcastle is deposited
on a shallow cramped inlet with a bad entrance,
when the splendid harbor of Port Stephens is
right alongside. Melbourne is miles too far up
the Yarra. Adelaide was dumped down where
there was practically no port at all, and one had
to be made at huge expense. Launceston is much
too far up the river; like many other places, it
was constructed by men who thought ships would
never be any larger than they were then. Perth
depends on Fremantle, and Fremantle as a port 1
isn’t a patch on Albany—it doesn’t come within
10,000 miles of it. And now we are going to have
another sample of the same insanity.
Brighton (Vic.) must be a discriminating
sort of constituency. After years and years of
Bent it has now arisen cheerfully and elected in
his stead one Snowball. Snowball is a missioner
of Yellow Pupisrn. And that is absolutely all he
is. He is as hazy about political dogmas as his
colleagues in Rome-baiting of the Bill Wilks and
Jessep brand. Snowball doesn’t give a Methody
divine’s imprecation for fiscalism, and he takes
no more interest in the local differences
between Democracy and Toryism than he
does in rum and cloves; but in the matter
of leaping upon the Vatican with both sand-shoes
he is the entire hog, and is there every time. He,
is a most dogged assailant of St. Peter’s. The
capital of Italy gets perfect Hades every time
Snowball ascends a public platform. But what
it all has to do with Vic. politics isn’t appa-
rent. There have been some unkind cuts
levelled at Bent since he fled tombwards;
but it is doubtful if anyone cast a blacker
aspersion on .deceased than his own well-
loved constituents of Brighton did when they
declared by a fine large majority that the
appropriate man to fill his political shoes was
the utterly futile and humorless Snowball —the
strange person who thinks to destroy the lady
who lives, on the Seven Hills by complaining
about her in a Little Bethel on July 12.
THE REAL OBSTACLES IN THE WAY.
Vie. Premier Murray (to a recent deputation on
the race-suicide question): “ There are the real
obstacles. Why not have a go at shifting
them ? ”
“Cadaver,” from Waverley Cemetery :
The Fusion craze has spread to Waverley (Sydney),
where the coqises take their last Iona; sleex> to the sound
of the ocean waves on the one hand and the drone of in-
numerable Bethels (little and big)on the other. There is
a movement afoot to fus° the local branch of the “ Liberal
and Reform Assoc.” with the “ Waverley Liberal and
Reform League.” The League cut adrift from the Assoc,
at last State elections. The cause of the hitch was
Thomas Jessep, Yellow Pup and vegetable expert. A
section of Waverley was sick of Thomas. It reckoned that
his Pupism was too blatant, and that the vulgar odor of
the long-plucked tomato enveloped him too in-
sistently. A cry that was almost a bellow went
up that the suburb of gloom and burial should be repre-
sented by a more genteel personage. And that was where
Field-Marshal James Onslow, who owns Camden Park and
most of Elizabeth Bay, came in. When the name of
James was mentioned to the Upper Classes ,of Waverlev
they almost swooned with approbation. The “ Karthliek
vote” greeted it approvingly—on the ground that the
bearer of the name couldn’t insult it (the Vote) more than
Jessep was wont to do, and that in all likelihood he would
do it far less. Labor didn’t entirely disapprove of the
Field-Marshal who is possessed of that valuable quality in
a political opponent complete ineptitude. Onslow hasn’t
the capacity to argue down an Andalusian beer-hound.
And so the League came into being, and when it was born
it was found to contain as many and as diverse elements
as a gin cocktail. The Association declined to attend
the accouchement. It casts reflections on the parentage
of the League, and stood afar off and shouted prophecies
of future woe and shame for the newly-born. Especially
loud in his forecastings of coming disaster was Thomas
Jessep. He had reason. Onslow fought him (Jessep) and
the party nomination and the morning newspapers, and
donkey-licked the entire combination. Now the Associa-
tion (which is practically Jessep) and Wade (who is also
Jessep) and the Watchman (which is mostly Jessep) want
Onslow to commit hari-kari by fusing his League with
their Association, and giving the party nominators (who
are in effect themselves) the chance to say whether he or
the vegetable person shall contest the seat. Onslow may
acquiesce—a man with his forehead is liable to do any-
thing—but it is unlikely.
AUSTRALIA-
AS SEEN BY
WADE.
He wanted it made
perfectly clear that
the question should
be discussed en-
tirely apart from
any suggestion of
party feeling-. It
should be dealt
with entirely
upon its real
merits as a
national ques-
tion. — Wade,
almost daily,
on the Capital
site.
GREGORY'THE GRACIOUS:
“We shall now dispense
with the small , mean muncipal map; and in
justice to my dear friends of the Commonwealth
view the matter from a broad, NATIONAL stand-
point.”
John Downer, Iv.C., S. Australia’s boss
Tory, had some shocking luck last week. Labor-
member Denny, a young lawyer, had introduced
a Workmen’s Compensation Bill which was prac-
tically a copy of the English Act. On general
principles, old John of course opposed it, his
alleged reason being that the existing Act filled
the bill and was “admirably drafted.” Old
John’s shocking luck was that, just at that
moment, Chief Justice Way and Justice Homburg
were using up the dictionary in their efforts to de-
nounce it, the former calling it a “dreadful Act.”
One of DoWner’s objections was that the new Bill
should not be put in the hands of an enterprising
young gentleman, but should be undertaken by
the Government guided by competent officials;
to which Denny replied that “the work of
criticising a Bill of great importance should not
be left in the hands of a tired old gentleman who
takes no trouble to verify either the law or the
facts, and is even too weary to compare two Bills.”
The eternal truths about Freetrade and
Protection and foreign-trade and home pro*
duetion seem to apply to University profes-
sors the same as to ocher things. A Commis-
sion is taking evidence in Westralia concern-
ing a proposed local University; and Professor
MacCallum, of Sydney, has been giving it a
point or two. Things are different from what
they were when Sydney ’Varsity started, the
Prof, remarked. They could now “draw
upon the large stock of eligible men to be found
in Australia and Maoriland, the graduates
of colonial universities, who made excellent
Professors”; and hence they were independ-
ent of the foreigner—they didn’t nowadays
have to “bribe men with big salaries to
come to Australia.” So, instead of having
to pay huge salaries, out of all proportion
to what the men were probably worth, Aus-
tralia could now get excellent men at
very reasonable prices—Professor MacCal-
lum quoted £7OO as the probable market
price for a Professor and £4OO for a Lecturer.
Four hundred looks very little considering
that many a bad grocer or fluff merchant
makes three times as much; but that s an-
other matter.
The still small voice of Jabez Coon
(Vic.) is not often heard in the councils of the
nation, but it rose to some effect the other day,
when it shouted for a Federal progressive land-
tax. Thereby Jabez greatly annoyed the 1 used
Government. There is already a huge rent m
the lute over the financial agreement with the
States, and a little more dissension is calcu-
luted to wreck the show. Then Willy Kelly
will be hurriedly sent for to form a Ministry,
which will consist of himself, Wilks, Liddell,
Johnson, Fuller. Bowden and old Hen. Willis,
with George Reid as Minister without portfolio
and Hans Irvine as Honorary Wine Merchant.
A DIFFERENT MEANING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Word as applied to tactics has a different meaning:
from the same word if used in a personal sense.— Alfred
Deakin.
It is truly as lucid as lucid can be ;
It is plain as the nose on your face
Though the tactics may be a disgrace, don’t you see,
The tactician is not a disgrace.
Me may wobble and swerve and crayfish and curve —
It is all of it part of the game—
Hut you mustn’t say “ Wobbler,” for, prithee, observe
That the meaning is not quite the same.
One might carry this argument ever so far—
There is not the least good in denying
That though a man’s talk may be lies you must baulk
At describing the talker as “ lying.”
His work may be slow, but it’s nonsense, you know,
To declare that the man’s a “ slow worker.”
And if he should shirk in the House all his work
'Twould be foolish to call him a “ shirker.”
In quoting such things one could fill up a ream ;
It is so to the end of the chapter.
A man who adapts his adversary’s scheme,
He need never be called an “ adapter.”
And if he should fuse, it is not the least use
To describe him as being a “ Fuser.”
Such a use of the word is distinctly absurd,
And would earn but contempt for the user.
For a statesman’s a statesman right on to the end,
Never mind what his actions resemble ;
He may bargain and palter and stumble and falter
And wheedle and scheme and dissemble.
But, observe, these are acts, and though probably facts
That would earn for the mere politician
A horrible name, it is not quite the same
When applied to a master tactician.
And so, you electors, when chewing the cud
Of reflection, attend to this study.
And observe, though a member may meddle with mud
He is not, of necessity, muddy.
Though he turns like a weathercock ten ways at once,
Till you never know which way he’s leaning,
To call him a weathercock proves you a dunce,
For it has quite a different meaning.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The BECHSTEIN PIANOS
r
s
O
are used by all the great Pianists of
the present day—no other Piano cah
fully satisfy their requirements. Their
tone quality is perfect.
JOSEF HOFFMANN writes of them: —
“The Bechstein Piano possesses greater poetry of
tone and resembles the human voice more than
any other instrument. It is the realisation of my
ideal of a piano, and the only one on which I
can express all I feel/'
MADAME CARRENO writes:
“ The Bechstein Piano is the ideal of perfection,
and, above all other instruments, responds to all
demands of an artist."
We stocK these magnificent Pianos
both in Grands and Uprights, and
invite you to call and inspect them,
or to write for full particulars.
Catalogues are free for the asKing.
BE
W. H. PALING ®, CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and at B ' ISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
-5
3
>3*
WM
m
I
mimmwk
5-
«K
ifr.
£'Z-6£tf
£*6o/
®Fi2
i
i
■W
*
vm
m
ms
m
m
s
m
fe
BL-606
m
fk
m
8-1-604
8-1-607
m
.
rm
w
%*
B-L-608
m
CATALOGUE 5.5.
THE BLOUSES illustrated on
Page 26 of our New and
Up-to-Date Catalogue 5.5.
(?==D
5) ft n
For fuller particulars see Catalogue 5.5.
IF YOU HAVEN'T ONE,
WRITE or CALL AT ONCE.
Post Free to any part of the
Commonwealth.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
MELBOURNE, S.E.


*vra«t to H.M.
,oV
Kft
Charles Heidsieck
EEXES
EXTRA DRY
c* %
£T v>
li
FINEST EXTRA Q?
DO YOU WONDER
WHY YOUR HAIR FALLS ?
Healthy hair does not fall out, but when bacteria
invade the scalp, it is certain to do so, sooner or later,
and, if neglected, it will permanently lose its beauty and
luxuriance.
This letter gives one patient’s opinion of my in-
dividual treatment: —
“Just a month ago to-day 1 commenced to use the
Hygeia Treatment. The improvement in my hair is
beyond all expectation, and I am delighted with it.”
E. S., West Australia.
Call for free consultation any day but Saturday,
between 2.15 and 4.45 ; or, by appointment, Wednesday
evening between 6 and 7. If you cannot call, write,
enclosing 3d. in stamps for descriptive booklet to
MRS. COWLING, Dept. B, HYGEIA INSTITUTE,
Ocean House, opposite Government Savings Bank,
Moore street, Sydney.
R®B»R
Workin* fn a cloie steamy
kitchen isn’t the nicest job in
the world, and sometimes 1 feel
that tired I’m only fit to go
and lie down do you know
what l do when 1 feel like
that ?—l make a fresh cup of
Robur tea, and drink it hot —as
hot as ever 1 can, and before
you can say Jack Robinson it
brightens me up and l feel as
right as rain again—l’ve been
usin’ Robur No. 1 Grade for
years, and 1 wouldn’t have any
other not if you paid me.
When you’re workin’ amongst
food all day long you gets to be
a pretty fair judge of what’s
good and what’s bad, and you
can take this from me “Robur
is the very wholesomest tea that
can be bought for money’’—and
I’ve tasted 1 don’t know how
mahy brands in my time, but
never a one 1 liked better than
Robur.
The Cook.
QUALITY BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 12, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
Seemingly Captain Verney’s marriage is going
to disqualify him for-the post of State Governor's
A.D.C. Another has been appointed in his stead,
and the new holder of the billet is a bart. and an
ex-Guardsman—one Napier. Probably no married
man on earth, anfl least of all a newly-married
one, could adequately discharge the duties of a
State Governor’s A.D.C. They bear no rela-
tion to the duties of one in attendance
on the Gov.-General. For every Blind-
Paralytic Association which is ..formally opened
under the supervision of the G.-G. and staff
at least 47 institutions of the kind .are started in
the presence of the State Gov. and his only
A.D.C. When not superintending at the birth of
Blind-Paralytic Associations, the State vice-regals
are hard at it inaugurating Sales of Work, Flower
Shows, Asylums for Incurable Freetraders, Aber-
nethy Tabernacles, Pleasant Sunday Yelps,
Homes for Decayed Elephants, and a thousand
other affairs of the kind. And always the lonely,
overworked A.D.C. is there, smiling in haggard-
wise and trying to look as though he didn’t hate
the whole business with a complete curse. The
State A.D.C.’s normal day consists in attending
with his chief at anything from one to half a
dozen ‘‘openings,” and then appearing at an
Unlicensed Victuallers’ Ball in the evening, after
(possibly) a formal dinner at the Commercial
Wanderers’ Club. It is calculated to give any
young man who has not that complete captaincy
of soul and absolute leisure which go with celibacy,
a nervous breakdown within a month or less.
The indications are that the new gentleman-
help is not hampered by a surplusage of worldly
dross. His father lived most of his time at the
Army and Navy Club (the “ In and Out” as it is
called in the service). Residence in a club is
equivalent in the case of a man of rank to board-
ing-house-frequenting in the case of normal
mortals. The family is as Scotch as haggis. It
is a branch of the Earls of Levenax or Lennox
(extinct), and is said by tradition to have taken
its name from a saying of Alexander 111. of Scot-
land, after a battle, that Lennox had “na peer”
(no equal), The family mottoes are “Without
Blemish” and “Look Well.” The ladies of the
family are said to do it, too.
There were two private dances last week. One
was given by the Staff at Federal Government
House; the other by the Greens, who are affluent
squatter folks, resident for a space in the
Mackellars’ old home at Point Piper. The Staff
frivol was distinguished by an innovation, so far
as Sydney was concerned, in the form of a cotillon.
The cotillon fashion started in America, then it
crossed the Atlantic and became domiciled in
London, and now it seems to have spread the world
over. It is essentially a pastime for a dance where
everyone knows everyone else. A maiden walks
round the ball-room with a wand from which
trail variegated ribbons. To each ribbon she
attaches a young man. Meanwhile, a male creature
is hitching girls on to a similar wand similarly be-
ribboned. When each ribbon of each wand boasts
a human being the males and females foregather,
and he who is hooked to a white ribbon dances
with her who adorns a softgoods remnant of a like
hue, and. so on. ■ Obviously there must be no
Montague and Capulet business raging in such
circumstances, as a flat refusal on the part of one
hereditary or other kind of foe to dance with his
or her best enemy would be more.than awkward.
A cotillon consists in innumerable variations of the
above, but the basic principle—namely, that some-
one dances ultimately with someone else—remains
ever the same.
The Australian Club ball of last week rolled a
small batch of pretty debutantes into local Society.
Debutantes at the launching ball, like brides at the
altar, are nearly always pretty. They may be
plain before and for ever after those epic occasions,
but the fact remains that the white-clad craft,
with her posy of lilies-of-the-valley and her crav-
ing to dance every dance, is always a fair sight.
Last Thursday’s clutch included a Miss Foster of
North Sydney, a Lindeman damsel, and Miss
Dorothy King—a tall, dark charmer who is grand-
daughter of Mrs. Thorne and a sister of
those two fine-looking King girls who mar-
ried the Americans Waldron and Keegan,
and quitted the home-paddock of Australia.
A fourth fledgling was Miss Raine, of the Raine
and Horne combination, and a fifth was Miss
Falk, daughter of an American merchant
anchored/-here. This last was a lovely little cir-
cumstance. Two other debutantes there were—
Miss Middleton, a relative of Mrs. Ewan Frazer,
and Miss Flovd ; but as they had come out at Dr.
and Mrs. Frazer’s ball a few nights previously,
they Were one festivity ahead, and entitled to
wear airs of seniority along with their white
frocks and posies.
The jdecorative scheme was modulated to a
background for the debutantes. It consisted of
white ’like their bouquets, and green like them-
selves,; or like the foliage of their lily of
the valley blooms. The debutante's bouquet is her
sceptre, and with it she does wonderful things
in the way of brushing aside the invisible barriers
that rear themselves between her and the quite-
grown-ups. Now a Lord Mayor’s corkscrew—but
that’s another story, and the green and white
decorations are withering while they wait for this
appreciation. It was the first time the Town
Hall had been decorated in that spring-like, snow-
drop-like way. Long bamboos, festooned with
white wistaria, swayed and drooped out from the
gallery railings, and anyone who has tried to nail
or tie a long bamboo rod into a horizontal position
knows that it is possessed of several devils and
understands, the difficulty of the situation.
Green fluted muslin hid the walls, and white
azaleas and lilies were everywhere that the thou-
sand persons present were not. It was a beautiful
ball, and a pretty good guarantee that the club’s
cash deposits are bloated with old, disreputable
affluence.
Miss Lily Brayton brought her pathetically
soulful face, with its framing of dark hair
done Cleo de Merode fashion, to the Aus-
tralian Club ball at a late hour. She is as dis-
tinctive in appearance, off-stage, as a Blessed
Damozel is on a Burne-Jones canvas, and she
elicited gasps of admiration from her more con-
ventionally garbed sisters. Her husband was also
there, but in the black and white costume of
ordinary male humanity he was indistinguishable
from those of his sex who weren’t either mum-
mers or famous.
One of the features of the Hospital Ball last
week was a Jap who danced in the jiu-jitsu set.
Small and fat he was, and he wore the clothes of
the craft as to the native born. Presumably he
was asked to join the set because he owned a
jiu-jitsu costume. No other reason outstood on
the surface of things. He knew nothing of what
the daily papers neatly term the “ Terpsichorean
art,’’ and had to be pushed and shoved through
every figure of the Lancers till his colleagues were
as heated and exhausted as a posse of coal-lumpers
in full work on a December day.
The Mayoral Allen Taylors’ garden party of
last week to meet Lord and Lady Chelmsford was
turned into a water party by rain. But, fortu-
nately, the unwelcome element didn’t arrive until
everyone had “met” the State Ex. pair. Mrs.
Taylor and her consort, standing on the garden
party carpet, smiled, bowed, and shook the most
convenient parts of their guests. Mr. Layton,
who has quite the aide-de-cam pish art, announced
names.
To the last day of the horse festival came
the Dudley Countess, with her face ambushed
under one of the new black veils—a sort of
thick dice pattern on a thin black mesh.
Her black hat soared slightly on one side,
and was smothered in white ostrich feathers.
Sections of the crowd that paused opposite the
Federal vice-regal box to scan “ .’im ” and “.’er”
felt a sense of injury because “she” was not in
white. Moreover, what “she” had on was a bit
intricate for lucid description to friends not
present at the race meeting. The nearest they
could get to it was that it was black on grey.
Then they departed for the horse-stalls saying
that “ they didn’t like’er in anything but white
or pale heiiotrope.” Astonishing what a number
of persons drop the h out of “him” and “her”
while battling successfully with it in other
circumstances.
How the horse does bring out the vice-regals
and their staffs and guests 1 ! “Beauty draws us
by a single hair ” —“horsehair,” the poet meant.
The horse is the magnetic pole, and the Dudleys
and Chelmsfords and their superbly-tailored re-
spective tails rusji thereward in motors or car-
riages instead of dog-sledges, and lap champagne
instead of seal-oil in the intervals.
The Lily member of the Asche partnership per-
vaded the gathering robed in shining grey char-
meuse, with a depressed hat of the same very
tamed-shrew tone. She paraded mostly in com-
pany with Mr. Jim Osborne, with whose wife she
acted in the Society of London a few years ago.
Mr. Osborne’s own Maud came into the equine
garden looking awfully well in spite of an
enormous hat like the crack of doom—a
hat with lime-shaded roses round its brim.
“Eclipse” wouldn’t be a bad name for this
headgear that makes the fashionable woman
faceless so far as the onlooker is concerned.
Miss Dorothy Court who becomes the Queen
of Cadonia nightly at Her Majesty’s, and Mrs.
Bert Gilbert whose husband is getting well and
fattening at Springwood for a renewal of the
Apache dance, were about with Mrs. J. C. Wil-
liamson. Mrs. Markell, the frock authorities say,
was one of the best-gowned women present. Her
long coat might have been lace or narrow silk
braid with gold threads running wild all over it.
Her hat left none in doubt. It was a flop, and
carried 3155 lovely pink roses, and as there was one
bloom over she planted it on her chest.
Mrs. Motor-car Preston, who does the fairy
petrol godmother by visiting and home-grown
singers, had a melodious group in her car coming
back. Miss Marie Narelle was one. This charm-
ing ballad singer departs for Westralia what day
this letter meets the public eye. She opens her
concert tour at Kalgoorlie on the 25th. Basso
M'Eachern .and Miss Thorndyke will be her
helpers in melody-making. Perth will be visited
later on ; but it is well to take Kalgoorlie first and
get it over before the heat wave comes and a
material devil wanders up and down the Boulder
Block trying to cool his tail at the hydrant.
Amongst horse loyalists who wander hither for
the big meetings are always some of the remark-
able O’Shea family from Brisbane. The brothers
are well-known Gentlemen One, and there is a
sister, Ella, who is as enthusiastic as Dr. Arthur
on the value of sleeping under the concave vault
of Heaven. Nearly all footlighters or persons-
who-do-things, when they visit Brisbane, get a
garden couch sooner or later at the Maison
O’Shea, and have magpies whistling reveilles in
the porches of their ears at 4 a.m. and pineapples
falling on them all night from the jacaranda trees.
Most Sydneysiders will recollect Miss Cecil
Englehart, who was one of J.C.W.’s best-looking
comic opera lights. When she went to London a
few years ago she dropped directly into good
parts at Daly’s. Later, when she went to
America and Frohmann, she had more success,
and later on she was still more successful, for
she has now a most satisfactory husband and two
fine infants. Mrs. Garrity she is now, and she
is here on a visit with her husband.
Under the sun at Kandwick, or elsewhere, one
doesn’t see many new things. A bag carried by
an American visitor was a novel item. It hung
from its carrier’s arm to the hem of her gown by a
knotted silk cord, and was of a beautiful shade of
green suede. The number 13 in gilt figures de-
pended from the bag. The color and number are
supposed to be unlucky, but none of the horses
broke out and trampled on the lady.
At Wednesday’s meeting Miss Gwladys Bonsor,
back a few days previously from a sojourn in
foreign capitals, was a vision of present-dateness
as the dateness is in those foreign capitals. Her
princess frock—like a baby’s long robe—was of
the combination of muslin, insertion and eyelet
holes that comes under the label of broderie
Anglais. Her hat was a black chip, with
strange designs in gold braid and some-
thing like a starfish. Several starfish in
paler gold were set close to a bunch of long lancet-
shaped leaves (like the leaves of our cabbage palm)
in gold and green. A rather small blob of curls or
rolls was dressed out from the middle of the back
of her head, and under the knob was a huge tor-
toise shell hairclasp. The hair seemed to be rest-
ing on a high carved shelf.
At the races, an important member of the anti-
Plumage League was wearing, with good effect,
an “ osprey >J and an “ostrich” feather boa, and
neither clo’ had any relation to either bird. At
the A.J.S. Chambers, inGeorge-street, “ospreys,”
“quills,” “ostrich” feathers and many forms of
feathers and feather trimming may be seen by ask-
ing for the inventor lady. No fowl has suffered
or been robbed of his raiment on account of these ;
the pretty things that understudy the original
ornaments are made, not grown. The “ostrich”
feathers especially are amazing imitations of the
real thing.
Miss Eileen Osborne, the only daughter of the
Hamilton Osbornes, is engaged to be married to
one Hastings Anderson, a captain and a sqn of
the General of that name. The Hamilton
Osbornes owned Bangaroo station (N.S.W.) till it
was cut up for closer settlement a couple of years
ago. Hamilton Osborne pere was a notable
figure in local society a generation ago, being a
racing man and one of the few who went in for
coaching.
By the way, one of the fairest maidens at the
balls last week was Miss Kathleen Osborne,
another member of the immense clan of that
name which has representatives in most parts of
N.S.W. and Victoria, and in not a few parts of
the other States. Miss Kathleen is a George
Osborne and hails from Melbourne. She is the
last debutante of the name who will make her
appearance for another decade at least. A
large crop is maturing in different nurseries, but
the time for it to bud is not yet.
Count Batthyany, a member of the noble Hun-
garian house of the name and president of the
Buda-Pesth Racing Club, was to have looked in
at our races. Perhaps he is here now. Mr.
Byron Moore was doing the Kindly Light act by
him last week in Melbourne. The distinguished
stranger had brought letters to the Governor-
General, who, unfortunately for him, was absent
in this horse-ridden State.
Miss Kate Hay, the choicest-looking of the late
knight John Hay’s step-sisters, is to be married
next week from the Australia Hotel to Dr. Neil
Crowley, of Melbourne. v
A returner to Sydney by way of America men-
tions that the smartest New York women were
again wearing a diamond horseshoe or crescent on
a bow of black tulle as an addition to their even-
ing attractions. Wasn’t it Grace Palotta who
used to affect this pretty conceit so consistently
and successfully about six years ago?
Mrs. Ewan Frazer is, so far as one may judge,
the first Sydney exploiter of a style that is a
breakaway from the Directoire or Empire. At
the Australian Club frisk the bodice of her pale
amethyst satin gown was a separate circumstance
just meeting the normal waist line of the skirt,
and made with a long-pointed peak in front.
Miss Cissie Jamieson, a Sydney hairess (it is
her own hair, both in quantity and color), set her
shoes once more upon her native dust last week,
after a holiday abroad. The outstanding impression
of her trip was her stay at Rheims during the
flying week—the time of the great man-bird
festival. Rheims best hotel was charging 12
guineas a night—the tariff had never before been
so high since the coronation of Charles VII. The
flying ground is 15 miles out of town, and there
were 30 continuous miles of motors going and re-
turning from the air races—ls miles of motor
each way. The grandstand was erected
at a cost of £BOOO, and this expense was
recouped in two days. All the place was
lighted with electrics, and wonderful dinners and
suppers were served. The poor girl couldn’t get
any afternoon tea--at least she would have had
to invoke consular aid or some such to get it. It
was champagne—Rheims is the home of cham-
pagne, which is an overrated drink—morning,
noon, afternoon and night. Biplanes and mono-
planes are very different in appearance,
but they make the same whirring noise, and
remind of giant wasps. The two McQuade
girls, Misses Thelma and Nellie, were of the
party. They are studying music—vocal or
instrumental. The women wore coats and skirts
all the time, for none returned from the races till
about 10.30. But the finish of these tailor-made
women was astonishing. Shoes and stockings
matched thecostumes, and they woremotor bonnets
mostly of cretonne, with a big bow to the left of
the chin. The Sydney girl—who did not give her
impression in exactly this series of yelps—also
heard Tetrazzini, and reports her as a glorious
singer with a disastrous figure.
Mr. and Mrs. “Continental Tyre” Edwardes
dwelt a few days in this city last week whilst
waiting for to-morrow’s boat to take them to
Maoriland. They ramble there for a month, and
return by way of Sydney, provided they don’t fall
into some old geyser or other.
Three returners of last week—the betitled James
Mills of the Union S. S. Co., Mr. Owen Cox of the
Federal line, and that commander-in-chief of
mummers, Mr. J. C. Williamson —lost no time in
dashing out to the Horse Carnival at Randwick.
Meh’s dress, unfortunately, does not lend itself to
picturesque writing; but when a man is knighted
he at least ought to wear an ostrich feather in his
top hat, and his tail coat should trail on the
ground behind him and raise a dust.
Mr. and Mrs. Henniker Heaton arrive by
the Narrung this week. They artfully dodged
the week that is trampled all over by the
A.J.C. steeds. Early in August a Heaton
son wedded Miss Angela Talbot-Cusbie, of
Ardfest Abbey in Kerry, where the pretty
little black cows come from. The child of
the Abbey, judged by her portrait in the British
Australasian, is an uncommonly handsome girl.
She is likewise a graduate of Dublin University.
Little Florrie Gleeson, lately with the J.
Knight Co., is back in Sydney from Queensland
parts, and wearing with great success a poke-y
Victorian bonnet. This Victorian survival is a
deadly test of youth. To wear it successfully you
must look to be under 22, and have an innocent
expression and a non-aggressive nose.
The beautiful little woman who, as Miss Ruby
Otway, became for a time Melba s daughter-in-
law, is playing in New York m one of Froh-
mann’s companies. She mumms under the name
of Miss Francis.
A lyric soprano, Miss Bessie Mylor-Burge, and
a baritone with only one “d” in his surname,
which is Midleton, burst out of Mr. Burns-
Walker’s studio recently into a recital at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall. Both are evidently of musicianly
temperament and higlily advantaged as to per-
sonal appearance, and their singing of the choice
operatic excerpts quite warrants further and
frequent appearances.
“The Tame Cat,” Mr. Arthur H. Adams’ light
modern comedy which piled up the dross f° r 51
charity last year, was specially selected by the
Countess of Dudley for her mntinee on Saturday
next in aid of the Bush Nurses’ Committee.
Her Ex who wished to start the fund worthily,
asked the Sydney Comedy Club to suggest a
play, Australian if possible, for performance,
and the club handed her the Cat. Mrs.
John Sandes will play the leading part, and
she will be supported by many of the company
responsible for the first prosperous production.
Since its initial performance the author has
clipped, pared, dry-cleaned and brushed the Cat,
but in spite of all it still remains a rather Wilde
Cat.
Dr. Richard Arthur speaks
I support the resolution about the looks of the Aus-
tralienne. I saw more handsome women and pretty girls
at the University the other night than I did in a month
in London. There is some truth in what the writer of
that entertaining book, “ England and the English,
says: “ The complexions of the English have often been
exploited for our benefit. The damp climate and the
exercise out-of-doors produce the red, they say. But on
examination, it proves to be not the red of the rose but
the red of raw beef, and often streaky and fibrous at that..
The features are large and the faces high-colored ; but it
is not a delicate pink—it is a coarse red. At a distance,
the effect is charming, bright, refreshing ; but, close to,
often rather unpleasant. Here the features of the women,
even the features of the beautiful women, are moulded ;
while the features of our beautiful American women are
chiselled.” Substitute Australian for American in the
last sentence, and you have it.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE COMMONWEALTH FOR
Wedding and Complimentary Presents.
SOLID SILVER.
Goods
Forwarded
on
Approval.
HARDY BROS
mm
Up-to-date
London
Designs.
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Set, in case,
QU2EN ANNE PATTERN. Teapot holds 1J pints.
£ll/-/-
Five Per Cent. Discount on a. 11 Cash Transactions.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
116 OUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
Combination Couch and Bed.
r """ ..1 imummmm, II ■ - *
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
L<-
tasm
smm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
tjr
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The“ECHOPHONE”
ACCORDEON
fitted with
Phonograph Horn.
More than DOUBLE THE TONE POWER of an
Ordinary Accordeon.
The most striking: hit ever put on the market in m
Accordeon trade.
You will like them, no matter what make of instrument
you have used.
Something new at last! Detachable Phonograph Horn of
Burnished Brass. They stand alone.
Size, lljin. x 6iin. 10 keys, 3 sets of reeds, double bellows brass
corner protectors; ebonised case, leather, straps, bone ’ keys
Reed plates laid on leather and screw fixed.
Price, £2. Postage 3/6 extra.
HEINPORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., Brisbane, Queensland.
No Investment Like Seaside Lots.
With the first warm breath of Summer all eyes in Sydney turn to the
shore. But Nature is making no new sea coast—good week-end and
residential sites near the water are becoming scarce. Every year sees
seaside property values go skywards. Sydney is growing as is no other
city south of the line—every Summer more people demand waterside
homes for the hot weather. This is the investor’s chance. Hundreds
have made big money—hundreds of others will make fortunes out of sea-
side lots. We list below half-a-dozen properties that are cheap at present
prices. Write to our Explanation Dept. C for plans and fuller particulars.
WOY WOY— Choice level lots on
liestwell Estate ; one minute to a delight-
ful beach ; fine views ; £35 ; £2 deposit,
£1 monthly.
CRONULLA— Big block, one minute
to new Cronulla tram ; handy to beach ;
big prospective value ; £25 ; £1 deposit,
10s. monthly.
M AN LY —Between Freshwater Beach
and the new Brookvale tram ; fine block,
<£33 ; £2 down, £1 monthly.
Money-Making Taught by Mail.
Very few lessons are needed to teach the average man that there’s
money to be made investing in good property near a city of such
wonderful growth as Sydney. Here are four estates on which values
must double or treble within a year or so. Distance is no bar to your
making money on Sydney property.
MANLY —Big lot handy to Fresh-
water Beach ; an ideal week-end site,
.£35 ; £2 down, 10s. monthly.
WOY WOlT —Near a good beach;
large lot; very desirable; £35; £2
deposit, £1 monthly.
PORT HACKING— Lot, one minute
to Burraneer Bay, Port Hacking, handy
to new Sutherland-Cronulla tram; only
£10; £1 down, 10s. monthly.
BANKSTOWN —Greenacre Park
Estate ; right at the station on both sides;
only 11 miles from Sydney; acre blocks,
JS3S ; £2 down, £1 monthly.
GRANVILLE— BIock 40ft. x. 150 ft.,
handy to station; in heart of coming
factory district; £l3; 10s. deposit, ss.
monthly.
AUBURN —Riverside Heights Estate,
adjourns the site of the new abattoirs ;
tenders are to be called for these next
month ; values will bound up over night;
desirable block, £25; £1 deposit, 10s.
monthly.
CliY'Dß—Right by the station and big
factories; level home sites ; 40ft. frontage ;
15s. foot; £1 deposit, 10s. monthly.
&Coj£jtf
stfrihar^
fwPtfSl
Consider the increased enjoy-
ment of a Record that plays
twice as long as the regular
Edison Record, and longer than
any other Record made.
The Amberol Records have opened an entirely new field
of music for Edison Phonograph owners.
They offer music which, by reason of its length, cannot
be secured on any other Record. They offer not only a
wider range of music, but a higher grade and a better rendition
than has been possible before.
The tone of Amberol Records is matchless. They have
a clearer, richer tone and more delicate interpretation than
that of any other Edison Records, which means that they
are superior to all Records.
Every Edison Phonograph can easily be equipped to
play Amberol Records, without interfering with the playing
of other Edison Records. Your dealer has the attachment
and Records. New machines play both kinds of Records.
Go to your dealer and hear the Edison Phonograph play
an Amberol Record.
Edison Phonographs are sold
everywhere in Australia.
One of the greatest pleasures
which the Edison Phonograph
affords is making Records at
home. This can be done only
with the Edison.
Ask your dealer or write to us
for catalogues of Edison Phono-
graphs and Records.
M
m
aa
rou* MiN
National Phonograph Company of Australia, Ltd.,
, Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


z
&
Always Order
SCHWEPPES ’
DRY GINGER ALE
Awarded Grand Prlx
London. 1908.
P.DC 0PL >
“Comfort and
Contentment
in Corsets!”
Is only attainable by usins? your
most critical judgment in your
selection.
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
—the famous French Corsets that
inaugurated the fascinating
“ DIRECTOIRE ’’Fashions—are the
Corsets that the most critical
dressers declare as the ideal in
style gracefulness symmetry-
comfort and coolness.
“ Your Draper will show you
the New Spring Styles.”
TRADE
y/
9
'XJ'
RD
m
MARK
m
IP
§>K?
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres—and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 11, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrik,—
A grand woman, Selir.a Sutherland, is dead.
She had a rugged exterior—she was blunt and
rough, with a manner masculine and direct; but
withal she carried around with her the gentlest
heart that ever hid in gentle woman. Her tender-
ness for homeless babies—pathetic wisps of
humanity—was a divine thing, as all-embracing as
the arms of Mrs. Be-Done-by-as-You-Would who
sits in the white land of Mother Carey’s chickens
with sea-blue eyes smiling a welcome to lost chil-
dren. The babies Miss Sutherland has mothered
are past counting—pitiful babies, wanted by no-
body, and gathered’in from tombstone doorsteps.
The police reverenced the woman. They found
her charity practical. She was always ready to
take a waif out of their puzzled care in the odd,
small hours of the morning when other charity
mongers were snugly asleep. The cry of “ No
room ” never came from Miss Sutherland. She
has been known to have half a dozen babies in her
own bed for want of space elsewhere. A small
house in a slum tenement was the beginning.
That became a veritable Old Woman’s Shoe—with
so many children nobody knew ’ what to do.
People helped her to a larger house, and
the waif-gathering grew mightily. Some
time ago the home assumed dimensions that
attracted busy Society charity women. Help was
given, but a Board sat heavily on Miss Suther-
land. The Board was feminine, and belonged to
Polite Society. The methods of the Plank were
not to Miss Sutherland’s liking. She had spent
many years in her own way. Her own way had
saved very many lives, and it satisfied her. The
Board dictated. Miss Sutherland ignored. The
Board grew hysterical and scratchy. Miss
Sutherland hit back with no polite mincing of
phrases. The Board people clung to each other
and shrieked, and the affair jumped in haste and
at great length into the papers. Miss Sutherland
set her square shoulders, turned her back defiantly,
and went on feeding lost babies. A new manager
was sent. Miss Sutherland shut the door in her
face and continued bathing and soothing howling
infants.
The last win in the battle was for Miss Suther-
land. She was to have been installed in a home
at Greensboro’—a place with gardens and grass
paddocks and a farm, willed to the charity by
Miss Meglin. Before the transference of the
' bunch of babies could be effected Miss Sutherland
got ill. Pleurisy gave way to pneumonia and
caused her death.
A fellow slum-worker writes thus of Miss
Sutherland :
She got her death-blow during that court. inquiry.
After it was over she told her staunch friend and medical
man, Dr. Felix Meyer, that she was “as good as dead.”
Her old heart slowly broke.
The woman, whose endurance was iron when it came to
sitting up night after night with all sorts of wailing
children, sick and cross, and who rode once in her early
Maoriland days a whole night’s journey to get to a remote
woolshed to nurse some typhoid patients (and she did
nurse them, day and night, till they were well), could
not stand up against the mean little pin pricks of those
hen peckers.
Funny old soul—with her mannish hat and coat and her
wee hard hair “ bun,” the Tastic of her hat dragging it
up above her brown neck.
The committee of “ Sassiety ladies” was always want-
ing to drag A'ttO'vernor or such along to open new wings,
etc. “Oh, dang those useless humbugs,” she said
once. “ Open the thing yourselves.”
She fought with every committee and everyone who
tried to help her except Nurse Sanderson a white-haired
woman witli a sweet, tired face, who loved her from first
to last and stayed right by her to the end. She brings to
mipd the epitaph the mates of a certain miner put over
his grave:—
He did his damnedest,
Angels could do no more.
The Guineas on Saturday opened the horse
carnival of this town. This fog-dogged city
was blessed with a real spring-chicken of a day.
The sun brought out the butterflies in all their
heavenly raiment. Caulfield always attracts the
garden-party element in chattering flocks. The
lawn shut oft at the back of the stand has a peace-
ful and secluded air. It is far from the madding
Moses and the hurried horse. Drifting through
with the giddy rush from paddock to grand-
stand one bygone Caulfield Cup day, my
wagging ears caught some animated talk
between two over-dressed Cuppers. “Twenty-
two eggs, my dear, in three days,” said
a cheery dame, and the two settled them-
selves to a comfortable domestic palaver in the
depths of a garden seat, oblivious of such trivial
matters as the race of the day. One butterfly
sport on Saturday chortled airily : “ We clean
forgot the Guineas. We were having tea—in the
members’ rooms, of course, my dear. Better? I
should think so. Yes, the tea’s just as beastly as
in the public rooms; but you can sample every-
thing for the same price’--- toast and cake and
everything. Oh yes, and Maisie and I won five
pounds between us—all out of half a crown, and
we didn’t even know the horse. Tom came and
found us after the race. We did enjoy that race.”
The frocks—a serious matter to feminines, as a
portent for the summer—ran to a grotesque
burlesque on the tailor-made. The up-to-the-
moment coat and skirt are allowable in any old
flimsy—in "pongee or shantung. The Caulfield
Sassiety springers let their fancy run riot in coats
cut to as many tails as a cat of the whipping
species, and the estuaries were banked with
buttons and plastered with braid. Frankie Oliver,
in a smart black lid and suede-colored shantung,
eschewed the tails and buttoned her long coat
tightly round her middle, like a bolster. Three
big black buttons held like grappling-irons below
the waist-line. There, wera several other bolsters
to make up for the flapping many-tails. Beatrice
Madden wore a quite .dainty and sensible suit
without any extravaganza. The baby of the
Maddens has suddenly emerged from hobblede-
hoydom into a pretty roly-poly personage with
big dark eves. Sister Leslie almost crowed (or
crew) in a bright green rooster hat; her muslin
dress w r as tied up like a cottage window-curtain.
-Ruby of the Dimples, in Erin-green linen, put a
Caesar wreath of laurel round her panama. Missus
Madden, in purple, concealed her face behind a
coat of purple-pink enamel.
In the box the Carmichael lady, dainty and
cool in grey, was flanked by the warm red head of
Miss Stuart Monteith and the protecting fair
locks of Secretary Victor Hood. Mrs. Ernest
Brookes set a cheeky feather in her black cap, and
was smartly togged in silk from Shantung. Guy
of the Maddens was a devoted escort. The Leslie
Macdonald dame dyed her shantung golden
brown. It is shantung or nothing this season !
A small blue McEvoy maiden extinguished the
blue-bag effect by a squashy black hat d la Mrs.
Braytou Asche.
The Baillieux joined in the vice-regal tea’tween
races with the Governor lady and the Maddens.
The fairest of the Baillieu youths divided his time
between Baby Beatrice and Beauty Ruby. Miss
Baillieu smiled beneath a blue bow, perched on
her nose, with a hat above that. The Laidlaw
ladies sunned themselves in purple and snacked
with champagne at tea time. The Alawa Robert-
son-Buclianan husband is developing a new and
dignified stride ; forever has he done with the
lightsome frivolity of youth. Mrs. Donald
McKinnon talked of her Henley house-boat ;
she discoursed with a small black sash tying up her
French mustard frock. A shriek in the crowd
came from Mrs. Bitt’s magnified blue poppies—
they-stood on tiptoe for the shout. Mrs. Deane
displaced a vast extent of atmosphere in putty
color, and the widow Durant, amethyst-tinted in
toggery, sported a saucy cart-wheel hat. Mrs.
Uasey was well rigged in black and tan. Mrs.
quite settled-down bride Rower watched events
from under a peach-basket hat. The Clarke-Power
bride is giving a monster ball in Cup week.
Tom Hogan brought his blooming lady in rose
color and black, and Unie Thomas, in a cute race
coat of the necessary shantung, came along with
the party. The Millers kept near to the bird
cage and business. Mrs. Harold Kent chanced
coming out in pink blotting paper, since there was
no sign of rain.
Some of the markedly notable ones were not yet
back from Sydney frivolling. The pushing on of
the Sydney dates these last several seasons breaks
into the giddy chain of jaunts.
At Caulfield the wet season has made an addi-
tion to the scenery. The Flat beyond the track
facing the stand has grown into a lake—marshy
reeds and all. A lick of paint on the rustic wood
handrails of old stepping boards gives a garden-
bridge effect. The paint lick was white —had it
been red the addition of a stork and a bamboo
would have made a Japanese garden.
Tom Humphreys has been plugging steadily at
some Australian country paintings during the last
year or two. An Exhibition in his studio,
Alston Buildings, rouses his friends to view
the fact that he has not spent all his
time and enthusiasm on .photograph work.
There is a big blue-misty canvas of real
bush, with a fine feeling of space and distance.
There are compelling shadows banked in the
foreground, from which details suddenly leap as
they do in real shadow—shrubs and a reedy pool
and" clumps of ghostly white gums. The sea, in
twenty moods, makes decorative little canvases. A
large picture of tne wash of waves shoreward in
the purple twilight is a restful bit of work. Also
there are glimpses of still, hot beaches and vivid
blue skies. One patch of ti-tree blows in a fierce
westerly under a turquoise heaven banked with
snowy clouds.
The death of Mr. T. Valentine Browne, which
occurred at Caulfield since I wrote you last, will
put a good many people into mourning here over
the Cup festivities. He was a son of “Rolf
Boldrewood ” Browne, one of whose sisters
married your absentee Chief Justice Darley. A
brother is Mr. “Ebo” Browne, pastoralist and
polo-player, whose spouse was a Chirnside—Miss
“Muffle” of that ilk.
The Winter Garden is thinking of asking a
premium with its tea-maidens nowadays, so
strong is the wedding epidemic in its man-haunted
interior. “ Catch the brutes through their appe-
tites ” is an old maxim. A dainty cap set at the
hungry victim seems to increase the fatality. The
latest of the Winter Garden girls to make a
moneyed match was Miss Saxon, a brunette
charmer, who is now Mrs. Important Importer
Lambert. She has sailed off to a brilliant moon-
ing, followed by the admiring gaze of the remain-
ing shouters of “ Bean soup ! Hash two ! ”
The martial gaud-Mayor Burston, of Melbourne,
has successfully breasted the election. He wasre-
appointed to his seat and fur and chains on Fri-
day with 14 aldermanic votes, against Councillor
ex-Mayor DaVey’s 12. That glory High Ball was
worth while, anyway.
Mrs. Malinson, who was aforetime Mrs.
Steinhauer, a Danish songstress beloved of Queen
Alexandra, is now song teacher at the Con-
servatorium. Mrs. Malinson found it neces-
sary to resign suddenly through ill-health
as soon as she became acquainted with the Melba
Conservatori u m lessons idea. In spite of spasms,
hysterics and other alarming symptoms, the Pro-
fessorin have induced the lady to withdraw her
resignation, and have persuaded her to remain,
despite her ill-health. The former cultivator of
Voice at the “Con.” was Mrs. Jansen, who left
on being threatened with the order of St. Vitus’
Dance or some such thing from the Norwegian
sovereign. The deep-voiced Jansen departed to
cast herself prostrate before the throne and beg
for clemency.
The Bill Anderson crowd, at the King’s, had a
whirlwind of a send-off on Friday, its last Mel-
bourne night for a season. Everybody speeched.
Duggan and Dunbar speeched. Bert Bailey
threw off some brilliant impromptus. Roy Red-
grave; the lofty ’ero, was knocked speechless with
surprise for a few moments at being called forward
—then waded into a 10 minutes’ discourse that he
had probably sweated over in his dressing-room
for an hour.
The temporary break-up is a wildly hilari-
ous holiday for this steady-grafting melo-
drama co., and it is making the most
of the temporary lack of a theatre. Pursy
Chirnside has put up a couple of the male
mummers at a cottage on Little River with a man
thrown in to “do” for them. Max Clifton is
jumping the opportunity for a honeymoon. He
is marrying pretty Miss Byers, daughter of
Magnate Byers of many skating rinks. The
trained dog is taking his rest splashing in the
waves at Aspendale. Bert Bailey is also, off
honeymooning, though the moon is belated. The
Bert Baileys have been married 10 years; but
they were both busy stageward at the time of the
wedding, and until now could not find time for the
trip.
Bill himself, from far-off lands, writes of the
annexation of new plays. He mentions that he
saw the Dublin Horse Show, and paid 10s. “ I’ve
seen better horses at Melbourne and Sydney
shows for a bob,” says the critical Bill, giving one
in the eye to the crack horse show of the world.
“ An Irishman’s horse is his castle ’’ —or words to
that effect.
“ The Catch of the Season,” at Her Majesty’s,
is the daintiest opera Melbourne’s been blest with
for many days. All the fragrance of an old fairy
tale, like lavender or pot pourri, is there, though
Cinderella lives in Berkeley Square (where Kip-
ling’s Tomlinson also resided) and the Prince
is a duke who wears the latest dispensation in
socks and lives over the road. He’s a real duke, and
is entitled to beautiful bare legs and a kilt, as
well as a whole regiment of swords, on his wed-
ding day. Fan Dango-Cinderella, the young
pretty step-sister who is kept forcibly in short
frocks and out of the debutantes’ set, glues her
lovely nose day after day at the balcony window
of her Lord father’s mansion, watching the depart-
ure of the scalp-hunting elder sisters, and the
flattened nose attracts the bored twenty-one-year-
young dukelet, wherefore he calls unofficially on
the spur of the moment. Button-nose Cinderella,
in league with a diminutive Buttons (Butters) has
“her man” admitted, and the two “play pre-
tences” over thick bread-and-butter and one cup
of schoolroom tea. Cinderella bewails the fact
that she cannot go to the Duke’s coming-of-age
ball. “I’d laugh when I shouldn’t, and I’ve got
no frocks,” she remarks. Her unidentified “ man ”
departs, and Fan Dango dances in the moonlit
schoolroom. Fan Dango can live right up to a
fairy tale when she dances. This letter wants to
get up and applaud vigorously whenever it writes
of dainty Dango’s dancing.
The fairy godmother—a most natural titled
aunt (Mrs. Braoy) arriving unexpectedly from
Paris —grows indignant at finding the lonely child.
She waves a poker and produces first a footman,
then a ballet-full of modiste maidens who dress
Cinderella in suitable toggery, and Cinder, is
rushed off, rather late, to the ball. In the
meantime every unwed maiden in uppish Sassiety
has been garnished for the sacrifice and trotted
before the bored young dukelet. His bread-and-
butter charmer, arriving late in adorable frills and
an assumed verdant accent, rouses his enthusiasm.
Dango-Angela-Cinderella dances round the stage
like a fluttering butterfly, while Duke Higginson
(in black silk legs and ducal blazonirigs) makes
frantic love. Furious step-sisters grind teeth. A
forest of scenic roses descends, with forninst them
real roses that small children gather and scatter in
the last scene over the bridal path.'
Andra’ MacCunn is back in the conductor’s seat
of the Williamson orchestra, grasping his small
baton horizontally as is his wont, and setting his
teeth to the work. He is a tyrant, but the
orchestra gave him a rousing welcome back at
rehearsal. MacCunn never uses a score for con-
ducting. His memory is inexhaustible. Some man
had a het on his “Catch of the Season ” baton-
ing. MacCunn only arrived here on Saturday,
and he had not seen “The Catch” in London.
He sat “in front ” on Saturday and Monday, and
then took up the stick next Saturday night. He
won the bet—not a ghost of a score of music had
he throughout.
For such a small, nervous, student-type of a
man, MacCunn is a bloodthirsty wretch. He is
keen on slaying. He and Reg Roberts go out to
Brighton pigeon shooting. Bantock was another
who loved anything bluggy—like Toddie, brother
of Budge, born of Helen. Roberts and Bantock
would rush the near country with a gun in their
spare moments and murder most fowl. MacCunn
travels always with a bulldog. The bulldog looks
as if he, too, likes to see anything “with blug in
it.”
Andra’ MacCunn is a brother of Hamish
MacCunn, the ultra modern Wagnerian gentle-
man who composes wild disarrangements of noise.
Reg Roberts has betaken his tenor voice into
the fern glories of the Black Spur for a rest, while
“ The Catch of the Season ” gallops madly every
night over Her Majesty’s stage.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
We had a different sample of weather for the Hunt Club
races. It didn’t rain this time, but it pelted dust and
rocks and other scenery, and a spiteful cat of a wind tore
hats, complexions arnji tempers to smithereens. And,
you’ll remember, this is the frocky meeting of the year.
The Master, Mr. Carew Reynell, had a big afternoon tea
to cheer the tattered fair, and Mrs. Herbert Rypiill, in
prune-colored shantung and black and white millinery,
fed another few. Miss Crozier’s nominated steed won the
bracelet; but I don’t know whether that was of any con-
sequence, though it was no doubt a very good bit of
jewellery.
Parliament was invited to a picnic at our still moderately
new Outer Harbor the other day. It took its spade and
bucket and wore its best sun-bonnet, and the Governor
Musgrave tow'ed it along the river and landed it at the
Harbor. The Commissioner of Works was there to meet
it, and he showed it the Export Depot and the place
where the Tourist Bureau lies in wait for the visitor.
Then there were sandwiches and compliments, after
which members went back to Parliament House for their
afternoon sleep. The ostensible purpose of the outing
was to prove that the Harbor is- already too small,
so the Government wants to coax 170,000 useful
sovereigns out of Parliament to extend it. At present
the mail steamers have to rub hulls with all manner of
common craft, and no properly- conducted mail steamer
will stand that.
I have been to the ideal wedding. It happened about
150 miles from Adelaide, at Beetaloo station, in the heart
of the lovely Flinders Range. Such a golden landscape ,
and the station garden, set in the middle of it, is a celes-
tial place of roses and breezes and lilacs and wall-flowers
and white and purple iris ! Here, among the blooms, at
9.30 on a beauteous morning, the eldest daughter of the
house, Trix Mills, was permanently attached to Dr. Dionel
Betts. Her frock was a simple array of sbimmery China
silk and French Valenciennes ; and a charming pale-pink
sister Mary 7 aided her through the sacrifice. Teen there
was a wedding breakfast set out on long tables on a
verandah, where roses elbowed each other to get a look at
the bride; and finally the honk of a cream motor-car
split the air, and we were waving the newly-weds out
into the world.
This week there are Congresses all over the place. The
Ornithologists I’ve told vou about already. The Society
of Friends allowed the spirit to move them this way and
we scored some higher-culchaw in the way of learned lec-
tures by a visiting Dr. Hodgkin. And now we begin to
get ready for the Commerce delegates, for whom all
manner of revels are being prepared, finishing up with
an At Home for the tired people at the Residence on
Friday evening. . , „
The marriage of Richard Verco’s damsel Connie and
architect Eric McMichael occurred on October‘2. Hymen
was enticed into the parent’s home, and the bride was
presented to her b nedict in a gracieuse frock with
flounces and point lace. Three maidens, in white with
palest pink flower muffs, asked her to bear up, and there
was a marquee on the tennis court, and among the
presents was the new home of the. twain—a charming
place, handed to them by Mr. and Mrs. Verco, and
designed by Benedict himself.
Det • ils are to hand of the marriage of Penelope Horn,
the Willie Horns’ eldest damsel, and Lieutenant Bell, of
the Indian army. It was very frilly, and in one way at
least it was unusual. There was only one lovelorn brides-
maid—the chief maiden’s sister, Dorothy—but there were
no less than five male attendants. The bride was con-
cealed in ivory crfipe-de-chine, embroidered with silver
and pearls, and trimmed with Brussels lace. The brides-
maid wore a Paris garment of old rose embroidered
chiffon, and a rose-trimmed Happy Relict hat.. While
the victims were signing their fate, four kiddies dis-
tributed wedding favors of white heather among the
multitude.
On the night of the Aurora Australis the Wes-
tralian Government Astronomer got 374 calls on
the ’phone from excited citizens, begging him to
“look at the light in the sky !” He looked.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
The will of Rev. Thomas Carlton Skar-
ratt, of Kent (England), who died last year, has
been resealed in Sydney. The estate was valued
at £32,695. The man who owned it was a son of
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Skarratt, one time of the
Royal Mail Hotel, Melbourne, and afterwards of
the Royal Hotel, Sydney; but the money came
out of Mount. Morgan, and not out of the pub.
The bulk of it goes to his sisters, though the rev.
gentleman’s chauffeur cuts in for a couple of
hundred.


ffi
3
O
-i
i.
s»
as
ffi
r?
U)
8
:: "m* ly \ L_j\
, PN \
N


WEDDING GIFT IDEAS
. -
What more useful and appropriate Gift could you give than a
Handsome piece of Table Silver. Here are a few suggestions,
all of A 1 Quality a quality tbat assures life-long satisfaction.
FREE CATALOGUES. Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Leather, or Optical Goods, a post card will bring you a copy
of our Illustrated Catalogue. Write to-day.
SHOPPING
partment will serve you
with the exception of
nv tv /r aIT No matter where you
BY MAIL. our Up-to-date Mail Order De-
promptly and satisfactorily. Free carriage on all goods,
blocks and Chinaware, to any .part of Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND and CALL BELL, Pure Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, richly engraved, crystal
glass bottles,
£3-
Other styles. 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 51)/, 60/. .
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIMEN TUI3E, pure
Silver-plated, Gilt-lined,
weighted base, Gin 4/6,
GJin 5/6, 7in 6/G, 74in
A. SAUNDERS.
SOUVENIR EMU EGG, Hand
Carved, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Ebonised Wood Base, 9in high,
10/6
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
covered, Pure Silver-plated,
Screw Top,
15/6
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
■
S:
1 II
JS
Hi
'iW 1
M
MOB
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD-BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, richly embossed, solid base (can be
used as a waiter),
£2/10/-
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver
plated Mounts, Porcelain China lining
7/0-
Other Styles. 8/6. 10/0, 12/6, 15/.
irlrjp
r tlMt
urJSJII
Iflil
tin
DD
LlLl'li
I'RJ'lLt’
Lit!'
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST • CRUET,
pure Silver-platfed frame,
fine cut-glass bottles,
15/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
12/6, 17/0, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, gilt-lined, handsomely fluted, on
ball feet,
£2/10/.
Other styles, £3/10/, £4, £5. ,
Wom
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Amber or Ruby
Tinted Glass,
12/6
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Hand Engraved,
20/-
Other Styles, 16/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
HO x-WATER KETTLE and T,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, rus-
tic stand, richly ..embossed,.
Plain, 35/. Other styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
MB falarfS
£4/4/-
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, com-
prising Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cteam, richly engraved, gilt-lined, with covers, £4/4/.
Other styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/. £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, to £5O.
£4/4 1
Km
HT/1
mvo*X t
HyuAKVAy^
&SS^waS|K
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-bottle, Pure
Silver-plated Frame, fine Cut-glass
Bottles,
25/.
Other Styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
BREAD
A. SAUNDERS. _
r CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated, Pearl Handle, /in .long.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6,- 7/6, 8/6, 10/6. '
■
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle, finest Sheffield steel blade,
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR-SIFTER, JAM SPOON, and BUTTER
KNIFE, Solid Silver,. hand-engraved, Pearl handles,
30/
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/,
A. .SAUNTERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silverrplated' ' Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,.
£a/io/.
Other styles, 25/,- 30/, ■ 35/.
SPOBTIK G CUB, Pure Silver-plated,
richly t'rrfoossed, gilt-lined, detachable lid,
Hi in high, any subject,
£3/10/.
OP '’- styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, to £25.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, real Carl-
ton China Bowl, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts,
15/6
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
l
•■ 1 "
limn
AFTERNOON TEA SPOON and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, richly embossed
handles, 12/(>-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 1//6. /.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE COMBINATION and
SERVERS, Pure Silver-plated Nickel-Silver, A 1 Quality,
Satin-glass Lining, £2/10/-
Other styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL and SIFTER,
Pure Silver-plated, satin fin-
ished,- gilt lined, -
12/6.
Cream Jug to Match, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, fine
Cut Crvstal Glass,
20/- ' , CJ
Other Styles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
<9
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, richly embossed, hand-fluted,
£2/10/.
Other styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


Shipping 1 .
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
' Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual |)ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hot., C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
, J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. == s = l
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Dirkctoes : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW,MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Business Announcements.
Get Prepared for the Winter.
U4J
Have Better Light
with a Reduced
Carbide Bill by
| using our Burners.
We have about 30
different designs to
select from.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Sampie Dozen of Assorted
Makes, post free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
301 Sr
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddooks, in which she explains
her reason for offering' £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for die asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
Shippings.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
M Q rcoi Mao rHKwn ltn« T 1 . . .1 t-i
*—■» Maximum Speed,
eatety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 698. 7 Bridge-street, Svdnei'.
Banking. Public
Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.998
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, 'Esq.
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 27 (taking; passengers for
the Melbourne Cup).
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne .. .. .. 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
• Twin Screw. a One class only,
t Taking passengers for the Melbourne Cup.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 its.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on dav of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cook town, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
porta), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Proprietors
difife,
DIRECTORS:
£2,500,000
£1,650,000
£2,500,000
£6,650,000
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucklarid, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
William Harrington Palmer,
Esq. ; Shepheard Edfreeliff Laidle.v. Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand and Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest cn deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE- DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(«) Borrower has the rigrht to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being: charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are : —(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) (Jncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skcrktarv. at Moore Street, Sydney.
V:'w
• i*VSQ
••••&•
•V*»
.Cartridcrev
.22 Calibre
British Made G ,« G -
You’ll Bulls K v e
'more often in Miniature
Range Shooting with these
i ' Cat tridges.
USE NO OTHER
All Ammunition Dealers
Agents:
The Colonial Ammunition
Company
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
The
Pipe
of
Pipes!
“E.F.L.” Brand
Made in London by highly skilled
workmen, from best old seasoned
Briar-root, mounted with Sterling
Silver Bands. They are supplied
in three grades—
A, B and C Quality,
and are guaranteed, with fair
usage, not to crack or burn.
Price, from 2s. 6d. each.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues to
E. F. LIND & CO.,
Tobacconists,
398 GEORGE STREET, near King Street, SYDNEY.
Branches : 5 Macquarie Place and 47 Pitt Street.
Hotels, &c.
k EORGC HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED :
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
■c In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping-.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). >
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping-.at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koonibana (from Pre-
mantle), November 2,
calling' at all N.-\Vest
Ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to r.Tanarni
Goldfields.)
S.S. Marloo, November 2
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norrh to O-iirns.
S.S. Gran tala, October 16.
, i • •*
S.S. Ybngala, October 23.
* ; .. . •
Best and Cheapest Routes to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets after the
first Port of call with Companies on all
services subject to condftipps, wjjiih can be ascertained
on application at the Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE..STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE. . , „
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. ;*.Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in tl\e World
crossing the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.=- H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
Fox* London and Liverpool
Via Sukz Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,400 Tons. T. Daviks, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 19th Oct.
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 26th Oct.
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - 2nd Nov.
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE- - 9th Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged. ’
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL*!, f £49 10s ‘ £l3 13s - £l5 15s - £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next Sailing,
T.S.S. “ ESSEX.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd,, Holiart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd.j Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide. !
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
\A\
W
MORBISS I
wee Witches
» a*A*ITTE3
6”, for 10 y,
London M»d*-
HTGHEST GRADE.
5s per ICO, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
of our perfectfitting
AUTOMATIC AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
The Best Rupture Applianc - of the Centu y
Two Days Trial given. Pamphltt* Posted Fre
WINSLOW CO., 261 Colllas St.,Melboifrne,7ic


ROWLANDS
KALYDOR
FDR - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PlLES.—There is no more
painful complaint from which
than Piles. The most effectives
BALM. Certain in every case,
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*-
distressing and
you can suffer
re is BALLAS
Obtainable from
A 20th Century Preparation.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for coughs and
colds. ' Small dose. Pleasant to take. Price
Is. 6d., large size 3s.*
BILIOUSNESS AND INDIGESTION.
Overcome by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Mrs. V. E. Morrish, of 213 Riley Street, Surry
Hills, Svdnev, having suffered for years from
biliousness, indigestion and other stomach dis-
orders, writes that a short course of Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills have had a most wonderful
effect, and in her opinion they are the greatest
remedy on the market. .
“Being a sufferer
from biliousness and
indigestion intermit-
tently for some years
it affords me the
greatest pleasure to
testify freely and
without the slightest
solicitation to the
wonderful benefit I
have derived from a
short trial of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They are un-
doubtedly the great-
est remedy I have
ever tried, and I am
more than pleased
with their curative
effects. They are
exceedingly prompt
Mrs. V. E. Morrish.
(From a photo.)
in action, and I have felt their good effect almost
immediately. I suffered too, at times, with neu-
ralgia, but I find that a couple of pills taken at
night has left me entirely free of ache in the
mornin r ; this alone should ensure for the pills a
wide and increasing sale. I am indeed grateful
that I gave the pills a trial, and now always keep
a bottle by me.”*
fc'TiSSKS&SBfifIE&iSA V.ru-JdO-
English
Watch es
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889,
Ldnphn IBSZ. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892.
\ f /
N
ROTHERHAM©
LON DON
1
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
RESCN’S SELECT
ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the V overnor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD
HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE
and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Cup meeting at Caulfield opened on the first
warm day of the Melbourne season, and a crowd that
was a record for Guineas Day dropped its money in a
hopeful spirit. The Toorak Handicap—the final event
proved somewhat of a consolation stakes, seeing' that
Irishman was backed down to 2 to 1, and proved to be
the good thing of the meeting. Racing started with the
1010 Welter, for which backers of “coincidences” had
every reason to put their proverbial socks on the well-tried
Burston. An hour earlier, the local Lord Mayor, who is
Burston likewise, had been re-elected by a narrow majority,
and here was a great opportunity for his gee-gee namesake
to bring off the double. Bub somehow he got beaten by
a head by the under-rated Honeymoon, a vicious son of
Hymettus, who has now won three or four races in suc-
cession. Coincidence seemingly is a rotten reed for any
drowning punter to catch on to.
The Debutant Stakes result was unsatis-
factory, in so far that the winner, Habel, who got the
best of a bad start, and ran away with the Cl OOO stake, is
too diminutive an animal to be regarded as a possible
crack for next season. A victory for one of the
Bmall-and-early sort is always to be expected in
the Debutant flutter, but Habel, from the Millers’ stable,
is a particularly poor-looking representative of the
victorious Malster family. In the w.f.a. Caulfield Stakes
some of the most fancied of the Victorian candidates for
the Cup were asked to do their best against Artillerie
and Kyeadgerie, recently arrived from Sydney. lolaire,
Alawa, Pink ’Un and Knox repeated, with variations,
their running of the previous Saturday, whilst Artillerie,
coming with a masterful spurt at the business end of the
journey, won easily and established himself at the head
of the betting forthe Caulfield Cup. On this “ form,” and
on the appearance of the horses after the race, Artillerie
should beat them all again next Saturday over the longer
course, for he meets them all on a stone or more better
terms.
If there were no question about the soundness
of Alawa, one would confidently recommend him for
either of the Cups in preference to Post Town, although
the latter is perhaps capable of great improvement
between now and the first Tuesday in November. On re-
turning to the birdcage after the Stakes he sweated con-
siderably and looked rather tired. Alawa, on the other
hand, was as lively as a two-year-old, and if he is saddled
up next Saturday instead of being kept for the Mel-
bourne Cup—the distance whereof will probably be a bit
too far for him, even should he get through a lot
of work in the meantime—no wise punter will let
Alawa run unbacked. To this writer’s way of thinking,
the Ballarat horse had “ come on ” wonderfully from
the previous Saturday. Although he made no impression
on Artillerie, the final effort that carried him past Post
Town and Knox was a brilliant performance.
Equally brilliant was Prince Foote’s hopeless
run at the finish of the Caulfield Guineas. The little
champion had, for some reason or other, been out of
the hunt what time Malt King was working
his way to the head of affairs, but when the
son of Malster had cut down the leaders and practically
won the race. Prince Foote came rushing along in the
centre of the field. Had there been a clear course for
him he could, perhaps, have caught the leader. Anyway,
the defeat of the Sydney Derby winner in the Guineas
doesn’t in the least discount his chance forthe Melbourne
Cup, which is said to be his “ journey.”
Already, five days before the race, enlightened
critics are confident that they can pick the winner of the
Caulfield Cup in five tries. This writer has a good opinion
of the following: Artillerie, Alawa, Dunolly, Golden
Slipper, Loyal Blue, Malt King, Mindful, Post Town and
Parsee. He has a less good opinion of Aborigine, Aber-
deen, Blue Book, Carl Dour, Dhobi, lolaire, Knox, Kye-
adgerie, and Pink’Un. Maybe the winner will be one of
which nobody, save the stable, had any opinion
at all ; nevertheless punters who look for rough out-
siders to carry their money in this coming Caulfield
Cup field will probably be all left lamenting
after the race. On paper Artillerie is a most
deserving first favorite. Bookmakers and backers have
conspired to call him by the new and original name of
Artil-leary (on the ground that it is French), but by any
other name the Maorilander would look as dangerous.
Parsee is a doubtful stayer. Moreover his latest
Randwick form gives him no chance. But before this
Bulletin appears, Parsee may have won the Eclipse Stakes
at Caulfield, in which case he can be labelled very
dangerous for the Cup. He is one of the few horses that
have the fine sprint of speed vyhich is necessary, as a
rule, to winning this race. At Caulfield the ones that get
first round the turn are in danger of “shooting their
bolt ” before they get quite home, whereas the ones that
are not among the first round the turn want a terrible lot
of speed and a good deal of luck to carry them right to
the fore.
Granting that such as Alawa, Parsee, Post
Town • and other heavyweights may be worth; back-
ing, on latest “form” as well as previous excellence,
there is no reasonable doubt that Artillerie and Golden
Slipper are better chances at the weights. Not;better
worth backing at the odds , perhaps, but that is a matter
-for consideration on the day. Let us say that none of the
top weights, with the possible exception of Parsee, should
He supported at less than 10 to 1, as long-as Artillerie and
Golden Slipper are going strong in the market. And that
none of the rough outsiders, bar Mindful and Dunolly are
worth backing at all. The former is suspected of being
a rod in pickle ; the latter is a well-bred six-year-old that,
ran second to Soultline for theNewmarket Handicap, but
doesn’t look very blooming just now. Both of those
lightly-weighted veterans are worth considering at. any
time.' However, .the four candidates that have the
present scribe’s most favorable consideration, five days
before the race, are
1. Golden Slipper
2. Artillerie
3. Knox
4. Parsee.
Should Parsee put up a good performance on Wednesday,
his chance will be second to none.
■* * * *
The fizzling-out of the tail end of the A.J.C.
Spring Meet at Sydney was brightened up fey fast
running generally, and a record put up by Kelso s
Son of the Marsh in the Final Handicap. The
animal with the elongated name beat a field of 11
others over a 1J mile in 2min. s£sec. The big
event the Randwick Plate, which carries with it
1000 added sovereigns, was won easily enough by Tra-
falgar from Lord Nolan, last year’s winner, in 3min. 34}sec.
It was a win by three lengths. Lord Nolan’s time last
year was 3min. 's6fsec. The horse made a gallant attempt
to overtake his rival, who made the pace from early in
the race right to the finish. But he had never a hope,
and was beaten handsomely. Lord Nolan had struck his
Trafalgar, in fact.
* • *
Punters had another bitter experience of the
starting-gate’s autocratic foolishness when Parsee and
other horses got left behind in the Epsom Handicap race.
Seemingly there will be no reform of the present system
until a red-hot favorite, owned by one of the stewards of
the A.J.O. or V.R.C., and heavily backed by some of his
brethren, has its head turned the wrong way when the
barrier rises and is left without a million to one chance of
catching the field. Then, but not till then, the stewaids
will appoint a scrutineer armed with authority to declare
a “false” start in cases where some of the gees have
failed to get awav with the rest. Some starts are bound,
to be much fairer'than others. The barrier cannot compel
the field to fly from “scratch” on perfectly even terms. But
a palpably unfair start should be cancelled every tune,
either bv the man in control of the machine or by a super-
visory official whose “Go back ! ” would be just as man-
datory as was that of the autocrat who held the flag in
days of vore.
■* * • * *
The only surprising thing in connection with
Maltine’s capture of the Metropolitan Stakes was the
fact that the mare’s trainer didn’t expect her to stay the
distance. Maltine is “a stayer all over ” in appearance.
Tin? Bulletin remarked of her last autumn that she
looked equal to winning one of the big cups, and had
performed brilliantly over seven furlongs and a mile after
failing in a six-furlohg sprint. But the handicapper must
have classed Maltine as a non-stayer, seeing that she was
let into the Met. with Bst. 41 h. And her owner didn’t
even nominate her for the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
Seeing that Maltine was not entered for the
Cups, and was allowed to go out at 25 to 1 for the .Met ro-
politan last week, it is permissible to quote from a par in
The Bulletin of March 25 : “ Without doubt the daughter
of Malster is a good mare who should stay tivo miles- if
trained for long journeys. Knowing nothing of her fly-
ing capabilities, one would pick the big-barrelled mare
for a Cup rather than a Doncaster Handicap chance. And
over any distance she would be backed to carry weight.
The recent A.J.C. meeting at Rand wick
(Sydney), in which Patrick Moses got away with
practically all the money invested, made many converts
to the cause of the totalisator. Moses’ talk about better
odds fell on deaf ears. Where the favorite did win the
backers had to fairly buy their money; and the great
fact stood out that had'the coin been invested on the
tote it would all, less 10 per cent., have gone back
to the public. Now on top of this comes word
that the English Jockey Club has definitely declared
in favor of the machine as against the gentleman
with the heavy bag and the loud voice. For many years the
machine has worked well in France, and out of the
£170,000,000 which has gone through it during thelast 17
years the Government has received no less than £4,000,000
for hospitals and so forth. Here only the Lord knows
what has gone into the bag of the b'okmaker, and
nothing has gone to the hospitals or to the relief of the
poor, if the always hard-up females who live on the book-
makers are excluded from the list of the poor.
Football came to an end for the season with
Saturday’s contest, on the Met. O. Ground, between
South Melbourne and West, Adelaide, to decide which
was the boss team of the continent. The disturbance
drew a sizeable crowd, which was regaled with a curtain-
raiser between East Fremantle and the Vic. League. The
Groper premiers had put in a claim for championship
honors, but the year is already too old for three claimants
to argue things out, and, anyhow, the men from Big
John’s State, though hefty ’bailers, are hardly yet
first-class. The Victorians, taking things easily, let
them down lightly with a score of 80 points
to E. Fremantle’s 72. The chief item of the bill developed
into an exceptionally fast, open, clean and clever game.
The Holy Citizens, with two exceptions, were big, lusty
men and unusually plump—in fact, one or two boasted
pronounced bingies. Unnecessary flesh told against them
at the finish ; the lean Southerners lasted better. First
change saw South with a six-point lead, increased to 10
points at half-time—33 to 23. On resuming, West Ade-
laide bogged in with surprising vigor, and at one stage was
five ahead ; but a lucky goal to South made its score at
three-quarter time 46 points to W. Adelaide’s 45. Last
quarter saw the visitors striving valiantly, but their
shooting for goal was unfortunate, and the episode ended
with South Melb. premiers and Australian champions,
with 11 goals eight behinds ; West Adelaide, six goals
14 behinds. The winners played their usual fast, con-
certed game, crowned by straight kicking ; the losers,
though they worked harder, were badly served by their ■
forwards, and failed to back up each other with due regu-
larity.
* * * *
The discussion between the V.C.A. and the
M.C.C. as to which is going to boss cricket in the Murray
State—which is what the argument really amounts to—
drew in the Met. C. Ground trustees last week as peace-
makers, but so far with little effect. The big club’s
previous offer was to hire the ground for inter-State and
international matches at 5 per cent, on the gross takings.
The Ass. declined these terms and, after inviting tenders
from suburban clubs, tentatively fixed on Fitzroy’s offer
to give its ground free, spend £lOOO on improvements to
the outer ground, and give the Ass. 10 per cent, on all
subs, up to £2OOO and 25 per cent, on all above that
figure. Then the trustees got the two parties together
and besought them to love one another and be reason-
able, whereupon the V.C.A. proffered as its lowest terms
for'the big ground the use thereof free, and the payment
by the club of £lOOO as some compensation for the 15-,000
deadheads who may enter if they choose. ,In reply the
M.C.C. offered £Bo(>cash payment, but demanded 10 per
cent, on the gross receipts, and further stipulated that
there shall be four sets of international matches during
the next seven seasons —which means two visits from the
Cold Country and two from S’Africa. The trustees (who
don’t really count) approved this offer, but the V.C.A.
(which does count) rejected it with scorn, and the argu-
ment stays there at present. As the Ass. rightly
remarks, during the last 10 years big cricket, on the
M. C. Ground has returned it about £7OOO less
than in the previous decade, while the club’s
revenue has increased instead of decreasing ; further, the
£BOO a year now offered just about equals the 10 per cent,
on gross takings demanded, so that the club is in reality
giving awav.nothing. - Furthermore, the V.C.A. would be
at least £5OO better off at Fitzroy, while the paying
public—which is the only public that concerns the Ass.
—would probably line up just as frequently as on the big
ground. Moreover and above, it remarks, the M.C.C.’s
perpetual babble about its intense desire to “ foster the
game and encourage young players ” is pure bunkum, as
its large and increasing membership roll not only
decreases the cash ‘,‘gate,” but also takes members
away from the suburban clubs, which thus become
weaker financially and athletically. In effect, the club is
killing cricket instead of reviving it. As a side issue, it
is worth noting that the Met. C. Ground trus-
tees have power to overrule the club’s decisions ; but, as
one paper smoothly put it, “ there is no desire to do any-
thing of thg kind, both bodies having worked together
harmoniously since the irritation of a couple of years
back.” The anxiety of the Melbourne dailies to avoid a
complete fracture of relations is the most humorous
thing about the whole episode. It would be a dreadful
disaster if the 15,000 deadheads had to “ part ” 10s. apiece
to see every inter-State match.
The proposal of the M.L. “Soccer” Association to
invite a team from N.S.W. to tour the Ricketty Isles is a
good one. In spite of the general impression that Maori-
land is the very keep and citadel of Rugby football, there
is a lot of British Association played there ; and the M.L.
Association finds itself strong: enough
£725 that a tour of 11 games will cost. Auckjand, Wel-
lington and Dunedin all have strong Soccer org.
tions, and those of Christchurch, Timaru. Taianak ,
Invercargill and AVairarapa are not much behinfl tnem.
Just at present “ Soccer ” is the only branch of football
in the Ma State that is not, more or less, under a cloua.
Melbourne cricket crept modestly into being on
Saturday, and AVarne (Carlton) and Smith (Richmond)
■Signalised the occasion by knocking up 117 not out ana
103 respectively. Otherwise there was nothing to excite
the vast crowds which stayed away. South Melbourne
compiled 111 against East, and at the clang of time
East had responded with one for 83. Richmond
occupied the turf against P’ran for a total of ziw,
and Carlton made an auspicious commencement with
250 for six wickets against University. Fitzroy lost seven
bits of timber for 221 against St. Kilda, while the Mel-
bourne v. Collingwood disturbance would have been ex-
hilarating to undertakers. Melbourne patted up 85 in a
most refined manner, and ’AVood retorted brutally with
eight for 33. Northcote’s total was 45 against Essendon.
Essendon, by the way, has made 93 for six wickets, and is
doggedly determined upon reaching the century whatever
may befall.
*** * *
The second round of First Grade cricket in
Svdnevon Saturday showed considerable improvement of
form. “ R. V. Minnett, of North Sydney, carried his bat
ayainst Waverley for 122; E. F. Waddy made 86 for
Central Cumberland against Petersham ; Austin Diamond
pounded up 70 for Paddington against Burwood ; and
Thomas, of Sydney, made 60 ag-ainst Gordon. But
the rank-and-file of the batsmen shaped much
better all round ; so apparently the winter
stiffness is wearing - off. Among the bowlers
Christie, of Glebe, took nine Redfern wickets for 39 runs,
and was an easy best. His runner up, Randall, of Uni-
versity, took five Middle Harbor sets of sticks for 69.
Middleton, of the same club, took four more for 58, and
Sayle, of Padding ton, got away with five of Burwood for
81. The best club scores of the day were 266 by Burwood
and the 261 of Central Cumberland.
How those cyclists do eat! During 1 the
Warrnambool-Melbourne cycle race the Dunlop Rubber
Co. distributed 235 gallons of milk, 3360 oranges, 3000
bananas, 2001 b. chocolate, 121 b. bovril, 871 b. PI asm on
biscuits, 241 b. Plasmon cocoa, 12blb. meat jelly, 751 b.
sugar, 2001 b. muscatel raisins, 77 bundles of celery, 35 doz.
eggs and 321 b. bread. Analysed, it works out that each
rider consumed as follows : 3 quarts of milk, 10 oranges,
nine bananas, lOoz. of chocolate, soz. Plasmon biscuits,
6oz. meat jelly, 4oz. sugar, lOoz. muscatels, 2 eggs, l;Joz.
bread, besides a quantity of bovril and cocoa in liquid
'form. Gentlemen who are afflicted with a feeling* of
emptiness before meals, please note.
* * * *
The first, second and third men in the Warr-
nambool-Melbourne road race rode Dunlops. In fact, of
the first 10 men nine rode the popular and classic Aus-
tralian-made tyre. The man who did the fastest time,
I. R. Munro, rode “Elite”, tyres, made hy the Barnet
Glass Co. In spite of the sloppy roads no less than 19
riders beat Tom Larcombe’s former record time of 7hr.
40min. lOsec. Munro did the journey at the average
speed of 23 miles per hour. T. Gascoyne, one time Eng-
lish champion, spurted at the rate of 24J miles per hour
for 119 miles. Of the 312 riders who started no less than
266 finished ; which is in itself a world’s record. All of
them covered the course under the time limit,of 10J
hours, and will be rewarded with the bronze and enamel
medallion of the Dunlop 00., which the average .cyclist
regards as a sort of second A’iotoria Cross, or badge of
the Legion of Honor. The running of the race and its
general management cost the promoting firm over £500.*
■** . *
The bicycle world sprint championship resulted,
as hinted at in this column, in a win for the French
crack, Dupre, from Rutt and Ponlain. Dupre won by
half a wheel from Rutt, with Poulain a few inches away.
Major Taylor competed, but was blown out before
reaching the final stage.
■* * * *
The National Bifle Association jubilee meeting,
which began in Svdne.v at the end of last week, will
annihilate all previous records, both in respect of com-
petitors and prize-money. Of the competitors who puffed
at the target at the N.R.A.’s first prize meeting on Sep-
tember 26, 1861, Lieujt.-Col. Strong is the only rifleman
still in the actual firing line ; while Trustee H. C. Dangar,
M.L.C., is the sole living link in the original governing
hoard of the association. The big event of the meeting,
“ The King’s,” has an entry of 747.
The “0” grade series, which attracted ari
entry of 620 riflemen, none of whom had ever previously
won a prize of greater value than 10s., opened the meet-
ing, and the shooting was sufficiently accurate to fill the
top-notchers with envy. In the “ Dibbs,” eight shots
at 400vds., 31 of the 620 plugged every shot into
the bull’s-eye, and in the shoot-off Sydney Grammar
School bov, AV, Cheeseborough, continued the record
until he had scored 37 bulls. Cadet C. L. Glasson
piled up 26 bulls, and L. Wallace and 0. Vacchini scored
20 bulls each without a miss.. It.was plugging which sug-
gested that there isn’t a wide margin between the different
grades in accuracy. In the “ Baroona,” seven shots at
500yds., seven possibles were again put up ; while in “ The
Referee,” eight shots at 600yds., E. Cooper took the
prize with a “possible.” The “Douglas” Aggregate for
the three matches went to T. Tierney, with the score 6f
116 out of a possible 120.
The “B” graders had their turn on Saturday,
hut the record of the “O” men left scarcely any lime-
light. “ The Oortese,” 10 shots at 500yds., supplied the
only “possibles” on the day— J. Gibson and A. J. Nunn
doing the trick. C. G. McDonald won the “Fairfax”
with a score of 49; and W. Finlay gathered in the
“ Mitchell ’’ with a total of 49. The “ Brown ” aggregate
fell into the arms of A. Biden, with 139 oftt of a possible
150.
Cyclist-sculler F. S. Hagney “arrived” on
Saturday last, w’hen, on a glassy reach of the Hunter
River at Raymond Terrace (N.S. W.), he defeated big Ben
Thoroughgood in a match for £lOO a side. Hagney got
somewhat the better of the start, but after a quarter of a
mile Thoroughgood was in front, where he stayed till the
mile was thrown behind. Then Hagney spurted and drew
level. Thoroughgood responded, but it soon became very
evident that Hagney held him, arid at a mile and a half
the latter went to the front and stayed there. At the
finish he led by about seven lengths. Time was 18min.
llsee. Hagney was tutored hy the present champion of
Australia, Harry Pearce, who was present to watch how
his pupil acquitted himself, and seemed to be satisfied.
A. R. Sime, a Sydney runner with
cesses to his credit, won y ,ct °"?f lelb6u rne on Saturday.
occurred between P rankston and Me ossec and at
Sime dusted over the distance in 3h Bam-
che finish was only a trifle over a n , • fled 2 e miles,
ford, also of the Ma State, who, aft , ■ st sna tched
put up a fine struggle for second pU at • ’ . A j t k e n,
it from Connor, a human kangaroo fro , . Murray
the much fancied local ped, was f6urth , J
and Ferguson, both of the Melbourne Hamers,
fifth and sixth, and George ® la k e "l „ nners
The race was a dull-brown lunacy.
required to be continuously refresh • and sprays,
ants, who hiked in their drinks and
One man fell down on the St. hilda-i helDed along
massaged. Another broken-down ped was helped along
between two friends on bikes. And . • h b ad
should thus bust themselves ■ because a Gree 0 0g h
some real business in hand legged it into Athens on -wn
September 2399 years ago, Heaven only knoi^s.
The meeting of George Jehnsandßudoif Tin-
holz, the so-called Boer, at Sydney Tf all the
was a bright and hilarious circumstance. If all tne
Boers are like Unholz, n 0 wonder. they t h
trouble. This one charged like■ a to
wrig-ffled in holts like a wild cat, and _ , ribs with
get his arms free used his elbow’s on hi. ene ‘ d
great energy and considerable effect. >- , , '.l *_
this little peculiarity will land him ln *” ’“j jj‘j s
him a fight and the stout end of a purse on a foul. H
fighting is akin to that of Joe Grimm ; hut whereas
Grimm’s is utterly clumsy, Unholz ais science. H p (
is wonderful, his control of his limbs phenomenal. He
hits gaily with both hands while in mid air, and then
contrives to smother up as he lands on his feet. .
haS Johns utterly nonplussed The Australian t
know what to do with the bounding, writhing, clawmg,
bashing fury that leaned up against him and s "2 ot ® „ h ' d
back and front and from any P < ? slt,o '.; \ oa a t
through the air, and changed his blow while in the Mt
of soaring ; and lashed out with both fists at the same
.time without any apparent difficulty ’. . the "Jjf ted a
delivered both blows at once, rebounded andexecuteda
fandango just out of range Johns towered head and
shoulders over his short, stocky..opponent. Jut the Boer
drove hint round and round the ring. Whole round,
seemed to pass without Johns hitting a blow. Several
times he got the Boer round the middle, with bis back to
his own chest, and Unholz, in some "'e d fashion
managed to hit right back over his own head, and smite
Johns on the chin, nose and mouth. After 20 jroiinds of
this whirling business Unholz was declared winner on
points. No other decision was possible.
Apparently the best defence against Unholz is
the Napoleonic one of getting in the first blow and
attacking him in force before he can U e t P^°P er U P° ln F-
On the few occasions on which Johns did lash °ut he
pushed his gyrating, laughing, dancing-dervish opponent
verv hard. ' It is easy to talk of meeting rushes with
straight, drives ; but Unholz is a most skilful fighter, and
smothers up in a way that is only possible to a genius
Also he is quick as lightning. He has met reverses in
Australia, but it is doubtful if he was fit for fighting at
the time. Now he is fit he stands revealed as a queer
combination of tremendous recklessness and cold caution,
a hard hitter, a fighter of. phenomenal speed and with
remarkable capacity for taking punishment.
* * * * . . .
Richard Arnst is getting himself disliked in
Wamranui (M.L.), owing: to having - said terrible things
about the conditions under which he had to row there.
First, he complained that there was a monopoly of the
steamers ; and secondly, that in the journey up stream
the wash of the craft carrying sight-seers dislodged from
the banks all the loose logs that had been stranded for a
vear previously, so that by the time the race yvas in full
swing the river was crowded with legs, which made scull
im*' dangerous. And, anyhow, he thought Wanganui had
received more than its share of champion races. He
proposes, if he races again in Maoriland, to change the
venue to Auckland Harbor, in the vicinity of Pine Island.
That is yvhat Arnst has to say about Wanganui, yvtiat
Wanganui—when it gets its breath-will have to say
about Arnst will probably not be published.
All the same, powerful and energetic committees
at Wanganui and Foxton are hard at work promoting a
great sculling carnival, to be held on the river of old-time
battles. Pearce, Thoroughgood, Mitchell, Day, Hagney,
C Messenger and. others are to be invited across from
N S W. on liberal terms, and it is fondly hoped that
Arnst and Whelch will represent Maoriland against the
Australian regiment. The chief race will be the Wan-
ganui Handicap, which is financed by Bung collectively,
and there will also be prizes of £lOO, £5O, £25, and £25.


ONCE A CYCLIST !
J
always one. That is if you ride a
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE.
’Tis a little beauty from start to finish. We fit it with
any first-class tyre, and guarantee it a year for £ll.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CYCLE BOOKLET,
AND MENTION THIS PAPER.
BENNETT & BBRKELL.
Largest Cycle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and
Qastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Amusements
H
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8.
Flying the Pennant of Popularity.
THE ELAG LIEUTENANT,
Interpreted by the Strongest Comedy Cast ever
associated on the Australian Stage, including
G. S. TITHERADGE, ETHEL WARWICK, DOROTHY
GRIMSTON and THOMAS KINGSTON
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
NINTH WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE ICING OP CADONIA.
Interpreted by THE J. C. WILLIAMSON NEW COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 16—THE BELLE OF
NEW YORK.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling's.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
. Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL «S GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clydk Meynkll and John Gunn.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
The Production on exactly the same scale as in London.
Plan, Elvy’s. Day Sale, White Rose.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEL
Lessee and Manager : GEORGE MARLOW.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
GEORGE MARLOW’S
Great Melodramatic Masterpiece,
MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
Prices—3s. , 25., Is.
Plan Eivv’s.
■J 1 HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling's, 2s 6d.
OYDN EY GLACIARIUM
DIRECTION OP T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
.‘.“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and ■ BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. Od. Is, Is 6d. & 2s.
S 3 1 J ° u . p, CTURE palace
(Bijpu Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
PHE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Emphatic Success of BROWN and ROBIVKON
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, MISS LOTTIE KAY.
MISS ATHMORE GREY, Vocaliste and Dauseuse,
in the World-Famed SALOME DANCE.
CAPT. WINSTON’S PERFORMING SEALS.
THE TWO BELLS. MR FRED. BLUETT.
-MR. CLARENCE TISDALE. MR. W. A. ROBYNS.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
PRICES—3s.. 2s. and Is. ' Plan at Paling’s.
■f \ PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BERTHA STUART, Scotch Vocaliste.
DOLLY HARMER, Character Comedienne.
THE WHEELERS, Trick Cyclists.
THREE SISTERS TRAPNELL, Acrobats.
FANNYiHAULE, Ladder Expert.
BROWN and ROBINSON, Amusing and Novel Act.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedy Artists.
Plan at Allan’s., ,tST PRICES— 3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT CO.
IN
THE GREAT RESCUE.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
j~JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents the
SUCCESSFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE CATCH of the SLA SON,
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
OLD FAVORITES AND OLD FRIENDS,
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO. in
MISS HOOK OE HOLLAND.
1 rices 35., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan ar. Allan’s.
QLACIARIU M, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
ON THE HOP’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6 ; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
yy EST’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES THE of 111
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinee* Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, X/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
yyiRTH BROS. 1 NEW AMPHITHEATRE,
WIRTH PARK, PRINCES BRIDGE.
GRAND OPENING, SATURDAY, OCT. 16,
-—BY—
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS, ;
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
COMPLETE NEW COMPANY OF EUROPEAN
ARTISTES EACH SEASON.
Prices of Admission : Chairs on raised platform, 4s. •
American Chairs, 3s. ; Stalls, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. ; Children
under 10 half-price, except to Gallery,'which is Is. to
everybody.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
MATINEES—WED., SAT., AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
_ Missing: Friends.
JOHN, son of lute Patrick Cane, of
J Myrniong, Victoria, will hear of something
to his advantage by communicating with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
Melbourne.
Business Notice.
“SHELL"
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
H AVE you tried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying- to you that
you would not be without it for one day.' Every French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishes, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. pet-
large jar. Olrtaiunble from the Sole Agents only • THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS 42 \
Casteereagh Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest Manicure Rooms
in Sydn'ey. Add 6d. for postage.
H.Hitlier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
M anufacturer, 1 viportci.
Sporting- Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Photons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness
£5 10s. Stpbk. Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
DUPTURE Treatment
and..
CURE.
How I cured myself of a severe Rupture of mam-
years’ standing, without truss, bandages, or surgical
operation. Simple home treatment. Full particulars
and treatment, per mail 10s., postal note or money
order. Personal interview, evenings 7-9. Mention
this paper when writing.
J. D- RAMSAY, 98 Darghan St., Glebe, Sydney.
PSYCHO THERAPY
MENTAL AND MAGNETIC HEALING
The oldest and safest way of alleviating
all sufferings of the human frame.
Up-to-date methods in Massage, Elec-
tricity, Hot Air, etc. All obtained at/,he
HEALTH INSTITUTE,
43 Phillip St., Sydney (Opp. Works Dept.).
VALD UNMACK, 8.A., 8.L.1. (Haim),
Late Masseur and Demonstrator of Massage to the
Sydney Hospital.
V i
Y.I
LA?M
_M,P,LGSMON is tho
BEST part of Nature’s
BEST food— MILK,
increases the food
value enormously.’’
— Lancet.
V V^
isnoiQiiifl
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT
PLASM ON is USED
by the
ROYAL FAMILY.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral BanKers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
* CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
jt '
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land U Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'h Street. SYDNEY.
VICTORIA
RACING CLUB,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
CUP WEEK.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY
GUP DAY
OAKS DAY
STEEPLECHASE DAY
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER.
TUESDAY, 2nd NOVEMBER.
THURSDAY, 4th NOVEMBER.
SATURDAY, 6th NOVEMBER.
RECOKD ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
By “ the Middle-Aged Inhabitant” :
The telegraph signalled “ stop ” the other day to Peter
Hunter, of Balmain (N.S.W.), one of the'race of Scottish
(narine engineers. He held a, certificate dating back to
the ’forties which made him by a long way the senior
member of his profession, in Australia. He was chief
engineer of the paddle steamer Magnet plying between
London and Rotterdam iri 1847. His Australian career
began with bis arrival in Sydney as engineer af the Illa-
warra S. N. Co.’s paddle steamer Nora Creina in ’54:
The passage out was an eventful one, the rudder
being lost and the ship’s company having to
land on an island and construct a new one.'
When Peter left the sea later on he became superintend-
ing engineer for the Newcastle and Hunter River Co.
and for the Clarence and Richmond River Co., and then
outside foreman at Mort’s Dock. Later still he was a
partner with Mr. W. Allen, who died only a few months
ago, in building and owning the two well-known harbor
tugs, the Greyhound and Greyhound 11.
Knox of the Hat is said to have visions
of a knighthood, as a result of the Commerce
Congress and the drawing tighter of the bonds of
Empiah. He happens to be president of tie
Associated Chambers of Australia—the body
which made the way straight for the visitors and
scattered their path with much free food—and he
hasn’t missed many chances to impress the
visitors. What’s more, it is pretty certain that
he has impressed them. William began his hustle
for a crust in Australia as a clerk in the Bank of
Victoria ; then the Scotch crowd that got hold of
the Broken Hill Prop, made him secretary when
it was a very small infant. And the man under
the hat grew and grew until, nowadays, he isn’t a
mere pen-pusher for those concerns, but a director
of both the bank and the big mining co.
AT THE FINISH
DUNLOP TYRES
By their Superiority.WeaK&.Ouality
ARE ALWAYS IN FRONT.
v
’ ' '
J
W'£' KnaGGS, Winning
Dunloß.Road Race b>
A Leng+H from L*Day.
DUNLOP ROAD RACE
I- on DUNLORS-2- on DUNLORS-3-onDUNLOPJ
In fact 9 out of the first 10 Riders, Rode—
DUNLOP TYRES


ELITE TYRES
MEAN SPEED.
———
Eace after Race is contested, and in each FLITEb add to their
already magnificent list of triumphs and prove beyond doubt tha or
SPEED and RELIABILITY
they are without equal. The following are their most recent successes
WARRNAMBOOLto MELBOURNE Road Race—
WORLD’S RECORD and FASTEST TIME.
i
GOULBURN to SYDNEY Road Race—
-Ist and 2nd Places and FASTEST TIME.
BATHURST to SYDNEY Road Race—
-Is t, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth Places and FASTEST TIME.
Victorian Cycle Traders’ 100 Mile Road Race -
Ist, 3rd, 4th, sth and 6th Places and FASTEST TIME
for Victorian Riders.
KINGDOM ROAD RACE-
-Ist, 2nd and 3rd Places and FASTEST TIME.
MASSEY HARRIS Road Race—Terang to
Camperdown and Back (25 Miles) —
Was won by il. «/• BEASLEY on FLITE TYRES.
No other Tyre can show such a brilliant list of
Victories as that scored by the Celebrated
FLITE Tyres.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
234 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, and all States.
p
p
That
name
and only
that name— on your Saddle can ensure
real Cycling' comfort that comfort upon
which depends your health and happiness
awheel. Experienced Cyclists Know this —that is
why they “SAY BROOKS” so persistently—and it is the
strongest reason why you should do so too.
StocKed by all Agents Saddle Manual
free from
J. B. BROOKS & CO. LTD.,
'fin Saddle Specialists,
BIRMINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
o
m
Old
ORKNEY
Ah!
That’s it
The connoisseur can tell 0.0.
Whisky every time. Its fragrance,
its mellowness, its unique and
delicate flavour appeal at once
to the man with the discerning
calate.
And the water from which 0.0.
Whisky is made is so pure. It
springs from the Heather-Clad
Hills of Orkney, far removed from
human habitation. Money cannot
buy a better whisky,>ecause 0.0.,
is perfection, i
' f\
May we tend you oiir booklet " Fartheil
North, ’ together with oamf* of nearcsl
0.0. Agent? .
jf
McConneH’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre Houae, Arundel Street, W.C.
Proprieters of
Stromneaa Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
i
Under Vice-Regal
Fatroixag'e.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Yak Brakkel),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers' & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
CO/fIBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair..
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB Sc CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
Born 1820.
Still going
strong.
It’s a fallacy to
say you can’t
buy AGE and
EXPERIENCE
-—you CAN in
Born 1820.'
Still going
strong
The Whisky with the
Little Label
and the
Big Reputation,
Safeguarded by a constant maturing reserve
stock of over million gallons.
“The Road to Fortune.”
That was the heading under which Melbourne
Argus recently printed some figures in connection
with a certain Gippsland dairy. The article made
interesting reading. The farm is 500 acres in
extent, and the gross receipts for milk during the
12 months to August 31, 1909, were £3262. The
owner milked 183 cows, so he evidently had to
employ five or six hands unless his family was a
very large one. Now, the ordinary dairy-farmer
expects to get his cows milked for £2 per head
per annum. Sometimes he has to pay £2 10s..
but on the other hand he occasionally gets a
wretched family to do the work for £1 10s. per
animal. Putting the figure at £2, that repre-
sents £366 for labor. Then there was £389 for
railway freight, making £755, and when that is
deducted from £3262 the balance is £2507. Ihe
Argus makes what looks like a shockingly liberal
allowance of £1507 a year for interest on money
sunk in land, cows and sundries and for cow
sinking-fund and wear and tear, and brings out
the profits from cows alone (irrespective of any
earnings from side-lines like pigs, fowls, “slinks,
etc. )at £lOOO a year. And it says plainly that the
cow is the road to fortune. At the same time, when
any proposal is made for an improvement in the
wages of the cow-slave, the same Argus clamors
that the poor, beggared, struggling farmer can t
afford to pay any better wages. Yet, according to
the Argus tale, this farmer could put up wages
£5O per cent.—from £2 to £3 per cow per annum—
and still have over £BOO a year for himself
in addition to a home, a considerable part
of his food (the part that is raised on
the farm), and the profits of his smaller indus-
tries. On the face of things it looks as if the cow
business could stand being regulated by a Wages
Board a great deal more easily than many town
industries which have to stand it. lhe dairy cow
is, as the Argus says, “ the road to fortune” ; but
the old lady herself and the farmer take all sorts
of care that the dairy employee, who does all the
hard-and dirty work, never gets on that road. He
is rarely allowed to even look over the fence.
Present Position of the British Landlord.
The great agricultural landlord of England is an
aggrieved man these days, and; according to his
own lights, he does well to be angry. The
position into which he has drifted is a really
remarkable one, and in an incoherent, disjointed
sort of way he wants to say something about it.
Put in a condensed form, this is the sort of thing
that has happened to the landlord—the agricul-
tural one, that is :
(1) The ravening and insane desire to let foreign goods
in free of duty makes Britain raise a comparatively small
portion of its revenue by taxing the importer. Therefore
it has to raise a very large proportion by direct taxation.
(2) Consequently’ the taxes on land are heavy, but as
they aren’t graduated taxes they don’t tend to break up
the big estates. .
(3) Free imports and other things have pretty well
destroyed British agriculture, and it grows more and
more difficult to let the heavily-taxed farm lands and get
a rent from them.
(4) The destruction of agriculture has caused a mon-
strous increase in pauperism, and the maintenance of
paupers adds to the burdens on the land which has such
a tendencv to lie idle. .
(5) The destruction of agriculture has made Britain so
utterly dependent on foreign food supplies that it
requires a monstrous and enormously costly fleet for its
defence—one that is out of all proportion to its ordinary
needs for it dare not contemplate the chance of losing
command of the sea for even a montli lest it be starved
° (6) The bill for this fleet makes direct taxation still
heavier, and agriculture still more hopeless. When a
ton of wheat has paid its share of rent, poor rates, lan
tax, education tax, road rate, etc., etc., and has p
heavy freight by a Private Enterprise railway to tne
nearest market where it has to compete with lore ’>j[‘
wheat that, in many cases, is burdened with only a tentn
of these liabilities, there is so little left for the farmer
that the game is seldom worth the candle nowadays.
So the value of country lands in Great Britain has
slumped, according to Lord Rosebery, to the
extent of £1,000,000,000, and the purely agricul-
tural landowner —the one who has no'coal or iron
deposits or big towns on his property—is often a
very threadbare encumbrance living amid a wreck
of tarnished splendor. And now that more taxes
are to be heaped upon him for the further relief o
the pauperism of the land, he reckons he will soon
be an absolutely cleaned-out loafer in a deserted
mansion, boiling his own billy in what was once
the drawing-room. Yet if a great part ot the t
burden was shifted on to the foreign importer,
and Protection gave British agriculture a
chance to revive, this individual would rush
forth and raise the rents so enormously
that he would be the chief cash gainer,
and why a wholly superfluous person should gain
anything it is not easy to see. Until the
landlord is abolished it is hard to believe that
there can be any very large or permanent im-
provement in affairs, but if he is abolished and
the community still adheres to the Foreign-trade
superstition, it is difficult to believe that there
can be any very large or permanent improvement
either. And there is, so far as can be seen, no
powerful Democratic Protectionist class yet m
Britain. The party which wants to abolish F ree-
trade mostly desires to retain the disastrous land-
lord, and the party that wants to abolish the
landlord is largely a party which wants to retain
the disastrous Cobdkn superstition.
*—♦ 1 —
The N.S.W. Assembly the other day reached
Laborite Griffith’s long-threatened motion in
favor of paying a reward of £5 to the parents of
every little Australian born in the State; but
the House shuddered at the revolution-
ary idea, and tossed it out. Still Griffith s
idea is a mild, bleating lamb beside some
recerlt French proposals to the same end.
Even now the schemes of Professor Richkt, of
the Academy of Medicine, and Beaulieu, the
well-known economist, are receiving much atten-
tion. Under Richet’s scheme, £2O would be paid
for every second child, with £4O for every
additional child. This, he computes, would
accelerate the birth-rate by 25 per cent. (250,000)
annually, at a cost of £12,000,000 per year. This
sum he proposes to raise by a 50 per cent, tax on
all collateral inheritances, and on all estates
left by parents to an only child. Beaulieu s
idea is to debar from permanent employ-
ment all civil servants and municipal em-
ployees until they are the parents of at least
three children. Riche,t’S scheme is staggering on
the score of its enormous cost; while Beaulieu’s
only applies to State and municipal employees,
and so France gropes about for something better.
Still the birth-rate question is becoming so alarm-
ing in France that nearly everyone expects that
some scheme or other will be tried shortly as a
mere measure of self-preservation. On this point
Foster Fraser says something interesting. The
French peasant is almogt as sterile as the French
city dweller; yet place this same peasant on
Canadian soil, for instance, and it’s Fraser’s ex-
perience that he blossoms into the hardy progeni-
tor of a family of ten or more.


BEALE PIANOS
o
0
*
C
o
c
*s/
o
o
TJ-l
THE BEST
*x?v.
IXhf
w.
o
2
*!&
O'
U
2
T 'iA?
A
1
EALE
CHI?
03
The best instrumental accompaniment to the human voice is the Piano, and the best
Piano for accompaniment work is the BEALE PATENT, because of thp splendid singing
quality of its tone, which sustains the voice and enables the singer to vocalise with ease and
power. Tonal quality is the most essential quality of a good instrument, and it was for “tonai
quality and general excellence” that the Grand Jury of the Franco-British Exhibition, held in
London last year, bestowed the highest award in its power upon the Beale Pianos, viz., The
GRAND PRIX. The jury was composed of three French and two British musical experts,
artists thoroughly qualified to adjudicate upon such a question, and their judgment endorses
the testimony of thousands of clients throughout Australia to whom we have supplied Pianos.
There are over 12,000 Beale Pianos in use, and our extensive works at Annandale—now being
greatly enlarged—are kept busy turning Pianos out at the rate of three every four hours.
1 hese facts are significant of the high regard in which the Beale Pianos are held, more than
three times as many of them as of any other makers being sold annually in Australia.
Besides the highest award for “tonal quality and general excellence,” our Pianos were
also awarded the Diploma of Honor for iron and steel work, specially relating to the Patent
,i »; ■ p;
Metal Wrest-plank and Steel Tuning System, which is used exclusively in our Pianos, and
makes them absolutely the most durable instruments that are made anywhere; a Gold Medal
for excellence of Cabinet Work, which guarantees a very handsome piece of furniture as the
housing of a first-class musical instrument; and a Gold Medal for perfection of the
organisation for their manufacture. You cannot get better Pianos than the BEALE. Let us
send you our fine Catalogue, showing them in their natural colors; or, if convenient, kindly
call at our Showrooms to inspect and try them.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 no c o l*£r 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street Brisbane (next G.P.O.— our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE . Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call .
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms . 25 Years' Guarantee . Repairs and Tuning .
Old Pianos Allowed For . Direct from Factory to Family .
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


When politicians rage and bang the air in
party fury they should remember that the cooling
counsels of D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise,
soothe the fiercest breast. The calming spirit of
the scholarly brand properly appealed to subdues
the most fiery outbursts and replaces them with
the serene glow ofethe D.C.L. smile. And the
sunniness of the D.C.L. smile charms away even
tb* thunder clouds of party ferocity,*
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones,
It is perfectly safe,*
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough -Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe,*
The Peril of our Time
Is lung disease. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and colds cures lung trouble. Small dose.
Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed.
Price Is, Gd, and 3s,*
IN BANANALAND
Philp Eedivivus.
“Queenslander’’ writes: “ The Philp party is
again top dog in Queensland. The Southern press
talks about a victory for Kidston—but the Kid-
ston party is practically annihilated. Of some 41
Government members (latest returns) all, with
the exception of a little knot of five, have been
identified for the greater part of their political
career with the old Philp party —for it must be
remembered that men like Bell and Denham were
Philpites before the formation of the Morgan
Coalition Ministry. The only one of Kidston’s
old Labor colleagues left him is Grant, who is
now senior member for Rockhampton.
“ The net result of this election is a big
disaster to the Democratic forces and a con-
siderable victory to Conservatism. Kidston, the
nominal Conservative Premier, has now a majority
of 10. Previous to the dissolution his majority
numbered one. Labor now numbers 27, a
gain of four seats on the figures of last Parliament;
but as three of these have been snatched from the
Independent Opposition (which had been working
with Labor), the gain is only a nominal one. The
leader of the Queensland Labor party (which, by
the way, lost four seats where it seemed firmly
established) exulted lately over this alleged vic-
tory, but the Philpites, who come back with a
majority of 10, know well where the actual vic-
tory lies. Already the Tories are talking of a lie-
distribution Bill, the effect of which will be to
reduce some dozen Labor constituencies to about
six—a change which would, of course, neutralise
the few gains of the last contest. Fate is playing
strongly into the hands of the Philpites.
“On the face of these results, the outlook.for
Labor at the next Federal elections is not a bright
one. The South, where the great mass of the
population is located, has returned Conservative
candidates by large majorities, and it is the South
that will practically return the Senatorial cam.
didates. Even in Fisher’s Wide Bay district the
State electorates have given a decided verdict, on
the whole, in favor of the Tory party, and the
votes of Brisbane and its adjoining country con-
stituencies were easily captured by the Conserva-
tive reactionaries. Labor only won two seats
(Fortitude Valley) out of the very large group of
city and suburban constituencies.
“This debacle is the result mainly of two
causes. In the first place, Labor would persist in
opposing its Democratic allies in some four seats,
and the spectacle of this division sent a large
number of electors over to the Government side.
Secondly, a scare over the Wages Board was
started in the metropolis by interested employers,
and hundreds of shop assistants and factory girls,
frightened to death by unscrupulous bosses,
voted Pro-Fat to save, as they thought, their
bread and butter. The net immediate result is
Philp in the saddle, and the net prospective result
is a Tory triumph at the next Federal elections.
“The whole thing is a startling commentary on
the efficacy of the go-it-alone method. All the
reforms of the last six years were gained by a
prudent alliance between Democrats and the
Labor party. No reforms in Queensland have
ever been gained any other way, and it may be
safely predicted that they cannot be won in any
other way for years to come. Meantime the pre-
sent result is a big Democratic disaster and joy in
the tents of Philp.”
A Party Whose Luck is Out.
Concerning the recent election, “H.H.” makes
a few remarks :—
It is impossible for outsiders to avoid a suspicion that
part, at least, of the ill-luck of the Queensland Labor party
is due to inward cantankerousness. How much the
party inwardly cantanks only those in the inner circle
can say, but the outward signs are instructive. The
party has had many leaders or acting or deputy leaders—
more than any other party of its age in Australia —and it
seems to have parted from them all—except Browne, who
is dead, and Bowman whose turn hasn’t come yet—in
anger. Speaking from memory, there have been Glassey,
Hoolan (I think), Dawson, Airey, Kerr, Browne, Kidston (1
believe) and Bowman ; <and Labor has separated in furious
anger from at least five of them. Then, after the parting
eoibejj the<long, bitter row until next election day, and
then struggle ,to shove the lost leader our, of Parlia-
ment. Aud it is apt to happen that the seat.is lost as .well as
the leader ; there the chance of a triangular con-
test in which the parties are the Tory candidate, the new
Labor candidate and the lost leader standing,, as an
Independent. At the election which is just pv.er the
most vigorous efforts of the Labor party were directed to
the political extinction of two of its old leaders (Airey
and Kerr), and on • old deputy leader (Kidston), and cer-
tain other ex-members of its party ; this despite the'fact
that Kerr and Airey had voted steadily on the Labor side
since the beginning of the Kid-Philp Government, and
that Airey was a most destructive critic of the Kid-Pidlp
combination. Yet seven hopeless Tories who voted
always against Labor were allowed to get back without a
contest. Airey is gone, but, his constituency is gone also
—a Tory has captured it. The Rockhampton seat, which
was a Labor one in the days before the great quarrel with
Kidston, is now Tory. The lamentable split with
ex-Labor leader Anderson Dawson—that was a Federal
affair, yet it was part of the same lamentable run of
ill-luck —was largely responsible for the loss of three.
Queensland Senatorial seats to the Labor cause. And all
these things are against us.
This stormy career contrasts in a striking fashion with
the steady progress of the Labor party in S. Australia.
In that State Labor hasn’t quarrelled with or cast out a
single leader. It hasn’t once heaved a charge of treachery
at its political head. It hasn’t lost a single seat in
the Assembly through internal dissension. Only once in
all its existence, so far as I can recall, has a member
broken away. Only once has a member been even remon-
strated with for taking half a pint too much, and then it
was barely half a pint, and it was not till long afterwards
that anybody outside the party learned even casually
that he had been spoken to about the half-pint.
There was a Price-Peake coalition in S.A., just
as there was a Morgan-Browne-Kidston coalition
in Queensland; but when the S.A. coalition broke
up, the Labor party withdrew all its forces in
good order and didn’t lose a man—barring its leader, and
it lost him by death. Either the S. Australian Labor
party is far better managed than the Queensland one or
there is some radical difference in the circumstances— a
difference which isn’t visible to the extraneous eye. It
might be a fair thing if a prominent member of each
party was sent for a month or two as a deputation to the
other State, and admitted as an honorary member of the
caucus there, so that he could watch the local methods,
after which he might draw up a confidential report upon
the whyness of things. There must surely be a whyness
somewhere. The S. Australian Labor party has lost seats
at times ; but on the whole, it has a capacity for holding
what it gains that is a bright example to the other States.
And as a result it is closer to securing an absolute
majority of its own than any other similar party in Aus-
tralasia.
The Queensland Labor party lays great weight—
naturally enough—on Kidston’s defection. But the habit
of defection or recrimination or internal combustion was
there long before Kidston’s trouble arose, and the cause
is worth inquiring into.
The Queensland Labor party will now be
able to get an “opinion ”on the premises. Ryan,
who outed George Kerr, is a Rockhampton
barrister, and formerly a Grammar School teacher.
Macartney, who won a seat at North
Brisbane, is a solicitor and politician by profes-
sion. He represented Toowong until the previous
election, when he was defeated a few days before
IN LOW-GRADE SOCIETY.
Mistress (to Amelia , who has had a night out): "And where were you last night, Amelia /”
Amelia: “I teas at me cousin’s surprise-party, mum,. And a beautiful party it was, too.”
Mistress (with polite interest): "Indeed! Who organised it!"
Amelia : “ Oh, they didn't hare no organ, mum. They ’ired a man to play the concertina.”
his arrival from England. He had rushed back
to take a portfolio in the Philp Government, but
when he arrived he found that Philp had been
dropped into the soup, and that his own seat had
fallen to a democrat. Macartney has a habit of
looking useful, or dangerous, or something, but so
far has proved himself nothing except a master of
pose. •
“C.S.A.”: Cairns and surrounding dis-
tricts are badly infested with ticks. The life of
the average beast must be perpetual misery, and,
if unattended to, the members of the lower
creation soon scratcirthemselves out of recognition.
I know a man who turned his neddy out on the
grass for a few days, and, on going to capture
him, passed him by three times before he
recognised him. He’d rubbed off most of his hair
and condition and a lot of tail-feathers, and with
the addition of wings he would have passed
muster as an aeroplane. Fences and other
upright erections are requisitioned as rubbing-
posts. They have a glossy surface from continuous
friction, and socfii get rubbed out of plumb.
Judicious owners of stock and fences always keep
stock on either side of the fences, and if the
scratching propensities are pretty well equalised,
the fences remain erect. My mate and I camped
in a hut, and nearly all the stock in North Queens-
land rubbed against that shanty. Had to take
turn about to keep them off. as the foundations
were up to breaking point. Dozed on my watch,
and was wakened by one end of the mansion
sprinkling on us and a geegee collecting himself
out of the catastrophe. He was evidently too
anxious, and had overdone the thing. The
only casualties were a bump on my mate’s eyebrow
and our new' billycan flattened. However, we
exonerated the moke from any malice aforethought.
We know what ticks are.
When I Have Gone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN I have gone
Where through the pale-stemmed lines
of thronging trees
The shining rails run to the white-
edged seas,
And where, the misted topaz hills between.
Black strikes the jetty out into the green
Will you, who drew my secret from my eyes
Bend o’er another face in such a wise ?
When I have gone
Into the long hush of the tropic night
Past the lank semaphore, the low red light,
To where the dry sand creeks by fern roots wind,
Leaving a dream of deep, still pools behind,
Will you, whose voice could stir me from the
dead,
Whisper soft speech to other ears instead ?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 9, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah.—
Brisbane owns a relic of the massacre of Glencoe,
in the shape of a brass candlestick. It was found
on the table of the Chief of the McDonalds the
night of the trouble. John McHardy, who was
secretary to the Marquis of Huntly, got hold of
it. Alex. Macpherson, who lived in Brisbane for
many years, was a grandson of McHardy, and
when he passed out it became the property of his
daughter who still lives hereabouts.
What is sauce for the political goose is no good
for the gander. In a northern district the Anglican
rector is a Socialist, and prior to the nominations
he said some things about the Tory party which
were not half so severe as the remarks which the
Israelites made on Mount Ebal, yet were fairly
severe in their way. The Archbishop wasinvited
to put down his foot on this sacrilege, which,
according to all accounts, he did. Shortly after-
wards, however, a certain other parson visited the
district, and held forth for the Government candi-
date. But there was no outcry this time from
Bishopsbourne, and the Archbishop didn’t put his
other foot down, though it’s said on quite good
authority that he has two.
George Portus—he of the benign smile and
silvery locks —has received joyful news ; and as
soon as he can complete arrangements with the
blood-stained Ross-Baker co., he will hurry off to
take “ Miss Hook of Holland ” in hand.
The tide in the affairs of man turned the other
day in favor of Miss Shelly, at the General Hos-
pital, where the lady’s good work has made her a
favorite with officials and patients. The tide
washed up the well-gilded Dr. Miller, of Sydney ;
and the two, who didn’t let all the world know
what they were doing, and did it very quietly, are
now investigating the'Barron Falls ere they flit to
parts unknown-as-yet, though the parts will prob-
ably be in this State.
Amy Castles’ arrival was witnessed by a big
crowd, and the Mayoress (looking several years
wearier for the strenuous election campaign)
handed over a “ bokay ” and a nicely-expressed
welcome. Even the excitement of the elections
couldn’t spoil the opening house or turn it from
its fixed resolve to get a lot for its money.
The Queensland Yacht Club opened its summer
sailing with a big shivoo. and about 500 guests
viewed the procession of floating matter from the
grounds of Newstead—a much improved Newstead
since the advent of the Heaslop family. In fact,
the fine old place smiles again as it did in the
days of George Harris and his beautiful wife.
The Home Sec. was visited the other day by a
deputation of what the messengers described as
“ insane warders from the three hospitals for the
deranged.” After hearing the long list ot their
grievances, no one could wonder if the messengers’
description fitted all right. Their wail was that
they are supplied with uniforms the fit of which
would drive any self-respecting person crazy. The
material of which the clothes are fashioned recalls
the Biblical sackcloth, and the—well, trousers, if
I must say it—are cut in so questionable a shape
that the owner of one pair (forced to wear
them back to front. The#'’jiy&ijjJ gallant band of
males, though, and to air a
feminine grievance, wb’km/wiia tohat a poor little
warderess, who rightly takes number twos, was
condemned to do duty in the cast.-qff shoon of her
predecessor. Now, it wasn’t tljtQ^crad-handness
of the footwear that she objected id so much as
the fact that the predecessor was a large person
who affected sevens. The upshot of two hours
talk was a promise that all would be righted, ana
that in future no lunatic would be attended by an
officer wearing any portion of his raiment back to
front.
It’s a long lane that has no turning. After try-
ing various means of killing off our little encum-
brances, including the experiment of dumping
them into a church-run home and boarding them
out to more or less well-meaning Gamps, the
Government has decided at last upon having a
Foundling Hospital. At this home no unpleasant
questions will be asked ; the atom will be simply
left in the manger, or some other handy place,
and the State will do the rest. Of course there is
the usual silly outcry about encouraging vice ;
but nothing like that is likely to trouble the ener-
getic person who has taken his courage in both
hands and said: “We want population. Well,
here is population —let us save it. It’s a long way
cheaper to rear than to import.”
Our present Police Commissioner thinks that
the John who distinguishes himself ought to have
a little encouragement, and he has been stirring
himself to get it. This week two of his boys,
Constables John Carrigg and J. J. Grayson, were
awarded police medals for their rescue of one Hart,
who had thrown himself into the rivei and, judging
by his struggles, didn’t want to be rescued. While
upon the subject of the police, it may interest you to
hear that the trooper who ran the black alleged
murderer, Dick Normanton, a little matter of 1000
miles and caught him in his own country, was an
elderly man, who did the hardest portion of the
chase single-handed. His name is Portley, though
it doesn’t seem to fit him any more than the
insane warder’s clothes do. And yet he isn’t
making a fuss about it —it’s wonderful what mis-
fit names we put up with.
A cable message states that King Ned has con-
ferred upon two Mount Morgan mine heroes,
Michael Lyons and John Shields, medals of the
first order. When it looked as though the whole
mine was falling in a while ago these two stayed
in their flight to give a hand to their comrades.
Lyons was knocked unconscious by a great mass
of stone, but when he recovered he staggered to
safety with Banks, also horribly hurt, in his arms.
He heard a voice in the (isoft. level, and called for
help. John Shields replied “I’ll go,” and he
went down into the jaws of death. He had only
just started to climb back when the ground again
gave way. “ You’re not the sort to have left
Banks and saved yourself,” said the inquiry magis-
trate to Lyons. “ I wouldn’t have left Banks,”
was the simple answer, but it tcild a stirring tale.
Things social have suffered a collapse since the
elections. You see, there isn’t the same necessity
for being “perlite” in the Anti-Sosh ranks. A
break out, however, occurred on Friday evening,
when the Brisbane Club gathered in about 150
guests, and had an evening of music and other
good things, some of them eatable. Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson, carrying her very best notes with her,
took the opportunity to introduce numbers from
“ The Garden of Khama,” not previously warbled
here, as well as many old favorites. The evening
also saw the first flight of a coming Contralto,
Miss Vera Parker, a daughter of a local printer-
man. The Voice is just 17 years old, and growing
fast. The Lieut.-Governor Morgan couple were
present, but they are just-so people, and, over-
looking them, no one seemed to know why the
National Anthem was cast loose.
To hark back to the elections ! It is a queer
coincidence that the Minister for Mines and
Works has proved the Jonah of the political team in
both these last elections, and has both times been
hove overboard.
“Our Sweet Nell” arrived this evening from
Hobart, and was pelted with fragrant vegetables
as the train arrived at Roma-street. She looked
fresher after her week’s train and steamer racket-
ing than the average miss of 20 does after two
balls in a week ; only she declined an interview,
and sought sleep instead.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO
The Infidel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SEEK the temple fair
And find her kneeling there.
And gaze and gaze again in dear surrender ;
Is not the place divine,
Is it not all a shrine —
A shrine that hallowed stands by beauty tender ?
My faith is past and gone,
And yet I linger on
And haunt and haunt for aye the holy portal;
Mine ancient faith is cold,
But yonder locks of gold
Have power to raise it new to life immortal.
And, if in coming years,
’Mid dearth of happy tears,
It should be said : “ Why didst thou doubt
unduly ?”
Then would my Soul reply—
“ So oft as One was nigh,
I worshipped—yea, I worshipped deep and truly.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
Booker and Corser, the two Tory members
for Maryborough, should be disqualified on a
charge of infamous doggrel. A little pamphlet
issued in their interests broke forth into song no
less than five times. The three following samples
are a fair specimen of the lot—likewise a fair
example of the local Tory intelligence :
Scream No. I.
I did it, I did it—it didn’t take me long ;
The Labor crowd kicked up a row, and perhaps I may be
wrong ;
There was a jollv rumpus, of that you may be sure,
But I only did as conscience bid, and I hope I’m right,
I’m sure.
Fir No. 11.
I’m a rider, I’m a rider with a Hi ! Hi ! Hi !
Though most people do not know I’ve got a name ;
I’m a rider, I’m a rider with a Hi ! Hi ! Hi !
For his honor and young Queensland’s fame.
Spasm No. 111.
For, if their lips would only speak, Socialists must be
well ashamed
Of doing what they’ve done to make Maryboro’ be
blamed ;
For not making progress she would have made without
their aid.
However, that time has passed, and out supporters will
be well paid.
Apparently the cause was so bad that even that
kind of verse couldn’t make it any worse.


SUGAR AND IRRIGATION.
Artesian water has come to the aid of the natural
fertility of the soil, and has changed abundance
into profusion.
On the rich Burdekin Delta, irrigation by tube
wells, engines and pumps has been adopted by
the farmers, with magnificent results.
Water in immeasurable quantities is found at a
depth of
SIXTEEN FEET BELOW THE SURFACE.
Land which would produce a crop vjorth ss. per
acre vjas, by irrigation, made to yield over £23
per acre.
The Commonwealth Government pays a bounty on
sugar which is produced by white labor.
It pays 6s. per ton bonus on white-labor cane of 10
per cent, quality.
This enables the manufacturer of sugar to pay the
farmer a better price for cane, and ensures a
rich reward for the primary producer who puts
his labor or capital in sugar-growing.
For the immigrant with small capital, energy and
courage,
SUGAR-GROWING IS A GOLD MINE.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLI.
FORTUNES IN SUGAR.—III.
HIGHWORTH CANE FARM, BLACKALL RANGE, NORTH COAST RAILWAY,
QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
C. S. R. CO.'S CHILDERS MILL, ISIS BRANCH RAILWAY (HALFWAY
BETWEEN MARYBOROUGH AND BUNDABERG). SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
GRAN ADILLAS AT MAREEBA, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
BANANAS AT BUDERUM MT., NORTH COAST LINE.
DOOLBI JUICE MILL, ISIS BRANCH RAILWAY, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
TIMBER AND CANE TRAIN, YANDINA, NORTH COAST LINE, QUEENSLAND.
B Y J. D. FITZ GERALD , Barrister-at-LaW.
Before getting too far ahead of my last week’s
reference to irrigation as a factor in the successful
production of sugar in Queensland, 1 wish to
quote a case which is cited in the “ Year Book of
Australasia for 1908 ” — a statistical publication of
the highest credit. It will anticipate some later
articles in which I propose to tell the fascinating
story of the discovery and exploitation of those
vast reservoirs of artesian water which lie within
the earth’s crust, and are now being tapped and
released by a superb system of State-owned dia-
mond drills and bores, to fertilise millions of acres
of country which was formerly regarded by
Queenslanders as arid and useless.
On the Burdekin delta, in the Edgcumbe dis-
trict, irrigation by tube wells, engines and pumps
has been adopted by the farmers, assisted by the
proprietors of the Pioneer plantation. Treating
of the effects of this application of irrigation to
sugar-growing, the “Year 800k ’’cites a case in
this very district: —
One of the farmers, whose crops had rarely turned out
well, did not make ss. an acre off his land. He was
unwilling to run into debt; but when he was shown what
the certain result must be if he could irrigate the crops,
he decided to accept the offer of assistance made by the
proprietors of the big plantation. The water in illimit-
able quantities was found at a depth of 16ft. from the sur-
face. Twenty-four tubes were driven down and con-
nected by a main pipe between the two rows of tubes.
An 8-h.p. engine and a centrifugal pump completed the
outfit, at a cost of between £3OO and £4OO. Fifty acres
were irrigated by means of ditches. The cane sprang into
life like magic, and in a few months the crops looked
good for from 50 to 60 tons of cane per acre. What this
meant to the farmer is easily reckoned. The cane is sold
to the mill at from 12s. 6d. to 15s. per ton, according to
the sugar content. The 50 acres would produce, say,
2500 tons of cane. At 12s. 6d. per ton, the lowest price
paid, the farmer would receive £1562 10s., from which
would be deducted about 3s. per ton for cutting' and
loading into the tram trucks, say £375. This leaves
£llB7 10s., without reckoning the bounty on white-grown
cane of ss. per ton, to pay expenses of cultivation, fuel
and engine requisites, rations and the price of the plant.
Here the would-be settler will see in operation
two factors in the success of thefarmer—thefirst. the
system of mutual help which, through the motive
of intelligent self-interest, animates the producers
large and small—in Queensland ; and, secondly,
the resources wbich lie, not only in the soil itself,
but in the artesian basins which are below the
soil ready to be tapped. It is to the interest of
the owner of the central mill that lands in the
• • •
vicinity are taken up and that they become pro-
ductive. Whether the mill owner is a private
individual, a company, a group of co-operators, or
the Government itself, the policy with regard to
it is the same. The markets of the Commonwealth
and of the world are calling for sugar ; the mill is
eager to supply it. The more land, therefore,
which comes under cane, and the greater the
saccharine content, the better for all concerned
and for the State.
The bounties referred to in the foregoing quota-
tion are those provided by the Commonwealth
Government. One of the first steps taken by the
Commonwealth Parliament with regard to the
question of colored labor was the Excise Tariff
Act of 1902, which provided for an excise duty of
3s. per cwt. upon manufactured sugar, and a
rebate of 4s. per ton on all sugar-cane delivered
for manufacture, in the production of which white
labor only had been employed. The effect of this
device (the Commonwealth Statistician, Mr.
Knibbs, tells us) was to charge the cost of This
branch of the “White Australia” policy upon
Queensland and N.S.W., the two sugar-producing
States of the Commonwealth. A change was made
in the following year, and again in 1905. The rate
of bonus allowed under the present Act is 6s. per
ton of cane of 10 per cent, quality grown by white
labor, while the excise duty on sugar was increased
to 4s. per cwt. of manufactured sugar, instead of
3s .So that now, as the “Year Book” states it, “a
rebate on a basis of £2 per ton as a maximum on
manufactured sugar from cane grown entirely by
white labor, is allowed to the manufacturer, who
is thus enabled to pay a higher price to the farmer
for his cane.” The black-labor grown sugar is
confined to those plantations on which Kanakas of
long residence, who have secured exemptions
under the law, are employed. The cost of the
white labor experiment is now distributed over all
the States.
The class of country utilised for sugar-growing
is nearly all coastal, beginning on the south at the
borders of N.S.W., and extending as far as Port
Douglas. It is to the North that we look to the
biggest development of sugar-growing in the
future. Mr. McCulloch classifies the sugar lands
as (1) scrub, and (2) forest. Scrub lands are in
turn classified as (a) true scrub, and (b) bastard
scrub, the former having a dense undergrowth,
clogged with vines. The scrub soils are (a) allu-
vial and (b) volcanic, the former the result of
geological deposits, the latter a decomposition of
basalt, etc. Some idea of the characteristics of the
scrub soils will be obtained from Mr. McCulloch’s
description :
1. The alluvial soils of Queensland, particularly on the
Northern Rivers, are composed of clay, fine sand-gravel,
vegetable and mineral matters, brought down from the
higher levels by flowing water and floods, and deposited,
layer upon layer, for years past, and are exceptionally
fertile.
2. The volcanic soils are usually reddish or chocolate
colored, rich in lime, potash and phosphoric acid, and
are extremely fertile. Immense tracts of this class of
scrub land are to be seen at the Isis, at Bundaberg, on the
Johnstone River, and at Cairns and the Atherton scrub,
north of Cairns.
The forest lands are among the richest in the
State, and their first-crop fertility is amazing.
The statistics of production in 1907 show the
relative progress of production in the various dis-
tricts, as classified by the Department of Agri-
culture, beginning on the north and working
southwards. Of the total area under cane, 27 per
cent, was in the Rockingham and York dis-
tricts ; 33 per cent, in Edgecuinbe; 34 per cent.
in Wide Bay; and 6 per cent, in Moreton.
Thus Rockingham and York Peninsula pro-
duced 53,584 tons of sugar and 2,143,438 gallons
of molasses from 453,353 tons of cane, grown on
28,000 acres of land; Edgecumbe, 61,000 tons
sugar and 2,525,686 gal. molasses from 530,000 tons
of cane, grown on 29,000 acres of land; Wide
Bay, 65,669 tons of sugar and 2,338,000 gals,
molasses from 610.000 tons of cane, grown on
31,000 acres of land; and Moreton district
produced 7205 tons of sugar and 265,000' gal.
molasses from 71,000 tons of cane, grown from
4640 acres of land. The highest percentages of
sugar per acre of cane crushed were obtained in
the Northern Districts.


ITCHING
ECZEMA
* THt
r.REATbKIH CURITVv
55
futicura
tt
t- JO
r ‘Z
K
zb:
SCffii.
ru-'
5 Hi Ci
P**s
«4&S
PS
fctt*
* im n
j. <J»>;
•tou^
CENTS
XC-
c*o;
i .
RASHES
Irritations, scalings and
crustings of the skin and
scalp, with loss of hair, of
infants, children and adults
instantly relieved and
speedily cured by warm
baths with Cuticura Soap
and gentle anointings with
Cuticura Ointment.
Guaranteed absolutely pure.
Sold throughout the world. Dcppts: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Austra-
lia, R, Towns & Co , Sydney: India, B. K. Paul,
Calcutta: China, Hong Kong Drug Co.; Japan,
Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; So. Africa, Lennon. Ltd., Cape
Town, etc.; U.S.A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., 135 Columbus Ave., Boston.
oS~Poßt~froe, 32-page book, giving description,
treatment and cure of torturing, disfiguring humours.
*0
NERVOUSNESS.
We have an interesting- Booklet showing
the primary cause and method of'perfect
home cure of nervous and allied troubles.
We will send a copy of this valuable
Booklet, post free, to anyone interested.
LONDON SPECIALITIES
Dept. 5, 44 Castlereagh Street,
AGENCY,
Sydney.
ANTI-FAT.
Don’t worry about your excess of fat. Pucus
Vesiculosus is the only herbal remedy known
to the world that will reduce your fat. We
charge only 10s. for one month’s treatment.
Seqd for a Free Sample and Booklet.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 3, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
m:
*
If cleaned with
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
Derby
Shoe,
iii Welted or
Pump Soles,
Best Glac6
Kid, with
Patent Caps
and Cuban
Heels.
Price,
166
Postage 9d.
extra.
LEEMING’S
Gazeka Shoe Paste
(6d. per tin),
the Wear is Guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists—Free. •’ ’Phone 1709.
LEEMING’S Shoe Stores,
109'Swanstcn St., Melbourne ; 303 Chap3lSt.7
Prahran ; 1& 3 Errol St., North Melbourne.
CHANOE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAX A TINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxcitv 3.
LAXATINE The Cure' for Constipation.
LAXATINE So 'cl by All Chemists.
LAXATINE. ..Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
a
V
ARE YOU
Worn Down
BY
Stomach & Liver Disorders?
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like indigestion or liver
trouble — nothing lifts them up so
quickly or so surely as a course of
Mother
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
the digestive tonic, compounded of
roots and herbs. It braces the
nerves, purifies the blood, creates
appetite, assists digestion. Thirty
drops taken after meals, will make
and keep you well and strong. It
WILL
LIFT YOU UP.
Take it with your next meal
AND PROVE ITS.WORTH.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong,
A SAFE
-FAT
REDUCER
There have been
thousands of dif-
ferent methods
tried for reducing superfluous flesh, but most
are entire failure.,, or else lasting.y harmful.
“FATCURE **
is the only safe and lasting cure for obesity.
It is pleasant to take, and if desired can be
taken secretly.. In many .cases 51bs. a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. After you have been
using “Fatcure" a few days your
breathing becomes considerably easier—the
pressure around your heart becomes notice-
ably less, and your general health rapidly
improves. Send us a 2d. stamp and we
will post you a Free Trial Sample
and our interesting descriptive Booklet —
“Plain Talk on Obesity.” Send To-day.
Watworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
<TRP>>
Pipes
Pipes
SPBOIAI^
Silver
Mounted
Nohhino Ever Like
Them Snown Irv
Australia Before
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS,
06
*
f IF
Unable to
Procure
Ah Local
(Tobacconist
j Apply At
Depot
231 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
?
AS
<v
V That Have
Caught On!
They’re hooks every Aus-
tralian should read.
They’re typical Australian
from cover to cover—full of
intense interest from start to
finish. They’re written, printed
and illustrated in Australia
you ought to read them
they’re published in cheap
editions.
Here we enumerate just a
few of them.
Steve Brown’s Biinyip, by A.. J., Barry ;; price,
cloth, 11-; postage id.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A., J., Barry;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T.. E,
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning, by T.. E. Spencer;,
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. McSweeney,
by T. E. Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by T. E. Spencer; price,
p;iper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by Harry Tighe ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage'3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf Brasch ;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Chas. White ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Porter; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell Howard, by A. E. Job.-
son ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A. H. Adams ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
RS
'Qsiix & Rheumatic'
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
fOR COUt and
A
1
jSWS
FmniT
Gout
Pills
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
ftLAIR'B COOT amf
Rheumatic pills eUmi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PEE FEOTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at l/lyi and 2/9.
BLAIR'S HAVE STOOL
THE TEST OF TIME.
r>
I
My
Favourite
Summer \
Beverage is
‘Montserrat^;
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because 1 know it is good for me,
“MONTSERRAT" Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine “MONTSERRAT.'’
Business, Robbery, etc.
Most of the sugar-squeezing concerns in Banana-
land cherish a hope of one day being able to produce
white sugar which won’t need refining. Some two years
ago the Mossman Mill people spent a thousand or two on
experiments which ended nowhere; and Saddle, now
General Manager of Sugar Mills, who was then manager
at Mossman, didn’t make himself more popular with his
bosses for expressing his unbelief in the whole business.
A few weeks ago Meadowlands Mill, Maekay, tried a
week’s experimenting with the recently-patented Olarite
process, discovered by one Le Claire, a French sugar-
boiler. The test was carried out under the State Govern-
ment’s chemist, whose report is to the effect that, while-
the new process has merits, the results don’t equal the
inventor’s claims; still he recommends other mills to
have a try at it. The process consists of substituting a
mixture of bicarbonate of soda, salt and sand for the lime
usually used, and, besides producing 101 tons of sugar,
where the lime would only produce 100, it makes straight
away a very good No. I—about equal to the ordinary
refined No. 2. Trials are still going on, and if as much,
success is achieved as many sound men expect, the
bloated C.S.R. Co. will lose a lot of its bloat.
It’s getting about time Home Affairs Fuller
mounted a stump and asked Private Enterprise whether
it is asleep or merely dead. The Federal trawler lias
been beating along the coasts for many months now, and ;
lias located and charted numerous profitable trawling
grounds ; but so far P.E. has made no move towards
utilising the information. Is it looking for a bonus, or
what? For such a lusty, vigorous animal as Fat repre-
sents it to be, it seems painfully gradual and timid some-
times.
• * « *
There seem to be quite a lot of unsuspected art
hanging casually in the homes of Australia andMaoriland.
In 1904 a Tasmanian settler had an oval portrait of a lady
in white hanging in his kitchen, and on somebody’s
advice he shipped it off to Christie’s, in Fogtown. There
they cast the awful name of “ Romney ” at it, and sold it
for'33oo guineas! Another ancient family on The
Speck had two old brass cups that were always get-
ting in the way; so it shipped them off to
the Cold Country. They have turned out to be
silver-gilt goblets of the time of James 1., hall-
marked in Fogtown in 1619. The pair are worth about
£l2OO. Now an ancient identity on the wild West Coast
of Maoriland has taken down his only picture from the
wall, and has been definitely informed that it is by one
Constable, who cut considerable,frozen water in his time.
Consequently an excited man from Westland has been
rushing round to sundry art g-alleries suggesting that
£6,876,354, or thereabouts, was a fair thing for them to
pay for the treasure. His luck has been clean out in
MX., so he has decided so try some other country which
has got either more art in its soul or silver in its pockets.
* • * *
A number of local inventions for cheapening and
improving the common or household bedstead have been
successfully exploited by a North Melbourne firm. The
firm paid the inventor £5OOO for the Australian rights in
his patents (or some of them), and started manufacturing
■'right away. One of the new devices effects a saving of
21ft. of angle-iron in a 4Jft. bedstead, thus fmakihg it
lighter than the ordinary “Arabian ” article.of furniture,
though it is equally strong or stronger. -Another inven-
tion simplifies the fixing of brass embellishments on the
ironwork, Thus far these patents have not been worked
outside the Commonwealth, so at the-present time Aus-
tralia seemingly is the most advanced bedstead country
in the world.
•* * * >
“ Phidi as ”: Tl) ere was a tremo rin th e Mel bou rne
printing .trade lately on account of the comp.-realising
that he was worth more than the boss was giving him.
The employers howled a lot about ltuin and Other ab-
stract things winch haven’t vet come to pass ; but when
they saw that the men had really got their several devils
up, they caved in and granted the rise. If that were the
whole bill I would not be writing this par; but it isn’t
the whole bill bv a long way. For without ceasing to call
out about Ruin, etc., the employers have found time to
raise their prices, so that in the average establishment
the’extra money received for jobs is about 4f times
greater than the total increase in screw. That isn’t all,
either, for when the everyday man remonstrates about
hi,s cards costing 3s. 6d. whereas they used to be only 35.,
the boss printer blames it to “ iniquitous legislation.”
As a plain outsider I have always cherished a grudge
against the printing trade because it has something to do
with the Argus and Telegraph; but it used not to be
nearly the g-rudge that it is now. I don’t mind paying
the printer-boss the extra money he has to pay ; but when
be m ikes a p-ofit, out of the business and then talks about
"iniquitous legislation ” it hurts me.
BONDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Briggs said he thought the conference that was
recently held would tend very largely to re-cement the
bond between the homeland and the Commonwealth.
They were bound togethey not only by a love of kinship
and family life, but also of commercial life, and it would
be a grave mistake if those bonds were ever broken. — A
British Chamber of Commerce delegate at Wesley Church,
Melbourne.
Briggs—
Joseph Briggs, of Yorkshire, England, blessid country of
Freetrade,
Where the large importers’ profits and fine sentiments are
made,
Digs
Deep into his mine of wisdom, and, with British fervency,
Bids us mark the Bonds of Empire reaching out across the
sea;
Binding us to one another—
Us and our benign old mother—
Patriotie apron-strings of Empire we would scorn to free.
Threads—
Crimson threads of kith and kinship—thin red lines of
sentiment!
What a wave of fervid friendship over all the continent
Spreads,
When some speaker bids us ponder
On those threads that reaoh out yonder. . .
But, alas, there are some grumblers whom mere threads
do not content!
Ties—
Silken ties ! O, who would venture to disturb a single
thread ?
What a roar of public censure would descend upon bis
head 1
Rise 1
Split the welkin with your shouting !
Cheer those ties 1 What? Still some doubtiug
Pessimists ? Then here is something more substantial in
their stead :
Bonds!
Golden bonus! ... Ah 1 Now we mention cold com-
mercial £ s. d.
All the land is at attention. Witness how the Empire re-
sponds.
Bonds at three or four percent’ll
Beat all shackles sentimental
In the land of shops and shekels, in the country of the
free.
Cash —
Cold, hard cash. O, magic metal! How the golden
cables groan
When we’re called upon to settle or renew our little loan.
Smash ?
Never 1 Though it strains and quivers
When the bloated Dreadnought-givers
Try to shirk the cost of paying for a navy of our own.
Gold—
Chains of gold ! Brave bonds of boodle of the merchants’
finest make
No assault, however rude, Tl cause those golden links to
break.
Hold?
Crimson threads may snap and sever ;
Silken ties may break, hut never
Shall those chains ; they hold for ever for the loyal
traders’ sake.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
Get a copy of tile latest B.S.A. Handbook and learn how to distinguish the GENUINE B.S.A.
l-'ITTINGS from the shoddy imitation, it costs you nothing and may save you a great deal. Post free fro..i—
D. Y. RENNIE, representing B.S.A. CO. LTD., 5 Stock Exchange EdOn*, Melbourne.
Our Firearms hav-e been used and endorsed by hunters and marksmen the
ivnrlrl over for almost half a century. This indicates the degree of accuracy and
Reliability embodied in the-‘STEVENS,” . . j , .
Our arms bear both a national and an international reputation, and, for their
,7orinn< oiirooses are positively unexcelled. ’We manufa&ture a complete line of
RIFLES, PISTOLS, SHOTGUNS, ACCESSORIES.
dealer. Write for Catalogue to
Insist on STEVENS.
ARTHUR H. HILL. Australian representative fonStevens
Arms Co., Box 86, C.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia. 1 [B.
“IT’S ALL IN THE
CORDS” —!
tv
#
n
The foundation of most Motor Tyres is canvas. Not only
is the material supersensitive to climatic changes—
it is the WRONG material in the WRONG place.
PALMER CORD TYRES
have a solid foundation of rubber-impregnated CORDS —
CORDS which remain taut under all conditions.
It is the RIGHT material in the RIGHT place. May
we send you explanatory Booklet and Price List ? Posted
free anywhere. The stamp it costs for the enquiry will
prove a good investment.
26,609
miles at a
cost of less
than id. per
mile. Par-
ticulars of
this Record
with Palmer
Cord Tyres
on applica-
tion.
The Silvertown Rubber Company,
279 George Street, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise ff Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing 1 Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
peoplS < look * thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing 1 Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
Allgro w f at from laughter.
It js'fywgll and strongly
made, and cannot get out
The Laughing Camera.
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle l’oeket
[Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring l
>adk. l’uzzle,to shut
as well as to open,
use, also a superior
directions, 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
free anywhere.
THE POLYCHROMATIC BILLIARD BALL.
After introducing: any
number of silk handker-
chiefs, each of a different
color, the conjurer re-
quests the company to
select any one of the
handkerchiefs (no forc-
ing-). Seizing the selected
handkerchief, the per-
former waves his hand
gently up and down, when
the handkerchief becomes
snialler and smaller until
it finally disappears alto-
gether, having given place
Co a solid billiard ball of
the same color as the
handkerchief. This is a
very novel and inexplic-
able .triek, while the
apparatus that we furnish
for this trick is made of very substantial and superior
material, and quite impossible to tret out .of order.
Suitable for either amateur or professional.
Complete with red, white and blue handkerchiefs.
Price (with full instructions), 7/6 ; post free, 2/-
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
NO RATS or MICE SEEN
Since using- DANYSZ VIRUS. Discovered at the
Pasteur Institute, -Paris. .-See .testimonials.
Single Tubes, 2-6, five for 10/- Post Free from
DANYSZ VIRUS,
454-6 FUNDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE,
and 13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Harmless to other animals. All chemists and storekeepers.
?eg U.S.P* 1
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
BEADY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surfefe in severaliweights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Rent Street, SYDNEY.
m
m
%
a?
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is tc-
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
: same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us 111. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little Is known of medicine
and Its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
;organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life ; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
■strength to every organ, and
Dr.McLAUCHLIN S ELECTRIC BELT
*
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs while you sleep, ajid generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot.affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your bcjdy. It hsas a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. lis price is as low as £.l in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fife; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send ns this coupon to-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, ourj new Free jßoott, which
every man should read, and wliichjwill j inspire yjpu with courage
to help-yourself. It is full of things [that! make a man feel
liKe BEING a Marx ! . . Send the COUPON to-dav.
or CALIa for Free Consultation. j Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
dOSCPH IL CORCORAN
Tha MsLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
** Market and Castljereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please
Name
a Address • 'J. ....... • • • • • y •.y
.....1
» .... *
s?nd me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.;


CAPILLARINE the moustache producer
\
Your Money Back !
That’s what WE offerif a pot of our Moustache producer, CAPILLARINE,
fails to produce a vigorous, handsome moustache for YOU.
For 26 years it has NEVER failed to do all we say. YOU try it.
Price 10/0, Post Free to any part of the World.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
y.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. T
LIFE ASSURANCE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE.
CHILDREN’S ENDOWMENTS.
Income for 1908 15 per
cent . increase on figures
for 1907.
Directors :
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L. K.Q.C. P. 1.,
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq., I
H. MONTGOMERIE HAMILTON, Esq.
General Manager s J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary : FREEMAN J. EATON.
Consulting Actuary : W. R. DAY, F.I.A’
Principal Offices :
VICTORIA—I4B Queen Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH WALES—3O Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND —Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
mm ...
I*B*
A Cure for ...
Summer Fatigue f
There is nothing that will prove suoh ,
a valuable tonic during' the coming
hot months in the home as
JERDAN’S
“HOME” BATTERY.
It braces up the nerves run down f
by the heat—freshens and invigorates
e\ery muscle it is applied to —cures
nervous headaches, and tones up '
weak systems suffering from Summer
lassitude.
You could not hope for a simpler,
more practical or economical Battery,
and it can he regulated to benefit the
health of the weakest child.
Price, 35s * Post Free,
Let us forward you our Free Battery Booklet.
JERDAN’S,
ly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS
AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Be Cured of Rupture!
\on can he cured of rupture, if you will. The system introduced by
Dr. .T. A. Sherman has oeeu proved successful time and again, even in cases of
many years standing, and it has the" approval of leading medical men and
scientific authorities.
Xo man or woman who has rupture te safe, for the ailment is progressive, and
sooner or later reaches that stage where life is almost unendurable.
Ihe Dr. Sherman Treatment avoids the injuries trusses inflict, and restores
the injured parts to natural vigor and healthfulness. It instantly relieves
and soon cures permanently. The cure is effected without any operation,
simply by external local applications, which in no way interfere with your
daily occupation.
'*.v
Consultations are free, and every opportunity is given for a full enquiry
into the success of the treatment. Write for two books on the subject if it is not
convenient to call.
HOURS:—Daily (Sunday excepted), 10 a.m. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours Friday evenings, 7to 9.
By the Dr. J. A. Sherman
T reatment.-
J -'4
Sole Controller of the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method—
A» V\7. MARTIN, Gibbs Chambers, 7 Mocre St., near G.P.0., Sydney.
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM CUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH. WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This sfcyde of Ostrich feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money; in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. W rite to-day. Send Postal Notes or Monev Order
paj'able to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
... .. _ _ "
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
p\Ll>
rj
ITS A-OOMING ON !
DON’T REMAIN BALD!
If you are ABSOLUTELY bald, you will remain so all your life —nothing on earth will
give you back vour hair. BUT if you still have a “ down ”or light “ fluff ”on your pate,
YOUR BALDNESS CAN BE CURED.
That “ down ” or “ fluff ” is YOUNG HAIR doing its utmost to grow strong and vigorous on a
parched, dry and barren fe'alp.
Irrigate “That Bald Spot” with plentiful showers of
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC,
and as sure as grass grows after a shower of rain, so surely will that “ down ” take on a new, strong
and vigorous life, and grow into 1 mg, strong and thick hair.
I positively guarantee Oapilla to do all 1 1 claim for it—if it doesn’t, back goes your money. If
you want a fairer or stronger hair-growing proposition than I offer, then you don’t deserve to have
a decent growth of hair.
“I have used your Hair Tonic, which speaks for itself, it having made my hair groyv on
bald patches when there seemed to be no roots at all. I was severely burned with acids on
the head, which necessitated my removal to a hospital for treatment, and am very pleased at
the way vour.tonic has acted. Wishing you every success.”—S. RUSSELL, “ Leynwood,”
Prospect Terrace, Brisbane, Ist July, 190SL
“ About five years ago I began to use your Oapilla, and I found it strengthened mythair
considerably. I honestly believe that if I had commenced using'Capilla about nine or ten
years ago, I would have had as good a head of hair as I had in my youth. And I believe if
Oapilla had been in vogue half a century ago there is many a man this day, if he were alive,
would be thankful ” —JOHN G. LUCAS, Boorooma, via Brewarrina, N.S. W., 7th July, 1909.
All Chemists and Stores throughout Australia sell Oapilla, 2/6 per bottle ; N.Z., 3/6 ; 6 bottles,
full course, posted direct under cover, 19/4, from
W. O. RICHARDS (CAPILLA LIMITED),
117 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Soda FountamS
FITTED WITH CONSOL AERATORS.
Automatically make crisp, snappy Seda Water INSIDE THE FOUNTAIN.
Phenomenal success of applied science. Liquid gas pressure does, all the work. Water
pressure not required. SIMPLE AND INEXPENSIVE. Repeat orders from Anthony
J Hordern & Sons, Sydney, and others.
Write for particulars: NELSON CARBONATING CO., 167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Q.
a
BDXIARDSfoR
tm-noME •
Now fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCH<&Co.
597 GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
AND
mtuimm&
MELbOURME.
4r
How’s Your Razor?
Does it give you that feeling of satisfaction and
comfort that every good razor ought to give?
As practieaj hairdressers, we can say there is MORE
genuine good quality in a PLUM than in any razor
priced the same or 33 per cent, higher. The worth is
in the fine silver steel, with a keen-cutting razor edge.
Price 10/6
post free.
We Crindand
Set Razors,
V* each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle) 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The. Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All tiie above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
1001 Longevity 1308
Famous Centenarians.
Length of years is commoner than of old —centenarians are
on the increase. This is partly due to greater enlightenment in
matters of hygiene, but not a little to those famous centenarians,
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, which have been regularly prescribed
by the medical profession since the year 1301. Truly a glorious
record! They are simply unrivalled as a remedy for all dis-
orders of the liver, stomach and bowels.
Q
PI LLS


There isn’t much left of the old type of
trades and labor union in N. S. Wales—the old
type which was one part trades union and three
parts friendly society. The Miners’ Associations
still mostly pay sick “benefits” and a trifle in
case of fatal accident; but the State-aided Acci-
dent Relief Fund has made even the miners
wonder lately whether it’s worth while keeping
up their own accident fund, seeing that half the
other fund is provided by the owners and the
State, while they can’t takeout of their own union
fund as much as a ha’penny more than they pay
into it themselves. One or two of the transplanted
English unions have their own sick funds also;
'but counting miners’ unions and these others in,
all they paid last year was about £12,000, and that
wasn’t more than 2s. Id. per head all round. There
was a time when it was reckoned necessary to hold
put some cash benefits ; but now that unions have
got a better hold, and men see that if they haven’t
got unions they can’t argue with the associated
bosses, they are turning over the friendly-society
job to the people who make a specialty of that
particular business.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Waybaek Book you are bound to read, Is.
You sec him along the barrel of a
WINCHESTER
22 AUTOMATIC RIFLE
HE’S YOURS!
This handy little ten-
shot rifle repeats itself,
the recoil being utilized
to do the reloading.
The novelty of its oper-
ation affords possibili-
ties for practice and
pleasure which no other
“twenty-two” does. Look
one over. & &
Solo by Dealers Everywhere.
%
* *>
MORRIS'S'
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE
OIHTMEHt
CUBES
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, Or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills Of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DOF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgrag-e Deed contains a condition allowing: Borrowers the privilege of repaying:
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. ft. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals..
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
SPRING SUITINGS.
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM $ CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
&
liili
7-
YOU
can get
them
Farmers’ wives and other cream separator buyers can ,, by helping us to sell to
themselves, reap the reward of a REMARKABLY HANDSOME PRESENT.
To those who order direct, and thereby save us the cost of sending a traveller, we
will, in addition to supplying them with one of our famous “Svea” Separators,
at our ordinary reasonable prices and terms, forward FREIGHT PREPAID AND
ABSOLUTELY FREE
One dozen best quality E. P. Teaspoons
Half dozen best quality E.P. Dessertspoons
made by Jas. Dixon & Son, Sheffield, England, and
bearing their highest grade brand—“ Dixon Al.”
The “ Svea ” Separator is well and favourably
known in thousands of homes throughout Australia.
No better separator made.
We have hundreds of letters on file proving that
it makes dairying easy and profitable to its users by
getting ALL the cream and keeping on getting it
year after year.
“Dixon’s Al ” is positively the world’s standard
tor E. P. ware.
Nothing better made —excepting solid silver.
£2-15-0 is the very lowest you would have to
pay for these spoons we are GIVING AWAY.
Any woman with a set of them has something to
be proud of.
If you desire to take advantage of our offer you
will require to write us now.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
COMPANY OF AMERICA
(Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney.
545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
17 Bank St., Adelaide. 75 York St., Launceston.
(277)
“SVEA” SEPARATOR.
NONE BETTER AT ANY PRICE.
AWAHT ¥EED\HG aM\\A^ l^G^ tW ' a ' va ’ Varo ' lV ' w '
No Mother stvouthhevAthoufcvt \ cm request
A progress we (//eta/y adapted to c/>e ff/owt/rp d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food IN?I I Milk Food IN?2 I Malted Food IN?3
/tom t/rtt to 3 mootts I /tom 3to 6 moot/fs I /tomOmoot/s optyan/s.
% Loftus Sts., Sydney
*
Food
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
"delicate stomachs.
Bender s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
& .


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.^S.W.
CAN’T
B
BEAT
LEADING
HOUSE for
Sporting' Goods
Fishing' Tacßle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
°" r Special Snap
We are famous for our
“SURE CATCH” Cod and Perch Tackle .
It is the Best Procurable.
18 Cord Cod Lines— 2s yards, 9d. ; 50 yards, Is. 6d. ; 100 yards, 2s. 9d. each.
27 „ „ „ 25 „ Is. ;50 „ Is. 9d. ; 100 „ 3s.
36 ” ' „ „ 25 ~ Is. 6d.; 50 „ 3s. ; 100 „ ss. 6d. „
baits suitable for cod fishing.
Spoon Baits —Scaled Back, Red inside, 3 inch, Is. 3d.; 2$ inch, Is. 3d. each.
“Otto” Baits —3 inch, Is. 6d; 3| inch, Is. 9d. ; 4 inch, Is. 9d. each.
Geen’s Minnows, 4 inch, 4s. 6d. each ; Xillem Spinners, No. 3, Is. each.
For Large Cod we recommend our IVIc Murray Spinners,
price 4s. each; also our Cyclone Spinners, 2s. 6d. each.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Bowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, l.s 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 800 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
lan His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is postpd. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devot'ed to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How MoDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, HePtameron, and many
others, ali at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Her* Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
9E GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
KEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
LettEr Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
BEt and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ARNE'S
The Famous Remedy for
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough,' Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARIME,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The ©hampion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
, among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No f.rst deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., OPP.0 PP . G.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W,
Sfte BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fra a, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Sind Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 m G.P.O.m SYDNEY .
ASTHMACURE
RRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty
Catarrh,B
relieved 1
ettes.
t expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
leplessness and Oppression immediately
GRIMAULT & Co’3 INDIAN CIGAR-
Sold by all Chemiitt.


Note
Trade Mark.
! iiiiSi
i m
Up
i
p*
;ii I!
“NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently. Acts Pleasantly.
Acts Beneficially.
Acts Truly as a Laxative.
Overcomes Habitual Constipation,
speedily relieves
Biliousness, Indigestion,
and all disorders arising from
Sluggishness of Liver, Bowels & Kidneys.
Sold by all Chemists throughout Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
You have a guarantee
of quality and durability
if you purchase
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS, LONG CLOTHS,
FLANNELETTES, CAMBRICS, Etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be sure the name “ HORROCKSES ” is on Selvedge G.&G.150
o
You can shave (or several months
with each blade of the
Aulo&trop
ktToR
because its self-contained automatic stropping
arrangement keeps each blade perfectly
sharp for many months.
The Standard
Outfit consists of
quadruple silver-
plated, self-strop-
ping razor; one
dozen tested lancet-
steel blades ; one horse- O C /
hide strop ; in leather sw j m
case 2 in. by 3| in ... NET
Sold by all leading dealers.
There is nothing
lo unscrew or take apart
for either stropping or cleaning,
and the automatic stropping does
away with the buying of new blades
required by all non-stropping razors.
IS
Deieriptive Booklet free on requeit to the
Agent* for Australia:
Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd., Tl ind R 222
Auto-Strop Safety Razor Go- Ltd 61 New Oxford Street, London, England
Also at Paris. New York, and Montreal.
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers! Confectioners!
Make your own AERATED WATERS
m
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents:
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CHEAP CPITION
o'ON THE HOP!
Price 2 6.
Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The Pole.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
n\7TORTH, North we went, and Northward
still;
Ambition pricked us like a goad ;
Nothing could daunt our restless will,
Nor turn us on our chosen road ;
The cold that took us by the throat,
And filmed the eyes with blood, and smote
The haggard cheek with whips of ice
And clutched the heart, did not suffice.
And we went Northward still. The Earth
Was ice and iron ’neath our feet,
Stricken and dead, and dumb with dearth,
And rigid in her winding sheet.
We walked in mists as in a cloud,
Death-cold and clammy as a shroud,
And o’er us fell for ever slow.
Small, frozen flakes of ceaseless snow.
But we went Northward yet. So still,
So deathly-still it was, we heard
The silence, and we felt it fill
With stealthy shapes, where nothing stirred.
Sometimes we heard the splitting pack,
Sharp, sudden, as a rifle-crack,
Shatter the icy air—then, lo !
The silence and the falling snow.
Or out of haze we heard the moan
Of the uneasy sea ; the low
Ice-mutters and th’ long-drawn groan
And thunder of the grinding floe.
And sometimes down the glacial swells
We heard the mellow ghosts of bells
'Chiming and chiming ; lapse and swell:
Our tears were frozen ere they fell.
Or, somewhere out of Polar night,
Far thunders rolled and died away,
Where some tall pinnacle of white
Snapped short and plunged into the bay;
Or came the dull heart-shaking roar
Of the fierce she-bear, from the shore,
Lean, dripping from the icy flood,
With ravening jaws and eyes of blood.
But we went Northward still. I knew
That muffled shadow at my side,
Whose breath I heard come gasping through
His blue lips, was a ghostly guide ;
His chattering teeth, I heard, like dice
Within his jaw ; his hand of ice
Was rigid on my shoulder pressed ;
And he had died on this my quest!
And often underneath our feet
Opened a rift, where all between
Its banks of ice, there gleamed a sheet
Of glimmering water, livid, green ;
And at its edges, surging slow,
Rose clots of frozen foam and snow;
And our hearts slowly seemed to fill
With ice, but— we went Northward still!
Like naked steel the cold pierced through
And bit into the bone; but fast
And high our hearts beat, for we knew
We neared our journey’s end. At last !
The flickering needle turned and turned,
Quivered and stood, and we discerned
Its truth. This was the end, the goal;
Each gazed at each and gasped “ The Pole ! ”
The Pole ! O ! awful and sublime,
That frozen sea, and far below,
The icy tides, the jewelled rime,
The silent sanctuaries of snow ;
The towers of ice and sparkling hoar,
The furrowed ocean’s frozen floor ;
While low and chill, like some wan eye,
The pale sun circled in the sky.
As in a vision deep we saw
The mystery of the Arctic night;
Its splendor, majesty and awe ;
The Pole-star, flashing jewel-bright;
The constellation’s wheeling fire,
Above the blue berg’s spectral spire,
And pulsing fires, that went and came---
The arc of soft Auroral flame.
MAORILAND.
MAUD PEACOCKK.
The “Scab.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE tailed our district Paradise Valley,
and that is what the Goveunment
Gazette calls it yet; but it was called
Hell’s Hole by outsiders who didn’t know us well.
It was an island (so to speak) in an ocean of big
squattages, and out of the seventy 80-acre selec-
tions composing it not more than half a dozen
were good enough in the pre-dairying days to
support the selectors and their broods. Thus the
majority of the males were forced to find work
outside most of the year, and we were shed-hands,
shearers, and dealers in stock. We also did a
little farming.
By intermarriage and isolation we became
almost as one family, with the same likes, dis-
likes and politics, with their corresponding in-
ternal feuds and alliances. At first there were
Catholic and Protestant factions, but as the older
men died religious bigotry died with them, and
the younger generation now are really heathens
who fear nothing on earth but the law, and that
Rut little.
In the later ’eighties we took Unionism after
the manner of all agricultural-cum-pastoral com-
munities of those days, and even the women were
strong Unionists. It is a matter of common
knowledge, in the history of the Big Strike, that
their influence kept many a waverer firm to his
allegiance. This is the story of one who offended
and was not forgiven.
Tom Sharpies was a Protestant, and he was
surreptitiously courting Mary, the daughter of
Martin Duneen of the Catholic faction. Mary
was the teacher of Paradise Provisional School.
Before her appointment there had been a proces-
sion of teachers, male and female, and as ’these
were invariably foreigners from other districts, we
treated them as such ; so that there were many
' misunderstandings. Naturally we objected to the
foreigners, and we used primitive methods in
showing that we did so. We made matters so
unpleasant for them that they resigned at the
rate of two a year. At last the Department
thought it well to inquire locally for a teacher,
■ and Martin Duneen having a friend in politics,
Mary was appointed. She was not particularly
well-fitted by education for the post, but she had
a far better qualification for it than mere know-
ledge ; she suited the majority. The Protestants
were not strong enough to fight successfully
against such a reference as that. She had plenty
of common-sense, however, and she never offended
local good taste as her predecessors had done, so
even the Protestants accepted her in the end.
Tom was one of the best in the crowd of good
shearers that left Paradise annually for the sheds,
and he was also a good man at everything in
which a bushman excels. One fine morning in
June he stood leaning on the handles of his plough
debating a question with himself for the hundredth
time. Never since he was 12 years old had be
been left behind with the old men and the women,
and he was scorning himself that he should be at
the tail of a plough when the West was calling.
The last of the Paradise contingent for the
sheds had just passed, and through the clear
morning air he could still hear the muffled jingle
of hobble-chains, horse-bells and billycans carried
by the pack-horses, jig-jogging in the rear of the
riders. They had called to him, but he had
affected not to hear, and dawdled at the far end
of the furrow until they had passed. He turned
then, and when he came to the headland next the
lane, he fought the battle again. He knew the
big waterhole at the river where his mates would
turn out for the night, and in a couple of hours
he could be ready to follow, and could catch them
up by sundown. Yes, he would go. He looked
across the lane, and through the naked ring-
barked trees on Ryan’s selection he caught the
glint of the morning sun on the iron roof of the
school-house, and the flicker of a white skirt
going through the gate. For a minute or two he
lingered in indecision ; then he jumped over the
fence and crossed the paddock in front of the
school. Mary Duneen was alone, so Tom entered
boldly and spoke as one who presents an ulti-
matum.
“Look here, Mary, you’re not goin’ ter string
me on any longer. I want it straight, Will you
marry me soon ? ’’
She laughed. “ Sure, Tom, ye’re in a great
hurry this mornin’.”
“Yes, lam that. The chaps is all off to the
shearin', an’ here I am like a wild scrubber in a
mob o’ milkers’ calves, becos I’m lovin’ yer better
than anythin’ else, an’ I can’t leave without a
promise. Marry me soon, dear. ”
She looked at him as he stood there, bare-
headed and bare-armed, the picture of a man any
healthy, hearty woman like Mary must admire.
She wanted to say “ Yes,” but she ,was hot in love
far enough to take kindly to the sort of life he
was offering.
“ Why can’t ye wait a while longer, Tom ? ” she
said. “I’ll keep till ye come back wid enough
money from the shearin’ to marry decent. I tell
ye this, an’ I’m serious. .I’ll not be a selector’s
wife. I’m gettin’ £6O a year here, an’ I live on it
like a lady. If I marry ye, I’ll be like the others
in a few years, old before me time wid hard un-
womanly work. Ye needn’t be shakin’ yeer head
—look at Mary Cahill, an’ Bride Nugent, an’ lots
av others,not as old as me, an’ lookin’ years older.
Ye have a fine selection, I know, but ye will never
see Mary Duneen on it. Sell it, Tom, an’ make
enough money besides to take me away from Hell’s
Hole. Ye’re a ‘Prodistan,’ but I don’t care for
that, although me people will be ragin’ if ye don’t
turn wid me, an’ I won’t ask you do it, Tom.”
“ But I can’t sell for two years, Mary, an’ two
years is a long time to wait.”
“It’s not nearly as long as I’ll be livin’ in
misery on a selection. I’ve been thinkin’ about
it, Tom, since ye kem foolin’ about, an’ I’ve med
up me mind that I will not be a selector’s wife.
Get a house in town, an’ ye 7 that’s such a good
man can keep me aisy, an’ I’ll marry ye when ye
do it, an’ that’s the last word. ”
“ Then I’ll do it,” said Tom, “ and to clinch the
deal here’s for you, an’ here, an’ here.” His
words were punctuated with warm kisses.
Presently, laughing breathlessly, she said,
“ Don’t, Tom, darlin’ ! The children’s cornin’.”
“ One more, then, for good-bye and good luck,
an’ I’m off to the sheds.”
On the way back,, Tom jumped every fence in
his stride, and in a couple of hours he was on the
track, hurrying to catch up with his mates,,full of
hope that he would be able in one season’s work to
carry out Mary’s wishes.
This was in ’9O, the year of the maritime strike,
and the sheds were eagerly discussing the matter.
At Callipo Downs feeling ran.high. Notice came
soon after the start that the long-threatened device
of a general strike was likely to be put in force,
and the men were ordered to hold themselves in
readiness to “ down tools ” at once when the word
was sent along. Tom had been working as hard
as he could, and was leading the previous year’s
ringer, a noted man, by over a hundred sheep at
the end of the third week, and the ringer, who
was also rep, was raging with jealousy. On a
Sunday the notice to “down tools’’was posted
on the door of the shearers’ hut. Tom was an
uneasy man, for a few days’ delay meant that
he might lose his next shed, Bandybelah, an even
more important one than Callipo Downs. He
was, of course, a staunch Unionist, but he was
quite sure that to down tools in a recognised
Union shed was as foolish a device as it turned out
to be later, for it consolidated the pastoralists as
no other action could. Thus, when the inevitable
meeting was held in the hut, and the order was:
read by the rep, Tom arose and spqke hotly
against it.
When Tom sat down, the rep arose and spoke
in his turn. “ You’ve ’eard Sharpies talk, chaps,
an’ I’m surprised ye areas quiet about it. Fer me-
self, I never expected to’ear ‘scab’ talk in this
’ere shed, which ’as bin Union frum ther jump.
P’r’aps ’e’ll go to ther blanky boss an’ ”
He didn’t finish. Inside five seconds two men
were outside and fighting hard ; Tom because of
the fateful word “scab,” and the other for the
sake of his lost supremacy in the shed. In the
end, Tom was victorious; but at the cost
of an injured hand. Within three days the
order came to resume work. Then Tom
had the mortification of being knocked off fbr
several days more, by reason of his injuries.
Even when he started again, he could not get
within 40 sheep a day of his former tallies.
Worse than that, he was looked upon with sus-
picion by his fellow-shearers. Very little was re-
quired in those days to brand a man with the
dreaded name of “scab.” The news of the fight
and its cause was carried from shed to shed,
losing nothing by the way, and the name of Tom
Sharpies became known far and wide.
He did not realise fully what had struck him
until he went to Bandybelah. He thought
that he had lost that shed, for Callipo’ did not cut
out in time for him to be there on the starting
day, and he had given up hope of getting a stand.
At the settling-up of Callipo Downs, however, he
was informed that the manager of Bandybelah
had reserved his stand for him. He was pleased,
of course, and did not stop to think what it might
mean to his mates, some of whom were also to
have shorn there; and no stands had been re-
served for them!
(Continued on next page.)


I
e
RUB
IT
IN
a
r />s>
t/9
2
S'
ca
I
ft
I the natural and ideal preparation that has
I long been wanted for the human skin,
whether injured or diseased. Zam-Buk ob=
tains its healing, soothing and antiseptic value
from the extracts of which it is composed, and
this value is increased by the manner in which
these extracts are brought together.
Zam-Buk is many times more effective than
ordinary ointments and cheap salves, and, in addition,
contains none of the rancid animal fats and mineral
poisons that distinguish those coarse and out-of-date
preparations. Zam-Buk embodies a valuable lesson
from the athletes of Ancient Greece, who kept their
skins in perfect condition and their muscles fit by daily
anointings with a herbal balm.
Smeared on a cut or sore, Zam-Buk at once sets
in motion a process of rebuilding and purifying the
tissue, which is essential to clean and natural
healing. Festering, inflammation, disease germs
and infection are quickly conquered, the raw flesh is
amply protected against the action of the atmosphere,
and new cells of tissue are created- like a builder
extending new rows of houses —until the wound or
sore is entirely obliterated by new, healthy skin.
The uniqueness of Zam-Buk is the key to its grand success
over Injuries and skin disease.
1/6 and 3/6 per pot, all chemists and stores.
The WORLD S GREATEST HEALER
Beauty s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving; the beauty of tbe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Xbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
DIT A 10*
Mr H/iVlvw
Matchless for the Complexion.
But at Bandybelah he had not worked many
days when it was borne upon him that very few
of the men would speak to him, and the crowd as
a whole seemed to get more unfriendly every day.
One afternoon he knocked off and asked his pen-
mate to come with him and grind their shears,
and was astounded when he refused flatly.
“Why?” asked Tom.
“I won’t tell you why, because frum what I
hear I ain’t no match for yer. ”
Tom went cold ; he knew now. He stood for a
minute and then went down the board to where
the rep of the shed was shearing, waited until he
had turned his sheep out, and then asked him :
“What have the chaps got against me? Billy
Jones refused to grind with me just now, an’ I’ve
noticed that I haven’t a friend on the job.”
The rep looked at Tom, and then at some of
the men who had stopped shearing to listen. He
said : “ It’s bin reported to us that you ain’t
staunch Union. The chap that was rep at
Callipo wrote last mail, an’ said you was talkin’
4 scab ’ when orders kem frum headquarters to
down tools. Is it true ? ”
By this time the whole shed had learned, per
medium of the tar-bovs, that Tom and the rep
were “talkin’.” A silent crowd watched and
listened as Tom replied, “Here’s me ticket, an’
anv man that sez that I’m not Union to me boots
will hear somethin’.”
“ Yairs,” drawled the rep, “ we heard that too.
You can handle yer dooks pretty good. Was it
true that you spoke agen the Union ?”
“I on’y said what every sensible man would say
at the time. It was a.foolish thing to do.”
“Then it is true,” said the rep as he moved
into his pen and caught a sheep.
The boss of the board bustled up to Tom and
said, “Now then, Sharpies, what’s all this fuss
about?”
“I am accused of ‘scabbing’ on the Union, an’
I’m tryin’ ter put meself straight.”
“Urn !” the boss said. “You’d better get
back to your stand.”
“No,” said Tom ; “I’ll shear no more till I’m
cleared.”
“ You’ll shear till the cut-out, my man, or until
I tell you to go.”
“I’ll soon see about that,” said Tom, as he walked
quickly off to his stand. He caught a sheep, and
in a very short time turned it into the counting
pen the worst-shorn animal that had ever left his
hands. He was walking into the catching-pen for
another, when the shed boss touched him on the
shoulder and said, “ Look here, my man; if you
turn out another sheep like that, I’ll gaol you for
wilful destruction of property. Look at your
fleece —cut to pieces—and the sheep, poor brute,
will have to be put into the killing-pen.”
“Let me go, then,” said Tom.
“ No ; you can shear as well as any man on the
board, and I’ll see that you do.”
Tom was cooling down by this time, and he was
wholly miserable. He stopped for a little, and
then went on shearing in his usual workmanlike
style. The boss nodded his head grimly when
Tom finished his sheep, and said, “That’ll do,”
and went off.
Tom was last on the board at knock-off, and
when he reached the hut he found a crowd of men
between the galley and the hut. They were being
harangued by the cook, a little Cockney. When
he got within earshot he heard, “ I tell yer chaps
I ain’t agoin’ ter cook fer no blanky scabs. Be-
cause ’e’s a bit on ther knuckle yer all frightened
of ’im. I ain’t, fer I can soon bring ’im ter me
weight wiv a dipper o’ ’ot water. Bli’me, yer a
set o’ ole women.” He turned to Tom as he came
up, and said, “ W’y don’t yer be a man an’ clear
out frum a place where yer not wanted ? I ain’t
agoin’ ter cook fer yer no more.”
Tom went to the hut and found all his things
lying higgledy-piggledy out on the bare ground
before the door. He said nothing, but gathered
them up and carried them into his bunk again.
All this in a deadly silence.
He was sitting on his bunk, raging with a sense
of the deepest injury and helplessness, when the
rep came to him and said, “Yer see ’ow it is?
If I was you I’d clear. The chaps ’ll make up
what’s cornin’ toyerso’s ye’ll lose nothin’, an’ ”
He got no further, for Tom let out a blow which
stretched the rep out senseless. Then Hell
broke loose. In a few minutes Tom was thrown
out of the hut, battered and bruised, and his
things thrown after him.
He went up to the boss then, and said simply,
“They’ll kill me if you don’t let me go.” He
detailed his experience, at which the boss shook
his head and said, “ Yes, this is no place for you
now. But write to me here next January and
you’ll find that it will pay you.”
“ What do you mean?” asked Tom.
“You will have to work with us now. We
shall fight the Union to a finish, and then
those”
“Damn you and your flightin’ ! If there’s to be
any, there’s only one side for me, in spite of what
they’ve done.”
“All right,” said the boss imperturbably;
“I have seen many just as staunch as you
forced out on far less grounds than they have
against you. I heard all about Callipo Downs,
and what you said there, and that is why I kept
you a pen here. You will find that your Union
has a long memory and a longer arm.”
Tom received his cheque and went off early.
After that he took to a wandering life, and arrived
r unexpectedly at many places, and left many
places suddenly. He found that wherever he
went there was somebody who knew about him.
He tried a change of name ; but it was soon found
out in the mysterious way matters of that kind
are discovered in the sheds. He wrote to head-
quarters, detailing the whole circumstances, and
received a reply : “ Your letter to hand, and we
have to inform you that your case was reported to
us by two of your shed reps. We are fighting
your battle as well as that of all workers, and we
require unquestioning obedience from all our
members. We have considered your case seri-
ously, and have reluctantly come to believe that
such as you can only be a source of weakness to
the movement. Your ticket for the current year
is therefore cancelled, and all organisers and shed
reps are instructed that you are to be refused a
ticket should you apply again.”
That settled it, and Tom turned his face home-
ward a very bitter man, with poor horses and with
less money than he had when he started out full
of hope, with Mary’s kisses warm on his lips. He
reached Paradise Valley at sundown of a blazing
day in December, and found his people at supper.
His father looked up when he came in, and said,
“ Oh, it’s you, is it ? I wonder you had the front
to come back. I suppose it is all true what they
are saying.”
“No, it ain’t,”said Tom. “ I told them that it
was foolish to 4 down tools ’in a shed in which
even the bosses were satisfied to have good Union
men, if they did the work properly, and I am
branded as a 4 scab ’ for having an opinion of my
own.”
“ Well, you done a foolish thing, an’ we’re all
sufferin’ for it. Martin Duneen has bin rubbin’ it
in till I’m fair sick of it. There’s only one good
thing, an’ that is, ye needn’t be thinkin’ to marry
into a priest-ridden crowd like that. I put your
pot on there.”
“ What have you been saying to Mary ? ”
“ I told her that if you was a scab it was through
her, an’ she said she wouldn’t marry a scab
if he was hung with gold, an’ I told her that I
would rather you’d scab than turn Roman. It’s
true too.”
Tom left the argument at that, and shook the
clods of the parental home off his feet. Catching
his tired horse again, he rode straight to Duneen’s
place. When he got there he went to the open
door. Martin and three or four men were there
talking. When Martin turned and saw Tom he
arose quickly.
“It’s ye, is ut? I wondher at ye, a dam scab,
darrin’ ter come betwixt Martin Duneen an’ clean
air. If ye arre not outside me ga-ate in two
minyuts, I’ll put me dogs on ye.”
“ I’m no more a scab than you are,” said Tom.
“ I only told them my opinion of a foolish move
they made, an’ they’ve branded me. A man can
have an opinion of his own, surely.”
“ He can that, an’ my opinion is that ye’re the
next worse thing to informer, an’ that is a scab.
An’ I think that if the chance offers ye will be
informer too.”
The door at the back opened. Mary came into
the room and spoke: “Yes, and I think the
same as father. Go away from a dacent house,
Tom Sharpies.”
“ But, Mary ”
“I am not Mary to the like av ye. I wrote an’
told you that when the word kern about the dirthy
doin’s at Bandybelah. Even your own father
told me he’d rather see ye a scab than marry me,
an’ he’s got his wish, I’m thinkin’.”
Tom departed next day. After the strike ended
he dropped out of the ken of Paradise for years,
and it was only recently that word came from one
of the Paradise contingent that he had become
a potentate out West. When the men returned
we got particulars. It appears that when the
strike ended he was employed by one of the big-
gest station-holders out towards the sunset, and
being a first-rate hand with stock, he had been
promoted to an overseership. Then when the
firm acquired another large property he was made
manager, and is now looked upon as a big man who
is likely to go much further yet. He is not generally
liked, and has the reputation of being determined
and silent, and of striking first and speaking after-
wards. He is feared and hated by shearers, for
it is known that he will fight his own shadow
sometimes, and he knows as much about shearing
as any of them.
Mary is no longer school-teacher. When two
of the big estates around Paradise Valley were
cut up, a State school was erected, and as Mary’s
qualifications were not sufficient for classified
appointment, she was transferred to another pro-
visional school in a district similar to what ours
had been. She stayed there just six months, and
then resigned for similar reasons to those whereof
teachers were wont to resign at Hell’s Hole—l beg
pardon. Paradise Valley. Only last year she
married a selector, Mick Ryan, who is a dairy-
man, as many of our community now are. She is
living just the life she had pictured to Tom, and
she really does look older than her age. She is no
chicken either.
TARBOY.
A Dream of Whiskers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I DREAMT what time the morn was dark
and drear,
A dream of many faces wild with hair.
Enwhiskered visages that gaped for beer,
Beards rolling redly on the darkened air ;
Long, curling beards, beards dark or flaxen fair,
And eyebrows that were beards in all but
name;
Wild, wandering beards that spoke of pain and
care,
And whiskers that were fierce with hues of
flame.
Out of the ages dead and lost to view
The hairy torrent surged across my sight,
Hiding the leaves of all the trees that grew,
And sweeping like a broom the fields of night—
Old Abraham, enswathed in whiskers white,
And Aaron’s beard with all the grease thereon ;
Jonah’s bedraggled tufts in evil plight,
And Daniel’s chin-mat fair to look upon.
Old Persian whiskers ; goatlike tufts that grew
Beneath the merchant jaws of ancient Tyre,
Boxed beards of Egypt deftly kept from view,
And Babylonian scrubs of fencing wire ;
Brown bushes that the Frankish maids desire,
And flowing Druid glories, white as snow ;
Terrific Gothic hangings of red fire.
And wondrous things Arabian warriors grow.
All these were there, with whiskers of all saints,
And tangled growths of unshorn Nazarites,
The hairy visages each painter paints,
And vast lip-trimmings of crusading knights ;
Weird things that wag at Methodist tea-fights ;
The hairs that on tip-tilted noses grow
That maiden aunts are wont to shave at nights,
And bearded ladies’ trophies from the show.
I thought of all the cushions these might fill,
Of every chance and change that these had
known,
The silent voice, the long-forgotten will
That ruled their waggings ere their days were
flown,
When straight a dreaming word to me was blown
Out of the windy places of the night,
“ You have a little whisker of your own,
Vote straight for Anti-Sosh and you’ll be
right.”
I said, 44 Avaunt, ye nightmare wraiths of hair,
Your sun is set, and ours is yet to rise;
Ye did not make the ancient times so fair,
Nor were your whiskers all so very wise
That we should listen to strange antique lies.
Our own bush beards are very large and fine ;
Go, seek George Reid, his brain is just the size
To think your ancient waggings are divine.”
Whereat the beards of old Caractacus,
And Nimrod, Moses, Jeremiah, Cain,
The witches of “ Macbeth,” John Knox and Huss
Made at me. But I dodged and dodged again,
And wakened fighting. Yet within my brain
One thought above all else remained to me,
The whiskered failures of the past were vain
To hold my country from her destiny.
MAOBILAND.
D. M. W.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
Mrs. E. Harrison,
G-awler, S. A.
tired and debilitated, with,
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’
Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol* Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRD!
Custard
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
EYE OINTMENT.
In use since lfi®6.
I—III II
" iu!m HI
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Wealr Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Wearneg Breaks pear
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers—
Fireproof Safes,
Strongroom Doors .
Government Contractors.
The bulletin post cards-ncw
Senes. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
Superior to
i INJECTIONS
kcUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
f Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
Each Capsule bears the name IW“
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
vincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Fhee.
MELBA
tfc® ACCORD EON with
Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments.
Dance and Picnic Musib. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KINgT^
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, pric,e 15/a, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
[L-55—:
f.
PILLS
Whe
n Irade
IS
BAD
ywt need, fa
hurtle, hil i/Mis
canturf /uk)tk
| whe/zytfaazewt
/il aJzd/uvsz,
so J ia/u>
BEECHAM’S
andwill he
reado' Jfoi anutAma
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - 6d. PacKet of 12.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. CA in
A CURE
FOR
VARICOSE
VEINS.
We have discovered a method of treatment, by
which the verj r worst cases of Varicose Veins can
be rapidly and permanently cured. In fact, so
wonderful is the method, that inside the first
three days every bit of the a "on i.s ins pain that
nearly drives you mad will lie drawn out, and the
ultimate gradual contraction of the distending
vein, and its restoration to a normal state, is a
matter only of a few weeks’continuous treatment.
In fact, our numerous private experiments have
been so satisfactory that we are prepared to return
your money in the event of a failure with the
treatment.
The discoverer of this wonderful treatment has
given to the world several truly marvellous
remedies for the amelioration of human suffering,
and the present discovery places him in the front
rank of the century’s famous scientists.
We are now preparing suitable literature, which
will fully describe our method of overcoming this
truly agonising complaint, and will gladly supply
you full particulars upon request.
Our treatment of varicose veins is a home
remedy, a rational and lasting cure.
These statements seem almost too good to be
true, but, nevertheless, we are prepared to sub-
stantiate them by personal experiment.
The old method of cutting out varicose veins is
now out of date, and their permanent removal is
a matter of a few weeks of properly applied treat-
ment only. Write us for further particulars No. 1.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
SALON 5,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THE
WORLD'S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, Ac.
owf
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
lung Tonic could not have been won,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
rcmedytcver known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “OWBRID6E "
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold ererj-frher*
in bottle* at la. lid.,
ad , 4*. «d. k & 11*.
COPYRIGHT.


ISOH m SS3I AVd
Make up your mind to buy that new hose at
Perdriau’s while the Re-building Sale is on. That
will mean a considerable saving to you. For
instance, here are some suggestive cut prices on
good Rubber Hose :
fin. x 3 ply, 25ft. coils .. 12/6
fin. x 3 ply, 50ft. coils .. 25/-
iin. x 3 ply, 25ft. coils .. 11/6
iin. x 3 ply, 50ft. coils .. 22/11
Superior Quality Rubber Hose-
fin. x 3 ply, 30ft. coils .. 23/9
fin. x 3 ply, 60ft. coils .. 47/6
Many other grades are stocked,
as well as all Hose Accessories
You can absolutely rely on
securing- solid value for every penny you spend.
Write for samples and full details.
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES .
P'A
v^V:
Write for
“ B” '
A
Catalogue
Simplicity
EFFICIENCY
Rider.
ri'lMK BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
1 Series. IN.. V., VT. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery
Installations in the largest sheds in the Commonwealth and
New Zealand. EVIDENCE OF POPULARITY.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS
and
CATALOGUES.
BlacKstone Oil ILngine
The Universally Useful Driving Power.
Economical, Powerful, Durable.
Installations Everywhere.
PAXMAN Portable STEAM ENGINES.
THE BEST STEAM POWER.
Economy, Strength, and Durability UNSURPASSED.
7 SENT STREET, SYSNEY, N.8.W.;
alas at
14 CURRIE STREET, ABELAIBE, 8. A. ;
Sl MARGARET STREET, TSBWOBMBA, Q
OIL SHEEP DIP. ADlp sLfeEs""“*
Made in Australia to beat the maggot-fly—to preserve and improve the wool.
KIIvOOUR Acetylene Generators
THE MOST POPULAR AND ECONOMICAL LIGHT.
MERCHANT
Technical Staff.
. Ltd.
E. S. AA. BANK CHAMBERS: KING <fc GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
KINDLY ALLOW US TO GIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY REQUIRE.
Electrical and Mechanical.
SAW MILLING MACHINERY.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
TS.
Jehns§n & Phillips Gables (N.S.W.
LARGE GAS ENGINE UNITS, etc.
Ferranti LM.
Morganite Brushes, eto.
ions nos.
(SYDNEY) LIMITED, 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
and at MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, and PERTH.
HopKinson
Boiler Mountings.
®. FISCHER
SC
9
'
A.E.G. MOTOR GENERATOR SET.
40 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
172 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
We will cftiote you on
Complete A.E.G.
Electrical Equipment of
MINES, FACTORIES,
TIMBER MILLS.
Improved Designs for Every Service.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
PARKE &LAGY CO. Ltd.
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
BELT AND STEAM DRIVEN.
ANY CAPACITY.
ROCK DRILLS
NEW GIANT and NEW SLUGGER.
GUTHRJDGE Ltd., 263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
