

. >V: V*.
lc i!\*
> ».‘ ; ;' >»
R. 6. WATKINS «Sfc 00-,
10*7 Kent street;, Sydney,
; —FOR— t
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
I EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
2r
McLaren’s
Traction, Engine.
The Most Powerful Hauling Engine.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. 0. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
——'
fjadleys Orient jjotel.
sdfsdfsd
BELTING
OVARANTKBD.
«/. C. Ludowici <& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
fsd
Take it back,
I must have—
HUTTONS
Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
A
SEND
OF
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating ior the diges-
tive organs.
aammm
fsd
f
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets aota most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
aUL. tOhc/bn/ ie tfes ~6eat~
QuxjlluAj u fe&jJLdU iuu6\rft6u* jF<U*u£y to&vuzjptuuuJ tB7/)-
Gffo,
. a}# &V /
*
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN FAUCET & SPIGOT PIPES
possess cc high elasticity, which obviates breakages as with Cast-iron Pipes »
AGENTS - - - NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET. t 4
PABCO ROOFING
(White Malthoid)
The One Roofing that makes the Home in Summer as Cool and
Comfortable as in Spring. Send for Sample.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN. GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER'), CHALLT& HOUSE. MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
CLYDE WORKS
CRANVILLE
N§W
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
< Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
c. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
©3 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA ties in its
solvent power and cleansing properties -
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
THE BULLETIN
Tol. 31.—N0. 1600.]
[Thursday, October 13, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.SiW., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS FOR HOME STUDY, Practical and Scientific ,
Sent/ for our Special Price List of Suitable Books on
Architectural Drawing and Lettering-, Automobiles, Alternating Current Machinery, Boilers, etc., Building Superin-
tendence, Contracts and Specifications, Carpentry, Electricity, Electric Railways, Estimating in Building Trades,
Forging Foundry Work, Gas Engines, Highway Construction, Hydraulic Engineering-, Indicators, Machine Shop
Work Masonry Construction, Pattern Making, Plumbing, Power Stations, Railroad Engineering, Refrigeration,
Reinforced Concrete, Sewers and Drains, Sheet Metal Work, Stair Building, Steel Square Steam Engines, Strength of
Materials, Surveying, Telegraphy, Telephony, Valve Gears, Water Supply.
Send a Postcard to
C'ORGE ROBERTSON & C 0„ PROP. LTD., Booksellers and Stationers, 238 PITT STREE'r, SYDNEY.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudsons “Eumenthol Jujubes.’
car - AN IDEAL REMEDY
TMC
HOST POWERFUL. .,£ji o
AMO PLEASANT GERMICIDE ]ll( M
, AMO ANTISEPTIC KNOW* . ° ,C * L •AIBTTC.SAYS
6HOUU»P»KWtorGRtKI
6ft*v
£ YO^
C. HUDSON
TTTH I '— ll YY J ‘ l LhJj|‘u. l^ai
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
ror Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing’ No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective
as is creosote.”
Uniike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
6 k er6 fi Wl ?‘ « le Dl £ fcslion ; oil tile contrary, they
nreverfr neflcia eftect ’ as their antiseptic properties
K meals fermentation ol the food when taken
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6
in Btamps.
COMPANY, LTD., « york street, sydhey.
DEATH -AN D PE AC H- B LOSSD M.
Choked with rank grass and bracken.
The ruined orchard lay
Dead —in the riot of spring.
Dry lichen sucked the branches grey,
And scarlet fungus felt its wav.
Where once had been
A glory of pink and white, and silvery sheen
Of budding green.
A wandering breeze
Faltered and fled away,
Finding no play
In the gaunt rows of rotting trees.
But—suddenly—there flashed into my sight,
From out that melancholy decay,
The dear perfection of a single spray
Of delicate peach-blossom.
Quickly, beside the dying tree.
I reveiently
Drew down the flowers to my face,
And bathed ray spirit in their grace,
And heard them sing,
Child-like, their fragrant song of spring.
In silent ecstasy,
With catching breath.
I blest the brave old mother-tree..
And I verily think that she blest me,
And together we laughed at decay.
Together we laughed at de.i'h.
She —with her blossoming spray ;
I—with my children three.
N.S.W.
D.
Wool Ho !
When the clipper fleet conies over.
When the scent' is on the clover,
And the scarlet streaks the blue;
Wneti the western sheds are ringing
And the western men are singing
As their toiling teams come through.
Then it’s ho, ho—wool ho!
For the busy shears are clipping, and a stirisin
the shipping.
And it’s yo, ho—wool ho !
E.L BRADY (Ways of Many Waters).
C. E. W. Beau, as special correspondent
of the S. JM. Refold, visited some of the
country in the west of N.S. W. where sheep
are raised, and wrote a series of articles on
the land and the men who live there, the
wool, and how it is shorn, and the way it
gets to market. These articles have tieen re-
printed in a volume On the Wool Track
(George Robertson and Co.), which makes
a story of great interest to Australians, and
is, incidentally, an effective counterblast to
the ill-informed criticism of Foster Fraser.
Bean went out to write up the facts of
a prosaic industry which turns out “wool
and meat and tallow and glue and cold-cream
and many other things.” He found that the
most important things it turns out are men.
He was impressed by the pluck, endurance,
resourcefulness and chivalry of the men who
handle the wool. The jumbuck is not by
any means a romantic animal ; there are no
stories about him, as there are about horses,
dogs and other bea,sties; but in the life of
the men who handle the sheep in the Outside
country there is enough of the raw spirit of
romance to dilute into a hundred stories.
The country that Beau travelled over is
the Red country, where the Namoi runs
when it feels inclined and the Darling pur-
sues its deceptive and varied career. This
is the edge of the Never Never where the
dead men lie.
The countryside looked like a beautiful open
park, with gentle slopes and soft grey tree clumps.
Nothing appalling or horrible rushed upon these
men. Only there happened—nothing. There
might have been a pool of cool water behind any
one of those tree clumps; only—there was not.
It might have rained any time ; only—it did not.
There might have been a fence or a house just over
the next rise; only—there was not. They lay
down with the birds hopping from branch to
branch above them and the brigi.u sky peeping
down at them. No one came. Nothing hap-
pened. That was all.
The greater part of that country is the
same now as when the first explorers saw it,
save for the coming of the sheep. Much of
it would now be uninhabited by wild animals
only for the sheep, its the tanks put down for
the tame have enabled the wild to live. One
curious effect of the invasion is that, after
the sheep have trodden the soil to dust and
left it, the rain will sometimes bring up
grasses which have not been seen for a gene-
ration, and in one case a pine scrub came up
on what had been open country.
That land is the red heart of the country,
“ the real Australia,” and it is to most Aus-
tralians an unknown country. And the
Australian who works out there is, in Bean’s
opinion, the genuine article, the real Aus-
tralian. He is a handy man.
He possesses one virtue in a degree in which, as
far as one lias experience of them, no other people
possesses it. He can do anything. He is aware
of it.
The real Australian is not born, he is made ;
and the wool industry makes him.
First, there is “ the boss.” He is the only
man who knows all about the sheep on the
station. He has unquestioned authority
amongst men who are exceedingly hard to
command.
Ho has iiad no immemorial feudal tradition to
prop Imn up, nor respect for his birth. Often he
has has no birth to respect. If lie had depended
on the arm of the law to help him he would
have been in a pretty bad way. For the nearest
approach to the arm is one trooper 40 miles away.
He knew from the first, if he was to make any-
thing of his life at all, he had to depend on his
common-sense and courage and the sheer ability
to lead which generally exists somewhere deep
down in people of British birth.
The typical station-hand is loyal to the
boss, but undemonstrative, tie is simple
natured and easily taken down. (By the
way, Beau mentions “ forties ” as a common
term for bush spielers. The note on its use
iu Macllwaine s Dinkinbciv brought informa-
tion from several correspondents, who are
hereby thanked.) The station-hand is a
good mate ; lie revereuces any straight
woman who lives in liis world but life is
monotonous, and at intervals lie must fill
himself with liquor in order to lose himself
and forget it. A wild, variegated jamboree
is the only complete change lie gets—unless
he reads, and most of his kind do read a good
deal.
The most capable of these men are Aus-
tralian natives. The son, if anything* is
more capable than his father ; but there are
very few sons..
The sheep stations . . . employ more men than
is generally thought, and they turn them out in a
magnificent type. But, as far as producing future
citizens for Australia goes, they might as well be
monasteries. They want few wives on the out-
side runs, and no children. In the West they
allow hardly any of the hands to marry, because
it means that the station has to allow rations to a
man’s wife and children without getting more
work out of him. For that reason the big
sheep station does very little towards populating
Australia.
The policy of “no encumbrances” is more
deadly to Australia than any imported
plague ; but the banks and financial institu-
tions which own most of the stations care
nothing for the future of Australia, so long
as present expenses are kept down and divi-
dends duly paid. Yet their representa-
tives blather about the birth-rate and
immigration. The shearers whom Bean met
were at any rate consistent in their political
principles.
They will not have a Chinaman or an Indian or
an American negro amongst, them, but they will
work with a Maori or an Australian blackfellow.
That is simply because they do not think the
former should be allowed here, but they recognise
a duty to the latter.
The average shearer has more knowledge
of the world than the station-hand, and,
“ taken all round, he is the highest type of
worker.”
The “ hatter ” has practically disappeared
from the West .;the fences and the boundary-
riders do the shepherding now. The sun-
downer also has gone. The bicycle is
commonly used by travelling shearers;
“ footmen ” are the less fortunate individuals
who have to walk.
Bean gives a chapter to the Darling River,
one of the few natural assets possessed by
the West, which might be of immense value
if Sydney knew anything about it. But/the
West .Will only get its wants just so soon as
it can prove that t bey are of benefit to.
Sydney. Any scheme which might divert
trade from Sydney is ignored.
Before the articles were put into book
form some careless sentences (such as the
third ou page 93) should have been straight-
ened out. And it would have been better to
keep to the standard spelling—“ kooka-
burra ” rather than “ kukuburra.”
On {he Wool Track is admirable journalistic
work, and Bean, who has gone to London,
should do well for his paper and himself.
There have been many attempts to explain
Australia to the rest of the woi Id. This man
has taken one part, a most interesting and
a very neglected part of Australia, and
has set it before the reader in a series of
telling pictures. And he lias brought Aus-
tralians in the comfortable cities into
closer touch with the sturdy Australians out
back who are patiently, and under heavy
disadvantages, carrying on the great wool
industry.
The RED PAGE
Flinders and the French
It has generally been assumed that when
Matthew Flinders, in the “Investigator,” met
a French ship at Encounter Bay in April,
1802, he ran into an expedition sent put by
Napoleon to annex territory on the southern
portion of Australia. Nicolas baudin, in
command of the French ship, found that he
had been forestalled by Flinders, but went on
with Ins own exploration, and afterwards
left Sydney without any fuss. He died
on the way home, and Peron, the naturalist,
and Freycinet, the cartographer of the ex-
pedition, published a history of the voyage,
in which the name “ Terre Napoleon " was
given to half of southern Australia, and the
c'oast-line was peppered with the names of
eminent Frenchmen. All of this territory
had been discovered and charted by Flin-
ders, who, at the time of the French attempt
to jump his claim, was held a prisoner at
Mauritius by the French Governor, Decaen—
a more objectionable gaoler than Hudson
Lowe. It was only too easy to assume that
therefore Freycinefc’s charts were plagiarised
from the MS. of Flinders, who “ was with-
out a rival in his generation for the beauty,
completeness and accuracy of his hydro-
graphical work.”
These two assumptions have been upset
by Ernest Scott in Terre Napoleon (Angus
and Robertson). He shows that Napoleon
in 1800 had no thought of founding anew
fatherland for the French in Australasia,
though, curiously enough, Napoleon 111. seems
to have entertained the idea of invading and
occupying Australia. Scott also proves that
neither Peron nor Freycinet saw any of
Flinders’s charts or journals, though they
borrowed a drawing of Port Phillip which
Baudin had sailed by and did not see.
Scott has read his materials thoroughly,
and his book is an interesting contribution
to our history. Patient investigation of
this kind, which results in the correction of
a few century-old mistakes and the clearing
of some minor persons from undeserved
blame, does not win popular applause. But
Terre NapoUon is evidence that Scott has
the historian’s faculty, and that he could
write the much-desired story of that great
navigator and brave man, Matthew Flinders.
: —
A Parson’s Pleasance (Dymock’s) is a
bulky volume of gossip by an English
country parson, with the truly rural name of
Ditchfield. The gifted Webster is called upon
to show that “pleasance” stands for “pleasure,
pleasantry ; a secluded pleasure garden.”
The idea is that the reverend gentleman
lets you into his secluded garden (admissiou
10s., plus postage) and talks to you about
other old gardens, lady book-collectors, books
which have brought trouble to their authors,
etc. —all calculated to inspire the audience
with wonder that “ one small head could
carry all he knew.” Then he turns on
magic-lantern pictures of his travels in
familiar places while the buns and gingerbeer
are handed round. There are worse ways of
wasting one’s time than by listening to P. H.
Ditchfield oh the villagers and their folk
lore ; but the “ book talk ” is profitless and
dull. At one place lie says “ I should like to
possess ‘infinite riches in a little room,’ as
Marlowe aptly describes a well-furnished
library.” Marlowe’s “Jew of Malta” was
aptly referring to jewels, not books.
* * * »
If anyone wants a better “shilling
shocker ” than The Heart of the Hush, by
Broda Reynolds (Bookstall Cos.), she, or he,
must be mighty particular. Here you have
a superbly beautiful heroine who is an
artist. According.to her lover, her picture
—“The Agnostic’s Dream —is the work of
a genius, and hidden behind it is a mind
beyond the understanding of ordinary
beings.” The lover is ‘.'a very god in his
physical splendor, a perfect prince in his
faultless riding attire.” He happens to be
married to another woman, but that was a
mistake, which- is adjusted. The heroine,
amongst her many gifts, has the happy knack
of communicating with her lov.er at a dis-
tance by the wireless telegraphy of the soul.
Complications arise, also bush fires, a for-
tune-teller, priests and black fellows, with a
thrilling duel thrown in. As specimens of
the writer s style, these sentences are offered
in their edifying beauty:
The thunder died away behind the mountains ;
the moon, like a pale angel, came so‘tly forth to
render what assistance she could. Treading her
way anxiously amongst the moving clouds, she
came on until through a rent in the overhanging
branches she beheld, etc.
The grey dawn, like a spectral queen, had crept
from under the world’s rim and, standing, upon the
lulls of the morning, awoke the children of Nature
from their darkened slumber.
Ihe bright sun of the heaven-scented morning
had dispersed the last slothful shadow of the early
dawn, and a beauty lay upon the land that was
edifying.
Randolph Bedford, back from America,
reports that one newspaper over there has
discovered anew poet—Hiram G. Hogsflesh,
or some such name—and the poem which it
printed as evidence of Hiram’s quality is
Bracket) ’s “ Not U nderstood. ’ ’
The Bibelot, edited and published by the
golden pirate of. Marne (U.S.A.), Thomas B.
Mosher, known as a reprint of
good poetry and prose for booklovers. The
number issued for September last comprises
London streetsA Pooh of Lyrics, by Arthur
H. Adams, the first Australian writer to be
admitted into this select company. In a
characteristic foreword. Mosher savs :
In the v—i. Mr. Arthur 11. Adams . . .
Austiaha • • -• tr be said to have discovered anew
writer who ;s, moreover, a true poet.
Henley’s London Voluntaries is the only fit
comparison to the poems we now reprint.
Adamss novel, (xalalmd Jones, has received
unstinted praise from British reviewers The
Athenceum speaks of it as “a really charming and
tender romance. . . . Mr. Adams is to be con-
gratulated upon the combined pathos.and humor
of his ‘tragic farce,’ and Ml*. Norman Lindsay on
his clever illustrations.” A number of papers
refer to it as having a new note of humor. The
Daily Mail is of opinion that “certainly no piece
of fiction quite so distinguished as this has ever
come from Australia.” The Daily Chronicle ,
mentioning it as “a very amusing and singularly
well-written story,” says that “ here and there he
reminds us of Mr. H. G. Wells when Mr. H. G.
Wells is writing at his best.”
The American political novel is apt to be tire-
some. The Ramrodders, by Holman Day, is not
very brilliant, but the story bounds along ener-
getically, and there is some straight talk to the
American Judkinses—those who are as stiff as
ramrods on prohibition. The book is commended
to advocates of “No License.”
“Edyson”: A melancholy interest attaches to
O. Henry’s last story, printed in the July Cosmo-
politan, just before the author’s death. It is
called “Adventures in Neurasthenia, some Expe-
riences of a Man,” and explains O.
Henry’s pathetic finish, although the author
imagines at the end that he has accomplished a
jure by chasing after an unheard-of herb in the
aills company with a sagacious old way back,
M.D. This “ comic ” story is full of grim interest
to the writer infected with “ nerves.” and conveys
a moral to the effect that it is better to be a com-
paratively tired, poor and unheard-of penman
than to be an eminent author with an enormous
drain on one’s energies and a gorged bank
account, and to have a coffin on the way from one
of our leading undertakers.
. ; .
Adventures in Contentment, by David
Grayson (Andrew Melrose, London) is a
book of the Simple Life. The scope of the
adventures is given by the author in his
introduction :
I have been engaged in three different kinds
of farming, the first being the simple cultivation
of the soil . . . the second being a more or less
sedulous farming of myself. . . . And, finally,
with some instruction, and not a little amuse-
ment of a quiet sort. I have farmed with the
plough of perennial admiration and inquisitive-
ness. all that world, both of men and nature,
which lies so pleasantly around me.
The author made a failure of his city life,
and came to his farm “ worn out physically,
mentally, and, indeed, morally.” “ In due
time he “ began to reap.” He introduces
us to a circle of humble but very attractive
friends. There is a passage-at-arms with a
book agent, a discussion with a millionaire,
and adventures with a Scotch preacher who
has “an abiding disbelief in the wickedness
of the human soul,” a tramp who lives all
his life twice and is afraid, and an infidel
who doesn’t believe a word of that Dante.”
The farm of David Grayson is situate
somewhere in America, and his book is an
American hook ; but I fancy that Content-
ment is in reality an island off the west coas£
of Bohemia, on the direct steamer route .to
Arcady. A visit there—just a visit is worth
while.I
D. M. W.
Fifty Years of Modern Painting —by J. E.
Phythian (Dymook s). This is a good work-
a-day volume, intended for the use of the
average man. You will look in vain in its
pages for the brilliant interpretation and in-
sight of George Moore, for the hard but
illuminating flashes of Mac Coll ; you will not
find an individuality as you do behind the
pen of R. A. M. Stevenson.
Phythian is not of the higher race of
critics ; but within the compass of a fair-
sized volume he handles easily, if with a
certain assurance, his 50 years ' from Coiot
to Sargent. He dilates upon the Pre-
R.-phaelites whose art is clearly that
of his election, perhaps because it is
so liberally endowed with anecdote ; yet
he manages a neat chapter on Whistler and a
clear cut criticism of the art of that fashion-
able magician, John Sargent;—who. reflects
so clearly the callous spirit of the era. "At
variance with George Moore.on the question
of beauty and the importance of subject in
painting. Phythian reveals his British origin,
still tainted with current morality and the
principles of Podsnap. This is unconsciously
exhibited at the expense of Erench painting.
The art of Degas is completely misunderstood,
for blended by the prejudice of “subject”
-to-day an impertinence, surely Mr. Phy-
thian seeks an Hogarthian purpose in his
balletgirlsandthefrequenters of the Coulisse,
quotes a friend who committed the inane
remark : “I sometimes wonder if it is right
ever to seem to encourage such things,” and
concludes a passage of singular common-
place with the phrase: “However beauti-
ful his pictures may be as art, they wring
front us the cry, ' O the pity of it.’ ”
ti Manet is better comprehended, but his
Olympia is treated as a future subject-
foi ethical history, so it na t o 7\.,. \ follows
that when wt erne to Watts the note of
praise swells upon his nobility of purpose,
and his poor painting is forgotten.
Notwithstanding these few national traits,
the book is a useful text-book, and covers its
ground with circumspection.
L. L.


a
No. 1005— Burnt Stfaw Hat, trimmed Band aiul
Bows'of Black Ribbon Y<dvet> 8/11.;
1005
Nor 900 —White or Burnt Chip Hat,- trimmed
White Glacd Silk and Buckle or Pink Hoses, 16/6.
<)00
TTIE illustrations on this page
. are taken from our Spring
and Summer Fashion Port-
folio, which faithfully presents all
that is new and correct in the
world of dress, including smart
styles irj Footwear, Ladies' Lin-
gerie, Lace and Parasols. Write
for a copy, posted free on appli-
cation, and reap the full benefit
of our unique system of Spot
Cash Trading.
‘No. 6 Burnt Chip Hat, trimmed Cream GiaCe
Silk, 12,6.
1
■ .
'*9-
811
No. 811 —Cream Canvas Hat, trimmed Band
and Looped Bows of Colored Sik, edyed Velvet ;
Skv Pink Mauve', Reseda, Moss, Broun, Rose,
Navy, 5/e.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR ECONOMY IN THE,
LATEST FASHIONS.
—^
"
i
isS
54*94
221
0T&
Ir&moLkS
ii$ w p ri
rices.
No. 8186
No. 221-
No. 232-
INo. 5494-
No. 8503-
— Blouse, Plain Tucked White Muslin, longj sleeves, fasten at back .. .. ••
-Costume, Feeney Striped Cambric, finished Collar and Vest of White Muslin E n ’ brold . er^^! ld
self Tucks and lte vers ; well-cut, gathered Skirt, trimmed strappings, colors. Helio-
trope, Fawn, Saxe, Blue \.. .. •• •• •• "
Similar style, without Embroidery Front, Pink, Saxe, Sky, and Black and White Stripe
Blouse and Skirt Costume, Faney Stripe Cambric, finished kiltedl frill and fancy Stitohings,
Yoke at back, stiff Collar, p'lain gored Skirt, in Green, Navy and Heliotrope stripes
-Biouse and Skirt Costume, Striped Cambric, finished Yoke and Tucks plain gored Skirt,
gathered at back, in Electric BJue, Heliotrope, Green, and Black and White Stripes
Similar style, in light Cambrics, plain gored Skirt ..
-Blouse, fine White Lawn, square collarltjss style, trimmed Valenciennes and Swiss Insertion
and fine tucks, fastens at back,./ «..
Similar style in Ivory Japanese Silk, trimmed Paiis color rtion
6/11
12/6
6/11
10/6
8/6
5/11
6/9
18/6
/
*r
901
■«*
m
No. 901— Burnt Chip Straw Hat, trimmed
Glac6 Silk, 14/6.
No. 3 — Straw Hat, trimmed Band and Bow of Ribbon
Velvet : Green and White, Brown and White, Navy and
White, 15/6.
No. 821-Cream Canvas Hat, trimmed Ban l
and Rosette of Colored Satin Ribbon ; Navt,
Amethyst, Brown, Moss, Hose, Saxe, 4/0. .
'i&
S
838
No. 838— Cream Canvas Hat, trimmed haney
Striped Linen and Velvet Band ; Sky, Reseda,
Moss, Navy, Bfown, 5/6.
■THE immense resources of our
“ Ready-to-Wear Costume De-
partment enable us to • meet the
requirements of almost .every
patron, and to offer the choice of
a perfectly-fitting Costume that
possesses all the charm of a made-
to-order Gown at a price that
effects a considerable saving
in the expenditure necessitated
in conforming to the demands
of Fashion.
829
No. 829— Colored Linen Hat, trimmed Band
and Rosette of Striped Linen; Moss, Mauve,
Brown, Navy, Saxe, 4/11.
905
%
No. 905— Burnt Chip Hat, trimmed Band and
Bow of Black Velvet, 7/11 -
&
ANTHONY
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frajik
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
2
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearin': at.
word of command be-
tween the fi n<rers (see
illustration). Complete
with Pull Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 : posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The Auto Strop
is the only Safety
Razor that can be kept
sharp without the ex-
pense of new blades.
The automatic self-contained stropping arrangement
ensures the keenest possible edge for every shave —
cannot be stropped wrongly—no blade-changing—
nothing to take apart to strop or clean. The
/tuto&trop
fejvzoß
Stropsliself
and is far quicker, handier and cheaper than a no-
stropping razor—finished like a piece of fine jewellery.
xf°Z
k
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor ;
one-dozen specially tested lancet-steel blades; one horsehide strop; the whole
contained in handsome leather case, size 2 in. by 3J in. The price complete is
25/-
and no
further
expense.
=s*s
You
cannot
strop it
wrongly.
Insert the <trop In the
AutoSrrop bafetyr Razor—
move the Razor to and fro—
the blade reverses automati-
cally at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself—in an
instant you have a kssn edge.
Sold by all high-class dealers. You see it
everywhere.
lAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto, Collin* Street, Melbourne; and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Useful, Instructive, Hanusume
Height 12 Inches.
IS
S. SMITH & SON'S
(LTD.)
"EMPIRE"
/Is Supplied T JT H - M -
-to \J JkV X The Kin &
SHOWS THE EXACT TIME IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD
GLOBE BEAUTIFULLY COLOURED.
BASE HANDSOMELY-CHASED BRASS.
Price £3 3 O
Larger Size (15 inches) £6 6 O
Write for Catalogue, WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY
SPECIAL TERMS TO SHIPPERS.
9 Strand, London
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princip
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freeholder L© as on
City or Suburban Properties,
, the security
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or o f the Aus-
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills or jntEREST.
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RA
Our new Mort<rag-e Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege o
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment or , . . Benjamin
Dirkctors— The Hon. A. VV. Meeks. M.L.C.. Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Depi ity- i h l be, M.L.C.;
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Horn r -L. wincn
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. Lta-, • ■ ’ gJ ore tary-
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H - W- Al'rr. .
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
f Ambitious ?
fsd
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
.State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “ S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
OHBP pul
Measures 33 inches over all* Weighs 2pounds. 44 Take Down ” Feature.
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [9
/Mr. ROBERT McLEISH.
Here is a letter from one of the best
known baritone singers of Melbourne,
and proprietor of the Circuit “ Pops”
Concerts, Mr. Robt. McLeish, living
at 235 Abbotsford Street, North
Melbourne. It is worth while reading
what he says about Clements Tonic.
This letter is worth remembering by all those who
have to follow business duties, and upon whose nerves and brain
there is always a tax. Mr. McLeish was in such a bad state of
health that he almost despaired of being: strong and well again
until he cured himself with this reliable medicine. Thousands
of persons spend hours reading the latest fashionable novel, or
the sensational storiette from the latest London or Australian
magazines, but it would pay many of them better to read this
story from the book of this man’s life, and its sequel to a grand
and splendid health. Here is his letter, true in every particular :
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“ My friends and the public will remember when I lost my voice for
twelve months nearly three years ago, and which was largely due to general
break-down of the nervous system, affecting the vocal chords. I tried a good
many medicines and treatment without permanent result, but was told to take
the nerve and blood medicine, Clements Tonic. I was surprised at the
almost immediate effect it had upon me, and by continuous use I improved
daily. It performed a miracle in my case, for after a few weeks my voice
returned, and in less than three months I was singing as well as ever. I
regained my normal health, and now I am never without a bottle of the Tonic
whenever on circuit. It is the best nerve, blood and stomach medicine I
have ever used. (Signed) ROBERT McLEISH.”
»
YOU CANNOT BE ILL AND USE CLEiTENTS TONIC TOO.
Very many persons who have used Clements Tonic, and have been entirely
cured of their ailments, declare that to have this remedy in the house is to
be. ensured against ill-health. They write thus to the
Therefore, it is wise for everyone to keep it, because here are three things
thalTit does-:-»-(l) It makes the liver active ; (2) the heart regular ; (3) the
nerves sound as steel. If you keep these functions in this condition, you
will keep well. All Stores and Chemists sell this medicine everywhere.


Will
I
&3S
s a--
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
ytair Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
PreDared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A-
f
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in fuh refunded without question
if iiOt perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on tipproval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
S ST s
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGE MTS
■wanted in each district
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our Mueeial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COc, Dept. 280 Liverpool -
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Always
Reliable !
Eley Cartridges
offer a degree of
accuracy and relia-
bility which the lead-
ing sportsmen of the
world have not been
slow to appreciate.
To Specify ‘ELEY’ when buying
cartridges is the easiest and quickest
way of ensuring complete satisfaction.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Above is shown the
Eley‘44 Winches-
ter Central Fire Rifle
Cartridge.
The Eley ‘ Univer-
sal,’ for Shot Guns, is
known throughout the
world as a reliable
black - powder car-
tridge.
‘Eley Smokeless’ is
the popular low-
priced cartridge.
Eley 22 Rim Fire
Cartridge, black &
smokeless powder
Of Gunmaliers
and Dealers
sdf
sd
w
W
fs
vv Points
Inventors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of arrant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALL.INAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
df
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bontiingfcon’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORE) 'S Essence of Coffee,
“ OXJR. JACK*’ Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “ PIJRE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Pv GLASS O?
Halted mil**
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples : 82 Pitt St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK CO.
Slough, Eng, .. .
%
BLED TO DEATH.
NOBODY KNEW FIRST-AID.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
In the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.”
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the veins should burst, would you
know what to do ? Let us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes the
Veesey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Veesey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured they do
not return.
Do not fail to send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney,
Corner Market and Castlereagh Streets.
Lift to 2nd Floor.
[606
RUPTURE
I Do you suffer from this complaint ? No I
doubt you wish to be cured without operation. I
Have you grown tired of wearing useless 1
trusses ? Then send for our little book, H
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
I with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
stefl bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Poateil Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
the “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common housefly. In addition to being a typhoid
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime agent in the spread of
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for the death of many children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the
danger of human infection from tubercular fly
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis.
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Fine Gem Ring, Real
Pearl, Sapphire, R üby,
and Six Diamonds,
£6 15s.
Single Stone Brilliant,
£l7 15s.
First quality Diamonds,
£45. Other sizes
from £5 ss.
Fine Amethyst and
Diamond Ring,£B>Bs.
Cable Address:
iilllliminiiM
mr *
Rubies or Sapphires
and Diamonds, £8 Bs.
RUSPOLI, LONDON,
rm*.
All Double Cut Bril-
liants, £l2 12s.
YOU GAN BUY FROM ENGLAND.
Pay your Duty and purchase
Cheaper and Better than you
are now doing. Write for
Catalogue containing 6,000
Illustrations, Post Free to
any part of the world.
4 Brilliants, with 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 15s.
Fine Amethyst Ring,
£2 15s.
2 Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds ; 2 Emeralds
and Diamonds ; 3 Pearls
and Diamonds ; 2 Emer-
alds and Diamonds ; 2
Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds, £5 Ss.
Ruby and Sapphire, sur-
rounded by Brilliants,
£lO 10s.
18-carat Ring, Rubies or
Sapphires & Diamonds,
£8 15s
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, Lonaon, W.C.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Men.
Battling up and down the world, faded, worn and
gray.
Men who held the keys of life only yesterday ;
Bigger men than you or I, somehow missed the
’bus—
Took too large a size in hearts to be classed with
us.
Battling up and down the world, meet them here
and there ;
! Notice how they hold their heads ; wonder what
they were.
Drifted down from near the top—not through
crime or beer ;
Long ago their chances came, all the road was
clear.
Did they make a better choice where they seemed
to fail ?
(Golden threads are mostly dropped from the
common tale.)
Where the tailored clown is king and the clod-
head rules,
Look to find the stronger men classed among the
fools.
With a heavy list to port spins the world along.
That is why the straightest road always takes
you wrong.
Here some trickster, fool or knave golden laurels
earned
Grasping at the gilded things which a real man
spurned;
There a crawling insect-tiling plaudits loud can
I win
I Doing that which he who failed held as deadiv
sin.
Sideways, sideways all the time round her end-
less course,
Hear the world’s old engines race losing driving
force.
Still she throws the best aside, gives the place
and rule
To the smuggest hypocrite or the damnedest fool;
Showering down her golden dross where the worth
is small,
Offering her noblest sons wormwood, husks and
gall.
Don’t know how to set it straight, all that’s
crooked here;
Don’t expect to live to see any golden year ;
Only know that all the way things are cronk and
bad.
Walk around the spieler earth waiting to be
“ had,”
Lift my battered hat at times, honoring all I
can ;
Him that, missing wealth and name, lives and dies
a man.
Battling up and down the world, faded, worn and
gray,
They who held the keys of life only yesterday ;
Bigger men than you or I, somehow missed the
’bus —
Took too large a size in hearts to be classed with
us.
Battling up and down the world, meet them here
and there ;
Know by how they hold their heads what they
are and were.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Changed Conventions.
and aeons and aeons ago,
When the world was young and the sky aglow,
I met her, and straight in a fierce embrace,
I crushed her close, till she hid her face
In my hairy bosom and brawny breast.
Like a bird crouched low in its mother’s nest.
I met her again in her Sunday hat,
On the stairway near to my lonely flat;
And she knew me again in my modern gear,
And shot me a challenging glance and clear ;
But now I must pass with a beating heart,
And drift and drift for ever apart.
TASMANIA.
A.
Reverie.
Do you remember, Mary dear,
That golden evening, long ago,
When, in a voice I scarce could hear,
So shyly soft it was, and low,
You said you loved me, whereat fear
Fled vanquished, and I swore to hold
You, sweet, till we were rail and old ?
Do you remember, Anne, our rides
Beside the river, with the grass
Sweeping our horses’ lazy sides,
And how, at length, it came to pass
We checked their listless, measured strides
And talked of love in leafy bowers,
Which leafy tenements were ours?
Do you remember, sweet Suzette,
My room, the armchair and the fire.
And how you shared my cigarette,
And how we vowed we’d never tire?
Your scented kisses burn me yet,
For all the winters that have flown
Since we two pledged our troth, mine own.
Do you remember, Maisie, all
The wild and hopeless tears you shed
When we were parted ? I recall
How empty seemed the world and dead
To me that night. And yet the pall
Was lifted soon. Our grief and pain
Passed like a gust of summer rain.
Do they remember ? Doubtless not.
Mary is married, fat and staid.
Anne’s cheeks are raddled. Suzette’s lot
Is that of a wan, soured old maid.
Maisie no trace of charm has got.
And I—l sit and dream, imbued
With peace, in gracious solitude.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
*■ t * * '■ * « ' ' ' ■■n vP\
V-
.* n *
f. V * * ■■? V >
v-.V
n> I t " r '7"7" '
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Cannot get out of order; is,
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required. •
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars 'Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy- and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land siiitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street—Local Director: A. MESTON.
ilg.il
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
sd
UNDER VICE-REGAL
fsd
PATRONAGE.
For the Latest Style of Head-Dress, Puffs and Swathlngs, £2/10/=
Very Light and Easily Adjusted. Obtainable only at
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth
Telephone 2138 Central.
& Castlereafth Streets.
COMBINGS MADE UP.
WELSBACH
MANTLES
■fITELSBACH MANTLES are the only mantles treated with
' ' Welsbach fluid. This fluid imparts to the mantle won-
derful strength and phenomenal brilliancy.
The great illuminating power and splendid durability of the
Welsbach Mantles have placed them first for lighting efficiency.
Wherever gas is used for lighting purposes, there the Welsbach
Mantle should be. It saves the gas, utilising every inch to the
best advantage, and improves the light as no other mantle can.
Use AVelsbacH Mantles —tHe
Australian-made Mantle.
3294
w>
*7
A
rc
litoA Iva;i?:
WELSBACH
MANTLES
T EARN ,to discriminate between mantles, for there are
" mantles of all kinds. The Welsbach Mantle has many
points of advantage over its rivals. It is Australian made, and
in every independent test made has been proved to be far more
durable and better in every way from the imported variety.
And every "Welsbach Mantle has the same good qualities.
No variation in any way. You can safely rely on any
mantle which bears the Welsbach trade mark.
Your Gasfitter or Storekeeper
can supply you.
Stewart Dawson sCo.
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
■i , !
412 George St., Sydney.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THE WATCHES manu-
factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. is due to
the fact that every modern appliance is used
in their production. The highest possible skill for
perfection of workmanship, using only the best
material and the best mechanism that knowledge
and capital can command in their construction.
EVERYTHING THE BEST, AND NOTHING
BUT THE BEST, IS THE MOTTO OF THE FIRM.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
V*
m
Both the QUALITY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson’s Watches
are famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
f
m
Our Excelsior Keyless English Lever is un-
surpassed. by any Watch. Id is a Model
Watch, compact, convenient, reliable and
efficient.' The movement is a fine quality
}-plate, full jewelled in Rubies, and Brequet
Hair Spring to counteract the effect of violent
exercise, also a cap to protect it from dust.
Price, £4/4/-
#
m
/
Sswiersks
“THE QUEEN LEVER.”
This is a high-grade Lady’s Silver
Lever Watch. Jt is not an ex-
pensive Watch, but it’s one that
we can recommend to you as a
first-class timekeeper. It’s a Key-
less, Jewelled, f-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling Silver
Cases. Hunting Cases, £2/IC/>
Open Pace, £2/5/-
The Watch as shown here is a f-Pldte Keyless
English Lever. It has 7 Ruby Jewels, with
a fine quality adjusted Gold Screwed Com-
pensating 1 Balance. It is fitted with a-Special
Hair Spring, theessential advantage of which
is that the coils will not become displaced
nor catch in the regulator pins Should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling Silver Cases,
and made eictra strong. Special Price, £2/10/-
m
wmmm
tsar:
mz
“THE PRINCESS.”
Tliis shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as “The
Princess.” Although we sell man}'
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaiiit reach us, and this
should he a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article. Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cases.
The movement is Keyless and
properly jewelled. Hunting Cases,
£5/10/- ; Open Face, £4/10/-
TERMS OF SALE.—A Written Cu£rantee with Every Watch. Every Watch sold in perfect confidence, and on a week’s trial
will be exchanged if desired, or full price returned if the least dissatisfaction. I ostnge paid on all Mail Orders.
“THE BUSHMANS LEVER."
Tliis is a Watch we can recommend for
country wear. We are sure it will give you
every satisfaction. It is a Keyless Non-
Mngnetic Lever, Jewelled Movement, with
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised Steel
Cases. £1 Is.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1600.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1910.
Pkice 6d.
THE KING WHO FIDDLED WHILE HIS CROWN BURNED.


> XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during t.he year by the foremost Australasian
writers. _ _ T . ,
The illustrations by “Hop, Norman Lindsay
and other leading representative arti-ts, will be
the finest Black and White work obtainable in
Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO returns will be allowed
■for.
ORDERS FOS EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 19th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Sin<de copiers post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, /d. ,
_ Foreign addresses, 9d. j
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.
Printed and Published bv William Maclwod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor
Thk Bullktin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of'the Co.. 214 Georpe-street Nortn.
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
l‘cr Annum ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... n't n
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bullktin posted
regularly to you ever)/ week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to William Macluod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Biillktin would, oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, adiiei tise.
meats, etc.) should. in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead o>
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright, by the nab •
Ushers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part- of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all.contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, HOOO icords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. . ,
Tim Biillktin will return all unsuitable MS. when trie,
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the. copy is to oe
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications lot
return of MS. cannot, receive attention. Tim Biillktin
desires further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for- direct reproduction
— i.e. any picture which has to be re-drawn—-will be. vct-iti
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide,-at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Thk Bullktin can be obtained .in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown,
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central Neivs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkii. —Thomson Stationery Co., X ancouvej, L.C.,
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong ICong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bullktin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x 14ml,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1910.
THE MEN OF SMALL THINGS.
To MORROW a crowd of politicians, almost every
one of whom looks smaller than almost any
other, will apply to the people of New South
Wales for authority to run the StaW during -the
next three years. It is difficult to raise much
enthusiasm on either side, but Tee Bulletin s
vote will go to James McGowen for the reason
that when, his chance comes he may prove not
quite so incurably parochial as he looks, whereas
Gregory Wade has had his chance and has
proved even more incurable than his appear
ance might lead people to suspect. They are (
both men of small ideas and narrow out-
look — suburban aldermen by nature and
supervisors of the parish pump by instinct,
or the inscrutable dispensations of Brovi-
denck. Except when they talk on the weary
subject of Peter Bowling, it isn’t so easy as it
might be to tell one from another. Neither Waiie
nor McGowen ever really heard of Australia.
Each of them hates the other sections of the
Commonwealth with a dull, ox-like hatred ; and
each regards every part of New South Wales
itself that isn’t Sydney as the Devil might regard
holy water, or as a devout Jew might tix his eye
on the new Yankee poet, Hogsfi.esh. The idea
of a Federal capital that would vastly enrich a
section of their own State which badly needs
population and enrichment, but which would send
its trade to a splendid N.S.W. port which
doesn’t happen to be Sydney, struck one of
them with the same horror as it did the other.
They both obviously believe in the doctrine
that it is better for the far north and far south
of the State to be ruined by paying impossible
freights over impossible distances to Port Jackson
than that the hated and despised sections of
N.S.W. which are not Sydney should be opened
up to oversea commerce, and that other big coastal
cities should arise, to be to Sydney what Liver-
pool is to London, or Odessa to St. Petersburg, or
Glasgow to Edinburgh. So Gregory Wade’s de-
centralisation schemeisan open, glaring, unabashed
fraud, and James McGowen shows no sign of seri-
ously objecting to the fraud. There are some fairly
big ideas on the printed programme of the State
Labor party ; but they are not distinctively big
Australian ideas. So much alike are McGowen
and Wade that when a previous Government
with which the latter was connected started an
insane insurrection against the Commonwealth,
McGowen threw away a promising chance of
office rather than base a vote of censure on the
question. He loved office much, but, apparently,
he hated Australia more—in which respect he
and his opponent were alike.
* * * *
But though the two leaders are much the same
in their smouldering dislike of every State which
isn’t N.S.W., and of every part of N.S.W.
which isn’t Sydney, the amount they are pre-
pared to do for Sydney is strictly limited, so far
as the evidence goes. There are two varieties
of civic devotion. One consists in making loud
and vehement declaration that the unlighted
harbor of Port Jackson is the best and deepest
and most beautiful in the world, and that there is
nothing like it in the-Seven Seas ; and that the
Yarra, on the other hand, is a ditch, and that
Melbourne is a dreary place; and then giving
three cheers and wearing a defiant or patriotic-
long-beer expression. The other consists in a
lavish willingness to spend money, time and
labor for the sake of the City Beautiful—or the
City that would be Beautiful if it had a fan-
chance. The N.S.W. metropolis wants a
Greater Sydney Council—a central body with
unlimited power of improvement—instead of
two score shambling mayors and councils
and town clerks and town halls and
municipal debts, and two score petty muni-
cipal hatreds trimmed with malice and
adorned with all manner of uncharitableness. It
wants a city railway and a new suburban railway,
and a harbor bridge and a harbor tunnel or two.
Above all, it wants a complete reconstruction
scheme —not a piecemeal affair for the widening
of a suburban lane here and an alley there; but
one which will take cognisance of the fact that the
congested centre of the city can’t last much longer
at the present rate of pressure, and that complete
rebuilding will soon be absolutely necessary.
These are the large constructive ideas in winch
Wade and McGowen appear equally lacking.
They will bellow for their favorite city.
They will demand that everything should be
dragged there. They are apparently willing to
lay half the State waste in order that all the com-
merce of N.S.W. may be crowded into a place
that can’t hold, it; and if the compression of all
the naval power of Australia into Sydney Harbor
leads to the running down of a few dozen ferry-
boats they have that wild and whirling devotion
which would just let the ferry-boats and their
human freight be run down rather than let
some Queensland port or some other N.S.W.
port have the empty honor of housing the fleet.
In fact, they are willing to denounce any other
place for the sake of Sydney, and they are
willing to do anything for Sydney that will annoy
or detract from some other place ; but they don t
appear to get any further in the track of practical
improvement. So the Greater Sydney and the
reconstruction policy, and the city railway, and
other things don’t come visibly nearer.
* * * *
In matters of public finance Gregory Wade
stands for reckless borrowing, while James
McGowen, though his party platform contains
an allusion to the rigid restriction of loans,
doesn’t make a feature of tiie anti-borrowing
policy nor explain clearly how lie proposes
to finance without the old pawn-ticket.
And Wade bids for votes by the maddest,
wildest, most amazing South Sea Bubble
devices ; while McGowen neither has the courage
to denounce and expose them, nor the wickedness
to go one better and propound a bigger bubble.
The Government raised a whoop of joy both
amon" prospective buyers and prospective sellers
when it offered to promote closer settlement by
advancing f)5 per cent, of the value-the present
boom value—of the land out of the Savings Bank
funds. It was open to the Opposition leader
either to declare the proposal -an outrage, and
point out that an advance of even 75 per -cent, of
the value was known to be unsafe, or to run
amok and declare that when Ac got into power
he would advance 100 per cent, or perhaps-120
per cent, of the value ; but he did neither. 1 he
Government made a bid for the support of some
20 000 railway and tramway men by offering the
retired employee, aged 60. £133 6s. Bd. per annum
nension in return for a total payment of £l-,0,
and The disabled employee of 40, £66; 13s. 4d. per
annum pension in return for £6O, and correspond-
ing benefits at other ages. In one case, according
to the assurance tables of the average duration of
life it was a case of offering £lno for £120; m
the’ other, it is an offer of £1682 for £OO. Ihe
amounts can never be paid—except in the case of
the middle-aged and elderly men who get m on the
pension list early-for no Treasury the size of
that of N.S.W. could stand the strain ; the great
hi ass of young men will simply pour their money,
by compulsion, into a bottomless sink, and nnf
themselves left in their old age. A worse and
less slow-moving man than Opposition-leader
McGowen might have moved to double the pen-
sion and halve the contribution on tlie ground
that a jest might as well be the biggest possible
jest, and a fraud might as well be a great, com-
plete, garish, monumental fraud. An abler and
less lumbering man—a human ironclad that
didn’t require so much space to turn round in
would have exposed the proposal, and fought it
tooth and nail, and risked s 0 ") 6 Possible tempor-
ary loss of popularity among 20,000 Je'uded rail-
way and tramway officials. But again McGowen
took no definite action. All that vigor and
definiteness which characterise the Opposition
leader when he discourses upon Bowlings iron
furniture appear to quit him when great public
issues are on deck.
* * * *
New South Wales is only a section, and the
smallest section save two, of the Commonwealth.
Yet it is bigger than Germany or trance or the
Austrian Empire ; in tact, it is bigger than any
country in Europe save Russia. It is only the
wretched policy of treating the southern part
of the State as a public danger because
it wants to trade through Melbourne or
Twofold Bay, and the north as a public
injury because it is nearer to Brisbane than to its
own capital; and the west as a negligible quan-
tity because it is geographically attached to
Adelaide, and any intermediate parts of the State
which naturally belong to intermediate ports as
objects of dark suspicion, that the State looks
small. There is room for large-sized men m
N.S.W. to work out a notable future. Yet one
may look through the programmes of both the
existing parties—not the formal paper affairs, but
the programmes that they talk about and enthuse
over and fight for—and not find a single proposi-
tion that wouldn’t be just as well suited to a
State one-quarter or one-tenth the dimensions.
The size of their opportunity doesn’t appcal to the
men whose vision has been so long restricted to
the County of Cumberland and a few adja-
cent parts. The difference between the two
leaders is that long experience shows that with
the Wade party the disease is hopeless, while the
other partv hasn’t yet had a chance to prove its
hopelessness. Therefore McGoWEN and co. call
for public support, even if it is impossible to give
much enthusiasm along with the, support. And
if they get office, and office doesn’t enlarge their
v j eW s—if they continue to be one-pint men pot-
tering with a two-gallon opportunity—well, the
day when N.S.W. must break up into three or
four small States will be so much the nearer.
ALLEGED COMPLETE VANISHMENT
OF WADE’S SURPLUSES.
The following is the financial reform plank from the
Labor platform Cessation of borrowing;, except for—
(a) redemption ; (6) completing worksareadyau thonsed
bv Parliament; (c) UNDERTAKINGS WHICH WILL
PAY INTEREST FROM THE BEGINNING AND PRO-
VIDE 1 PER CENT. SINKING FUND. Now, it is well
known that not one mile of railway was ever built in
N.S.W. under conditions which could pay interest and 1
per cent. No sane man will believe that even the railway
from the coast will pay from the start. (Uproar.) I know
the medicine I am giving you is a nasty dose. You cannot
get away from the facts of your own'p latforni. YOU CAN-
NOT BUILD A MILE OF RAILWAY WHILE THAT
PLANK IS IN YOUR PLATFORM. You will vote for
absolute stagnation if you vote for Labor on the 14th.—
Mr. Thomas (Wade candidate) at Inverell, as reported m
a Sydney daily.
New South Wales, according to certain members
of the Wade party, is a rotten, bankrupt, dog-
kennel of a place without threepence to bang
down on the counter of the place where they dis-
pense beer'and free lunch. It is quite shoeless,
and its hat is bashed in, and its hair sticks up
through the shattered roof thereof. Also, its coat
is torn down the back, and its waistcoat is
in pawn. For, according to certain accredited
Wade candidates—not only the one quoted
above, but many more—the moth-eaten
and tattered community hasn’t the price
of a mile of railway about it. The Labor
party proposes to borrow only for works which
will pay full interest and 1 per cent, sinking fund
to boot—in other words, for undertakings that
will yield about 4| per cent, from the beginning.
The party may take its plank literally, and refuse
to borrow a copper for lines which won’t pay 4i
percent., or it may get round its plank to some
extent, and in the case of a line which will.pay
per cent (i.e., which will pay interest and 1 per
cent, sinking fund on half its cost) it may
compromise by borrowing half the money
and charging the other half to reve-
nue. But, according to the Wade candidate,
whose statements are quoted with seeming ap-
proval by the pro-Wade Sydney Telegraph, it
doesn’t much matter which way this item of the
Labor policy is read. Butting upon it the most
rigid interpretation, a 100-mile new railway in the
bacltblocks will have to be all charged to revenue ;
while, according to the most favorable view, about
50 miles of it must be paid for out of revenue.
Either way the case is equally desperate.
N.S.W. hasn’t the price of even one mile of this
necessary public work in its clothes, says Mr.
Thomas, the Wade Government’s candidate,
and, therefore, it can’t possibly build anything
except out of loan funds.
* * * *
The Bulletin views this statement with alarm
and profound grief. It never believed fully in the
Premier’s alleged surpluses, but to be told by one of
his own followers—one of his Own authorised candi-
dates—that they are all a lie is staggering. The
proposition suggests such unutterable villainy as
to be next door to unbelievable. And it also
implies conspiracy on the part of the Auditor-
General and the Government Statistician, and
utterly reckless lying on the part of the Wadk-
ite papers —notably the Sydney Iklegraph and
Herald. The public has been accustomed to
hear that there has been a huge and regular sur-
plus ever since the present Liberal” push came
into office. . The figures have varied from year to
year, but they have been tremendous; for
the ’ 12 months ended June 30, 1908,
Ivnibbs put tlie N.S.W. State revenue
down at £13.960.763 and the expenditure at
£12,095,593, making a magnificent credit balance
of £1,865,170. The cost of the railways opened m
that year averaged less than £3OOO per mile. So,
according to these official figures, there was enough
available revenue —available without a copper of
new taxation—to build 622 miles of line.in a single
vear which is far more than N.S.W. really wants
to build in any single year. And in other years
it was declared that there was enough surplus
revenue —nobody seems to know exactly n hat
Wade did with it—to build 200 or 300 or 400 miles
of new line, which is also more than the State wants
to construct in any one year. It was doubt-
less these stupendous lies—Wade’s candidate,
Thomas, declares that, so far from there being
money available to build 600 miles of new line,
there wasn’t, either then.or in any other year or
in any series of vears, the necessary £3OOO or so to
build one mile of line ; so the statements must be
lies—which led the Labor party to put the re-
striction of borrowing plank in its platform. And
now when a representative of the Wade interest
unblushingly jeers at it for its folly in not realising
how-thin the whole story was, it lias just ground
of complaint.
* * * *
The situation grows more complicated the more
it is inspected. The Wade party demands,
through the mouth of Thomas, to be returned to
power with its borrowing policy, as against the
Labor policy (which exists on paper, anyhow,
though the party shows a grievous lack of real
enthusiasm about the matter) of no borrowing, or
severely restricted borrowing. It supports i s
claim by the assurance that, despite all it has sai
about its wealth and progress, and its success, and
its brilliant finance, there isn’t really £<3OUU or s
on the premises. In other words, it claims to oe
re-elected on the ground that it is the most lnlPU-
dent confidence trickster of the generation. (
course, there may be the alternative tha
the Wade candidate above quoted is sim-
ply throwing mud at the credit or us
own State and dragging its financial honor
among the dead cats of the gutter in the hope ot
improving his chance on polling day, but suie y
even that very small traitor, Twopence Iscariot,
would draw the line there.) And it is a curious
side-issue that the paper which published this e-
markable piece of intelligence, without a word ot
comment or contradiction, is one which lias con-
sistently insulted the other States over their
alleged poverty, and represented In .b.W under
the Carkdtheus-Wade regime as the gjeat,-
ent, enduring prop of the Commonwealth. JNever
till now did it hint that the Ma State was so hard
up that it would be justified in holding out its
tattered hat to Tasmania for a ms. Revelations
of this sort ought to be broken to the com-
munity gently. There are people with weak
hearts among the populace, and shocks are liable
to lead to serious consequences, and a jury mignt
call these consequences manslaughter, iheae lias
been nothing more sudden since the tall ot Con-
stantinople.
* * * *
Of course, something should be done, but the
misfortune is that it is difficult to do anything
large enough to meet such a case, especially m the
brief time available. In any case, Wade S can-
didate, Thomas, should be left to rely on the
support of the criminal and lunatic classes.
Unless he has been wholly nnsreported, lie is
either about the worst slanderer that ever struck
IM.S.W. (with the possible exception of Colonel
ONSLOW, of the same party, who said that in
Australia we have no money of our own ), 01
he is a maddened cynic who regards the perpetra-
tion hy his own leaders of the boss fraud of the
century as something approaching a subject ot
mirth. There should be a hurried investigation
into his statement, and if it proves true, or even
half true, every member of the Wade party who
can be in any way connected with the faking ot
the accounts should be disqualified from Parlia-
mentary life for ever. The members of the
Ministry should be arrested along with the
Auditor-General, and the Treasurer should be
turned upside down in the watch-house and
shaken to see if a few millions will drop
out of him. When it is solemnly declared,
bv a politician supposed to be in the confidence
of the Ministry, that millions of alleged surplus
have so utterly vanished, or have been so utterly
non-existent, that where they should be there
really isn’t the price of 1760yds. of cheap railway,
it is time to turn almost anybody upside down
and to shake almost everybody. The flags should
fly half-mast on the day of revelation, and the
bells on the ferry steamers should toll a mournful
dirge, and the Premier’s house ought to be
searched for hidden treasure and his garden dug
up. Also, the. matter calls for special services in
the churches. There should be a day of humilia-
tion and scare, and the other States chould be
telegraphed to asking them it they can lend
K.S.W. a few shillings to go on with, find
the Federal capital should be put up at
auction bv way of raising the wind. Also,
Wade’s alleged sinking fund for the repay-
ment of the public debt should be abolished as a
swindle and a gold brick, for if N.b.W. hasn t
enough money of its own to build 1760yds. of rail-
way it is utter insanity to assume that it had, in
1909, £478,791 to pay”in reduction of the public
debt. If the money was paid it must have been
either bad or stolen. These propositions are, of
course, based on the assumptions that the
WADE-ite candidate who howled at lnvereli was
speaking the truth. If he wasn’t speaking the
truth, the remedy seems to lie in the passing of an
Act under which”the minimuni penalty for base-
less slander of one’s country” shall be hold con-
tempt, clods and three months-*'hard.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Land Tax Confusion.
Under the leadership of Attorney-General
Hughes —the Prime Minister being away packing
his bag for South Africa —the House of Represent-
atives bogged in last week' with certain rather
surprising amendments to the Progressive Land
Tax Bill. The things it did were not exactly cal-
culated to stagger humanity, as Paul Kiiugek
used to put it; but they certainly created a feel-
ing of mild astonishment. There were a number
of small side issues ; but the real interest of last
Thursday centred round certain amendments
which Attorney-General Hughes heaved into the
Bill, making the principal penalty clauses read as
follows: —
Any person who, with intent to defraud, in any return
understates the unimproved value of any land, shall be
guilty of an indictable offence, penalty £SOO, and in addi-
tion'thereto an amount equal to treble the amount of the
tax which would have been evaded if the value stated in
the return had been accepted as the unimproved value of
the land, or forfeiture of the land undervalued or any
part thereof.
Where the value stated in the return is less by 25 per
cent, or more than the value found bv the jury, the value
shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the con-
trary, to have been understated with intent to defraud
the Act.
In the first place, it will be noted, the owner is to
value his own land. He isn't expected to value
it above its real worth, yet he must strike the
happy mean and not get below it; or rather, he
must so arrange things that a jury which possibly
knows very little of the subject won’t think he has
gone below it. Failing that, he will get beans.
Especially, the expert or inexpert jury must not
think that he has gone 25 per cent, below the real
value, else he is liable to get hell. Yet it is less
than 20 years since a dozen banks of issue and
severaldozen land banks and building societies
came to appalling grief through utter in-
ability to guess the value of land within
30 or 40, per cent.; in fact, sometimes they
were out 95 per cent., and valued by the foot
at the rate of town allotments land which is to-day
very inferior cow pasture and saleable by the
square mile. And after the financial blizzard-
well, for a few years the value of land in
Melbourne was a mystery, for practically no one
was buying, and there was nothing to go upon.
A particular foot of frontage might be worth
£2O to a person who wanted it, or it might be
worth £SO. The trouble was to find the person
who wanted it. Under these conditions a worried
owner might simply say to the Department;
“ Value the land yourself, and be done with it.
In that fashion he would avoid all responsibility
and risk of fine and confiscation. But apparently
the Department won’t value the land itself until
after the owner has valued it; lie has got to guess
what figure the Department will put oil the pro-


perty, and if he guesses too low he'is-liable'to'
strike great misery. Also, if he guesses too high,
he is liable to establish a standard which will)
bring his neighbors into great misery; l l /.There
may have been no recent property sales in the
locality to go upon, and even if there hav.fe,. it is
very hard, when a big city property iis.sold, to-
ted how much of the price represents land and
how much represents buildings; Of course, the
two may in future be paid for separately, but
that won’t help much ; if the total price is
£IOO,OOO, it is possible to put the land in
conveyance at £IOOO, or any other sum, and
the buildings at £99,000, or apy other sum, and
no one will take such valuations seriously.
All this clumsiness won’t mattepmuch among the
big arable estates. It is the purpose of the Bill
to break them up into small farms which will pay
no tax, and when that end is achieved the trouble
will be over. But in the cipy it is impossible to-
break up a 25ft. allotment for closer settlement,
and the worry will be permanent. The amount
of the tax is so moderate that php city owner can
pay it and still be very much better off than
the ( city landowner in England, but how a
particular form of impost which is specially
devised for breaking up purposes came
to be regarded as a fitting thing to apply
to pocket-handkerchief areas in King-street,
Sydney, and how a device which was avowedly
intended to promote closer settlement hap-
pened to be considered as suitable to Redfern
and Chippendale, still remains a mystery. How-
ever that is another story.
The Wild Finances cf Stinking Fish.
Ths* craving for debt springs eternal in the Tory
breast. According to the London Economist,
during the last nine months company stock and
public loans representing £102,000,000 of capital
were floated in Great Britain for the purpose of
exploiting foreign lands. This huge sum was
distributed in many places, but only £7,000,000 of
it came to Australasia. In fact, this country was
a smaller borrower than even Brazil and Argen-.
tina. So tiie Sydney Telegraph wept and piped
its eye because the community isn’t getting into
debt fast enough, and under the mournful head-
ing "‘Cold Shouldering the Commonwealth,” it
wailed in this wise :
British capital which, under proper conditions, would
be pouring in here to develop our latent resources and
provide an industrial stand-by against the return of the
bad seasons, is giving the Commonwealth a wide
berth and seeking investment elsewhere. .".
Canada does not present a better field f r enterprise
than Australasia, with its infinite variety of resources;
yet it attracted more than four times the amount of
British capital. A more serious aspect of the position,
however, is that, the capital which we shut out of the,
Commonwealth is going to South America to develop a,
trade that will compete against ours in the European ’
markets. With all its liability to revolutionary disturb-
ances, the republic of Brazil attracted XI 1,000,000, and
ttie Argentine X 10,000,000. When these countries are
found to be offering stronger inducements to the British
investor than Australia, the cause must be an artificial,
one. There is nothing either in the natural resources of
South America or in the character of its population -to
account for the preference. What it is due to
is the uncertainty regarding our financial outlook
caused by the Socialistic trend of Australian politics.'
And as if this was not sufficient, actual legisla-
tion is now issuing from the Eederal Parliament for
penalising the investment of British capital in the Com-
monwealth. As this begins to take effeoi, we must look
not only for a further restriction in the influx of money
for investment, but much of that which is here and sub-
ject to a special tax will be withdrawn. . . The madcap
policy of excluding capital and sending it to assist our
competitors will demand a heavy reckoning.
Now, there are just two reasons why a Country
doesn’t receive foreign capital: (1) It may he so
poor and disreputable that it can’t get it; (2) it
may be doing so well that it doesn’t need it. Un-
fortunately, it is the regular theory of the Stinking
Fish party that Australia is always, and must
always be, so stone-broke that it requires the loan
of British money all the time. The fact that
Britain doesn’t borrow abroad proves that Britain
is rich through good government and Freetrade ;
the fact that Australia is ceasing to borrow abroad
only proves, according to the bright and phos-
phorescent lexicon of Stinking Fish; that Aus-
tralia’s pants are beginning to go through
misgovernment and Protection. Yet, in other
moments and other moods, the same sort
of paper will rise to make strenuous de-
claration that Australia was never so rich in all
its previous history, and will try to show that
Gregory Wade is mainly responsible for the pre-
vailing affluence, and should consequently be re-
elected with great applause. As for the affluence,
it sticks out conspicuously. In N.S.W. alone,
manufactures and commerce have almost doubled
in the last 10 years, and the way land settlement
has progressed under the beneficent guidance of
“Liberalism” is a subject of which the Tele-
graph is never weary. The building boom in
Sydney is tremendous, and new companies are
being floated daily. Yet while, under the new
Protectionist regime, the State can find locally
almost all the money required tq finance these huge
undertakings, the cash that lids unemployed in the
banks of the State has boomed up in 10 years,
from less than £6,000,000 to fjlmpsti exactly
£12,000,000. And the other mainland States
show very similar records. Why a, country with
all that money on hand should'want to borrow,
only a madman or a Stinking Fish pan gqess- The
Tory theory is that a Rothschild is never really
affluent unless he has pawned his clothes, and that
a Daily Telegraph can’t be who.lly solvent
unless there is a bill of sale on .the .printing
machine, and that no , country is truly
rich unless it is getting deeper .and deeper
into foreign debt. Unfortunately the party
doesn’t stick to its narrative, and that spoils,the
interest of the story. At the present moment
N.S. W. is (1) immensely rich through the splen-
did management of the State Government; (2.) so
dead-broke through Federal muddling that only
financial aid from England can avert disaster; (3)
nobly paying off old debts through the operation
of Wade’s sinking fund ; (4) not accumulating
new debts fast enough ; . (5) possessed, of.'a regular
and splendid surplus—thanks to Wade; (6)
so utterly devoid of any surplus that it
would be impossible to build one mile of
railway out of revenue, wherefore the State Labor
party’s limitation-of-borrowing idea is sheer
lunacy. All these things lead to confusion, and
confusion leads to drink, and from drink arise
anger, incivility, procrastination and all manner
of devilment.
-
Wanderers by the Sea Shore,
The N.S.W. Decentralisation, Qommission be-
comes more and more of a jest with increasing
age. It has wandered to the edge of almost every
salt-water inlet in N.S.W. and poked its walking-
stick into the depths ttiereof. It lias taken evi-
dence almost everywhere on the coast and ’the
tableland, and has learned that the water in each
inlet is wet; that it is of a certain depth under
certain conditions (which could have been dis-
covered in half an hour without leaving Sydney,
for the depths are all on record), and that w.hen
the tide is up there is more water than
when it isn’t; and that the hills behind
each inlet are of a certain height (this also
was known before), so that if a railway is
made from the top of-one.of these hills down to
sea level the drop wijl be the same as the eleva-
tion, the distance fr,pin.the bottom of a hill to the
summit being the, same as it.is the other way
about. Also, it has been ascertained that if a cer-
tain district is 100 miles from.one good. harbor
and 300 miles from afiqtbqr, it will save money,
other things being equal, by sending its exports
via the first harbor '; for when One place is 200
miles nearer than another thb other place is 200
miles further off, and' 200 • miles- of■ haulage
costs money. Up and 'down the coast,
and in and out and round about the ' Com-
mission has gathered valuable knowledge,
and now it proposes to struggle out to the dry
west and there collect f urther news about harbors.
The more inlets it visits the more little coastal
tovvns does it impress with the idea that each of
them will be developed into another Sydney if the
great and beneficent Wade only gets back into
power, and the more inland towns it visits the
more does it disseminate the idea that Wade is
going to do something stupendous for these inland
towns. Also, -the more places it calls at the more
impossible does it become for it to report before
election day, and as Wade professes that he
can’t, do anything without the report, be is
saved the awkward necessity of mentioning at
this critical moment that the decentralisation
business is all a sham, and thus maddening many -
country voters ; or stating that it is real, and thus-
infuriating many Sydney ditto. It is a humorous'
business. The N.S. W. authorities know that the-
State has two or three first-class ports besides
Sydney; they know where the ports are, the
amount of water in them, the districts they are-
calculated to serve, the radway mileage required'
to connect these districts and the said ports, and
the amount of superfluous haidage that such-
arrangements would save. There was never any.
necessity for the Commission at all; still less was'
there any need for it to drop in at bar-bound inlets'
with about a yard of water, and waste -time in
deep consideration of the stranded prawn upon'
the shore and the dismasted crab which went
down with all hands. Still less is there any need
to go west to see if there is a closed port at Cobar
or if the' P. and 0. 'Steamers require special
facilities about Nyngan. But, as already men-
tioned, all this sort of thing .keeps Wade before
the country as a man of large-ideas, and mean-
while-he makes his position good in and around
the oity with remarks like these,:—
At no distant date, the whole'of the wharfage accom-
modation on the southern side Of the'harbor will be
required.for the export of the produce of the-southern
portion or this State, WHICH MUST GO ME.TO SYDNEY,
OUR ON|E DEEP SEA PORT- It \vil.l, therefore, be
necessary to make similar provision on the, nqrth side of
the harbor at Ball’s Head for the rapidly-increasing pro-
duce from the northern part of the State.
Some Gaps in the McGowen Battle-axe.
Thk wail of “ Jeremiah”
Tue hr we toast that is rife in N'.S.YV. Labor circles,
“ McGowen—Premier after ihe 14th,” leaves me cold
and questioning. I drink it sometimes, as becomes one
who has voted, the ticket ever since George Keid started
his Anti-Sosh campaign ; but I. execute the, manoeuvre
with little zest. Is McGowen making good ? I doubt, it.
I take no stock in the daily paper 'gag that “ the Pre-
mier's dauntless' fighting” is lashing the 1 country to a
passion of enthudasm for the “Liberal” cause.
One looks for discoveries Of this sort as polling-
day draw's near. The attempt fo boom Wade
as a picturesque daredevil sort of person* because
he addresses crowds that would be well-behaved even
if they.weren’t pell-policed is pdpable humbug. No
one feels enthusiastic about the chill uptnqgnetic lawyer
who heads the panicky forces of “ Liberalism arid
“ Liberalism " its-Tf is painfully unpopular. • Its warmest
friends are, qf course, the trqe-blue,Tori.es—the folks who
n turally attach themselves tp the cause which, under
whatever aliak, strikes thejn as promising lekst change,
which is to say most stagnation. But even they onl v
accept “ Liberalism ” as the, less of two evils: Tltey hate
Wade’s anti-gambling legislation ; they despise iiis anti-
, liquor sympathies, and they blaspheme .whenever, his
grossly Socialistic Land and Local Government Acts are
mentioned in their hearing. The wage-earners who
don’t happen to be militant wowsers have nothing
tq thank WADE-ism for; and they know it. , The
clerks demanded bread, and achieved after many
delays and a'host of insults, a small, dry ‘fragment of
granite. No railway man with an elementary knowledge
of arithmetic is fooled by the Wade Government’s Super-
annuation scheme. Speaking generally, the workers
appreciate that “ Liberalism ” lias been acting the part
of a Fiji uncle to them ever since April 13 last. The
administration of “ Liberalism,” during the past six
years, may have been well-meaning and honest (though
sometimes-, as in the case of the wire-netting steal, it
wasn’t even that) ; but, at the best, it has been, hope-
lessly incompetent. The stupendous list of reverses it
has sustained in the law courts is a fair measure of its
incapacity in one direction, and its idiotic handling of
the coal strike will go down in history' as a record
Bungle, in its line. So WADE-ism starts in the dash for
office under severe handicaps ; and the enthusiasm for an
anti-WADK party should, by now,.be at fever heat.
And yet it isn’t. For all “ Liberalism’s ” shifty, tact-
less and discreditable record, there is nothing like the
feeling for the McGowkn party that there was, six months
ago, for the Fisher party. McGowkn has behind him
the solid phalanx of Labor supporters who have toiled for
the cause for years; but many of the recfuits which
Fisher gained have dropped off State Labor,'if, indeed,
they ever fairly caught on to it. A reason is that tfiere
is nothing in the goodswhich McGowkn to par-
ticularly attract them. The articles mayn’t be quite so
fly-blown and aged and out-of-date as those shown by Wade
and co. ; hilt they are pretty near it. The Nationalist
elector—and he. is a numerous elector these days-nis
offered no more by state Labor than he is by Liberalisni.
McGowkn yields nothing to Wade in his zeal for “ State
Rights”—which is really, to say, Sydney Rights.
McGowen is as rabid an advocate of a Federal capital
within hail of the Sydney press as Wade. The recent dis-
reputable back-down in the Australian Parliament over
the capital-site matter, as a result of whrdh 1 numbers of
Labor Representatives and Senators supported and fought 1
for Yassberra against all their expressed convictions, is'
understood in knowledgable circles to'have been in- -
spired by the McGowen party—the mistaken idea being'
that Labor in N.S. W. might do a bit of political-good' for’
itself by truckling to'N.S.W. Tory prejudices. - McG6wen'
detests the idea of a Federal capital at Dalgety for the
same reasons Wade does—because the opening of a fresh,
port at Twofold Bay might divert business from Sydney
merchants and shippers (who, incidentally, are not
McGowkn’s friends), and remove a certain amount of
authority from the Sydney dailies which, incidentally,
are McGowen’s bitter enemies). The main difference;
between Wade, apd ,McGo\yF,N in this regard is that,
Wade’s attitude, though unpatriotic, is
(on the ground that the wise politician barracks for the
hobbies of his supporters), while 'McGowen’s line of
action is not only unpatriotic but inexplicable. The
ty r pe of citizen,who votes Yassberra is fixed in the view
that Labor is the Devil. In all cases where the
Federal Government li’es under suspicion of attempts
to “whittle away the powers of the ; State”
MoGowen makes the same anguished protests as,
Wade. In the natural'order of things, the Slate Legisla-
tures must develop into bodies approximating in size and
importance to Shire Councils. Already, tpey are deprived
of any voice or hand in Defence, the Post Office, the
Customs, Old Age Pensions ana so on, Federal control,
in all industrial disputes is cpming, and Federal railways
are in the offing. Folks who see ahead don’t care how
soon these and other changes, of 'the sort are jnade. But;
McGowkn is not of their number. Wherefore the average,
Australian-minded elector, as opposed to the Sydney-
minded variety, remains an apathetic gpectafor.pf,the
McGowkn assault upon the Wade citadel. , ..
Above all, McGowen is a failure as a fanner'of the
Labor flame in N.S.W. by reason of his highly-inoral but
feeble and vacillating character. He is (the mqst useful
adversary a reactionary leader like Wade could -have.
By his hesitancies and jiue to a chronic
dread of making mistakes, he does the democratic 'cause
more damage than the wildest firebrand. He has the
caution of that other Tory-minded Laboyite, W. M.
Hughies, without Hughes’s subtle gift of gauging public
opinion and sheering off a Tory ideal before it, is dead.
Compare the deft way Hughes got away from Dread-
nausea 18 months ago, with McGowen’s present attitude
(towards the equally moribund doctrine of State Frights.
Nothing did Federal Labor more good, last April,
than the uncompromising fashion in which Fisher stood
forth, and from the jump, regardless of press
howls and the opposition of his shorter-sighted
colleagues, smote the Dreadnought movement fore
and aft. Fisher didn’t! nose round “gauging pub-
lic opinion ”in this matter. He reckoned Drgadriausea
was blank foolishness, and he said so. , There is no big
issue in connection with which the mind’s eye of N.S.W.
ean see James McGowen takingup a stand like that. In re-
gard to the speedy opening up of N.S.W.’s Closed Ports,
no one knows just where McGowen stands, though there is
reason to think that his location is'so neat Wade's as to
make no difference. In the Federal capital matter he is,
of course, with Wade heart and soul. Apd , so, in
other things. He is an ' Oppositionist who, in,
many of the things that matter most, lacks
the nerve or sense to, • oppose.' Thus is the !
ardor of would-be supporters'damped. And the pathos
of it is, the people whose views he, advocates, either
openly or by theimplication of silgnce-rfche Yassberraites,
the anti-Federalist.s, the pro-Sydney interests crowd, and
so on—wbul'd rather be disfranchised for life than be
politically associated with- him or bis supporters.
McGowen may make good on the 14th. The case against
WADE-ism is powerful enough to hoist almost any con-
fieisvable Opposition into office. But the country will
have to forgive and forget a lot before it rushes to support
AlcGowen in the confident, enthusiastic way it supported
Fisiier six months ago.
The Remarkable and Continued Silence of
Gregory Wade-
Seeing that the N.S.W. Premier has lately
thrown quite a drove of bouquets at himself re
the noble, fair, manly and honorable fashion in
which he is fighting the election, he might sparp
a moment to Clear up a muddy suspicion which
has been hanging round him for quite a while now.
It arose in the Assembly in the days before
the name of P. Bowling had become the ex-
treme w'eariness which it now is. Wade was
heaving round in his customary fashion the usual
dark innuendoes re the things lie could .tell about
the Labor party if he; only chose to, .drop
the mantle of reticence, and the wearied
Laborites were urging him for goodness sake
to be a man and not a,murky kid, and to tell all
he knew. Hedidn’t tell anything, but his follower
Fitzpatrick did. Fitzpatrick rushed into the
'breach, and declared that Labor member 1 GrRAkAME
had gone ip a strictly confidential way to ' Wade
and urged him to fall on Peter Bowling like a
multitude of bricks. The aniazed . Grahame
denied the story root and branch, and demanded
that Wade should either corroborate Fitzpatrick
or declare Fitzpatrick a liar. Wade did,neither;
he refused to do either ; he still refuses. It was
hardly the sort of thing a man should do ; it
wasn’t exactly the sort of conduct,one expects on
the part of a gentleman ; and it wasn’t the actioii
of a lady. Also, ■ one would hardly look for
that kind of thing from a horse. Still, it
was the action of Wade. Now the position
is this; If Fitzpatrick spoke the truth then
Wade is a man whose word can’t be relied upon,
for, according to the story, Grahame said certain
things to Wade in Confidence and then Wade
broke that confidence by' repeating them to hijs
political jackal. If Fitzpatrick didn’t speak
the truth, then his friend Wade makes an assq-
ciate of a scandalous liar, and by his silence he is
to some extent a party to the lie. Either way
Wade is a shuffler who has no direct answer
about him. He originated the trmtble by his
hints and his evasiveness, and when his con-
duct led to him being. quoted as the sole
authority for a disgraceful story, he refused
to say w'hether he was the authority or not.
A man who is always giving himself three cheers
for his honesty and straightforwardness should
be above such tactics. There is in them neither
political honesty nor common-sense, and they are
poor, bob-tailed devices which aren’t even pic-
turesque.
The Case for Sydney Harbor.
Dear Bulletin, —In a recent issue you make
some remarks about the S. M. Herald S wild
laudation of Sydney harbor as the only possible
site ■ for an Australian naval base, and so on.
After speaking, of the time when Sydney is to be
the third city of the globe, etc., that paper uttered
its piece as follows :
If the matter be regarded mote particularly from the
point of view of facts as they are; rather than as they
maybe, the advantages of Sydney as a naval bafee appear
overwhelming. FIRST? OF ALL, WE HAVE A HARBOR,
WHOSE EQUAL'IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO FIND,
EVEN IF THE WHOLE WORLD WERE SCOURED IN
THE SEARCH. Then much money lias already been ex-
pended upon naval works here. Besides what has been
done by the imperial Government, we have State and
privately-owned docks, which are ready to hand, and
would' be of incalculable service in time of war. We
have the nucleus of a shipbuilding industry, which is
capable of unlimited expansion under favorable con-
ditions, Within easy access lie the richest coal
veins south of the’ line, which mean the < eco-
nomical production of shipbuilding material and fuel
for the vessels when once they are afloat. Then, atLith-
gow, there are the only iron and steel works in the Com-
monwealth. In regard to coal and iron and steel, there-
fore, Sydney stands in a unique position. No other port
of the'Commonwealth .is, or ever can be, so favorably
situated. Then, again, if the Federal Government fulfils
its pledges iii regard to' the capital site, Sydney will be
the first great port within easy access of that centre, an
additional advantage, especially in time of trouble.
This purely local piffle is such an old-establislved
institution iii Sydney' that most people take the
super-excellence' of Sydney Harbor as admitted
atid self-evident. Yet, as a matter of fact, it is
neither, as 'every world-traveller knows. Sydney
is aßbt'pa&ingly lovely harbor, and at one time it
ydas eyeri 1 lovelier than it is now; but beauty is
one thing 'and usefulness is another. In older
days, when warships were far smaller than they
are at'present, and guns were of short range, and
commerce hadn’t crowded up Port Jackson to
anything like the present extent, there were
points abdut that inlet fo|- naval purposes. Now
the situation is different. The triple harbor of
Sydney, according to modern ideas, is to a very
considerable extent shallow water. The upper
portions (Lane Cove, the Parramatta River,
etc.), also a great part of Middle Harbor and
North Harbor, are more scenic than useful. The
rest is fairly good, though the entrance—which
has, according to the Shipping World Year
Book, a reliable 28ft. or so of depth—isn’t deep
enough to admit the largest modern ships. The
channels inside are also too shallow for the
biggest ships of to-day, and the numerous islands
greatly reduce the available space. Furthermore,
guns are a long-range business in this twentieth
century, and no really big vessel could get far
enough upi the harbor -to be safe from the fire of
any first-class-battleship lying fairly close outside.
Compared with the reliable 28ft. at the entrance
to Port Jackson, the Shipping World Year
Book mentions thkfc there is a depth of 60ft.
to 72ft. at the entrance to Port Darwin, and 36ft.
at the end of Ror ; t Darwin wharf. The general
depth inside . Port Darwin harbor is said to be
from 24ft. to' 90ft. There is reported to be a depth
of 36ft. in the fairway which leads up to Mel-
bourne ; 30ft. at the entrance to Albany (W. A.);
47ft. at the end of Hobart pier; and 30ft. at the
entrance to Gladstone harbor (Queensland).
About a lot of good Australian harbors such as
Portland, Port Lincoln and Port Stephens the
volume above-quoted gives no information, be-
cause these places have never been allowed to do
anything serious in the way of foreign trade. As
regards ports of the Southern Hemisphere outside
the Commonwealth, Sydney, of course, is hardly
in the same category with Rio Janeiro (Brazil),
where the shallowest part of the entrance has 33ft.
of water at dead low tide (even that is to be
deepened btecause, Brazil’s latest monster ironclad
wants move perpendicular elbow-room), and
there are 3Q , square miles of deep water
(30ft. to 70ft.) inside the heads. Auckland is also
both deeper and far more spacious than Sydney—
it is one of the few harbors that the unimpassioned
British official volume describes as.“capable of
affording safe and sheltered anchorage (or the
whole of the world’s navies’’—and. there aie
others. To sum the'case up, Port Jackson; prpb;
ably ranks .among the. first half-dozen of the
world’s harbors—harbors,’ that is to, say, with
cities on them, places'.like Milford. Sound being
disqualified—for beauty, and among thefirstfhun-
dred or sd for usefulness. It isn’t the bbst.ih the
world, or the best -in. the Southern Hehiisphefe,
or even the best in Australasia. It ranked jn the
very first line for,commercial' and naval purposes
when ships were smaller and, gUiis“of shorter
range thap. they are now ; but things h&ve altered,
and the magnificent brag whicVwas, riot out of
place two dozen years ago, is yfery. inucH'’dut of
place now, • There haiVbeen tod much pf a ten-
dency to'mistake picturesqueness fop convenience,
and to consider'that, because the red roofs of
Mosraan are interesting 'and the by-ways of
Middle Harbor surpassingly lovely,-therefore the
last word nas been’ said on the subject'of the
Australian naval station. And.it hasfpt.—Yours
etc., llenky'H. ‘ ’ j 'T ! > >;
'.t• » • i •
. ■ ; -♦ r— ■
“Politicos” : Re that' proposal of the -Wade
Government (B. 22/9/110) to provide liberal super-
annuation allowances to railway men on a eon-
tribut on: of 1J per cent., the .experience' of the
Queensland Police Superannuation scheme is in-
structive. For many years the police paid in 2
pet cent, to a fund, with the result that the thing
became hopelessly insolvent, The contribution
was then raised to -per cent., and still the abyss
of insolvency kept on. yawning, and an eminent
actuary reported that • a levy of 6 per cent, at
least would be required to put the scheme on a
sound basis. To-day ' the' Banahaland Govern-
ment has to shell out about £30.000 per ahnu<n to
.meet police superannuation liabilities, and every
year sees the State contribution get bigger and
bigger. The same thing is bound', to happen in
>N.‘ Si Wales. But- Mr.- Wade’s troubles ! His
glorious. part has been to give the I O. U; it will
be somebody else’s awkward job to pay it.
—♦ ■■ 1 i
Vic. Premier Weary’s Workmen’s Goropousation
Bill is a sloppy affair. Under it, employers of
“four men or women or less’’ are specially ex-
empted from liability, except where the accident
is attributable to the use of machinery by the em-
ployer, or unless the injured worker was employed
in handling horses, fining,.building operations or
electricaj work.’ A particularly smifHesome piece
of hypocrisy is the inclusion of domestic servants
in. the classes legislated for—snufflesome, because
the “four-minimum” proviso .will knock 90 per
cent, of them out, as it will also many other classes
of workers, agricultural laborers, milkers in small
dairy farms, market-erardeners’ employees, etc.
Why Murray has inserted this exemption Heaven
knows! If he thinks it is going to attract the
“small man” to his banner he eirs badly, The
inevitably effect will be to. cause, the large em-
ployer to get the best labor that G offering while
the small 'man will have to go withpofor put up
vvith the second-rate, unless he offeis higher
wages.
The Little Boys of Mudgee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The small boys sat close to their parents, took up very
ljttle room, and clapped when the others clapped. The
meeting was as great a triumph for Liberalism was thq
Premier’s Bathurst meeting.— Sydney D.T, report of
Wade’s Muagee meeting.
The small, green hoy has a small, green mind, and
he loves to make a noise,;
So Liberals kindly bear in mind we’v e work for
the smallest boys ; >'» •
His thoughtless yell is an asset now, and his rest-
less feet and hands ’ ‘
Can help us to drown the hated voice of the man
who understands ;
Sobring him along when Pad turns up to listen
to Gbkgory Wade,
And tell him to clap each time Dad claps, for
that’s how triumphs are made.
The deaf’ning bray of the wild young ass will
pass as the lion's roar,
And gladden the middleman w|m wants Wade’s
Government to restore ; , ,
The whole State’s trade through the Bottle Neck—
be blowed to the man outback !
We want commission on all his stuff! Leii it take
■ the same old track.
Bluff/mn with Commissions that last for years,
and bag his vote to-day,
And him, to cheer with his infant son for what
they’ve received. (Hooray!)
It is good to hear with the parent’s roar that
young voice clear and shrill,
Ifor it is the yelp of Posterity, which will have to
pay the bill;
The railway porter, grown old and frail, will call
,on that lad when we,
Who promised his pension, have passed right out;
and rest in the cemet’ry,
So get him to cheef with’all his might. When we
are safe on the shelf
|3e may reflect: “They did the wrong, but I
cheered like a fool myself! ”
The time is short and the case is weak, so let us •
have lots of Noise !
Let Literalism rush to the polls to the cheers of
thoughtless hoys ;
Police will shepherd the man who thinks and asks
for an answer plain.
And out he’ll go upon his ear if he dares to do it
again;
Whenever he rises, madly cheer and stamp with
Liberal feet;
And tell the kids to do the same—then the
triumph will be complete.
N.S.W.
FOE.


Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
UPF* Moving: Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place : Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
Revolutions may come and revolutions
may go, but those countries which progress with
the assistance of D.C.L. Wisdom progress peace-
fully and well. And wise people can only wish
Portugal peace and happiness under the auspices
of D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise, under whose
amber smile prosperity disports like sunbeams on
the glad sea waves.*
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M
ALEXANDRA
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of tl&e
Valley
Natural.
Nig'ht*
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm,
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
CA J-
%
:7*\
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney
A Foot and Mouth Government.
It is seldom that Australia, or any other place,
has possessed a Ministry with a more amazing
capacity for putting its foot in its own mouth
than that of Wade. It suffers from foot and
mouth disease in a bad form. To quote a case in
point—the Sydney law reports mentioned last
Tuesday thatCoßNELius Delohery, once police
magistrate, but now a very old man and retired,
is suing the Government for pension money
alleged to be due and unpaid, and that the
Government pleaded in defence —
That at the time and since plaintiff made his claim
there were no funds to the credit of the superannuation
account.
It is an unpleasant reminder that the old N.S.W.
Civil Service Superannuation Fund charged its
members 4 per cent, on their salaries for com-
paratively small benefits, whereas Wade’s
wonderful new Railway and Tramway Pension
Fund, which is expected to bring him so many
votes, charges only 14 per cent, for very large
ones; and still the old fund went broke—hope-
lessly and unutterably broke. Furthermore, the
Treasury was just as much bound to keep the old
fund on its feet as it is to keep the new one, and
it didn’t keep it on its feet. And the “ Liberal ”
party was in power when the breakage came, just
as it is now. There is a common impression to
the effect that Parliament is pledged to make
good every year the deficit in the new
fund, but that is quite wrong; the Act
doesn’t make the shortage a fixed charge
on the revenue, but merely prophesies that
future Parliaments will recognise their obligations
in the matter, which is just as binding as if it fore-
told that a brown horse named Food would win
the Melbourne Cup of 1920. And the Wade
Government, despite its alleged great surpluses
and its ability to pay in full, seems to think it has
given quite a reasonable answer to an aged
official in search of his alleged pension arrears
when it says that the old fund is used up, which
is a most lamentable precedent for the new fund
to start with. The new fund will also be used up,
so far as the 14 per cent, contributions are con-
cerned, in a year or two, and then there is nothing
to prevent the railway and tramway pensioners
getting the same glad reply that old Delohery
has received. It is a beastly awkward time for
such an episode, but the Wade Government
always was an awkward crowd.
Defence Minister Pearce spoke a piece on Satur-
day night at Lithgow (N.S.W.), and failed badly
to cast any new light upon a dark and ancient
topic. He said a good deal, in a general way,
about the old and unilluminated matter, and,
according to the daily , paper report, this rather
feeble utterance was the gist of it: —
No sooner was the Labor Government in power than
Mr. Wade began to look about for acts of tyranny or
wrong inflicted upon the people of N. S. Wales by this
iniquitous Government, and be seemed to think
at last be had found something. This was that the Labor
Government did not immediately proclaim the Federal
cnpital, and take possession. There were in the Labor
Government those who thought a mistake had been made
in the choice of that particular site. He had always
been a strong believer in Dalgety as the Federal capital,
but the Fisher Government said Parliament had chosen
a site at Yass.Canberra, and they were going to abide
loyally by the choice, and take action to place the capital
where Parliament said it should be. No sooner did the
Fisher Government come info office than a Bill was pre-
pared to provide for spending of money upon the capital
site. It was fought through the Senate in the teeth of
strong and powerful opposition, and the Government
won.
Tiie Bulletin begs to propose that the Fisher
Government should try toinvent some more plaus-
ible hypocrisy than the above. The old Parlia-
ment held views upon quite a lot of things. It held
that Deakin was the best available Prime Minis-
ter, that the progressive land tax was wholly
wrong, that the idea of transferring the control
of industrial legislation to the Commonwealth
was unconstitutional, that the new Australian
navy should be built with loan money, and that
Yassberra ought to be the capital. When the
people repudiated that old Parliament the new
Labor Government didn’t “ abide loyally ” by its
views, or “ take action ” to carry them out, or
“fight” the busted and repudiated crowd’s
opinions “ through the Senate in the teeth of
strong and powerful opposition,” and in oppo-
sition to the views of most of its own members—
except in the one matter of Yassberra. There-
fore, the pretence that there was some tremendous
moral obligation to “loyally” accept and carry
out the policy of the cast-off Administration, and
that that obligation was wholly responsible for
the course which the Fisher Government took re
Yassberra, is too attenuated a yarn. It is up to
Pearce and his colleagues to devise anew one-
one that will hold water or other liquids. In fact,
the simplest course would be to explain exactly
why it turned traitor to its own beliefs, and be
done with the matter.
This paper wouldn’t like to call the N.S.W
Premier a man of criminal instincts, but if he says
he is one it wouldn’t be so rude as to contradict
him. Last week the S. M. Herald, which
strongly ad mi res Wade, represented lum as declar-
ing. in the presence of a large public meeting, that
he had leanings towards dishonesty, and only
lacked the opportunity to get away with other
people’s property. This is the quotation :
Mr. Wade went on to recount, what the Liberal Govern-
ment had nccomnlished. He made a strong point of the
wav they had relieved the burden of taxation. It was
while he was dealing with the repealing of the stamp
dutv that a solitary interjection at last came along.
“Who received the benefit of that—the rich man?”
Quick as a flash came the answer: “A thousand
struggling storekeepers in the country are among those
who benefit.”
“ Why did not you take it off postal notes while you
were about it?” niped somebody.
“Well” replied the Premier, “IF YOU CAN EX-
PLAIN TO ME HOW I CAN 808 THE COMMON-
WEALTH, I’LL BE VERY GLAD TO FOLLOW YOUR
SUGGESTION.”
Thus is another cure added to the burden of the
Federal Treasurer when be locks the safe at night.
He will look up and down the street to see if a
longish man with a legal expression is lurking in
the”shadows, and even if he doesn’t see him be
will have no proof that the enemy isn’t around
the' corner with a jemmy and a dark lantern like
the one used by the eminent Greek philosopher
Dogsneeze for a very different purpose.
“The Old Soldier” : The Sydney dailies are
booming Sydney’s claims to I'° selected as Aus-
tralia’s naval " base. It is contended that
Port Jackson needs no better_ advertisement
than its vast trade. The idea is that,
since commerce favors Sydney H;irbor. Admiral
Hkkderson, regardless of strategic, topographi-
Oal engineering and all other considerations,
should do the same. It is a point of view
that should stagger the visiting expert. Die two
great British naval ports, Portsmouth and Ghat-
ham,'are not in any sense commercial ports,
though each has a busy trading port close by—
Southampton adjacent to Portsmouth, and Lon-
don to Chatham. In France, on the Channel,
the naval ports of Brest and Cherbourg are a sort
of advanced works for the trading port of Havre.
In the Mediterranean, the naval port of Toulon
covers the trading port of Marseilles. The rule
that the same harbor must not be used both as a
commercial and naval port applies even to Malta,
where there are really two harbors —the Grand
Port, used exclusively for the navy, on the east
side of the tongue of land on which Valetta stands;
and the Quarantine Harbor, on the west, where
all the merchant ships lie. In Germany, on the
Weser, is the trading port of Bremer haven, while
on a backwater, near the mouth, is the naval port
of Wilheltnshaven. One might multiply instances
till further orders. But why do it? Admiral
Henderson knows them all ; so the ignorance
of the Sydney dailies doesn’t matter —for the
moment, at any rate.
G. B. Niciiolls, one of the Maoriland No-License
brigade, has been painting beautiful pictures in
Australia of the splendid things that have hap-
pened in his (and God’s) own country wherever
the cursed liquid substance has been banished.
What the banishment amounts to Nicholls
doesn’t mention ; but, fortunately, one W.
Richardson, leader of the Auckland “temper-
ance” crusaders, supplies the want. In Febru-
ary last, debating the subject in the Y.M.C.A.
Hall, he said :
No-License was not by any means a bar to the sale of
liquor. He knew that it prevented ihe sale of liquor by
the pint, but it did not prevent the sale or purchase of it
by the gallon or the hogshead or the shipload. In No-
License areas the consumption of liquor was not pre-
vented, and was, he thought, scarcely diminished. The
railways carried liquor into so-called prohibited areas,
and waggon-loads of the stuff was taken into Grey Lynn
every day.
In M.L., where No-License has been tried and the
facts are known, it isn’t any use telling the yarns
that the same Cold Tea crowd tells in Australia.
If Cold Tea admitted in Australia that No-
License means “ waggon-loads of stuff,” there
would certainly be a sad slump in the enthusiasm,
and the house-to-house collections would peter
out so that they wouldn’t keep even one apostle
in broken victuals.
+—
“ Rooinkk,” from the other side : ,
Some wild work is going on in England in connection
with the emigration business. Canada is pouring out
money like water in booming and advertising for immi-
. grants, and that remarkable paper, the Standard of Em-
pire,, is giving us Canada, Canada, Canada, week in and
week out, its advertising columns being chock-full of
costly Canadian Government and Railway ads. Now
it has turned its attention to Australia, and performed a
remarkable feat. Its issue of August 12 contains pages of
scare matter on the subject of the population problem in
Australia, setting forth, with damnable iteration, the
fact that Australia is an empty and defenceless land,
doomed almost inevitably to invasion and conquest. A
gigantic increase of population, it is pointed out,
is the only thing that can save it, but in-
tending .emigrants are warned, in glaring head-
lines, of the desperate plight of Australia, and
the probable fate that awaits them if they go there. One
letter in that issue states that Japan is impatiently
awaiting the expiry of the Anglo-Jap treaty, five years
hence, implying, of course, that it-will then proceed to
invade Australia. “No such danger confronts Canada ”
is the implied hint underlying all this, “and emigrants
need have no fear of going there.” It, is one thing for
Australian papers to warn Australian citizens of the
danger of invasion, and to urge them to prepare for it; it
is quite another thing for a subsidised Canadian paper in
London to frighten intending emigrants away from Aus-
tralia. Will Australia instruct its High Commissioner to
please stop eating for a few minutes, and go and see what
he can do about it?
The present juggle of Governments in
Portugal draws attention to the position of Timor,
the large and little-known island lying handy to
the north of Australia. The greater or north-
eastern portion of it—about 7400 square miles—is
Portuguese territory, and, in the event of a re-
public being permanently established in the
parent country, it is quite likely that the
hand of some strong; aggressive Power will be
stretched out to grab it. It is an eventuality well
worth considering by the Government of Bull.
At this juncture Australia doesn’t want Portu-
guese Timor to run up the flag of any foreign
emperor—white or colored—who has a lot of
battleships to his name.
“ 0.K.,” from Melbourne :
What a stiddv lot of mariners are the Dutch Fleeters !
They booze not, neither do they rollick. Apparently,
they bring no money ashore. They run not after the
girls, and (what is more wonderful) the girls, as a rule,
refrain from chasing them. The common or able-bodied
seamen are handicapped, of course, by their ignorance of
the Australian language, but this would not stop them
from making love eloquently enough if the ladies
insisted on it. Therefore, one may reasonably
suppose that the foreignness of the Dutch is less
to blame for their propriety than the prudence of the
opposite sex. The fact is, the visit of the American fleet,
two years ago, left a warning behind it for hundreds of
damsels (and their oncoming sisters), who lost their
reasoning faculty and alienated the affections of their
local boys what time they were playing at Yankee grab.
Subui ban girls are heard speaking rather bitterly of the
sailor as one who has an offspring at every port, and the
word “ Fleet” has lost much of its old attraction.
About Melbourne’s latest picture show :
For the first time in his Melbourne history Blainire
Young is now being taken quite seriously by people to
whom oddity in artwork is not conclusive evidence of
high ability in the worker. His earliest admirers pam-
pered his fondness for the bizarre by professing a superior
contempt for sober criticism. They accepted eeceh-
tricity in itself as a fine art, and enthused over color
schemes which were the merest surface effects. Grant
ing that the less unpopular ta-te needed educat-
ing up to Blainire Young’s style of picture, it
seems undeniable that the artist is now meeting
picture-buyers halfway. He has relaxed his pose, w hilst
his art has been gaining strength and breadth. Many of
t!ie water-colors he is showing at the Guild Hall, Mel-
bourne, were sold last week ; and the ball of apprecia-
tion goes rolling on. “ When the Horse Teams Came to
Walhella ” fetched 50 guineas on its decorative landscape
merits. A rather small panel picture, crowded with
male figures, and having Lady Franklin for its
name character, was snapped up for 20 guineas.
This marks the difference between the old and new
Blamire Young. The grouping, coloring and facial ex-
pressions show as much regard for realism as the artist’s
manner will permit. In his two big panel pictures at the
far end of the room he presents forms of fact together
with fantasies of color and design. “ Tennyson and His
Friends” challenges prejudice, whilst “ The Christening ”
has domestic comedy, interest and humor in it.
The old grandmother in the foreground, examining
the embroidery work on the christening robe, goes
far to atone for the absence of any perceptible head on
the infant. The robe is convincing, anyhow. These are
the high-priced pictures which will probably remain
unsold unless the local National Gallery takes one of
them; but the hundred little things offered at tempting
prices will be mostly bought. B 1 imire Young has arrived
at popularity.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “Paid in Full.”
Criterion “ The Night of the Party.’
Palace “Why Men Love Women.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciariom West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Brass Bottle.”
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal “Tom Jones.”
King’s “ The Winning Ticket.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Hall Tne Corrick Entertainers.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait's Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Hilda “ The Jesters,” opening Oct. 24-
+.
The eternal puzzle has been solved at the
Palace Theatre. Men love women for their eccen-
tricity. That is the only possible decision after
seeing Walter Howard’s play, “ Why Men Love
Women,” as produced by the Hamilton-Maxwell
melodrama co. on Saturday night. After all, it is
better to have a lame excuse than none at all.
* * * *
Those who like their drammer served hot
and steaming need not go past the Palace. Lies,
murder, suicide, sudden steel, the shriek in the
night, persecuted love, Russian spies, niggerprinces
in seaboots and Turkey-red serviettes, upper-cuts,
poison, yawning graves and other emergencies
trip over each other in their frantic haste to get
in their deadly work. Stripped of its gory trim-
mings, which hang upon it like recently-carved
strips of meat round a butcher’s shop, the story
is simple and touching in its imbecility. A
young Hinglish artist who is stone, motherless
broke, and apparently has no qualifications beyond
sending sketches to the Graphic (for which the
Lord forgive him), knows intimately the swells
of th'6 army in India, great native princes,
members of the Russian Secret Service (as well
as the details of the Russian Government’s plans),
the annual visitors to Monte Carlo and St. Peters-
burg, and an heiress who is to inherit £200,000.
He loves the heiress, but he hates the money
for his pride’s sake, so he refuses to marry her
until she is poor. (Nothing is said about her
honesty.) The glad news being broken to her,
she immediately gives away the £200.000 to her
Hindu guardian, with instructions to put it in the
poor-box. No proof is forthcoming that he does
this, but this doesn’t stop the marriage, which
takes place in quod, whence the bridegroom has
been suddenly hustled on a charge of murder.
Evidently he got there in mistake for the
asylum, after the £200,000 episode. The mar-
riage in gaol' is surreptitiously accomplished by
the local Archdeacon Judkins, in order to
remove the only witness to the crime (which,
incidentally, never took place)—the heiress. It
then being announced that a wife need not give
evidence against her husband, the charge explodes
without hurting a living soul. Meanwhile, the
alleged murdered person is being funeraled to-
wards the cemetery hv moonlight; but Ram Singh,
or some other fi eak, passes the tip that she is only
in a trance, and provides a potion to make her sit
up and get work. The young wife immediately
pursues the funeral and pulls the corpse out of
the coffin by the collar-band of the shroud.
And how does that corpse get busy ! It couldn’t
have done more if it had been the paid secretary
of the Industrial Union of Associated Stiffs
before the High Court of Revenge. When she
has changed her dress and bought a gun she
shoots the villain, and so paves the way to peace
and general goodwill.
The acting was good enough for the play,
anyway.
** * *
The bald-headed flunkey under the table,
and the partly-suffocated menial in the box, and
the other more or less desirable guests still
attend the Party regularly at the Criterion. They
profess to enjoy themselves, but it is a rather
unsatisfactory entertainment that Crosbie gives.
Of visible food there is little or none, and drink
seems scarce. The conversation isn’t wildly
brilliant, and the gambling is a perfunctory sort
of business and a joyless way to lose money.
There are two points in Weedon Grossmith’s
comedy at which the blase auditor inclines to
sit up straight and hard and take notice,
but there aren’t more than two. One hap-
pens when Lady Hampshire drops in casually
on her bachelor friend about 1 a.rn., and
mentions that she was passing and saw a light in
the window’. This explains in quite a new
fashion the lonesome midnight habits of the upper
classes, and suggests that often when we think it
is a cat on the roof it may really be a peeress, so
it is best to discriminate before throwing the
Methuselah boot. In fact, for all we know to the
contrary, the ladiesjn waitingmay chase the prin-
cesses of the royal family over the chimney pots of
Windsor on moonlit nights, and go mousing vigor-
ously on the slates. Someinterest also attaches to
the adventuress’s ardent composition of the letter
in which she explains that when old Alderman
Dodder cast her off she became a broken wreck,
not to Vie Vialed out and towed into port for less
than £500; but as nothing more is heard of the
matter the interest fades again. In any case no
one could keep his eye fixed for any length of
time upon Alderman Dodder.
#* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney), “ Our Miss
Gibbs’’ continues to fascinate all comers. She
will not desist from this good work for weeks and
weeks, the box-office returns being as satisfactory
as any management, reasonable or otherwise,
could desire.
** * *
At the time of writing, the Grand Opera
Co. was billed to fade away from Sydney
Theatre Royal on Wednesday night. On
Saturday Katherine Grey re-appears at this
playhouse in an emotional drama hight “Paid in
Full.” With her are such sound artists as Susie
Vaughan, Cyril Mackay and Leslie Victor; also,
a beautiful young hero from America by the name
of William Desmond.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli added four minor turns to
its bill last week ; but, all coni Lined, they hardly
amounted to one Portuguese revolution. The
show is, therefore, pretty well the same as last
week ; that is to say, Juggler Morris Cronin and
Gracie Grahame, the Saratoga of mischief, head a
procession of entertainers, the most prominent of
whom are Barnes and West, Tom Dawson tne
Australian Gold-Diggers, Woods and Fraser, an
the Quealys—or Squealys. On Saturday, Or,
and his co. are to depart; and, at time of wn mg,
there is no indication as to what remforcemen ,
if any, has been called up to fill the vacant spot
If no new turn arrives, the bill, as Luclid vvou
remark, will be less than it might have een,
which, if not absurd, is at the very least annoy-
ing.
** * *
“The musical programmes will be o*
special interest to students and music-lovers ot an
classes, whether musically educated or no .
That from Benno Scherek, referring to lvirs.
Carreno’s trinity of coming concerts. Tne sy -
pathetic cunning of the great pianist s agent. J.HE
Bulletin would not be surprised if bcherekwas
man who issued that soothing pronouncemen ,
“ If you cannot fly nor climb, don t be discour-
aged—perhaps you can kick.” However
may be, the fact remains that to-mght (Th
and Saturday will be the last occasions on whicn
music-lovers will have chances of hearing -
reiio, for Scherek at the Town Hall door ant
Wilcannia at the wharf will be waiting to carr.
her off to South Africa.
y
“The Brass Bottle,” which disgorged its
goggle-eyed contents in Sydney two months ago,
has come to Melbourne Princess’s at the only time
of year when it could be reasonably expected to
satisfy the multitude. Anything out of a bott e,
except cold water neat, is likely to be swallowed
by Melbourne whilst the city is in its Oups.
Now is the season of dreams, lbu^? n ®
and general lunacy: so “The Brass Bottle,
has strong claims to local sympathy. Anstey s
farce is clever in a way, and amusing toi
the most part. Shoots of novelty are grafted on
the old stock story, and this is well interpreted
by the company and ingeniously staged. The re-
turn of the Jinnee to the confines of his bottle is
an effect almost worthy of Chung Ling Soo. The
“blowing in ” of Samuel Wackerbath is as quaint
as anything that ever happens to Bert Gilbert m
stage life ; also the little dinner, followed by a
dance of houiis, given by Horace Ventimore
to the Futvoye family, strikes a tender chord of
pantomime memory in the audience s mind. But
the entertainment lacks definiteness of purpose.
It is neither pantomime nor ‘moral lesson nor
good round farce. An attempt, in the fourth act,
to hitch a symbolical meaning to the whole pro-
ceeding is half-hearted and unsuccessful. Many
farcical comedies are stiffened with human interest
in the characterisation, as, tor instance, the irre-
sponsible matron in “The Night of the Party
who complains of the selfishness of Sir Charles in
having married her for love, whilst she admits
that she believes she reciprocated his affection
“ until he grew those beastly whiskers. ’ In
“The Brass Bottle ” none of the characters is in-
teresting as a type, except, perhaps, the conten-
tious Pringle, who is twin brother to the jealous
dentist in “Mr. Preedy and the Countess.” The
fantastic circumstances of the plot are adverse to
any display of human feeling. Reality is barely
suggested after the first scene. The farce lias
only one side to it, and, after a while, it
grows tiresome for want of variety. Consider-
ing that any absurdity is permissible in
a supernatural story, one may complain that the
dramatist ha's not made full use of his resources.
“ THE WINNING
TICKETAT THE
KING'S, MEL-
BOURNE.
Constable Gubbins (Max Clifton)
after his stripe.
Roy Redgrave
as the Count de
Cartel, the last
of his race.
The performance has to be bright to be
passable, and it is bright. Leslie Holland as
Horace, Vernon as the Jinnee, and five other new-
comers are as efficient in their places as is Fred
Cambourne, the ■ local man, in the part oi
the landlord whose insobriety preserves him
from a lot of surprise. A green Jinnee and a
blue crocodile come about equally natural to a
tnan who is addicted to seeing things. Miss Dora
Rignold, as Horace’s girl, is not a newcomer, but
a re-visitor. Considered as a divinely tall and
handsome sweetheart, clothed in - elegance and
simplicity of style. Miss Rignold seems the
most distinguished visitor this country has ever
experienced.
* * *
At Melbourne Royal the outlook i<>i
“Tom Jones” is clouded o’er with a possibility


JERDAN’S PICTURES are shown at Wentworth Park
every Monday night. Rushcutter’s Bay every
Tuesday. New Pictures—New Music. 3d. admission.
iIKROAN’B— I The original open-air Picture Specialists.
The Auto-Strop Safety Razor.
Ra"oß
TO shave with an ordinary Razor always requires a
certain amount of skill, and, no matter how
careful vou are, you will occasionally cut your-
self.
The Auto-Strop Safety Razor is so made that it is
impossible to cut your face when shaving:, the
blade being: placed at such an angle that it can be
used in any position with perfect safety.
It is not necessary to detach the blade when stropping.
All that is required is to pass the strop under-
neath the blade, fasten one end of strop and move
razor backwards and forwards. The blade turns
over automatically with each motion, thus strop-
ping- itself. This Razor is packed
in neat leatherette case, with strop
and one dozen blades -
25/-
Extra blades, one dozen in each packet, 3/- packet.
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all goods except Fur-
niture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and Hardware to
any part of the Commonwealth.
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp.
G.P.0.,
Sydney.
GREY HAIR MAKES YOUR FACE
LOOK OLD.
A young face looks old if it is surrounded with
grey, faded or dead-looking hair. Allen’s
Mexican Walnut Stain will make from 10 to 20
years difference in your appearance if you are
grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly harm-
less, and easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth or younger
years.
Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is not to be
confounded with the common or garden “hair
restorers,” which deceive nobody but the deluded
users. This unique preparation is offered as a
superior stain, and its composition has been
arrived at only sifter a long series of experiments.
No injurious effect will be produced, provided the
simple directions are followed out —it is quite free
from Lead, Mercury or Sulphur. It is equally
suitable for ladies’ hair or hair of the beard or
moustache, and will not wash off orstain the linen.
None Genuine without the signature of Alfred
Ardley. Registered in the Patents Office of the
Commonwealth of Australasia, and sold by all
reputable Chemists.
that the opera is insufficiently comic to delight
them who dote on Cromwell and believe in gags.
What is prettiest and most artistic in the per-
formance seemed last week to get less applause,
as a rule, than the low comedian’s references
to Lizzie, an alleged leech that escaped from
his custody when Squire Western was kicking
him downstairs. Lizzie, to this writer’s way
of thinking, is a lamentable little fiction, and
most of Cromwell’s other gags are foolish
modern excrescences on the face of the old-time
comedy ; but the fact remains that his strenuous
efforts to please are at present more warmly
applauded than any of the dainty musi-
cal items, barring Sophia’s waltz song that
Miss O’Connor warbles so fluently in Rane-
lagh Gardens. Earlier in the opera there is
some capital orchestration which receives careful
attention from Victor Champion, the musical
director. One of the best numbers is “The
Barley Mow,” sung by Miss Gilliam,and five
rustics on a garden seat. The part-song is quaint
and the grouping of the figures is picturesque, but
the harmony of it all goes for very little in com-
parison with the incident of one man falling off
his perch.
** * *
“ The Whip ” is in its fourth week at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), and the house continues
to be full. Also, the drama from Drury Lane is
still remarkable for “ no fewer than 16 distinct
elaborate scenes and sensations,” as the advt. re-
marks ; and the complete London company is not
less specially-selected than before.
** * *
At the King’s, there is no talk of removing
“The Winning Ticket” from its sphere of use-
fulness. George Cross’s gallant moke will save
him from ruin for another week or two, anyway,
and may even be expected to get pulled first past
the post for the Melbourne Cup on the night of
that annual event.
** * *
Walter Kelly, the Virginian Judge, opened
his court at the Opera House last Saturday.
Kelly ;s the most honest and straightforward of
monologue entertainers. He has no piano, no
grimaces, no tricks of manner, no self assertion.
He is just a large, grave, plump American
in broadcloth, equipped with a small table
and a hammer which is his implement of
judicial authority. When he speaks with
the voice of Kelly he is the Judge of the Virginian
Court, and when he talks rather ventriloqnially
he is various offenders and witnesses. Sometimes
the witnesses are about as guilty as the prisoner,
and Judge Kelly gives them all the same amount
of punishment. He never forces a point on the
audience or descends to a humorous action. What
he says and how he says it are worth hearing much
oftener than only once. In the rest of the bill at
Rickards’s the Charlenes and the Meymotts are
leading features.
** * *
Taits’ Pictures are now disclosing their
pomp and circumstance at the Melbourne
Glaciarium. This week’s programme includes
“ Serious Sixteen,” which treats of a boy and girl
passion in a holiday spirit. Also there are “ The
Forest Ranger,” a fable of love and timber-
thieving; “ As the Bells Rang Out,” a tale of a
marriage and low finance; and “Davy Jones’s
Landlady,” which is the most popular flicker in
the series. It deals with the love of a salt for
two amazing females, one of whom could be boiled
down for Bovril, and the other prosecuted under
the Pure Food Act for being deficient in fatty
solids. But it is a humorous film, especially when
the mariner’s legitimate mate casually learns of
the philanderings of her David.
** * *
A story of a heroic convict and a gentle
che-ild is “The Governor’s Daughter,” now housed
at Melbourne Olympia. The film is highly emo-
tional, and would be a protracted sob if it could
be articulate. “Equal to Emergency ” —a tale of
a hard-hearted uncle and a pretty cook—has a
humor that is somewhat fleeting. But “Mr.
Ferdie’s Vacation”—a yarn of deceit and bogus
illness—tickles the root of the nerve of larfter.
On the other hand, “A Flash of Light,” an
American bio. picture, is not up to the standard
in story or construction ; and the official charge
that it is “ a brilliant film” isdismissed with Costs.
tK * #
The Gorricks, returned from a tour of the
variegated East, which is North, popped up at
the Melbourne Athenaeum last Saturday night.
The team is much the same as it was last season,
except that the inclusion of one Ernest Leathley
has increased both its gaiety and elegance.
Leathley possesses a lively soul, and has a style
that gives a burnish to his whimsical sketches.
Of the others, Miss Ruby Corrick is a tricky
eornetist; Miss Amy ditto plays piccolo solos to
general satisfaction; while Miss Ethel ditto isa
comedienne who seems a trifle immature.
Miss Alice Corrick raises her tolerable so-
prano in selections from Donizetti and Boito;
whilst other attractions include glee-singing, bell-
ringing and some restless pictures. The pictures,
which are stuffed into the programme to keep out
the draughts, were some alleviation on Saturday
to the pain of the overture. This item—Flotow’s
“ Martha”—was too noisy in spots, and made one
realise the full significance of “facing the music.”
** # *
On Friday afternoon (14th) a “mammoth
charity matinee” is to happen at the King’s in
aid of the City Newsboys’ Society. An “enor-
mous aggregation of talent” and a glittering array
of vice-regal patronage are promised. The fact
that the d.c. and reserved stalls are priced at 10s.
testifies to the aggregation of tatent, and indicates
that a large audience is assured.
jfc * * *
“0.K.,” from Melbourne
Journalist “ Willie ” Moore has succeeded, for the
second time, in introducing original playlets to intellec-
tual notice in a way that should lead to more perform-
ances. When Moore started this movement, a year or
more ago, he was the only author on the bill and the
principal actor in each item. The reception given to
the entertainment was an expression of good feeling to
himself by his artistic friends in front. Last week,
at the Turn Verein Hall, he was only one of three
authors who came into evidence, but the credit for
a crowded social gathering was practically all due
to his management. Moreover, he achieved the distinc-
tion of being the first person to fix an all-round charge
for admission at three-and-sixpence, thereby giving the
proceedings the charm of a bargain sale. The first of the
playlets was “The Burglar,” by Katherine Prichard. Its
meaning was wrapped in mystery. The name-character
spoke with honest pride of his profession, whilst an un-
accountable young woman commended his practice of
cracking cribs, and mentioned incidentally that the wind
was her brother and the rain was her sister. This
nearly reduced the burglar to tears. He feared
she might be first cousin to the fog. All the
while she seemed to be upbraiding herself for her want of
Socialistic principle in concealing a bag of diamonds
about her person, where the burglar, out of sheer polite-
ness, refrained from finding them. Eventually she hur-
ried him off the premises to avoid discover}’, and became
strangely agitated. Louis Esson’s little play, “The
Woman Tamer,” proved a caution to buskers. The busker
reckoned that he had his “ tart” under the whip, hut she
disillusioned the fatuous “cow” by resuming relations
with Bongo, just out of quod. Chopsey, the busker, had
been all talk and no do as regards burglary. Bongo,
on the other hand, was a man of few words and
“ I PAGLIACCI,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
The dead finish. Tenor Blarney does a little
carving. Tonio(Antonio Zanelli) in the rear.
many biffs. The memory of his dirty left had lingered
in Katie’s spinster heart during his year of captivity ; so,
when he came back to displace Chopsey, she welcomed
him with open arms and an all-right crayfish. Anuvver
bloke named Smithy the Liar strolled round, fresh from
quod, to “ have a chin ” with Chopsey ; and, take it alto-
gether, Esson’s sketch of domestic life among the crimi-
nal classes was a work of art. Miss Maisie Maxwell
“slungoff” at Chopsey with convincing effect. Though
she was often required to go very close to
the knuckle, the bright little actress never over-
stepped the immodesty of nature in her true-blue
part. Chopsey (T. Skewes) was likewise forcible at the
finish when he found that the crayfish was all for Bongo,and
meanwhile the casual visit from Douglas Hart (as Smithy)
had helped to thicken the atmosphere. “The Woman
Tamer,” played by the same co., would be a real treat for
the boys and girls at Pentridge on Christmas Day.
William Moore’s contribution, “The Tea-Room Girl,”
was a neatly-arranged series of intermittent conversations
at three tables, followed by a mild burst of melodrama. The
talk came most humanly from two pairs of characters,
and the honors of a smooth performance rested with Miss
Robson and Miss Macdonald. A few remarks concerning
Moore as a worker in the cause of Culchaw, uttered by
Bernard O’Dowd, had the merit of being true ; after
which came coffee, recitations, cigarettes and sage reflec-
tions by the brethren and sistern who had so cheerfully
rolled up.
** * *
Hall Caine, who seems bent on having
new editions of all his novel dramas, shows in
“Pete” how a girl may go astray, then marry a
good man with a lie on her lips, and live happily
ever afterwards. This valuable moral lesson has
been set forth at Adelaide Royal for a week.
The police interfered on the last night, but only
to prevent overcrowding. The usual enthusi-
astic farewell brought from Matheson Lang the
usual compliments to Adelaide’s discernment,
and the usual hopes for a return visit. The
resplendent “King of Cadonia ” has now come
in, and the night is filled with music,
Paris gowns and wild dancing. At the
Tivoli a pair of Dancing Gilberts are making
their first Australian appearance ; they are song-
and-danee artists, in the useful class. Fanny
Powers has come back with some fresh imitations.
A strong programme is helped aiong by the
Kremos, some tableaux (single-draped figure)
arranged as a postcard album, Ted Kalman, and
Mrs. Yeamans Titus—an artist in everything she
handles. The four leading picture shows con-
tinue as before, and there are others. Happily,
they have left off starring the repentant convict
and the real vocalist with the hymn-tune that
stuck to him like his shadow.
Thus Solicitor-General Garland, atQuirindi
(N.S.W.): —
When the Government appointed a commission on the
matter of decentralisation, Mr. McGowen howled about a
suit of his clothes having 1 been stolen. (Laughter.) Sup-
pose the commission found a fine port on the coast, and a
means by which it could be reached by a railway, and
suppose this would cost four or five millions, how about
Mr. McGowen’s non-borrowing policy ? He could not
build the railway, nor utilise the port.
And this is J. Hughes, Garland’s colleague, at
Newcastle on the same evening :
He pointed to the accumulated surpluses of over
£6,500,000, and produced figures proving, etc.
Now either the great Wade surpluses are a lie, or
the statement that there is no possibility of
N.S.W. building rail ways without borrowing is a
lie. The Ministry had better decide which lie it
will stick to. It can’t hold on to both without
people noticing the discrepancy.
Mrs. Maria Elizabeth Bayne, who died at Buninyong
(Vie.) recently, aged 85, was the widow of Fred Bayne, a
Melbourne solicitor of the ’so’s. Bayne had some
interest in the ground on which the Theatre Royal is
built, and he and the lady just deceased had the right to
a free box whenever they liked to drop into the theatre
that was built on the ground.
AT POVERTY POINT.
It seems that 23 long years have elapsed since Brough
and Boueicault staged Buchanan’s adaptation of “ Tom
Jones.” They revived it more than once until 1891, or
thereabouts, but since then “ Sophia ” has been a dead
letter in Australia and elsewhere. The original 8.-B. cast
wasapretty brilliant combination. Miss Nina Boueicault,
then a beautiful girl in her teens, played the name part.
Mrs. Brough, Miss Romer, Pattie Browne and Ada
Lee were the other ladies; and Boueicault, Tither-
adge, Phil Beck, Cecil Warde, Cathcart and Arthur
Lawrence played the principal men parts. The produc-
tion of “ Sophia,” which was fairly popular, paved the
way for “Joseph’s Sweetheart,” adapted by the same
dramatist from Fielding’s “ Joseph Andrews.”
Harrie Ireland, who got such a loud and long greeting
when she appeared in “The Chance of a Lifetime” the
other Saturday, had played an engagement with Ander-
son before she came to Sydney under his flaming banner.
When “The Prince and the Beggar Maid” was sent on
tour a while ago, auburn-haired Harrie was the sovereign
lady of that smart and shapely drama. Anderson appa-
rently has got a lengthy lease of her services, for sister
Dai-y is joining the co., and will take part in the piece
that follows the present hippodrama.
J. C. Williamson gives himself—and, incidentally,
Australia in general—a big advertisement in London
Referee (28/8/’10) : “ Our public demands the biggest
and best things we can get from the Old Country. No,
there is no backing and no subscription for this bold
opera scheme ” (Melba in grand opera next year). “ We
are financing it entirely ourselves.” Maoriland, with a
city population of only 400,000, makes it worth w hile to
send a complete production and a company of over
100 for the five days’ sail. The annual turn-out of
“ a vast spectacular pantomime, combining the strongest
elements of pantomime, musical comedy, burlesque,
and spectacle,” provides “some of the biggest effects
ever seen in London or out of it. For instance, w'e had a
grand surf-bathing scene—a splendid affair—long before
you had a similar thing at Drury Lane.” Finally, the
Referee gives italics to the awe-inspiring statement that
an Australian panto., once going, runs the whole year
round. Williamson’s latest captures are “The Girl in the
Train,” “The Quaker Girl ” (not yet produced), and the
next new’ pieces from the Gaiety and Daly’s Theatre—
whatever they may be.
“ J.”; Miss Gibbs is the first indigent stage female I
have met whose gorgeous froeking is accounted for. In
the first act of the new musical-comedy show, Miss Gibbs’s
cousin, Timothy, hands her a parcel, carefully explaining
that it contains a legacy of £6O. With this the maiden
secures a ravishing rose-pink confection for use in the
next scene. This arrangement appeals to me. For years
I have been having my sense of the probable, not to say
possible, violated by the spectacle of ruined females pacing
through the cruel snows of Russia, Finland and Yorkshire,
che-ild in hand, in the tattered cloak of destitution com-
bined with the well-built patent leather shoe of affluence.
I have seen beautiful stage boarding-house slaveys with
smuts on their noses, pathetically economical blouses and
silk stocking- that a duchess might envy. Farm lasses—
operatic, melodramatic and otherwise—have gone through
their bucolic labors before me in bangles and things that
they could never have purchased out of their milkmaid’s
wages. It is to be hoped that this anomalous state of
affairs will now cease. What more easy than for the
stone-broke and distracted stage-parent to intimate, on
her first, entrance, that the smart shoes she is wearing
have just been forced on her by a noble-hearted boot-
maker, and that ere the evening sun shall have set she
will pawn them to obtain bread for her starving offspring.
Other evidences of wealth above the wearer’s reputed
station might be explained bv similar devices. I am
assuming, of course, that no self-respecting girl is going
to dress right down to the r6le she is enacting.
“Bloggs”: Miss Blanche Browne has made good at
Her Majesty’s. A woman near me said, “Isn’t she per-
fectly sweet ? ” about 14 times, and her male companion
answered regularly with every appearance of conviction —
“ An absolute ripper! ” One is enabled thus to get a line
as to the sort of stage girl the local theatre-goer best
loves. Miss Browne is something reminiscent of Fanny
Dango. She sings no better, and she doesn’t dance a
millionth part as well—in fact, it is doubtful if
she dances at all. But she has the gentle, ap-
pealing ways of the little lady who has left us; her
walk across the stage is a work of art in itself,
even as Miss Dango’s was ; she uses her hands and arms
with much of the Dango grace, and she has the same
alluring smile. With these assets, and the assistance of
some tuneful but rather piffling music, the newcomer is
making a local name for herself. It is a dreary fact that
many of the folk who receive Miss Browne’s performance
with rapture found Margaret Anglin boring and Katherine
Grey a subject for acid criticism. Neither Anglin nor
Miss Grey stirred the universal enthusiasm that the new-
comer does. The moral sticks out some yards. Sydney
theatre-goers hasten more or less slowly to see and
hear actresses of great power in their star r6les, but the
lady who is simply rushed is the nice little thing with
the birdlike voice, the expressive eyes, the pretty man-
ners and no particular art.
“ Silas Snell ” : Observe how the bubbling dramatic
passions of my country find vent. The mercenary thea-
trical managers viciously decline the great plays of our
magnificent unknown dramatists ; so Miss Elsie Jones, of
Ballarat, gags herself, ties herself in a bundle with ropes
and hessian on a warehouse roof, and tells a hair-stiffen-
ing story of an attack by desperate men who trussed her
up, administered poison, and then drifted over the
parapet. Elsie’s case is the case of a score of Australian
girls within the short space of seven months. What does
it mean, if not that the dramatic instincts of Australia,
denied adequate expression in legitimate channels, are
finding an outlet in many inventions like that of Miss
Elsie Jones, who compose, act and stage-manage their
own tragedies?
“ Stargazer In “ Carmen ” a great story is converted
into a greater opera ; but it rarely happens that classics
in poetry or fiction are successfully employed for stage
purposes. “Tom Jones,”nowrunningatMelbourneRoyal,
under an}’ other name would be a more satisfactory treat.
As it is, we are hampered in appreciation by our concep-
tions of treasured characters like Sophia, Honor, Part-
ridge, Weston and Tom himself, and are complaining
inwardly of the wrong done to these good familiar
creatures what time we should be enjoying the melodious
frivolity. This Tom Jones is a vague present-day youth
with “Method}'” leanings, capering in fancy dress ; and
Partridge is only another version of a very modern music-
hall comedian pulling the same faces and cutting the same
capers as in “Hook of Holland” and “ The Arcadians.”
So “ Tom Jones,” the comic opera, would excite smaller
antagonism if called “ Jim Smith ” or “ Bill Brown.”
The Ballarat competitions are growing in theirdreadful
popularity. This year the South-street Society is offer-
ing £l4OO in prizes, which is said to be a record for the
globe. Scrambling for this sum are 24 brass bands, 40
gymnastic teams, about a couple of hundred literary com-
petitors, and 1900 musical and yellocutionary fiends.
The flicker pictures of What Happened to Jeffries
when Jonathan Johnson hit him at Reno (U.S.A.), on
July 4 last, will be shown in Maoriland, anyhow. This,
on the solemn word of Charlie McMahon, who has the
film and the sole rights for the Loan Dominion. Welling-
ton will be shown the pictures first—in the Opera House,
early in November.
“Motley”: The mother of Lydia Yeamans-Titus was
before her marriage, Miss Griffiths, of a circus family
which came to Melbourne from San Francisco with the
troupe of J. A. Rowe. There were two sisters Griffiths
and a brother. Miss Griffiths married Edward Yeamans,
clown and assistant manager to Rowe’s Circus. Here isa
Melbourne programme of Rowe’s Circus, 1854 : —Entree,
the Venetian Nobles; principal equestrian act, J. L.
Smith ; pedal globe, Tom Nunn ; pyramids, the Com-
pany ; graceful double equestrian act, Mrs. Yeamans and
J. L. Smith; trick pony Beeswing. Young Raphael;
stilt performance, M. Lalande and Madame Delcasse ;
trick horse Othello ; Risley act, G. B. W. Lewis and Lilli-
putian Tom ; dance by Miss Griffiths; beautiful
equestrian act by Mrs. Yeamans; concluding with
“ Love in a Tub.” Clown to the arena, the Only Ned
Yeamans. Rowe’s Circus was on the corner of Lonsdale
and Stephen (now Exhibition) streets, the site afterwards
occupied by Coppin’s Olympic. Rowe knocked out
Noble’s Circus, on the Bourke and Spring streets corner,
opposite the White Hart, and present site of Parliament
House. Noble’s became the Salle de Valentino, for con-
certs, etc. Tom Nunn, of Rowe’s Circus, afterwards be-
came landlord of the Hummums, now the Austral,
Bourke-street. G. B. W. Lewis was worth £30,000 while
performing in Rowe’s Circus. He was waiting for the
troupe he had engaged from Astley’s, London, to open
the Melb. Astley’s, which became the old wooden Prin-
cess’s. There he lost all his money. “I left Melbourne
with 85.,” said he.
St. Kilda (Melbourne) is about to break out in its
annual rush of entertainmenls. October 1 was the be-
ginning of a new season at Paradise, where the manage-
ment has been running a picture show all the year round.
“ Willie ” Lincoln, who was the first of young Australian
dramatists, is the director of Paradise nowadays. His
language in a recent circular is truly celestial: “The
blue waters of Port Phillip Bay provide a delightful
outlook, and the passing gold-fLcked ships after
nightfall add a tinge of lustre and romance to
the scene. Lovely green lawns, exquisite schemes of
lighting and comfortable seating create a soothing in-
fluence.” And Paradise, with its ravishing outlook,
soothing verdure and so forth, is only one of several sea-
side shows that are cutting into the stuffy town-theatre
business during t h warmer balf of the Melbourne year.
Fat persons go to these places for breathing purposes on
hot nights, whilst gentle oglers go there for “ tinges of
lustre and romance.”
“ Floater” : Hall Caine has been scrubbing up the sub-
ject of divorce in a boisterous version of “The Eternal
City.” The play, entitled “ The Eternal Question,” is
only second-rate drama, but it has an interest to Aus-
tralians, inasmuch as Miss ’Tilda Brune is said to have
achieved a triumph as the leading lady. Caine himself
has gulfed in London about her histrionic splendor.
’Tilda is the most talented actress who has appeared on
the London stage for the last 40 years ! And ’Tilda is the
greatest actress, urges the same gracious flatterer, be-
cause she has the sense of the theatre, a gift of person-
ality, a wonderful voice, and “ a power of passion ”
which he had “ never found in any English-speaking
actress since Adelaide Neilson.” Some of which one
might moderately respect if it came from a less shame-
less poseur and a more disinterested critic.
Du Maurier’s “ An Englishman’s Home” is now reck-
oned to have been a success, since it made sufficient im-
pression on the younger men in England to cause a boom
in recruiting, and the army expenditure for 1908-9 was
considerably affected by it. “The wave of patriotism ”
was not marvellous, but it swept away the sneers of the
incredulous Bulls, who regard “Rule Britannia” as a
complete safeguard against foreign invasion.
“Silas”: The theatrical housekeeper is a quaint study.
In “Pete” we were introduced to the elderly and experi-
enced maid-of-all work briskly sweeping and dusting a
room with the breakfast on the table. She neglected 10
dust the conspicuous meat pie, but by the time she was
through it must have needed it. The housewife in the
drama invariably leans on her iron long enough to in-
cinerate a whole laundry, while conversing humorously
with the comedian, and she has a delusion to the effect
that the entire “ wash ” of a large family is done in one
tub and one water. The theatrical cook is even mere
shockingly unenlightened—she would attempt to make
pancakes on a gridiron.
GETTING OUR OWN BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Mrs. Jinks, of Taliowflat,
Came Actor-Manager McGee.
At dinner Theo daily sat
Between Maconochie and me.
For Dan and I and Dave and Ted
At Jinks’s ate our daily bread.
McGee had oft complained before,
And his complaint was still the same ;
The grudge the Daily Bugle bore
This artist was a crying shame.
It dealt no “ butter ” to McGee,
But unremitting enmity.
Theophilus McGee declared
Aloud, as one with nought to hide,
That never nobler actor fared
So badly. Man, he almost cried.
Because the Bugle would not stuff
His vanity with buttered puff 1
Maconochie, who gaily ran
The Bugle, to his comrades swore
He’d satisfy the actor-man,
And grease a fat, inflated bore ;
So then and there a plot we made
To give him butter with a spade.
That night Mac played in terror grim
His fattest rflle. With ghoulish glee
Big butter-pats we threw at him
From stalls and’pit and gallery.
We must have hurled a hundredweight—
’Twas not good butter, I may state.
Next morn the ruffled actor fled.
Once more at Jinks’s there was peace;
But rather gingerly we fed,
And there was quite a marked decrease
In our consumption at each feast
Of one commodity at least.
’Twas braw Maconochie who braved
The scowling Jinks with language gruff.
“ This butter, ma’am, is quite depraved ;
Where did you get the aw’ful stuff?”
“ Why, sure, I got it cheap,” said she,
“ Off Actor-Manager McGee 1 ”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZEIL.


By Special
Appointment
sd
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
THE CATERER. Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding’ Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Soecial Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Rj n g. U p No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manag-er will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel ih Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
CN
Make a
Note of
This.
A DAINTY CAMERA
When you can get a CAMERA that takes PERFECT PICTURES
size 4'Jin. x 3Jin., with the minimum of trouble, and at the extremely
Moderate Price of
375. 6d.
YOU SHOULD INDULGE IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
THE FOLDING ENSIGN, No. 3%, is Our Latest.
It completely Eclipses ALL RIVALS at this price. H FOLDS
Compactly, has an Ingenious Infinity Catch which instantly
registers all distances from 3 feet to infinity without trouble. Real
Leather Bellows, Built of Seasoned Wood—NOT Cardboard ALL
Latest Triumph «n
HARRINGTONS’ CAMERAS.
WE are the Ear-rest Camera Importers in Australasia.
WE onlv handle Goods from Makers of Highest
WE Stock Every Photo. Requisite for Professional Auteur
WE Develop and Print Your Negatives and Repair Your Cameras.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street, near C.P.0., SYDNEY ; and at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELA.3E,
SOCIETY
THE CONFIDENCE TRICK.
Smith: “ The girl to marry is the one who be-
lieves in love in a cottage
Jones : “Fes, if a girl believes in that you can
get her to'believe anything.”
“ F.C.” : The lost-memory habit has been
overdone of late, which accounts for a Melbourne
man, whose name might have been Jones, being
now a homeless wanderer and a lost sheep. Jones
had disappeared once before, but latterly had
walked the narrow track that leads to home and.
missus with proper regularity. Last month,
however, the disease broke out again. He had'
gone to the races and had had a good win, and
when he failed to reach home Mrs. Jones
wasn’t as much surprised as she might have been
if Jones had never strayed. When he failed to
turn up during the week she still remained
normal. After about a month the lady, being
then plunged in doilbt whether she ought to wear
weeds or not, and—supposing she ought—whether
it wasn’t too late to begin* was mildly interested
at receiving a wire from (say) Swan Hill, in which
Jones curtly stated he had been suffering from a
lost memory, and desired her to forward his fare
home. Having had previous experience of Jones’s
lost memory, Mrs. Jones didn’t send any fare,
but instead went to Swan Hii 1 herself; and, when
she got there, in place of rushing into the arms of
her long-lost husband, she made inquiries at
boarding-houses and hotels. Apparently, the
information was perfectly unsatisfactory, for a
few hours later she returned to town without
seeing Jones, and with a firm look on, her face.
Nobody knows exactly how Jones reached home ;
but when he did arrive, a few days later, he found
the house empty, and pasted on the kitchen
window was a brief memo. : “Missing. Lost
memory. Don’t think I’ll find it again.” Now
Jones is complaining that women have no sense
of humor.
Portugal, the mulatto kingdom of Europe,
had a revolution last week. Two years ago the
King and the heir-apparent were..killed in a
street brawl, and now Manoel, the latest boy
monarch, has fled for his life to Gibraltar,
and Lisbon is upside down. At one time
the Portuguese, few as they were, ranked among
the leading nations of Europe, and as fighters by
land and sea,-as colonists, as scientists, writers
and men of knowledge, they were at the head of
the procession. Then that disastrous genius, John
111 , struck tlie idea of bringing cheap nigger labor
from Africa, and all manner of things happened. In
the southern province of Algarves a white man be-
came a curiosity, and when one was seen there was
a desire to dry and stuff Ip 0:1 and put him in a
museum ; and as far north as Lisbon the blacks
outnumbered the White' population. Half the
Portuguese workmen fled abroad, and a large
proportion of the other half intermarried with the
niggers. The new mulatto nation admitted the
Inquisition, which the old white Portuguese had
never tolerated, Then it bought the assistance
of Britain in time of trouble by offering free
admission to British goods, and its manufactures
fizzled out. After that it walked in the dust
at the tail end of the procession, and the
dogs barked at it, and it got all the
smell of the petrol from the fleeing motor-
car of Europe which was always bustling
ahead. Its colleges fell in, and its schools
fell down, and its libraries were eaten by
silver-fish. Many of the old roads were aban-
doned and became mere tracks, over which
wheeled vehicles couldn’t pass. The nation forgot
to wash and to pay its debts, and 75 per cent, of
the adult population forgot how to read. Oyer
three-parts of the country the alphabet took up its
bed and walked. Like any other of his kind, this
mulatto of Europe developed intoa good-humored,
musical beast of burden, with a streak of ignorant
piety and a sub-stratum of ferocity and a ten-
dency to revolushe. He seems to have a vague
idea that if he starts a republic his country will
become another France or Switzerland, but it
won’t. What most of him really requires is emi-
gration to Timbuctoo and a fresh start on the
banks of the Niger.
* * * *
It is an unwise thing to leave your body
carefully speed and hobble-skirted on the crust
of the earth when you have finished with it. A
few thousand years later some stranger is bound
to stumble over the parcel and sell it to a museum
or private collector for a dozen long beers. Tlren
a fire breaks out in the collection of which your
remains form part, and an irreverent brigade in
brass helmets arrives in a number of red carts and
hoses your cinders as if you were the Devil. A
tragedy of this dption happened in George-
street, Sydney, mSi.week, when a furniture store-
room contain:"g antique furniture and curios
belonging to Count' Morher, the Swedish' ek-
Consul, caught fire. A few well-preserved
Egyptains were present in hobble-skirts; and
when the sticks about them began to cracklp and ;
flame, they waited like fashionable females.for .a
policeman or tramguard to help them out. They
• lasted pretty well till 1000 flaming chairs fell on
them from the ceiling and set fire to their ancient
but up-to-date swaddling cloths. Then they
burnt like yesterday’s steak.. , At, time of writing
there is a faint, smell of spice and burnt rags,
hanging over George-street. It is the last -of .the
original hobble-skirters. 1 ■ ■' ■■ ’ *
* ■ i *■' : '#) .. i
“Snell”: I see. that. Home, Affairs
O’Malley has removed the stigiha from the little,
“ille-Jim” by substituting “ ex-nuptial” for “ ilie--
’ gitimate” as a heading in the “’Births” columns'
of the census papers. Eirst, he proposed, to attach.
dishonor where dishonor is d,up by stamping, the'
parents of unlawful children as “-illegitimate ’.’ *_>
k but having failed in ‘that, the O’Malley falls-
\ bafck on “ ex-nuptial ”as a Sort of Saving grace
\ for the offspring that haven’t come through a-
> wedding ring.; Now, are 'ye any forrarder?
Long ago “illegitimate” was adopted a$ a'
polite synonym for “bastard.” but at length-
“illegitimate ” has’lost its savor, too, and'
gr “ ex-nuptial” is to take its place. Still,' the-
lyipless “ ille-Jim ’’remains practically'\W6re,
he was. This policy is like trying to curb a car-
buncle bv calling it a pearl. Why not make' tjh®
“ ex-nuptial ” kid the fair-dinku.m son and hpir
of his male parent,.and do away with the neces-
sity of finding a peculiar tab for him ?
S. Australia is a frugal soul, with a good
deal of plain horse-sense regarding the frills that
mostly hang round Governments. For one thing,
it long ago abolished a sentry at Government
House. Lately it has been represented that
country visitors mistake the place for the Botanic
Gardens or the Zoo, and wander in promiscuous ;
wherefore his Ex. and family are liable to find;
perfect strangers waving their beards in the most
cherished corners, and inquiring pleasantly for
the monkey cage. But even that tale of woe
didn’t put an unnecessary flunkey back into the
empty guard-box ; the frugal, sensible Govern-
ment got over the small trouble by the simple
plan of telling a painter to print “ Private ” on a
board and hang it on a convenient tree at the
gates- After which it is hoped that the common
people will no longer imagine a vain thing, and
slop over into the holy of holies.
They are telling a story, up and down the
Murray, of. a German irrigation-farmer who was
worth "nothing a few years back, and has just
refused an offer of £27,000' for his land. “What
use is the monnay tb me? 1 ” he asked sensibly ;
'and added: “I
drink it.” The'idea just
tickles the Australian, ,
b'ackblox humor, arid' /
the details of a
£27,000 drunk are
taxing the im-
agination of
every mute in-
glorious Rabelais
on the river.
THE INSPIRATION.
BlLlV: “ Friendship's nil right; but, dammit ,
kissin ’ the missis 1 ’
William: “J know, I know. Fact is, old man,
I’m—l’m—l'm gettin’ so short sighted I
thought I was you.”
“ Buz Fuz ” : At the recent criminal
sessions at Perth (\V. A.) the jury panel included,
a full-blooded Chinaman. He sat on one jury
which was instrumental in a white man receiving
two years’ hard labor, but was challenged when
called as a juror on the following day. However,
it didn’t make any difference ; the challenger got
two just the same. This is not the first
instance of Ah Chow sitting on an Australian
jury, and I want to know whether he crawls in
tiirough a hole in the'Constitution, or whether this
is another instance of State rights. It is important
that I should know, because • I intend to kill
several politicians shortly, and I wouldn’t like to
be strangled on the odd vote of Sling Shi.
THE PRICE OF LIBERTY.
MOSSY : “S’elp me, I key, clot [?] suit
must have cosdt a fey bob!"
Jkky (who knows): “ Yes, Mossy, it did—to yet
oudt."
A story of Australian interest lately went
the rounds of the press in Japan, and was a
matter fdr characteristically Jap comment.
Melbourne man, whilst in Tokio, went with otlier
tourists to the Yoshiwara, in the “ licensed
Quarter where girls are offered for selection. I
tourists in this case were merely ' doing
ySsJ ' the'sights,” and this particular sight made
W.VS. the Melbourne man very wretched. It
struck him that the faces of the most
recently “licensed” damsels ex-
pressed fear—not to say horror— at
the approach of the foreign visitors.
Questioning one of the pretties
of them as to her hopes of re-
lease, she said she had none but
death, or words to that effect.
Being a sentimentalist of the con-
scientious kind.
the Melbourne
man went to the
local police with
a proposal tq
ransom at least
one of the cap-
tive girls, if it
could be manag-
ed ; an d the
police, who will
manage any-
thing for a con-
sideration, gave
him the leave he
asked. So he
went again to
the Yoshiwara,
and just as he
got there he saw
a new arrival
being dressed up
for the sacrifice.
Bhe was brought
to him, tremb-
ling with terror.
He learned that
she was the
daughter of a
poverty-stricken
mother, living
away in the
mountains, and
had come to the
house for im-
purely financial
reasons on her parent's account. The strange
gentleman, she naturally assumed, wanted to buy
her for himself, and a sense of her shame was
heavy on the little woman. When she learned
that he was going to buy her out of bondage, in
order to return her straight away to her mother
with money in her kimono pocket, she seemed the
happiest girl ini Japan. But the story got into
the papers, and raised a storm of sarcasm
mixed with indignation. From the editorial
point of view,, the Australian intruder was a
meddling fool, whose ransomed maiden, would
almost certainly return to the Yoshiwara when
her mother had exhausted her new means of sup-
port. “ Constant'Readers ” ridiculed, theory
of; philanthropic motive, and protested with
Judkinsesque; warmth against the police policy of
“permitting-an artful foreigner to indulge his
selfish . immorality under a cloak of humanita-
rianism,” The Jap: Judkins got very mad indeed
about it. And on the voyage back to Australia
the hero of this story heard his fellow-passengers
draw sinful smoking-room conclusions from the
widely-published narrative of the unknown Mel-
bourne man who had ransomed the “licensed” girl
for the avowed purpose of returning her unsullied
to her starving mother, Nobody, apparently, can
hope to get credit for truly moral conduct —in
Japan.
*.* * *
From an Australian who has been through
the lugger-owning business :
The idea, that Asiatic pearl-shell divers are cheaper
than whites is an error shared by “G.R.F.”(B. 22/9/TO)
and many others. The Asiatic diver gets his 10 per cent,
on all “ stones ” or “ baroque,” and a £25 or £3O “ lay ”
on shell. Besides this, he demands an advance of from
£lOO to £l3O before he goes out at all, and there is such a
Bcarcitv of divers that lie: gets it. Master pearlers have
to take their chance of his loafing, or his illness, or of a
poor season.
White divers simply can’t he got. Diving doesn’t
appeal to the white ; he thinks it- a fool’s gaffie to risk
paralysis, deafness, heart trouble and acute rheumatism
at sea when he can make more money buying pearls
ashore. The few white divers who keep at it have
boats of their own. And when you come to think of it,
they are the people who should have boats of their own.
Like ‘‘G.RiF.,” 1 should like to see the industry
entirely in the hands of whites; hut I think this is not
possible while the present style of 1 ugner and pumping
apparatus are in use. White men could not live in
such close and filthy, quarters. Under better condi-
tions the industry would build up a fine class of Aus-
tralian seamen, who would know the treacherous N.W.
coast.
Asiatic labor in the tropics is never cheap. It is dear,
dirty and inefficient. The wily Asiatic is not 24 hours
in the State before lie knows all there is to know about
the price of labor in Australia, and claims accordingly.
The. lugger seamen can’t kick, being under indenture;
nut the diver can. So can cooks, waiters, house-boys,
etc., who'in the north and nor’-west get wages on the fol-
lowing scale: Cooks, £3 per week ; waiters, house and
laundry boys, from £1 to£2 10s. And a lazy, insolent set
they are. The curious thing is that the community which
will tolerate such dear, yet inefficient, the
Asiatic, and especially the .Tap, whose insolence is a pro-
verb, will give them the preference over white candi-
dates for employment, simply because it is the thing to
be as Singapore-like as possible. A poor and squalid
imitation it is. In Singapore, the Asiatic servant is a
meek, gliding, silent shadow, ministering to every want;
not ttie insolent, incapable creature of Broome and the
nor’-west coast towns, whose weekly wage would pay his
Singapore brother for a year.
CUPID IN CONTEMPT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chief Justice Madden on the manifold sins and wicked-
nesses of the voting- people : “ What, is to .be done to stop
them ? They' won’t obey the Legislature. They ivon't.
regard the Jndges ! ”
When in the dusk, beneath the rose,
Young lovers barter kisses—
A deal that brings .familiar.vyoes
To many little misses—
’Tis strange the fellows never shrink
From cheeks like ripened peaches,
And pause, a little while, to think
Of wisdom callow youth may drink
From good John Madden’s speeches.
Still Cupid runs with rosy feet
Where lovers light-and-law shun ;
His torch illumes no glade, its heat
Melts all the snows of caution.
Alas ! no rival godlet, goes
In wig and gown to capture
The pairs, and with a garden hose
Their amatory flame oppose,
i And douse their foolish rapture.
Chief Justice John should use the power
With which he is invested,
And for contempt within the hour
Dan Cnpid have arrested ;
Then lock him up in Pentridge fort,
With manacle and fetter,
Till to the order of the court
He yields, and drops the naughty sport
Of aider and abettor.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
MARTIN PLACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
George-street is a lady who wears a painted face,
Pitt-street is a dowager with lack of shape and grace,
But Spring with all her daffodils is haunting Martin Place.
Alone the crowded pavements the people come and go,
The shops tricked out in tinsel stand up and down a-row,
But in Martin Place the whispers of the happy season
,blow.
For all the city voices have faded quite away,
And only youngest laughter in such an air may stay,
’Mid banks of violets a-bloom in Martin Place to-day.
For George-street is a lady who wears a painted face,
And Pitt-street is a dowager in old, faded lace,
But Spring is sowing wattle-gold along Martin Place.
n.s.w.
Mary McCommonwealth.MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s ~
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,’’
by Lever Brothers Limited,
Sydney, N.S.W.
No. 57.
V
fsd
A Comfortable Summer Outfit
Be rational in your dress this Summer.
Dress as the climate requires.
Here’s a Summer outfit that will temper the Summer
pleasantly for you—and give you perfect satisfaction as -‘to
quality of make and material : - ' ‘ ’■
DRAB CRASH SUITS, with Blue, Green or White
Stripes -21/-
PANAMA HAT —new season’s style, feather light, close
plait - - 15 '6
“SOFTNESS” SHIRT —soft front and body—soft turned-
back Cuffs—in colors and new season’s stripes - 6/9
Or three for 20/-
Send for our New Handbook of Men’s Wear—we post it free anywher
PEAPE5 & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,’
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A Maoriland Presbyterian parson named
Chappie has discharged his church with smudges
an its character. The trouble commenced when
Chappie presided at one of McCabe’s lectures in
the South Island. The Presbytery lined ChaDple
up, and demanded some explanations concerning :
(1) His presiding at a lecture by Mr. Joseph McCabe,
stating that he did so as a protest against the absurdities
of orthodox teachings ; (2) his name appearing as a sub-
scribing member of the London R itionalist Association,
whose publications he publicly recommended ; (3) preach-
ing in the Unitarian Church, Auckland, which is about to
become vacant; (4) the inconsistency of such conduct
and utterances with the solemn vows made on his admis-
sion to the Church.
Ghapple’s reply was to lead in modern science and
theological dogma, and sool the beasts at each
other. The board of referees then advised
Chappie to pass in his ticket. Which Chappie
did, with these few remarks :
We have now a Church honej'combed with men who
mince and prance, equivocate, cough, sneeze, amble,
sophisticate and lie like troopers to save themselves and
their livings. The Church is reeking with intellectual
dishonesty, compromise and expediency. A minister
can believe what he likes in the church, provided he
keeps his mouth shut, or at least deals out his heresy
from the pulpit in judicious homoeopathic doses. Now
that I have chosen to act otherwise, and hit the Pres-
bytery and the religious community of South Canterbury
on the top of the skull with a bludgeon, I know the
result, and so do they.
When the last mail left the Presbytery was still
wearing rump-steak on its eye.
THE INDISPENSABLE MALE.
“Going to back something again?"
“ Oh, I think so—unless Robbie has had his
pocket picked."
“ Gil Gunnia” : It would surprise you to
see how the Outback country is being threaded
and knitted together by the telephone wire. It
winds its way through the loneliest stretches of
bush —places where there is practically nothing to
see but apple, box and emus, with a cocky or
houndarv-rider here and there—and in the event
of bush fire or accident, it makes its leap to the
rescue. The other day, out Dandaloo way, for
instance, a cocky was crushed by a falling
tree. The bone of the leg was splin-
tered and an artery pierced. When he
was picked up the poor beggar’s life was
racing away through the wound, and it was esti-
mated that a couple of hours would see the end
of him. To carry him to town, 35 miles distant,
meant a six-hours’ journey at the least; and by
that time he would have been pegging out a
selection on the other side. So the bush tele-
phone was set to work to hunt up a doctor, and
start him off full-tilt to meet the patient, who,
meanwhile, had been carried on in order to reduce
the distance. The doctor covered 25 miles while
the injured man was taken 10; the leak was
temporarily stopped on the wayside, and hospital
was reached in safety.
* * * *
How humorous these churchmen are !
The Bishop of Carlisle (Eng.), in deploring the
public excitement over aviation, lately wondered
how many of his big congregation would take a
ticket to Blackpool to see a swallow fly ; yet the
flight of an aeroplane was not, he remarked, so
wonderful nor so beautiful as that of a swallow.
Well, if Mr. Carlisle heard that a swallow in the
next diocese preached excellent sermons, it is
odds on that he wouldn’t rest until he had heard
it; although he would feel quite certain in his
own mind before he started that the fowl could
not do the job as well as he could do it himself.
Contrariwise, if a knowing bird told the swallow
that Mr. Carlisle was flying about and building a
nest of sticks and straw in the cathedral belfry,
that swallow would give his last worm for a front
perch, though he would be willing to bet his tail
feathers that it would be a mere burlesque of
serious nesting, and unworthy the attention even
of an owl.
“ Harrison O.”: Launcelot was a poet of
a high order. He had once published a collection
of his poems in a little booklet, with uncut edges,
called “ Heart Quivers.” Launcelot loved Lalage
Very Dearly. Lalage sold beer at the White
Heart Hotel, but she Was Different from the
Others. She had often told Launcelot that she
Hated the Awful Life. She told him that he,
*■•00, was Different from the Others. He used to
lean across the bar and tell her that he knew
she was Not That Kind of a Girl. Then
he would order another drink, and say that
as he had that day had to pay the fee for
the annual renewal of his poet’s license,
he was rather short of money, so she
would have to put it on the slate. One
day they quarrelled. Launcelot dis-
covered her adjusting her stocking in
front of a man who had his arm
around her. Launcelot said
that he had Never Thought
that She Was That Sort
of a Girl, and left in a
rage. He walked back to
his diggings, which were
being swept by his char-
woman. Gazing upon her
toil-worn hands, he mused
upon the Dignity of Char-
ing. He told himself: the
Hand that Wields the
Broomstick Rules the
World. He thought
how Noble it was to
Char, and leave be-
hind Sweetness and
Light where there had
before been Dust and Cigarette
Ends. He fell under the
glamor of Romance that always
surrounds a charwoman ; then,
remembering that she would
ask for one and sixpence when
she had finished, he brooded on
the untold wealth to be made
by charing, and how one and
sixpence would keep a poet in
beer for a day and a night. So
he forgot Lalage, and urged Mrs.
Mullins to fly with him, telling
her that she was his white lily and
his affinity, and that he had Loved
her from the First. But Mrs. Mullins
> was Most Especially Shocked, and said
that she did not believe that she really was
~ his white lily, and that, upon her soul, she
would like her old man to hear him. She asked
for her one and sixpence, and said that she had
Never Thought that He was a Man like That.
Then the poet said tlmre was no such thing as
Romance and that the Gods were dead ; and he
went out, and was fined 10s. the next morning.
* ■* * *
That interesting sporting event, the recent
61st annual Balmain (Sydney) regatta, was en-
livened by some stirring remarks from Hon.
Minister Oakes—
Their navy was now in process of formation, and two of
the vessels were on the way to our shores. He hoped
they would require no foreigners toman our war vessels.
The time would probably come when they would have to
defend the shores of Australia, and these annual regattas
did good service in giving young men the necessary ini-
tiatory training to make them competent for a sea-faring
life.
It was at luncheon on the regatta committee’s
flagship that Oakes made these good patriotic re-
marks, and the flagship around which the young
men were getting the “ necessary initiatory train-
ing ” was the Jap steamer Kumano Maru ! Pro-
phetic?
* * * *
As this paper observed at the time, the
appointment of the Board to inquire into the
Richmond (Vic.) railway smash was but a jest,
the point of which would lie in the application
thereof. The point has just been applied by
Attorney-General J. Drysdale Brown, who has
ordered criminal prosecutions against the South
Yarra signalman and the driver of the second
engine for “wilfully breaking certain regulations,
and thereby endangering the safety of certain
persons.” But supposing, as is quite possible, a
jury says that the regulations were broken
because it was impossible to keep them, or that,
though it was a matter of common knowledge that
they were habitually broken, yet the Department
tacitly condoned the custom ? Against whom will
J. Drysdale Brown issue criminal summonses in
that event?
A Great Law Suit Decided.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided
that Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against
Coughs and Colds. Price. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
AN INFALLIBLE SIGN.
RUDOLPH: “J say , Rupert, I don’t wish, to be-personal—but was you ever married f ”
RUPERT : “ No. Why 1 ”
RUDOLPH : Because I notice that you always go to sleep wiv yer hands in yer pockets."
A Port Adelaide parson has induced some
of the women of his congregation to remove their
matinee hats in church, in order that fellow-
worshippers may get an uninterrupted view of
the monologuist. Why, indeed, do women wear
hats when their menkind sit bareheaded among
them ? The question presents a simple, utilitarian
appearance to the unthinking many; but to the
deeply conscientious wowser it seems fraught with
devilish mischief. In a negative sense, the
gigantic hat trimmed with rooster features, or
girdled with roses, gives holiness to a church
gathering; for if the women remove their
obstructive headgear they are even as the
sinners who go to theatres. If they trip along
to the tabernacle with tricky laces or chiffons,
etc., framing their bonnie dyed hair, they are
even more frivolous in suggestion. They might
as well be going out to enjoy themselves. There-
fore, it is impossible that the God-fearing can
ever take kindly to the idea of a bareheaded
Sunday female. Taking one consideration
with another, The Bulletin reckons, then,
that the Port Adelaide shepherd committed
a grievous error in desiring his ewe lambs to re-
move their hats. The innovation, moreover, is
especially ill-timed. One might have sat behind
a Gainsborough hat in the long ago without
getting any sort of religious inspiration from the
lady’s millinery ; but when she carries a rooster
on her head, one cannot but think of the Scriptural
bird who crowed thrice and brought St. Peter
to a properly religious frame of mind.
One of Australia’s most gorgeous church
rows had a tragic result lately. After the worst
of the row was over one of the partisans wanted
to join in the proceedings, as usual; but the new
shepherd put up the slip-panels. Some sheep
would have sniffed for new grass and made for it
with a disrespectful ba-a-a at the panels ; this one
moped outside, and finally his friends had to get
a doctor to him. But he never recovered his bal-
ance, and died a few days ago.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: Touching the question of a
naval base in North or Nor’-West Australia,
King Sound is not in it with Port Darwin,
which bristles with advantages. It is capable
of holding a fleet of large proportions; the
rise and fall of tide is 24ft. (which means
that it is an ideal place for graving docks);
and, despite this great rise and fall, there is always
enough water to enable big ships to go in and out.
Finally, it is just the place for an arsenal, since
iron, wolfram and other valuable minerals lie
behind and around in immense quantities.
As a result of an indiscretion on the part
of Sydney Telegraph in publishing some caustic
remarks made by some Baptist ministers regard-
ing alleged unfair touting for business on the part
of certain Presbyterian and Methody rivals, things
are somewhat mixed in evangelical circles in
N.S.W. For instance
Mr. Leech cold of a man who had been given day work
instead of night work on condition he took the con-
ductorship of the Methodist choir. Mr. Jaggers said the
Methodist minister used to stir up all that was bad, and
many a time he had gone out to th back of the hills and
prayed to God to give him the Christ-like spirit.
The tone in which the tail-end of a reply is
couched leaves the impression that the Methodist
minister is looking daggers at Jaggers : —
I should like to assure Mr. Jaggers that I bear him no
ill-will ; and if in the future ourlot.be cast, together, and
he finds those visits behind the hills again necessary,
whether for counsel or for fight, I shall be delighted to
bear him company.
A more peaceful soul, anxious to pour oil on the
troubled shepherds, gives away a pleasant little
anecdote of his own : —
Rev. J. Parker said he was not engaged in any holy war
against any other denomination. The best friend he had
had in his country work was a Presbyterian lady. Though
she had plenty of servants, she would not even let them
get him a cup of lea, because she said she was doing it
for the Master’s sake. He used to go t here for spiritual re-
freshment when he had been dealing with so many can-
tankerous people who were not of her denomination.
The worst phase of the scrimmage so far is the
absence of any opening for either'the Cardinal or
Dili Macky to take a hand.
“A Juddite”: Bananaland has been piling
up a grim record of lepers in recent years. The
latest cases come from the coast, but the patients
previously lived in Longreach, which they left
some months ago. The mother, son and daughter ■
of the family have the disease, and other mem-
bers of the family are scattered over Queensland.
This is the second known family that has con-
tracted the horror in Longreach. It is up to
Bananaland to make exhaustive inquiries into
the source of infection in the way-out township,
otherwise it is liable to become a leper settle-
ment. Seven years, experts say, it takes the
disease to develop from the time of infection ; so
that, before the disease can be diagnosed, a whole
community may be unconsciously moving towards
the living grave of the lazaret.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists' are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets’),*
A SONG OP RESIGNATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Investigations into the cause of the recent derailment
of eight vehicles at Clunes (Vic.) have revealed the fact
that the first truck to leave the rails was of the old-
fashioned, obsolete “O” class, which should have found
a resting-place in the scrap-heap years ago. This truck
was smashed to pieces, and it threw the vehicles behind
off the line.— Daily paper.
Surely somewhere beneath the wreckage we
Can find, unnerved and lame,
A minion, on a wretched salary,
To bear some of the blame !
Is there no culprit in a signal tow’r
Whom we can seize and slice
With regulations? We must find this hour
A small, cheap sacrifice !
Hand us a Board ! But stay awhile ! Maybe
The system of slapdash no longer yearns
To nail the blame to minion B or C
When something overturns!
It causes us amazement and some doubt;
No traveller can an explanation find ;
’Tis strange how truth and homicide will out
When one is quite resigned.
VICTORIA.
THE DRIVER.


IF THE LIQUOR HANGS OUT.
If the spirit of confidence in the Liberal party is maintained for 10 days longer, it will sweep the poll. (Cheers.)- Wade at Bathurst.
THE ATHLETIC CHUCKER-OUT AND ROPER-IN : “ Keep him going, missus, for a few minutes more. Then he’ll miss the bloomin’ ’bus, and his cheque II be ours.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
a ll Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
gran®®
5 Choice Diamonds, in
Platinum setting,
£2O.
Special Value—3 Dia-
monds, mounted in
18ct. Gold, £5/5/-
Selected Diamonds,
18et.-Gold,
£B/8/-
Por six months we will offer Diamonds in Ring's, Pendants and Jewellery generally at prices never
before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it—and so to increase our already large output, we are offering all Diamond goods at
merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House.iii Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN ALITIES
AFTER THE BATTLE OF THE STEAK.
CUSTOMER: “ Confound it all , gal! Call this
place a restarong ? Why, you’ve forgot to
lay the dynamite ! ”
“ Laroykeyah ” : Meathook, who usually
provides my menu, has lately been going out with
a loaded gun, and returning with an empty ditto
and no game. I investigated, and found he had
been shooting kangaroos and feasting his tribe on
them, returning to me with a tale of “Missed
’em, boss.” His denials of the crime were vigor-
ous, till I pointed out that he had put the gun
down among tiie hot ashes and cooking flesh. He
reformed for a while, but started his old game
again yesterday. “ What for you bin eatum
kangaroo longa bush?” I demanded. Meathook
denied the impeachment. “My look see gun,”.l
•said. Meathook brought it gladly. “My bin
washum gun longa creek, boss,” lie said triumph-
antly.
“ Machete ” : A recent' correspondent (B.
18/8/’10) mentions the tendency of Papuan official-
dom to appoint ex-gaolbirds to Government
billets. These last are generally warderships in
the native gaols, and the system, weird as it may
seem, has been found an excellent one. Good-
conduct prisoners .whose time has not even ex-
pired are occasionally appointed assistant war-
ders, and wear the blue serge and black waistband
that is the outward and visible sign of the
official watchdog. These promoted prisoners
consider themselves bona-Jide civil servants
too. One excellent murderer was returned to
his home on the Mambare, after doing 18 months
a prisoner and six as an assistant warder. He
arrived in his warder’s costume, and was much
upset to.find that there were no vacancies on the
local gaol staff. He, nevertheless, soon after put
in a peremptory claim for anew uniform. When
this was denied, and the fact that he was a mere
civilian explained to him, he left in an atmosphere
of threats and blasphemy.
* * * *
; “Louis M.”: Re “K.’s” par (B. 25/8/TO).
First let me say that I fully agree with his stric-
ture on the careless lessee who has allowed the
plrickly pear to smother his country ; but to his
remarks concerning the unspeakable emu—rats !
Has “ K.” ever resided within half a mile of a
pet bird of this breed ? If he has, what, honestly,
did he think of the wretched thing ? Has he ever
owned ewes and lambs, and observed these
feathered fiends putting in their fancy work the
length and breadth of the mob, and doing more
damage in half an hour than a self-respecting
dingo would in. a month? Has he ever had to
repair fences on country infested with these
obstacle-devastating abominations ? In fact, does
he really know anything at all about the ungainly
monstrosities? “Harmless and picturesque!”
One would fancy he must fie writing about the
brogla, a picturesque and likable creature,
assuredly. Anyway, why snuffle over such objects
when there are plenty of starving children and
suffering horses to lament about?
“G.R.F.”—a recent sojourner in the
great North-West:—
“ The Graveyard ” in the Far Nor’-West, referred toby
“ A.H.” (B. 18/8/’l 0), is a large sheet of water tucked away
amongst precipitous islands in Buccaneer Archipelago,
and is certainly the most lonely spot on that lonely coast.
1 put in six months there in 1898 in the Ethel, and was
struck with the suitability of the place as a lair for
pirates, if those picturesque cut-throats still exist. The
two entrances are between wall-like cliffs which towered
high above our top-gallant mastheads—and the Ethel was
a big lump of a brigantine. The “Graveyard” can onlv
bfe entered on the flood tide, and left on the ebb. When
we were entering it the Ethel was swept so close to the
cliff that the foreyard scraped along its face, and the
leadsman, who was standing in the starboard whaleboat,
which, pearler-fashion, was swung outboard, dropped the
lead on the dry rocks. The water is smooth, but the force
of the wind is terrific as it rushes down through the high
lands, which stretch away as far as the eye can see in
ranges of huge hills. At low tide there are miles of flats,
which are covered with 30 feet of sea at high water.
There were a good many natives about when we arrived,
but they promptly disappeared. We left flour, rice,
sugar and tobacco at one of their camps, but when we
returned three days later the supplies were still there.
The legend of an ancient black of our crew, whogot word
with the strangers, was that some years previously a
vessel had visited the place and left a similar present,
and that many of the blacks had died in great agony after
eating the tucker. I cannot vouch for the truth of this,
but the niggers would have nothing to do with us
during our lone stay. There were numerous skulls and
human bones on the various islands. The “Graveyard ”
got its name from the many deaths that occur there. The
water is very deep, and divers—Japs, Malays and
Manilamen who, in their lust for shell, ventured
far below the safety limit, became paralysed and
joined the angel choirs. We lost a large number of men,
whose dead bodies were tied up in flour sacks and buried
ashore. At one of these buryings I saw with what little
reverence the Jap treats his dead friends. A Jap diver
had died, ai.id .I went ashore with a boat’s crew of his
countrymen. The deceased was an exceptionally tall
mkn, and the grave proved to be too short. So the body
was stamped into the grave by the “ nice little brown
men,” as thev are called by fools who don’t know. The
Japs are thoroughly familiar with this part of rhe Com-
monwealth, and in the event of war it will probably be
the rendezvous and hiding-place for Japanese cruisers en-
gag'd! in harassing vessels upon the Indian Ocean route.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Geofred’s” yarn (88/9/T0)
about the Kameruka wreck, and the heroic
pig that -saved passengers and crew hy
swimming ashore with a line, is romantic. Its
chief trouble is that it isn’t true. Thewreck came
off all right, but there was no such distinguished
swine in the ship-wrecked company. I was about
there when the old Kameruka got drunk or some-
thing and_ blundered out of her usual course on to
a reef some 300yds. from shore, off Moruya
Heads. Among the crowd that hastened
'X to the beach was Pete Davis, a Moruya
\ fisherman, and his brother Jack. By
\ stretching a rope along the sand, and
tying lifebuoys at intervals thereon,
they conveyed to the crew the idea
of floating a rope ashore on life-
buoys. In less than an hour the
thing was done, the rope was fast
ashore and raised by sheer-legs,
and the passengers were being
landed. Previously the crew
5 laid destroyed half the bacon
aboard by trying to make pigs
perform the task of carrying
300yds. of sagging rope through a
rough sea, and their futile efforts
, %‘ A y e nse to the pig-rescue yarn that
Geofred nas resurrected.
Wee McGregor : There are some
ventriloquists among Australian beasts and fowls
that would have three-inch letters if thev were in
Rickards’s programme. A dingo was in the habit
of visiting my camp on the Corila River, 60 miles
west of Cloncurry (Q.), and practising for his
evening’s concert. He would come to within 80yds.
or 100yds., sit down, and howl; but anyone, not
seeing him, would swear the howler was half a
mile away. Owing to his ability to hurl his re-
marks clean away from his mouth, I christened
him Valentine Vox. Ventriloquism is much
more common among birds. The little Queens-
land dove, when cooing, often seems to be a long
distance off, when, in fact, she is picking on the
ground close to your feet. And in the gullies as
you travel from Kiandra to the top of the Black
Mountain on the Gippsland track, the N.S.W.
bell-bird would deceive any but a good bushnian.
A DESPERATIt EMERGENCY.
MacGregor: “ And what would ye do if .ye met a real ghost '! ”
O’Ryan (very superstitious): “Faith, I’d drop down dead, an’ run for me loife.”
“ Stohr Ruddell ” : So Foster Phraser says
the last of our pioneers are dead. Well, Jieregoes
for a tale of some very good substitutes. Four
years ago South Aus. asked for settlers for the
Pinnaroo District, and two years ago the Vic.
Government woke up and followed suit. Immedi-
ately water was assured, bv bores, the blocks were
rushed —on faith alone. There was no guarantee
of success. ’The land was sandy, and its face
was thick with stunted mallee, and pariah
wjre-bush, and broom-bush, and mongrel ti-
tree. The nearest train whistle was blown at
Tailem Bend, over 80 miles off. But the
retrogade, spiritless Australians risked , it,, and
trekked over the sands, and built their tents in
the middle of Nowhere. Bill left Mary and the
kids up north or down south, and put in the first
year or two rolling down, burning
off, sowing and reaping. The cold
kept him frorii brooding in winter,
and in summer he could keep
his mind active devising means
of hiding the meat from the
flies. Then when the season
brought forth the glad tidings
of 12 bushels, and the train
came 80 miles nearer, Mary
and the kids arrived to
help Bill, and they are
camping in the tin room,
which is all Bill can sport
yet awhile. But Mary
says it’ll do for a bit, and i
Bill says it won’t be long.
Many a time I have heard
well-dressed young men
telling the girl behind the
beer-gun that the country
was going to the dawgs, and
that she (Ethel) could take his (Percy’s) word for
it. Now the reason is out in all its naked horror.
There are no pioneers left!
* * * *
Gentleman James ” sends a belated note
from a place where the mailman doesn't call
twice a day :
“G.R.F.’s” reply to “S.S.S.”(B. 2/6/10), re beri-beri,
is quite out of date. I was on one of the other schooners
he mentions near the Ethel fleet, and witnessed the diet
treatment raw potatoes, vinegar and oil (not castor, but
pump oil ; perhaps the castor had run out). The Ethel’s
death rate was, in spite of it all, quite up to the average
of the other schooners. Beri-beri I put down to drawing
water out of stagjnant.waterholes. I remember on one
trip, between Port Essingrton and Thursd y Island, we had
five deaths and 20 odd men ready for the hospital. The
crews were discharged and anew lot shipped, and
the boats were refitted and refilled with, water.
We then left for the she ling ground. But still
the beri-beri hung on to us ; so we had all the water casks
taken on shore and burnt out with dry grass, after which
we never had a case. About that time, an English and
Dutch commission was studying the disease in Burma
and East Indies. Verdict, bad rice. It would take up
too much space to record how that verdict was arrived
at, but in a letter I sent to the Times I threw a some-
what different light on the matter, after which I received
so many communications from doctors and others inter-
ested, some telling me that I was the first to bring such
overwhelming evidence to prove the water theory, that
really I expected the Nobel prize. But I didn’t even
get the D.S.O.
“ The Prodigal ” : Billjack took ill, so
they shifted him in from the out-station to the
pub to wait for a coach to the nearest hospital—if
he lived that long. Billjack steadily got worse,
and they had to drop him into a bed in a slab-
walled room at the back of the bar. The day
before the coach was due, the sick (and appar-
ently dying) man heard Bung and one of his con-
sumers talking: “Ain’t the bloke dead yet?”
“No, but he won’t be long.” The sick man
jumped out of bed, pulled on his clothes and
staggered into the bar. “Give us my bill, boss,”
he said. “ I’m off.” The boss thought it over,
then handed, this,over to the invalid
/ s. and.
(1) To two days’board and lodging .. 10 0
(2) To digging one grave .. .. 10 0
And he collected it, too.
SUBURBAN TYPES.
Gertie takes her young man home to tea oil
Sunday evening.
“ Timothy Tufthunter ” : As wallaby has
given me many a square meal, I hereby put in a
good word for him. Scrub wallaby is first-class
eating; a young one, stuffed with bread and
roasted in an oven, is as good as turkey. Of
course, old bucks are not so palatable, any more
than old bulls are; and in my opinion rock-
wallaby is not nearly as good as the scrub resident.
The kangaroo rat is a favorite, aiso, with bush
epicures ; and some like the bandicoot, although
no dog will touch it either cooked or raw. Scrub
wallaby is, or was, a favorite dish with the blacks,
especially the tail, which they cooked in the
ashes. The worms in all marsupials, except the
koala, are stomach worms, and have probably
something to do with their digestion'. The pig is
often full of minute worms in the flesh, which
produce a disease called trichinosis in the human
body, vet very few people turn up their noses at
swine-hams. We did the wallaby more justice at
one time; I remember when the scrub variety
used to be quoted at so much each in Sydney.
BILL M'GINTY’S COLLAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rill M’Ginty was in love with Mary Ann Magee—
Bill was just a farming' chap, same as you and me ;
Marj r Ann was something choice, wore an artful smile,
Had her frocks Traralgon-made, in the latest style.
Mary couldn’t bother with the Bonoolarra boys—
Thought they looked too “common ” in their shirts and
corduroys.
Bill was in a plight
How' to make her foller ;
Thought he’d look all right
; In a masher collar.
Bill was working in the shed, mending up a dray,
Bhota Singh, the hawker, chanced to come along his way.
Bill looked through the hawker’s stock ; had a quid to
spare: n
Bought a sash for Mary's waist and ribbons for her hair ;
. Bought a brush and comb as well (hanging the expense);
•Came across a collar like the Bunyip show-ground fence.
Bhota said (in joke):
“You buy him! By golla 1
Cripes! You city bloke,
in a masher collar ! ”
through the paddocks in the night Bill in anguish strode ;
Didn’t dare to show his neck, walking on the road.
Bat Maloney’s wife looked out—almost had the jumps—
“ Glory be ; but Bill M’Gint.v’s got the blessed mumps! ”
All Maloney’s kids turned out; settled (by a vote),
Bill had got his sister’s belt wrapped around his throat.
Bill felt hot and silly,
Hearing Bridget holler,
“ Paddy I luk at Billy
In the shtand-up collar !’’
■Half-way-down to Mary s place, Bill was like to strangle ;
•Stuck tus chiii towards the moon at a dreadful angle :
Belt his neck all chafed and red ; tore t,he collar loose ;
i Up behind his ear it felt like a hangman’s noose 1
Stuck it in his pocket; then marched to Mary : “ Phew!
.Look, Miss Mary, what I done, all for love of you! "
Mary, in the dark,
Felt her heart grow holler,
At the livid mark
Left by William’s collar.
Bound his neck the circle ran, red and angry still,
-Just as if a rope had been tautened up on Bill,
Through her mind in ecstasy a wondrous vision rant
Bill Committing-suicide for love of Mary Ann !
Full of dreams from novelettes was Mary Ann Magee:
Bill! she said,i “my darlin’! would you hang yourself
for me 't
Bill, though little taught,
; Was no stupid scholar,
Hugged her, saying naught
Of the masher collar.
ißill acquired the right to hug; but—unhappy youth !
That old fowl, Maloney’s wife, told his girl the truth.
Bill, the day that he was wed, toward' the shanty went,
Oomfy turn-down collar on, looking innocent;
Mary Ann, with subtle smile, drew her man aside :
“ Put crh your other collar, or I’ll never be a bride ! ”
At the wedding feast
, Bill could hardly swoller ;
i • Couldn’t be released
From his masher collar.
.'Mary Ann has better sense to-day, with seven brats;
'■Doesn't wear a township dress, or feathers in her hats;
But she cultivates a joke ; works it once a year ;
Always has it ready when her wedding-day is here.
<Gets the kids inside, and pulls a collar from a shelf :
“Say good-bye to Daddy, dears; lie’s going to hang
bimself! ”
Bill is a defeated bloke—
Bet your bottom dollar !
All day long must William choke
In that masher collar.
"VICTORIA.
P.


burghu
The Old Blend.
Whisky
OIRECT FROM OISTILLERS. ' r
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE MILLOWy
UATUJft&D SCOTCH MALI*
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
Are a positive cure for indigestion, flatulence,
heartburn, acidity of stomach, and all stomach
troubles. Price 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 tabules.*
Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Soecial Attention to
the Cuisine. . . •
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“Zamia”: Bush J’s.P. for arrogance are
pretty hard to beat; but high and mighty mayors
in tin-pot townships can sometimes do it. One
North Queensland township has, in its main street,
a monument erected in memory of a woman who
played the game right up to the end. The sympa-
thy of the stranger is aroused on reading the in-
scription, but the tear gives place to a grin before
the verse is finished :
Five fearful days beneath
The scorching glare
Her Babe she nursed ;
God knows the pangs that
Woman had to bear,
Whose last sad entry shewed
A mother’s care,
Then nearly dead with thirst.
John Jones (say), Mayor.
* * * *
“ Quan Why doesn’t some enterprising
Australian eating-house proprietor put curried
carpet-snake on his tucker programme occa-
sionally? lam certain it would be quite as nice
as python ragout—one of the dishes at a fashion-
able dinner in Paris recently.
“The Prooshan ” : I appear for the
accused, James Pintpot, your Worship. There
has been a deal of ink-slinging at him of late, but
he can afford to smile at all his critics. Jimmie
is one of the best of Australian bush loreists. who
says what he sees, and sees what he says. He is
a school-inspector by profession and a white man
by occupation. He finds hospitality because of
the big-pumpkin heart in him, and he’ll continue
to find the precious milk of human kindness out-
back, inback, and the world generally as long as
he’s the same good Australian. Jim’s prayer is
the prayer of “Bachelor Betty”: “Oh Lord!
while I live, let me live. Let the good red blood
rush through my veins from morning till night,
and from night till morning, even if by so doing
it make me break every commandment in the
decalogue. And, when my blood shows signs of
turning to water or to ink or absinthe, let me
die suddenly and completely. Amen.” Perhaps
if the legion of pint-o’-flonr paragraphists had a
little more of “J.P.’s” straight Australian in
them and less acid, they’d find heaps of hospitality
out west. “ A drop of honey catches more flies
than a hogshead of vinegar.”
* * * *
“ Puketapu’s ” tale of the staunchest
mates he ever knew :
They were “Long” Wilson and “ the Colonel,” who
drank themselves to death and whatever there is to
follow, when the last scattered gold rush on the Clutha
(Maoriland) was petering out. Nobody knew much of
“ The Colonel,” except thathe had longago been in acavalry
regiment. He and Long Wilson drank like madmen,
rarely speaking even to each other, but inseparable until
the night when Wilson threw himself into the river at the
falls, and went over waving a rum bottle in farewell. For
many days after that the Colonel was little more than a
grog-soaked log, lying in his tent beside, the river. One
attempt was made to succor him, but he fired at the party
when it was still 60yds. away. So he was left to kiil
himself with drink or any other instrument. But
the Colonel didn’t die, at least not that way,
He certainly went mad stark, staring mad
and one might he rushed into the main camp
with a revolver in each hand, and swore to perform
the immediate execution of Dennis Phegan in order to
obtain from him the keys of Hell and let out Long
Wilson. The only thing that saved Denny’s life was
Denny’s absence. After that the Colonel’s search for the
keys of Hell became dangerous. One cold, drizzling day
the trooper, who had been sent for, rode up to collect the
Colonel and take him back to a Government in-
stitution. As he turned a bend in the river
he was fired at with enthusiasm. He ducked
back round the b'end to think the position out.
While he was thinking he heard the Colonel scrambling
over boulders after him. There was nothing for it but to
wing the demented seeker of the keys, and so the patrol
man fired. Where the Oilonel was hit will never be
known, for the bullet pitched him over into the river,
and his body went down towards the falls where Long
Wilson had gone before.
OUT AFTER GAME.
Breathless Customer : “ Give me a penny
mouse-trap — quickly, please ; I want to catch
a tram.”
“ Riverina ” : I rise to object to the
treatment meted out by artists to the great Aus-
tralian swag. Almost invariably they show the
bluey with a shoulder-strap fastened only at one
end, and Billjim holding the other. In B (1/9TO)
there are two pictures (one by Amb. Dvson,
t’other by Ben Jordon) in which the swag is thus
shown. As a matter of fact, Matilda is usually
fastened with two straps, and a third strap is
attached to each. Last-mentioned slips over the
shoulder and leaves the hands free. Artists
should know this, lest Williamjames becomes
annoyed and discards his swag for a suit-case to
prevent misrepresentation. Even an artist could
draw a suit-case.
THE PERVERSE HEN.
McGuire (after some futile efforts to get the fowls into new fowlhouse): “ Yez can go to the
devil, then, yez ungrateful birrds. Sure, now that Oi her a house built I can’t get yez
into it; an' if there was no house Oi’d never kape yez out av it.”
“Edyson” : I remember when the new
bell was put in the tin tower long sacred to the
sparrows in the little wooden Wesleyan chapel at
Waddy. It was not a large bell, but it was a par-
ticularly shrill one, and the sound that energetic
Brother Best pulled out of it resembled a wordy
war between an asthmatical foghorn and a rattled
tank. Brother Best was a mad bellman, but as
he was a power in the chapel no one dared to
question his method of ringing, till the Sunday
when a Rev. American came to sprinkle the seed
at Waddy. Brother Best started early that
morning, and he pulley-hauled the bell
till sweat poured off him. The chapel
tilled, and the American missioner was
waiting to get in his good work, but Brother Best
gave no hint of
letting up. He
was jigging at
the bell rope
with fanatical
zeal. Another
five minutes
passed, and then
Brother Veal
ventured a small
remonstrance.
Brother Best
gave no heed,
and still the wild
bell rang out to
the wilder sky.
Brother Praeton
protested. His
protest was dis-
regarded. Then
the Rev. Ameri-
can and four of
the brethren
surrounded Best.
“ Really, Bro-
ther,” said the
missioner, “ I
think you need
ring no more.”
“Ring nomore?”
cried Best. “But
I will ring more !
Ther e’s that
Willum Carter
over the way
ain’t come to
chapel yet, and
I’m dangecl if
I’ll be the one
to back down.”
The bell rang all through the service that Sunday
morning.
* * * *
“Gil ” : How long can rabbits live with-
out water? For an indefinitely long period,
judging by their droughty longevity out on the
great and waterless wastes west o’the Darling.
One may see them living in warrens in the sand a
score of miles or more from any collection of
dampness, and as the showers are sometimes
three and occasionally six months between, it
would seem that water—or the lack of it—
troubles Bunny about as little as it does a
habitual drunkard. Old hands of the Desert say
that the rabbit lives and does well through the
big droughts, but as soon as rain comes (and it
does come sometimes out back) the younger rab-
bits that have never before seen water die whole-
sale, possibly from fright. But they (the old
hands) may be atrocious liars.
A CENTRAL OTAGO TRAVELLER.
“For the last 20 years I have been travelling
the Central Otago goldfields,” writes Mr. George
Mitchell, who represents Messrs. MacKerras &
Hazlett, of Dunedin, N.Z. “Invariably every
year I had been seized with an attack of what is
known here as the ‘Goldfields’ Colic.’ I have
always used Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and after one or two doses the
trouble has disappeared. I recommend it most
strongly to those who suffer from this serious
complaint.’’
“ Camp Oven ” : With regard to long-
distance water-travelling done by land animals,
the record standing to the credit of porkers has
been fractured by a bullock. When the last big
N.S.W. flood splashed itself across the map, the
Gwydir kicked over the traces and made a yellow
bee-line for flying cockies and the horizon. The
horned Kellerniannin question rose to the occasion,
and set off down mid-channel, his bullock’s heart
buoyed up with the hope that he might yet reach
land and proceed to Yass-Cariberra, where he
would be for ever safe from wetness and swirling
logs. He had, however, only got as far as Narra-
bri when trouble occurred. Some residents, who
were imprisoned by flood waters on a small island,
saw him as he cleaved the torrent with out-
stretched nostrils, and, being overstrung with
hunger, they thought it was one of Joe
Cook’s “River” cruisers doing speed trials.
Relieved at seeing that it was only “meat
afloat,” one unsportsmanlike miscreant shot
it, without so much as waiting to offer con-
gratulations. On skinning him, the hide was
found to carry the brand of a well-known
station below Gunnedah, and over a hundred
miles from the scene of carnage.
“ The Ancient ” : “ Dandalup’s ” entry of
Grant for the Deserted Village Stakes (B. 15/9/TO)
is scratched. Louisville must have a walk over.
Louisville is, or rather was, on the Upper Dargo
(Vic.), and once supplied grog and sundries to
about 12,000 inhabitants. It was named after
Louis Hanniker ; here Madam supplied some of
the grog, while Louis chased the nimble weight
before he struck a better thing on the nickel fields
of New Caledonia. I happened to be going down
the Dargo a couple of months ago, and came to
where the town once stood. Not a single habita-
tion remains. Then, having a couple of relatives
buried there, I took a walk down*to the cemetery.
To my surprise, I found that they had gone too.
The river, changing its course, had swept the
cemetery away, and caused the defunct to trek to
lower country. If “Dandalup,” or anybody else,
can nominate another township which even the
dead have deserted, I’ll give up and scratch my
nomination.
I rush to the assistance ot
“C.5.A.,” who has been described as a liar bV oi
different Abo. writers, all of whom
pitch camp and boil the billy in the trac
wastes of Mosman and St. Kilda. I clai™ ‘
something sizeable in the way of bushwhackers
and I forcibly aver and shout in a louo voice
I never yet saw a wallaby whose flesh was
worm-infested, and I have tried all the branOH
from the red-hill down to the black-brus »no
the brindle valley animal. Perhaps B'clc,
“ C.V.E.” and the other 87 eaters of wallaby
trapped their marsupial in a game-shop, an
didn’t know it was smoked blue-cod they weie
fleeting- # *
“Itan”: The north to south transcon-
tinental railway, as it should be built, has a warn*
advocate in pioneer William laylort w ” ,
been in the Northern Territory for o 0 years, and
has probably travelled over as much °
Unknown Land as any other man alive or partially
dead. His view is that, when i;he line is built, as
it should be, from Oodnadatta to Pine Cree >'
touching the western boundary of the Dariciy
tableland—soo miles by 300 miles of ideal sheep
country with a glorious climate —a line should >e
run from Newcastle waters to Camooweal, whic l
would intersect the Barkly belt. Then, on t o
other side of the trunk line, a link should he
formed between Newcastle Waters and Wyndham
or Derby (W. A.)—all fine pastoral and agricultu-
ral ground. The old pioneer states that the
mineral belt can be traced more or less continu-
ously from Cloncurryin a north-westerly direction
to Port Darwin, and, with a slight break, can be
followed for another 500 miles to Rimbeilev
(W.A.). From Oloncurry right out, the mineral
country is about an average of 100 miles back
from the sea; while between the range and the
sea is the best-watered area in Australia.
* * * *
“Tindog”: Some pearlers round about
Broome (W. A.) have a way of catching rats on
their luggers. They leave a big-shell oyster on
the floor of the cabin at night. It opens for a
breath of fresh air, and the smell of fresh ineat
attracts the rats. When the rodent thinks he II
try a little supper, the oyster suddenly decides
that he doesn’t like fresh air. Next morning the
shell is prised open, and some stale rat is thrown
overboard.
* * * *
“ Billiker ” : At one of the shearing sheds
of the Far West I came across a paper named Ihe
Call. It was nailed on the door of the tucker
hut, and written in pencil, presumably owing to
the fact that the only press on the premises wms
in use for the wool bales. I quote verbatim, even
to the spelling :
THE CALL.
Advertising Raies : Is. per column.
Editor and Sole (. T . v , Sub-Editor : The Cork.
Proprietor i ihe YanK ’
The other afternoon a very pleasant gathering congre-
gated at B- — to witness the Eterprize concert, organ-
ised for the sole purpose of collecting sums for the Local
Hospital, and which several of the performers ought to
be sinscerely congratulated in the able manner in which
they carried out their parts; especial reccomendation
ought to be bestowed on Mr. Jim E ,as he was just
superb, his singing was simply marvellous, especially
when he was in his long range of voice in that delicious
little song entitled “Dorking’s Night.” Also Mr.
gave voloubously “The irish man and the Bell-Rope.”
Also Mr. , who gave the tape and string dance dex-
terously ; and one who must be honouroubly mentioned
here right now is Miss—-, who rendered ‘ Grandma
andaring.” Mr. ■ ,of B-—, also caused a painfull
sensation for a few moments when giving a recitation
called “Work.*’ Another stiff who displayed great
ability was Mr. . I may also mention right here in
parenthis that the married couple caused some hilarity
when the Tart displayed her cojopred almond rocks,—in
fact, some of the W shearers eyes could of been cut
right off with a razor. The entertainment terminated
with the good old national amusement, a dance, which
the hums predominated. The takings amounted tco
£lO 7s. 6d., which is a very acceptable gift to the com-
mitte of the Hospital, which it is deservedly deserves.
OUT OF THE SWIM OF THINGS.
“By gad, Bill, when we get back to the city and
tell ’em we're seen a bird as big as a house
they’ll call us liars!”
A HINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas on an endless summer isle,
In seas of everlasting blue,
Where skies of fleckless splendor smile
On residents of ebon hue,
Who’ve never anything to do,
Two holy men of late did go
To teach the Word, with high intent.
They differed, though, in creed ; and so
The island’s sylvan peace was rent
With dissonance and argument.
The Reverend Clapper Bell implied
The isle was his by prior right,
A claim the Reverend Plate denied,
And for a week their verbal fight
Destroyed the peace of day and night.
The dusky heathen bore it well
For seven angry days, and then
They slew the Rev. Clapper Bell,
Like simple South Sea gentlemen,
And stewed his leg—a meal for ten.
The other was not bowed with grief,
Since opposition now was dead ;
But coyly smiled the sable chief—
And all the good man’s comfort fled.
“ First come, first served," the nigger said.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


PREMIER MURRAY PROPOSES TO PUT THE FIRE OUT.
Mr. Murray is deliberately helping to browbeat Democracy back to the grisly terrors of the Scotch Sabbath. In the dark past Churchianity burnt,
hanged and tortured all who would not worship in the way it ordered. Mental light came to us; but they have not yet learned to watch with complacency
the “collection” drifting into other hands. It has for so many years been their monopoly, and it will be years again before they can realise that others are
as much entitled to earn it on a Sunday as they are themselves. -—Daily Paper.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
A
Delicious
Drink. *
*-•
tana 4 j
kFnKllhrttj
O.T. It a comforting drink, which warms, In*
vigorniet,'»oil mikci you proof against th.ecold
atmospheres of Rioter, It is a grand remedy
lor Colds, Colic, sod Indigestion.
Take home a bottle to-day l
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appre-
ciate good advice, and we are glad, therefore, to
be able to publish the following from a prominent
physician.
It is astonishing to know the; prevalence ot
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature
of this disease is the fact that many people have it
without their knowledge, and consequently neglect
it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a
prescription which we have seldom known to fail
in any case. It contains no harmful ingredients,
is pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be
supplied by any good chemist. It is as follows ‘
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce ; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continously for a few
weeks, it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder
trouble, backache and all allied complaints.
Note.—Other papers are privileged to copy the
above. —Advt,
APPOINTMENT
f
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Refreshing s did Cleansing Pre parat.on for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allavs the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
S Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers ant * Chemists. ARiri
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
McGowen, Edden and Cann are the only
three members of the N.S.W. Labor party who
were elected with the first bunch in 1891 and have
held their seats right through.
Newton Moore, the burly surveyor who
retired hastily from the Westralian Premiership
the other day, is a very sick man. Complete
mental rest is declared imperative.
W. L. R. Clarke, a well-known grazier of
Sunbury (Vic.), fills the vacancy in the Vic.
House of Fat due to the decease of the youthful
Dickie. The new councillor is about as progres-
sive as a fly in a pot of jam, and not nearly as
“advanced” as his once-festive half-brother
Rupert.
Miss Annette Kellerman, the “Aus-
tralian Mermaid,” is quoted in a Cosmopolitan
article as a remarkable example of the beautify-
ing effects of a new food fad. Annette is
described as the ideal of experts and a sample of
physical perfection, and she is said to eat
nothing but fruit and nuts—an extraordinary
diet for a mermaid. If fat is force, the Keller-
man has lost all her power since leaving Aus-
tralia. Here she displayed generous dispropor-
tions. In America she is as slim as a sylph.
Arthur Griffith, who quitted teaching at
Sydney Grammar School to win a N.S.W. Labor
seat in 1894, has the sort of electorate a member
loves. The “Liberals” nominated a man for
Sturt, evidently to draw Griffith away to the
other side of N.S.W. ; .but Griffith wasn’t drawn
—he left Sturt to the local Laborites and kept on
giving a hand to men with tougher jobs. Except
in the matter of a safe seat, Griffith hasn’t got
any plums. He is almost the only member of
the 1894 party who hasn’t had a Works Com-
mittee seat or some other little thing to gb’On
with. All the little thing he got was the unpaid
secretaryship of the party for the first 10 yeats he
was in the House.
When royalty goes on its travels it often
leaves with a great shortage of lugguge. Louis
Phillippe, calling himself “Mr. Smith,” fled to
England with little more than an umbrella.
Eugenie crossed to the same country with a hand-
bag or two. Now we hear of Manoel of Portugal
buying a spare shirt at Gibraltar, that useful
article having been overlooked in his haste to
reach a less explosive climate.
Died, the other week, Moy Thomas, well
known of yore as a fairly outspoken theatrical
critic for London Daily News, and less well
known as a versatile writer for the weeklies and
magazines. Moy Thomas was one of the young
men whom Charles Dickens discovered when he
was editing Household Words, and he outlived
nearly all of his early contemporaries. He was
82 when he died.
Blair, the caretaker of Little Barrier
Island, Maoriland’s native-bird sanctuary, in the
Hauraki Gulf, died recently on the island, and
was coffined and buried by his wife, when no
other help was available. Blair was a B. A. of
Edinburgh University ; his name, as he signed it,
was Robert Hunter-Blair, and his spare time was
largely occupied in discussing the merits of his
long ancestral line. Some years ago he was
general factotum to T. E. Donne, then in charge
of the Tourist Department at Wellington, and
his cynical views of things in general used to cast
a gloom over the office. One or two of the views
may have been correct enough, but the bulk of
them were merely P’Shaw.
The wonderful fact that Premier and
Attorney-General Wade didn't appoint himself
Chief Justice or even a Puisne Judge of N.S.W.
is still being whooped up by his party as if it were
the seventh staggerer of the world. On this
subject the admiring Mrs. Mackinnon recently
discoursed :
You ask why Mr. Wade did not take the Chief
ship? lam willing to admit that it was a strange hap-
pening in these self-seeking days— almost incredible
that a man should put his public duty before
himself and retain the onerous and unthankful
task of Leader of the Government, when he had
a golden opportunity of advancement. But you must
remember that our Premier is a patriot, a sportsman and
a fighter, and to such a man it was “not playing the
game” to take the highest honor his country could afford
while the path of duty was clear before him. It would
be interesting to know what the Leaders of the Opposi-
tion would have done in a like case.
Out of a desire to be fair and decent to far better
men than Wade, it is worth while to again recite
the fact that no N.S.W. Premier or Attorney-
General ever used his position to lift himself to
the Bench. B. R. Wise twice refused the Chief
Justiceship, because he held that a politician
shouldn’t make his billet a means to his own
advancement. So did “ Jack ” Want and W. B.
Dailey. And they refused at once, instead of
playing fast and loose for months as Wade did.
Wade is the one N.S.W. Premier of whom the
people seem to have so low an opinion as to be
actually surprised that he didn’t use his office to
give himself a sordid and mercenary leg up on to
the Bench.
COLONEL WALLACE, “ Top Dog ,” Victorian
Military Forces.
Dead iu Adelaide, at 77, J. B. Ridings,
who spent his life in the service of the E. S. and
A. Bank. He joined it in Melbourne over 40
years ago, became accountant there, inspector of
overdrafts, etc., in N.S.W., and finally manager at
Adelaide, retiring on a pension in 1900. The old
gentleman spent many happy hours tracing his
descent from Bradshaw, who was in the slaughter-
ing business with the late 0. Cromwell.
Four members of the first N.S.W. Labor
party turn up as Labor candidates this election,
after a long’ disappearance—Black, Danahey,
Fitzgerald and Hoyle. Danahey was originally
one of Carruthers’ colleagues in Canterbury;
Fitzgerald headed the poll in West Sydney, with
George Black second, Andy Kelly third, and the
late T. M. Davis fourth ; and Hoyle was
McGowen’s senior colleague in Redfern.
SETTLED .
ANGRY CREDITOR : " Young man, I ask you , for
the last time , are you going to pay vie that
£5 you ove me ! ”
YOUNG MAN : “ Thank goodness, there's an end
to that silly question
William Knox’s health is so bad that he
has even resigned his seat on the Board of the Bank
of Victoria, and membership of the Board of the
bank in which he was formerly a clerk was one
Of the things very dedr to the heart that beats
under the amazing racecourse hat. One of the
Millers succeeds Knox. That family has been
connected with the bank since its foundation in
1852; “Money” Miller and others, in fact, founded
it.
Gaby Deslys, the lady friend of Manoel
of Portugal, appears from her published pictures
to be the usual serio-chronic who causes keen
anxiety to Baron Popoff, Minister for Home
Affairs in the'melodrama. She admits that most
of what the Republicans say about her is true ;
but indignantly denies that the royal presents
were of much value. “They were,” she asserts,
“only such trifling tokens of affection as middle-
class men could afford.” If that is correct, Manoel
is a more courageous person behind the scenes
than he is in front. The king who would venture
into the midst of high-kickers laden only with the
sort of gifts the ordinary frivolous-rnmded mer-
chant could afford would get such a chill reception
that he would retire in disorder muttering that he
didn’t know it was the freezing works. Gaby
seems to have been quoted everywhere as first
favorite, and she couldn’t have afforded to wear
anything but the very best gems. Paris would
be just as eager to see Manoel’s diamonds as
Manoel’s girl ; and her engagements probably
stipulated that she should wear her presents as
well as her reputation.
“Tory Pressman”; If the Angel of the
Records holds the reporters responsible for the
unholy duplicity practised on the blind old public,
there won’t be one of us missing when the goats
are shooed off to Gehenna. No matter what
happens at a meeting where Gregory Wade hikes
to. the men behind the pen fix it so it will do him
the most good. We’re on the “ wave of en-
thusiasm ” stunt j ust now
The Premier addressed an enormous gathering at Cow-
ville last night, and received one of the most remarkable
receptions in his illustrious career. As Mr. Wade walked
up the hall the vast gathering of enlightened citizens of
the growing district, stirred by an unusual and extra-
ordinary transport of feeling, sprang into the air and
cheered lustily. [We’d make them do that if they were
corpses.] Mr. Wade completely refuted the vile slanders
of the Labor party, and the gathering dispersed with
hoots for the calumniators. Cowville will vote “ Liberal
solid. t
But Wade is a sad horse to hustle a campaign
with. He works hard enough, hut lies got no
sparkle. He can’t galvanise a crowd worth tup-
pence ; it has all got to be worked up for him.
His voice has no ring ; he never thinks out a
decent phrase or simile; and his method of
handling interjectors is pathetic. The other
night, at Marrickville, a man made quite
an innocent interjection concerning land tenure,
and the witty and “sporting” Charlie replied
that he (the interjector) “ would get some
land—the only freehold he would get.
(Laughter and applause.) “I suppose,” con-
tinued the adroit Charlie, “they will show so
much good taste as to leave you alone when you
are under the sod.” (Laughter and cheers.) Ihe
papers are putting up a big fight for \Vade. But
they put up'just as big a fight for the Fusion, and
I can feel the cold wind of that defeat blowing
over the press-table at every “Liberal meeting.
The illness of Vic. Treasurer Watt is a re-
minder that the job of Treasurer is fairly onerous.
Graham Berry, Shiels and Service all felt the
health-shattering effects of guarding the cash-box
and nursing the I 0 U. George Turner became
a sick man through his self-sacrificing regard or
his country’s coin. The worries of State finance
also cooled the ardor of Kookaburra Peacoc v,
and often reduced the optimism of lummy cen .
Iceberg Irvine was yet another keeper ot V ic-
toria’s ledger, and when he finally dropped his
charge he was the mere shadow of an impressive
Iceberg.
One of Melbourne’s real patriarchs died
lately—Mrs. Deborah King, aged 93 years. She
came to Melbourne with her husband and
two children in 1842, and a year or two later
purchased a large area of land known a
Bi “The Cattle Station,” which extended
from Brighton to Mordialloc. There, or
thereabouts, she had some experience
with bushrangers Brady and 0 Connor,
who were subsequently hanged for their
misdeeds.
T. M. King, whose three years’
appointment as Deputy Commis-
sioner of Railways has been ex-
tended another 12 months, has been
a heap of things in his 47 years
with the Government —among
them, Collector of Customs, Chief
Inspector of Distilleries and Ex-
cise, Under-Treasurer and Audi-
tor-General. He knows nothing in
particular about railway management,
but can pursue the £ s. d. side of the
business with the best of them.
The Scottish Agricultural Com-
missioners who are touring Queensland
faint now if yon mention a publio
luncheon. At their first affair of the
kind, at Killarney (Queensland) no less
than 20 dreary speeches were fired at
them, mostly by local pumpkin-dukes
and cheese-earls.
After nearly 20 years of service, William
F. Schev has just been gazetted to a permanent
billet. Schey was an M.L.A. who objected to
the way Eddy ran the N.S.W. trains. There
was a row, a Royal Commission and lots of ex-
penses, but the trains still run the same old way.
Then as Schey looked like kicking up more
rows,’he was given the job of Director of Labor.
Not that he directs any laborers. Of late years
his principal duties have been to report that since
N;S:W. enjoyed the blessings of Protection and
Federation' the inhabitants have a steady job, and
can find heaps of work without any directing.
S M. Herald has, as usual, been howling
with several voices. One voice has sought to
scare the community against the Labor party
because it was bossed by manual laborea-s, and,
therefore, it was alleged, represented the most
ignorant section of the population. The other
voice tried to turn the workers against the Labor
party because it had ceased to represent Labor.
The Herald's own list (boiled down) shows this
classification of Labor candidates :
Agents 7. boiler-makers 2, compositor 1, commercial
travellers 2, farmers 6, grazier 1, blacksmith 1, en-
irineers 2, teachers 4, music teacher 1, bootmakers 2,
stonecutter 1, librarian 1, auctioneers 2, union‘secre-
taries 2, secretary of the ordinary type 1, solicitor 1,
barristers 2, master currier 1, miners 5, gasfitter 1,
builders 3, salesmen 2, managing director 1, journalists
5 bricklayers 2, accountants 3, shearer 1, laborers o,
watchmaker 1, tailor 1, packer 1, carpenter 1 news-
paper proprietor 1, saddler 1, insurance agent 1, clergy-
men 2, chemist 1, contractor 1, pattern-maker 1, coach-
builder 1, creamery manager 1, master carrier X, process
engraver 1, and patent attorney 1.
Without a doubt, the Herald has succeeded in
proving that the Labor party no longer repre-
sents only manual labor. But, in doing so, it has
proved that the party representsbpractically the
whole working population of the State.
A SONG OF THE CERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If Mr. McGowen obtains office. — Dismal foreboding
of Sydney Telegraph.
With language heated and wild,
With speeches heavy as lead,
Sad Gregory howls in Gregory’s cause
The song of the doomed and dead 1
Screech, screech, screech !
He g r rovelsin ancient dirt;
'Midst platform wails and platform-speech
Wade’s singing the Song of the Cert
Shirk, shirk, shirk !
But the land in strong reproof
Crieth “ Work ! Work !! WORK !! 1
As it swings its earnest hoof !
And it’s oh ! for the Open Grave,
Along with the Sudden Jerk !
Whilst the fists of the people wave
From Bega unto Bourke !
Talk, talk, talk !
Till the brain begins to swim ;
Shrieks, shrieks, shrieks—
But the grave is deep and grim !
Scream and snivel and wail —
Wail and snivel and scream —
Till o’er the papers we fall asleep, •
For the speeches rise like steam !
Oh, men with votes so dear—
Yea, wearers of fetters and gyves,
It is not Wade you are heaving out
So much as the Insect hives ; f
Buzz, buzz, buzz,
When the Insects fall inert
We shall sing a song of a shrouded throng—
Of a shroud as well as a cert!
But why do we talk of death? —
Hear Gregory shriek ahd groan ;
He seems to fear that terrible shape,
It seems so like his own !
It seems so like his own,
That the scared Deformers leap,
For they know that death is drawing near
And the grave waits dread and deep !
Screech, screech,screech 1
But the corpse already sags,
And Gregory’s crowd is passing out
In spite of the fervid rags !
The Morning Herald and.KvENiN’ Ooze,
And the voice of the shrill D.T.,
They may deafen the land with “ Liberal ” views
But Gregory’s got to flee !
Shirk, shirk, shirk !
Deform’s old creed sublime ;
Shirk, shirk, shirk,
But there comes a Judgment Time !
Screed and leader and par—
Par and leader and screed ;
But Gregory’s crowd must cross the bar
And he who runs may read !
What matters his language wild,
Uis speeches heavy as lead !■
Though Gregory shrieks in Gregory's cause,
He is clearly doomed and dead /
Screech, screech, screech—
’Tis Gregory heaving dirt;
But still each note of his dolorous speech
Like a wild banshee on the ocean beach
Is singing the Song of the Cert !
victoria.
GRANT HERVEY.


;* -r
•4 mM
- .
•fei&e-:
. ” /j
'?;■:•<■-
v
;■ ■<>,
if
V ■
sss
'■;•v
- ; —■»-■■ “**• —
—* •■■'"*- «——i.
’ ■ ww> ■
,- *~... ■,
/?'■':
ii&IM
•;*
-
r#&*#***.
■.
■, : r ..-X'
"• %??<f.!®
g|sg&:g|3fg%
swsss*
’ ;',
.
*-«.'* *#
‘ _/
■
vm
Wi
Wr*
■ :•;
SSw:
'^l
■B '' Sh ‘ >
1 '
fm
. ui
. . . .;
' !:> / /
mm.
: i.
‘‘.via*
mm
W:
N?\ > i * r > i i
','.tv
3U&
*
SB
■t :^v*v-^kxßk
~.• j
•:. •;• *•, -mt}?. v «Jw-raPcyfia
' fwl
a
iTnTvkiUi
t«n«f,
zr^pP
i f-
gm i
r ■&&
aw*
wmzmm
*•«
e":w* iii&SmM
<•'
■wv...
-• *.Y - -i jgZ>i A '
PZHP f '<a^u
- jjp-l
asßaaßggfe
P
a»
£w«£ -
k . ’... ~ ■
:■ :.S" sssar**
©
o
&
o
e&uty —Service
in
the
©
©
~j . «tU-, greatest selling forces in Ceilings, and we know it. We keep these
’ the popularity of the Wunderlich Ceilings is an
assurancetha t* we are right. These are Australian goods made in Australia, and should interest all Australians.
II It takes mo re than just Metal to produce first-class Metal Ceilings. Anyone can furnish the Metal. We
. . . • manufacturing the rarest combination of artistic effects, which ensures satisfaction. From the
lltZ L“t;rrSection Of the whole Ceiling no detail is slighted, no improvement
neglected, no work entrusted to a workman who is not a master of his era .
„ The high standard maintained in the Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings safeguards any
purchaser, for our trade mark is stamped on every sheet. This surety is within the
reach of all purchasers if they will examine the sheets. That Wonder ich Ceilings will
save you money and give you better satisfaction than the old-time plaster ceilings is
vouched for by thousands of householders who have installed them. They are acknow-
ledged to be the cleanest, most artistic, most serviceable, most fire resisting, most lasting
of any ceilings made.
H You are invited to visit our Show Rooms, where suggestions for exclusive interior
decoration are to be seen for both ceilings and walls. Our salesmen are men picked for
their knowledge, and are perfectly capable of advising prospective customers. Send for
Catalogue L 4.
11 We are also the Sole Agents for Australia of the Marseilles Terra Cotta Roofing Tiles.
These Tiles enhance the appearance of a house considerably, by reason of their orna-
mental features and rich Terra Cotta color. Estimates and further particulars will be
furnished on application to any of our Australian Offices.
©
SYDNEY : 56 Pitt Street
MELBOURNE: 243 Collins Street
ADELAIDE : King William Street
BRISBANE : 263-265 Queen Street
LAUNCESTON : St. John’s Street
HOBART: Collins Street
PERTH : Lord and Short Streets
NEW ZEALAND Agents:
Messrs. Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
. .. in awasswwwi
mmmmmm a mmmmmm swjmwksm
s»*> K . MKFfeW&SBi
so*-- tr* mmm ■
SN*
m
%
f3g\i
Sgi
v
9
\\\
r/TSz.
m
Sssx/
m
ml
W
rn
&
f —>■• fi*s*&*&3K Wf-Mi <■>• tdvur&x ■saJ&sSf*--*- -■»
V ■


The Joy of Life.
This page and the next are devoted to
liquor, licenses, wowsers, the joy of life, the
curfew, and theother things that Mr. Judkins lives
by. On Friday next (to-morrow), in connection
with the N.S.W. Parliamentary election, a vote is
to be taken on No License, Continuance and Re-
duction. The remarks are intended mainly to
cheer the weary wayfarer on the road to the poll.
No License doesn’t mean No Drink. It
means a bottle in the cupboard or on the shelf.
And the bottle that is in the cupboard or on the
shelf is too handy to be good for a lot of people.
* * * *
“ Oscar G.,” from the No-License town of
Invercargill :
Left Melbourne recently for six weeks’rest in M.L.,
and landed at Invercargill. If it weren’t a No-License
town I think Invercargill would be restful enough. But
I had to take it as I found it.
First day: Rain outside, whisky indoors. First even-
ing : hockey club dance ; six two-gallon kegs ; 228 toasts ;
cab.
Second day : Taken to back of a boot shop ; introduced
to bulk of the population ; Scotch mist (two-gallon keg);
cheersforJudkinsandotherNo-Licenseadvocates. Second
evening: Young Men’s Irrigation Association; forget
what happened, but found myself rolling cask down
main street 3 a.m.
Third day: Visit to office of town’s leading tin-seller;
bottle in the desk ; stopped two hours ; cab to brewery
depdt; went home to tea ; ordered soup and lemonade,
with corn-beer to follow. Third evening : Had a sleep ;
rose at midnight; took corkscrew and went out to open
the town.
So-long!
P.S.—Back No-License for the Cup.
“ Billy B.” : Was looking up Webster’s
dictionary the other day, and opened a page
headed “ Jud.’’ The first word that met my eye
was “ Juddock, a small snipe.” Now I think I
know where Judkins’s family name originated.
* * * *
If the public has the right to say that
there shall be no pubs, it has the same right to
say that there shall be none of a thousand things
besides. It is the abuse of beer that is the
curse ; and the abuse of a thousand other things
is also a curse. So the public which votes to shut
the pub to-day will be asked to shut the cigarette
shop to-morrow, and the theatre the next day.
By that time the person who believes that the
proper diet for mankind is peanuts may be
numerous in the land, whereupon he will demand
the closing of butchers’ shops. There are large
possibilities about this No License business once
it is set going.
SUE LES TO ITS.
The Cats: "Judkins!!"
“The Snake”: During the N.S.W. local
option campaign of 1907, Miss Anderson Hughes
(one of the sanest female opponents of the cup
that cheers and the pewter that comforts
the downcast) was touring the State as a
lecturer for the Raspberry Pop Party. While
she was in the Ballina district she engaged a
MAKING A START.
Snoffle : “ Hit hard, Bill. Let us get the thin end of the wedge in; the rest will soon follow.”
buggy and driver, and on the first morning, while
they were travelling across country, the lady
sought to make a convert of the big, brown
Australian who was steering the conveyance.
“I suppose,” she began gently, “you will
come to my lecture to-night?” “ Yairs,”
said Bill; “don’t you worry. I’ll be there orl-
right.” “Now, that’s just nice of you,” said the
girl, “and if you think there’s anything I miss or
something I should leave out. you tell me in the
morning, won’t you ?” “Yairs,” answered Bill;
“you bet; oh, orlright.” “How are you going
to vote?” then queried the lady. “ What, me?”
said Bill. “ Oh, reduction, my oath —I mean, my
word. The bloomin’ pubkeepers round here are
making too flamin’ much out of the game. A fair
thing’s orlright; but I reckon all beer ought to be
3d.—3d. er pint. I’m votin' reduction, you can
bet your socks.” Miss Hughes didn’t tell me
whether she made the bet or not; also she didn’t
tell me whether she explained that that wasn’t the
sort of reduction the ballot paper meant.
Cold Tea is fond of digging up statistics to
prove that where No License prevails the number
of convictions for drunkenness has sometimes
shrunk. Cold Tea doesn’t mention that, where
No License prevails, the drinking is mostly done
in tho homes, and that the Law doesn’t break into
homes to see whether a man or a woman goes
Jp bed drunk or sober.- These satisfactory
“drunk” statistics can therefore be ruled out as
proving nothing.
The fey vent denunciation of the results of
closing the pubs in various parts of Maoriland,
made by Police-Magistrate Day, of Timaru,
recently, has created considerable heat under the
Cold Tea kettle. Particularly is this the case in
New South Wales, where, in view of to-morrow’s
local-option poll, the Alliance has been announcing
at the top of its lungs that M.L. was the
many-petalled marguerite in the moral garden
as a result of an increased diet of rasp-
berry juice. Up till the arrival of the
cabled account of Day’s onslaught, the re-
markable G. B. Nicholls, an imported organiser
from the country which has at last openly an-
nounced the absolute failure of its present No
License law, and decided to root it up and start
again, had silenced the critics in his vicinity by
whooping “Liar” in a continuous whoop. But
when Day broke, not a cock crew. There was, how-
ever, a frantic rush for the telegraph office to shake
up the Alliance people in the Land of the Loan and
the Locker to lay the dust that Day had raised.
That individual, however, kept up his disturbance
until Attorney-General Findlay took a hand and
agreed to settle the argument by taking the
opinion of several police-inspectors as to the
accuracy of Day’s statements that drinking in the
home in the No License areas was growing into a
really serious evil, and that the facilities for
obtaining liquor were producing a fine crop of
plain and fancy curses.
In the replies received there was quite
sufficient to prove that Day, as well as Queens-
land’s Royal Commissioner Ranking and Wes-
tralia’s Royal Commissioner Carson, had not over-
loaded their warnings. A few extracts will make
this clear:—
Inspector Kiely said since No License was carried at
Ohinemuri, in consequence of the publicans refusing to
comply with the miners’ demand for cheap beer, the
ruling thought in the mind of most men at Waihi seemed
to be when and how they could obtain liquor. He pro-
ceeds : “ It is a fact that women have a bitter cause of
complaint in their husbands drinking in sly-grog shops,
or in the shanties of their mates, where huge quantities
of liquor are consumed without any restriction. It is
also a fact that liquor is now kept in private houses,
among families where liquor was never known to have
been kept under license. ■ An increase of fines and costs
has taken place under No License. I long ago came to
the conclusion that prohibition in its present form is a
failure. It closes the public bar and opens the sly grog-
shops. Whether the temptation to drink is greater in
public-houses or in shanties and grog-shops is a matter
on which it would be very hard to express an opinion.
It depends entirely on the individual inspector.”
Inspector Ellison, in charge of Wellington district
(which includes No License Masterton and other publess
territory), said: “So far as this police district is con-
cerned, there are more temptations to lying, perjury
and deceit, in No License areas, amongst those who de-
sire to obtain liquor, or to provide liquor for others, than
one is accustomed to find elsewhere.”
Inspector Mitchell, of Invercargill: “Some persons in
No License areas purchase liquor in fairly large quan-
tities, and some make themselves objectionable by drink-
ing in public places out of kegs secured from breweries.
Others join unchartered clubs having lockers.”
And Attorney-General Findlay amplified the
statements by producing an official return of the
liquor sent into No License areas during the past
12 months, as follows :
District. Gallons.
Ashburton.. .. * .. •• 22,291
Bruce 16.325
Clutha 12,479
Eden .. .. .. •• 10,935
Grey Lynn.. .. .. •• 5,946
Invercargili . .. •• 78,283
Masterton .. .. .. • • 26,547
Mataura .. .. .. 39,723
Oamaru .. .. .. •• 20,260 ,
Ohinemuri.. .. .. •• 33,658
Wellington (South) .. .. 14,697
Wellington (suburbs) .. .. 12,170
Those are the official figures, and show only a
portion of the grog immigration. The shanty
owners cannot afford to order their supplies so
that, as the law demands, a record of them
will be kept for police and Customs per-
usal. Even a Melbourne detective would begin to
have dark forebodings of work if he observed in
black and white on the Government hooks that
Wiiliam Silent Corkscrew, Ashburton, was
receiving beer, gin, whisky, rum and other ingre-
dients in sufficient quantities to bathe in before
breakfast and swim in before bedtime. The sly-
grogger must necessarily have his own avenues of
supply, and being a taciturn sort of person he
maintains a disrespectful silence concerning them.
The result is that the above-quoted figures are
only about half clothed.
All this hard-swearing of the Cold Swill
people that Ashburton, Invercargill, Clutha, etc.,
are bright and shining examples of the splendid
effects of closing the police-regulated hotels be-
cause the convictions for drunkenness have been
so greatly reduced, is as futile as to say that
gambling has been done away with in New South
Wales because the Gaming Acts practically put
an end to street betting. The gambling goes on
just the same, as boozing goes on in the “dry”
areas of M.L. Findlay’s figures, insufficient as
they are, prove this to be so. The only difference is
that where formerly the moderate citizen took his
couple of glasses in a public place he now takes as
much as he wants in his private home; while the
immoderate citizen, instead of being arrested in
the street and sleeping in the lockup, makes a
hog of himself in the front room and sleeps on the
fender. It has happened in every place where
the system has been tried ; and it would happen
just as casually in New South Wales or anywhere
else where human nature is the same old stubborn
and cheerful animal. Anyhow, Maoriland has
decided to heave the No License joss into the
Gehenna of Failures, and last Thursday the plan
of the new one was unfolded before the Parlia-
ment. Its foundation is national prohibition—
no grog at all —and if it is anything like the
United States member of the family of Theory,
Maoriland will presently be going home in a
wheelbarrow.
IN THE NO-LICENSE DISTRICT.
The Professional Prohibitionist : “ Gentle-
men, would you and me ever have reached
our present eminence if we had not trodden
underfoot the cursed drink!”
“Te Babarantiko, ” concerning' G. B.
Nicholls and the awful things he says he‘saw in
Woolloomooloo (B. 29/9/TO): —
Once upon a time Sydney’s Hyde Park had a pretty
smelly reputation. It deserved some of it, too. Yet,
even then, before the city parks were as brilliantly
lighted as they are now, and at all hours of the night
and in all kinds of weather, I crossed Hyde Park and
passed through Woolloomooloo. And at odd times I
have gone on crossing Hyde Park and Woolloomooloo
ever since. Certainly, people have remarked upon it as
“ daring ” and “ foolhardy,” and have told me that for “ no
consideration ” would they be so mad or reckless ; and I
reckon some of the same kind of people have been chew-
ing the Cold-tea apostle’s ear. Never have I seen, even
at night, what the Holy Babe says he saw in broad day-
light, and never once have 1 been in any way molested.
I have a wide personal knowledge of many of the large
cities in this world, and I think Sydney is no more
dangerous in its “ low ” quarters, even at night, than the
best, and it unquestionably is safer than many. You will
see slatternly women and untidy children at any time of
the day in Woolloomooloo, certainly ; you will see them
in any poor quarter of any city. But in Sydney they do
not, at any rate, go out of their way to be disorderly, and
they are probably more truthful than Nicholls.
♦ f # ■Jr
The wowser is gradually closing in on his
prey. Under the new Liquor Act of British
Columbia, which commenced operations a month
ago, a license inspector or any chief of police has
power, upon confidential communication given, to
“ interdict the sale of liquor to any person resident
orsojourning within the province who, by excessive
drinking of liquor, mis-spends, wastes or lessens
his estate, or injures his health or endangers pr
interrupts the peace or happiness of his family.”
They call this scheme “siwashing" over there,
and its advantages are that it does away with the
old, ponderous formality of trial or judicial inves-
tigation, and allows the brisk and fair-minded
Rechabite or holy-Willie to be informer, prose-
cutor and practically judge. This saves a lot of
time. Incidentally, it destroys a lot of liberty ;
but when the wowser comes in at the door
liberty is thrown out of the window.
WARNING, TO ALL DESIRE !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Notice.—Keep off the grass, and do not pick the
flowers. By order, John Wowser, self-appointed cus-
todian of the world’s salvation.
Do not pick the flowers in their sweetness,
The Lord who gave them said, “ Thou Shalt Not
Touch ! ”
I know the Lord did say so—ab-sol-utely—
The Holy Book is guarantee of such.
Suppress the .yearnings prompting you to linger ;
Suppress all instincts not attuned to Ours ;
Fix your eye 3 upon the iron-studded warning:
Keep ofi the grass, and do not pick the flowers !
The scarlet blossoms hide the thorns and thistles ;
The kiss of blood-red lips swoons down to Hell;
The golden grape but masques the poison nightshade ;
The clink of glass betrays the Doomsday Bell.
Pass on I Along the weary road and dusty
Stay not to rest in cool, deceitful bowers —
The dark grave is your goal, and, cri the journey,
Keep off the grass, and do not touch the flowers.
N.S.W.
WILLIAM LANTERN-JAW.
IF THEY WIN TO-NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis the day of our great battle ! We must lose or we
must win !
Strike for justice, strike for freedom, from the tyranny
within.
Not for freedom for our pleasure, but the freedom to do
right.
Oh ! our country shall be crippled if the wowsers win
to-night.
Twenty years through storm and sunshine we have
followed our old drum,
And the mighty work of long years shall be lost for years
to come ;
Throw the old drum on the dust heap ! Put the banners
out of sight 1
Never face my Western Bushmen if the wowsers win
to-night!
Where we won our old grim battles, we are just as sure
to win
For the Liberty of Manhood—not the liberty of sin.
Brothers, there’s the breath of evil over all that’s good
and bright.
Hide your heads in shame and sorrow if the wowsers win
to-night!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
ADJURATION TO JUDKINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have worn a disguise and visited Chinese gambling
dens and other immoral places.— Little Willy Judkins.
Ah, Judkins, dear Judkins, return with me now—
Return to the pulpit and pew ;
Oh, flee from the haunts of the dissolute Chow,
And the Pagans who play pak-ah-pu !
You prowl through the alleys, you creep through the
park.
And sad are the things that you see ;
But we fear for .the words you may hear after dark—
Try the wowsers at afternoon tea! - - -
FIRST YOWL.
0 hear the sad voice of this land,
As 'mid pawnshops and gardens you roam ;
There are things on this earth that you don't understand —
Ah, Judkins, dear Judkins, come home!
Good Judkins, dear Judkins, rush homeward or fly—
Though you prowl in your perfect disguise,
Still the world sinneth gaily and makes no reply,
Though you deafen the earth with your cries !
Ah, yes, they grow worse—so your labors are vain,
Though you spy on the bloke with his mash ;
Pray, flee from these places of badness and pain—
Come quickly, and do not be rash !
Second Blf.at:
0. hear ui, beseeching, dear Jud,
As you crawl on your knees through the gloam;
On the road to Gehenna let wicked folks thud—
Ah, Judkins, dear Judkins, come home !!
Sweet Judkins; dear Judkins, return to the fold—
Leave the pubs and the parks well alone ;
Come back to your platform, and drivel and scold,
Whilst the wowsers applaudingly groan !
You’ve left us downhearted, we’re filled with despair—
Please return and amuse us with skite ;
Dear Judkins, come home, and leave vice in its lair—
Or else you will ruin your sight!
Final Yawp.
0 hear the sad voice of the cat on the stairs —
Leave the cats and the couples to roam ;
Ah, who could resist this most plaintive of prayers —
Brave Judkins, dear Judkins, COME HOME !!! •
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
A SONG OF LIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There have plenty songs been written
Of the moonlight on the hill,
Of the starlight on the ocean
And the sun-flecks on the rill;
But one glorious song has never
Fallen yet upon ray ear,
’Tis a royal song of gladness
Of the gaslight on the beer.
I have watched an amber sunset
Creep across a black-faced bay ;
I have watched a blood-flushed sunrise
Paint the snow one winter day ;
But the gleam I will remember
Best in lingering years to come,
Was a shaft of autumn radiance
Lying on a pint of rum.
I have seen the love-stars shining
Through bronze hair aerbss my face ;
I have seen white bosoms heaving
Through a wisp of open lace ;
But one sight I still remember,
And it seemeth brighter far—
Just a guttered candle’s flicker
On a tankard in a bar.
N.S.W.
J.B.


The most vigorous parson in the denun-
ciation of closing the public bars is Rev. ,T. A.
Homan, M.A., 5.T.8., whose book, “ Prohibition,
the Enemy of Temperance,” reached Australia a
few weeks ago from the United States. Says
Homan:—
Whatever may be the {rood motives of the advocates of
prohibition, its propagation can be considered a menace
to the nation. By the very nature of things it is not only
inoperative, but it lends to breed the very worst
social conditions. Speaking with reference to
this subject, one of the Judges in Maine de-
clared : “ The value of the oath has been re-
duced 50 per cent, in this State. Perjury (for which the
maximum penalty is imprisonment for life) is so common
that it no longer attracts attention. And it is not only
confined to the liquor element; the effect of it is far-
reaching and growing. People talk of it openly without
a blush.” What with bribery and corruption of officials,
their continual connivance at the same offences, com-
mitted day by day and year by year, and with public
apathy towards the enforcement of statutes, is it any
wonder that there should be bred among the people in
prohibition States a general disregard of the law...
Many a young man who, under license, took an occa-
sional drink in a saloon is encouraged under prohibition
rule to indulge much more frequently in the flowing
bowl amid the inviting surroundings of a private club-
house, where he can be unobserved and unmolested. The
fact is, judging from warehouse receipts, home and club
consumption of alcoholic liquors is having an appalling
increase in Southern prohibition States. ... In Maine ...
most of the frequenters of the illicit saloons were young
men, some of them hoys between 12 and 10 years of age.
Occasionally small girls had “growlers” filled. Older
girls were present to drink and to talk.vvith the men.
Drunkenness in its various stages was visible, especially
in the places of the lowest grade. . . . One of the Judges
of the Supreme Court said : “It is a question whether
the prohibitory law makes more hypocrites or more
drunkards.”
On the other hand, Archdeacon Boyce declares
that Maine is “ the star of the world.” Probably
he meant three star.
“ Uckle It; was a hot day (it generally
is when you have a big thirst up and no cash),
and we were steaming for a drink. Suddenly
Billy Martin assumed the perpendicular, as the
boxing writers say, and in an apologetic voice re-
marked, “I’ve got a dam idea!” “’Struth,”
said Micko, “ yorter see a doctor.” Ignoring the
delicacy of the sarcasm, Billy uncovered his
scheme. “Let’s get down to Kenner’s pub, and
all rush in excited-like. ’Soon’s T get the hops
for you get ’em down, and rush out again. But
mind, all the time you’ve got to be excited-
like, and giving the chat that there’s stoush
close handy. I just seen Kenner go down
the street, and Mrs. Kenner is looking
after the bar.” When we got close to the pub
we started to run, with Billo leading. Rushing
into the bar, he gasps for breath and sings out:
“ For Gawd's sake, Mrs. Kenner, give’s a drink.
There’s going to be an orful row, and Kenner’s in
it. Quick! What'll you have, chaps?” “Cocky’
Long, who had been looking out of the door,
darted in veiling: “They’ll murder him; the
brutes! Mine’s a pint.” Mrs. Kenner, poor
woman, lost her head, and passed the grog
round as if the license had been can-
celled and the liquor had to be got rid
of somehow. As soon as one of the team
got down his drink, he smoked, away, but
each one remained near the door to see the finish
of Bill’s idea. After draining his third glass,
that irrigation genius quietly strolled towards the
door. It was just about then that Mrs. Kenner
regained command of her faculties. “ Ere,’ she
said, “ ’oo’s going to pay for the drinks ? ” “ Oh,’
says Billy, casually, “didn’t you know? Thats
what the row is going to be about.”
* * * *
CAPTAIN STRATTON’S FANCY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Oh, some are fond of red wine and some are fond of white,
And some are all for dancing by the pale moonlight;
But rum alone’s the tipple and the heart’s delight
Of the old, bold mate of Henry Morgan.
Oh, some are fond of Spanish wine and some are fond of
French,
And some’ll swallow tay and stuff fit only for a wench ;
But I’m for right Jamaica till I roll beneath the bench—
Says the old, bold mate of Henry Morgan.
Oh, some are fond of fiddles and a song well sung,
And some are all for music for to lilt:upon the tongue ;
But mouths were made for tankards and for sucking at
the bung— , : . (
Says the old, bold mate of Henry Morgan.
Oh, some are fond of dancing, and some are fond of dice,
And some are all for red lips and pretty lasses’ eyes ;
But a right Jamaica puncheon i? a finer prize
To the old, bold mate of Henry Morgan.
Oh, some that’s good and godly ones they hold that it’s a
sin
To troll the jolly bowl around and let the dollars spin ;
But I’m for toleration and for drinking in an inn,
Says the old, bold mate of Henry Morgan.
Oh, some are sad and wretched folk that go in silken
suits,
And there’s a mort of wicked rogues that live in good
reputes ;
So I’m for drinking honestly and dying in my boots,
Like an old, bold mate of Henry Morgan.
From John Masefield’s Ballads.
MCPHERSON'S TESTIMONY.
THE MACPHERSON : “Man, Judkins is right — there's a deal o’ sufferin' attendant on yon
whusky drinkin'. For, MacTaggcrt, ye'll mind me, whiles a mon’s drinkin’ his ain
whusky there's the terrible expense tae think of; an whiles he's drinkin ’ a friend's
whusky he drinks sae much that he suffers terrible the morrn.”
MRS. GAMP PROPOSES A NEW TOAST.
“Betsey” said Mrs. Gamp, filling her own glass and passing the teapot, “J will now
propoge a toast: ‘No License—for the jar in the cupboard is handier than the barrel at the pub: ”
“ Smoke-rings I’ve often wondered what
the Americans mean when they speak of “ boot-
leggers,” “pocket-peddlers,” “blind tigers,”
“speak-easys” and “blind pigs” in connection
with the “dry” territories in the land of the
grilled nigger. I know, of course, that they are
all contrivances for the illicit sale of grog, but
just exactly what shape, size and color they
are I’ve never been able to find out. Any-
how, they seem to be admirable establish-
ments—to be burnt out. According to an
article written by one authority, recently,
they trade “the vilest concoctions as substitutes
for beer, wine and whisky, and these produce
a violent and dangerous form of intoxication.
Amongst these sinful fabrications may be men-
tioned ‘split,’ a beverage made of the cheapest
kind of alcohol, mixed with water and a dash of
rum ; pinetop and tobacco brew (a poisonous pre-
paration used by negroes in prohibition territory
in the South); and ‘silo,’ a vegetable alcoholic
juice, madly intoxicating, but liberally swallowed
in some of the farming regions of Kansas and
lowa, wherever prohibitory laws hold absolute
sway.” It is always the same where there is no
legal sale of liquor, and an investigator doesn’t
need to go any farther than the No License areas
of Maoriland to find it out. I’ll never forget the
first sly-grog shop I sneaked into there. It was a
dirty and altogether unlovely den—a private
house. There were three of us. and being new to
the business, we asked for whisky. The slovenly,
red-headed woman shuffled out of the room, her
skirts trailing through the bits of crust, spittle,
dust and other varieties of filth on the
floor; her blouse, half-open at the back,
revealed an unclean eight inches of calico
and flesh. She was the Barmaid of the
Shanty ! Presently she shuffled back, and pro-
duced from beneath her apron a whisky, bottle
and three tin mugs. Removing the cork with her
teeth, she poured us out a good stiff nip or “ bite ”
—as a matter of fact, it bit like a bull-hound
suddenly propelled from the end of a hot poker.
We had two each, and it cost us 6s. on the spot.
That night it cost me £1 for the doctor and
£l2 10s. for wrecking the boarding-house I was
staying at. I don’t know what it cost the other
fellows. I never saw them again. Probably
they died.
* * * *
“ Konini ” : The best description I ever
heard of Invercargill (M.L.)—the town so fre-
quently mentioned by Archdeacon Boyce and
ocher water-waggon jehus—was given me by an
Australian who had been there. “Invercargill,”
he said, “is the little place at the windy tail-end
of the South Island where the Donalds carried
No License (which doesn’t mean no grog) a few
years ago, and have been living on the fat of the
wholesale drink system ever since. You get your
liquor cheaper in Invercargill than elsewhere, for
you buy it wholesale. Every male who feels dry
belongs to a club. Every club-man has a
locker, and inside the locker is his refresh-
ment. The manager of the club puts in new
refreshment as soon as the member has drunk the
old refreshment, or even earlier, and as the club
buys much refreshment it gets it at bedrock price.
When you visit Invercargill with a letter of in-
troduction, your friend instructs the club manager
to give you the free run of his locker. In addition,
almost everybody has liquor in the house. The
keg has come to dwell in the bosom of the family.
In fact, an impression prevails that Donald of
Invercargill only voted No License because he
didn’t get enough liquor the old way.
* * * *
As The Bulletin remarked once before,
the Maoriland policeman is developing a fine ear
for grogunder thespurof the No License law in the
“ dry ” areas. One of him in a sly-grog case—a ser-
geant he was, too—swore that he heard defendant
take something out of a box in his office, and
it sounded like a bottle containing whisky. What
a bottle containing whisky sounds like, and how
many tones lower a bottle sounds like when it has
gin in it, wasn’t explained. Beer is often flat, no
doubt; but even that knowledge doesn’t help the
problem along much.
The decision of the Maoriland Government
to re-cast the Dominion’s Liquor Act in the direc-
tion of whole-hog Prohibition, in place of the dis-
credited system of No License, was inevitable.
Incidentally, it is another instance of the far-
seeing capacity of Richard Seddon, who in 1904,
when an amending Bill was before Parlia-
ment, brought forward his somewhat cele-
brated clause 9, providing thqjt, if and where
No License was carried, no grog should
be obtainable in the affected district. The
Cold Tea people, however, would have none
of it. They seized their halos and rushed to the
defence of the bottle and the barrel as one man,
prepared to shed their last drop of consistency
for the sake of the vote of the moderate drinkers.
Seddon found himself over-borne in the struggle,
and made way. What happened is so well
known now that it no longer causes hilarity. In
four short years from the date of Seddon’s pro-
phecy of failure, during which time the front doors
of hotels were being slammed and locked, the
inhabitants of the country ran up a drink bill
which led the Rev. Edward Walker (looked
upon as the recognised compiler of the Dominion’s
drink roster) to declare in 1908 :
The figures reveal a condition of things to afford laugh-
ter for those'who can be jubilant over the increase of
human degradation and wreckage. . . . The figures show
an increase of considerably over a quarter of a million
for the past year in the expenditure by consumers
namely, £307,258, the actual increased expenditure in
the single year being probably not less than half a million
a fact that should be sufficiently appalling to legislators,
public teachers, .civic authorities, and all who take an
interest in the economic and social public welfare.
Those deafening remarks were attached to the
1907 compilation, the amount expended on drink
having jumped from £2l9s. B£d. per head in 1890,
when the No License swindle started in earnest, to
£3 15s. 10d., and the country’s grog account
swelled from £2,265,000 to £3,751,968 in the same
period. All things considered, it is no wonder
that Maoriland reaches for the axe and prepares to
pursues its No License joss over the horizon.
* * * *
No License admittedly doesn’t stop
drinking; what it does stop is supervision
of the quality of the drink. And it is
the adulterated, doctored grog which puts
snakes into the drinker’s hair, and fills
the atmosphere with variegated insects. In-
cidentally, it also fills the lunatic asylums with
raving maniacs. In Maoriland, in 1898, there was
only one inmate of a lunatic asylum to
every 300 of the population. Twelve months
ago there was one inmate to every 285 people—
according to the M.L. “Official Year Book’’ (1909).
Nobody knows how much of this serious increase
in insanity is due to the awful brew dispensed at
the Sly Groggery ; but anybody who knows what
the bushfnan suffers from the doctored stuff that
is served him at the bush shanty can get a pretty
good idea.
MORAL REFORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The reformer’s mission is to purify, and if he can
cleanse a score it matters not to him should a thousand
declaim against his method as a slanderous reflection
upon themselves. —An Apostle of Judkins in Melbourne.
I had last night a vision strange
Behold, a quaint reforming band
Did far among the people range.
A pail of pitch each had in hand,
And every clean white man they met
They smeared till he was black as jet.
And when at length they'd vilely smudged
The citizens, with holy guile
The saints their hapless victims judged,
And fiercely said that all were vile.
“ Behold,” they cried, their pulpits in,
“ How lost the crowd 1 how black with sin !”
Then, weary of this curious sport,
The missioners came forth again.
Each saint a pail of whitewash brought,
And at it went with might and main,
The faithful and the heretic
To daub with whiting inches thick.
Within a week, when all were white,
And there remained of pitch no trace,
The missioners with all their might
Thanked Heaven for its wondrous grace,
And in high jubilation raved :
“ Behold what sinners we have saved !”
„
VIOTOR,A ’
EDDYSON.
IN THE TIME OP THE DEAD MARINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The golden days would perish, the bright hours droop
and die—
The fragrant hours we knew in other days—
The chorus pass and finish ; the song end in a sigh ;
They’d barricade the old familiar ways
To the bright warm-tinted tavern, to that little corner
space,
Where curling smoke-rings linked the days of yore ;
And Jean and Nell and Doris would be absent from
their place.
We would miss them when we gathered there no more.
The old rooms would be darkened ; the well-known faces
gone ;
The laughter and the jest; the careless joys ;
“ The usual ” would mean no more than “ pot of tea and
scone,”
And Judkins would be leader of “ the boys.”
Send the bottle round the table, raise your glasses in your
hand ;
A toast I give to guide you and remind—
E’er we hail the water-waggon, and depart for Lemon
Land,
Drink a farewell to The Days We Leave Behind.
N.S.W.
C.U TOMORROW.


TaKe
a
Tip
Charles Heidsieck
Champagne
Can
Be
Beat
%
OBUR
-i
3 =*»
>5
<§P
Th’ man as writes th’ ads for
th’ Robur tea says as how he’s
got to put me on one side and
give somebody else a chanst —
that people has had ’nuff o’
me —and wants a change—well,
I’m sorry —I’m sure for to push
myself where I’m not wanted,
but as I’m ’ere l might as well
tell yer how a cup o’ good tea
does pick one up when ye’ve
done a ’ard day’s washin’ and
ironin’.
1 don’t believe as how no-
body could wash if it wasn’t
for a cup o’ tea now and then —
what 1 says is this give a
woman a good cup o’ tea and
she’ll do a good day’s work.
Of course, yer know well ’nuff
l haven’t any money to chuck
away, an’ that’s why 1 uses
Robur No. 1 Grade in my own
’ome —1 finds it cheaper than any
other tea, ’cos it goes futther,
and there ain’t no tea what’s
got a nicer taste.
The Washerwoman.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 11, 1910.
My Dear Artnt,—
A riot of festivity occurred after this letter went
to press last week. First there was the Matrons’
Ball in Paddington Town Hall. Almost every
matron of social note, between Sydney and Mif-
parinka, had a hand in it. Beforehand, it was
calculated that if all the people turned up who had
Been asked there would not be standing-room in
the hall, while the supper would be utterly in-
capable of enduring the strain. Providentially,
numbers of the invitees stayed away, leaving a
clear run for what any self-respecting daily jour-
nal would term the “devotees of Terpsichore.”
The only hitch in a successful function was due to
one of the committee-women mislaying the
authorised list stating who was to dance with
which in the vice-regal quadrille. As thecalamity
occurred within some four minutes of the arrival
of the vice-regalities, a flustered apportionment of
partners had to be made on the spot, with the
result that heartburnings occurred ; likewise fur-
tive mutterings in dark places hy prominent
would-be quadrillers whose claims were over-
looked in the rush.
The Australian Club ball transpired the follow-
ing night, and a shrewdly-organised affair it was.
Besides mere Governors and members of the local
nobility, it was graced by some of the really
handsome women employed in “The Nigtit
of the Party” and other theatrical charmers.
This ball, with its gorgeous decorations and its
loigbty line of motors and carriages conveying
revellers to the Town Hall, hardly suggested that
Mr. Fisher’s land tax had got the well-to-do classes
down in a desperate and ruined condition. Still,
I suppose many a £l5OO Panhard. with Limousin
body complete, holds a breaking bank-account.
On Wednesday the officers of the good ship
Powerful asked 400 of their friends and acquaint-
ances to dance and sup aboard. There is no
particular hankering among the elevated to frisk
on the Mother Country’s war vessels. For one
thing, it is a cold, damp and otherwise uncom-
fortable business getting there ; for another, the
deck is as dead as concrete, and hence an in-
different dancing surface; and, furthermore, it is
studded with unexpected bolts and brass knobs
and such-like perilous things. Half the sailors
don’t know who the other half’s friends are, and
don’t want to. The British salt has a catholic
taste in the way of women-kind. He doesn’t go
much on our indigenous class-distinctions, as a
general thing. To the majority qf him Mrs.
Brown and her daughters who inhabit the Glebe,
and are not “in it,” are in no wise different so-
cially from Mrs. Brown of Bellevue Hill, who, with
her family, considers the Glebe Browns miserable
outsiders and upstarts. The consequence is that
on his hospitable deck all sorts of unlikely persons
are apt to foregather, and the Bellevue Hill
Browns, and others of their way of thinking, are,
if they attend, in a constant ferment of terror
lest some tactless sailor-man should, in his
ignorance, present them to the members, of a
respectable but otherwise quite impossible family.
Until the British sailor gets over his absurd
idea that people are acceptable because they
are well-behaved, educated and good-look-
ing. social functions aboard battleships in Sydney
harbor will never be entire successes.
On the night of the Powerful dance a musical
party occurred at Federal Government House.
Miss Amy Castles arrived after her show at the
Theatre Royal and carolled someoperatic numbers,
and that gorgeously-voiced young Victorian tenor,
Walter Kirby, also performed. I hear, by the
way, that an influential committee of music-
enthusiasts is organising a concert, whereat he
shall appear and give a taste of his quality
shortly, in the Paddington Town Hall.
When Amy Castles got a telephone message at
Coogee requesting her to come and sing at the
Federal Government House concert last week she
was not elated. Not that she did not recognise
the appreciation conveyed by Lady Dudley’s in-
vitation. “ But how,” she asked, “can Ido myself
or my hostess justice after singing in ‘ Cavalleria’
and ‘ Pagliacci ’? ” However, she went direct
from the theatre to Government House,
arriving there after 11, and sang be-vu-
ti fully. “Caro Nome” and “When ’Twas
April” were her numbers. The hostess took
her arm on the supper route.. Suite and
guests purred over her, and a Government House
petrol-flier took the girl back to her cottage by
the sea. These retrospective ramblings are in-
duced chiefly by my remembrance of reading that
when Grisi anil Mario sang at the houses of the
Duke of Wellington and other nobles, a cord was
stretched between the singers and the company.
There has been progress in other things besides
the invention of petrol-fliers.
Federal Government House garden party was
unusual in three particulars. No cards were
asked for at the outer portals; no names
were announced ; and a tidal wave of men
in Holy Orders swept through the crowd,
which otherwise consisted of people you
had been meeting at the races all the week, and
were sick of seeing. The Allen Taylors
—they had not been to the races, so thev
hadn’t tired anyone—were present; thus proving
the lady’s recovery from too much civic work and
spring chills.
The Winter Garden of the Australia was invaded
onerecent night by numerous wealthy racingowners
and men who had been celebrating their successes ;
and, as a result, were in no condition to appear
amongst ladies. They polished off further bottles
of champagne to the accompaniment of song and
good cheer generally ; and one of their number an-
nounced, footman-wise, the names of various
astounded citizens who wandered in with their
families. The performers didn’t have the excuse
of youth to offer either.
Most of us thought that the martingale skirt
would last till the end of the year, but Saturday’s
frock show at the final meeting of the A.J.O,
proved that the curtain has already been rung
down on the fashion. None of our leading women
had a belt below the knees, or a running string
drawn taut at the hem of the skirt. Lady Dudley
was in a white cloth tailor-made, with a pleated
skirt, in which she could stride or go up two stair-
steps at a time, if necessary. Mrs. Cyril Ward’s
frock was another simple straightly-cut white
frock worn with a black hat. Mrs. Sam Hordern’s
self-colored linen Shantung coat and skirt, with
line drawing in black and black buttons, and a
little blue outlining the collar, was one of the
smartest phases of the day’s dress. Her hat was
circled with big single poppies of royal blue and
gold, done in velvet.
Mrs. Burdekin’s long white gown of soft satin
had no suggestion of constriction. It was a
classic-looking thing with a pointed-tunic effect.
Mrs. Bowman, of Grange, had a creation built on
much the same lines. Mrs. Hugh Mac Neil, the
golfer and one of our smartest frockers, had gotten
herself into the most delicate of greenish greys,
in a material that might have been a cloth, but
which looked like a satin. Her hat was grey, and
at her waist was a bunch of velvet pansies. The
satins and charmeuses and the rest of the sheeny
family, veiled with ninon, overtrimmed and cross-
belted—where were they? Possibly the wearers
had rung up Mrs. Melchizedek (the lady who,
having left-off clothing of every description,
respectfully invites inspection) and struck a
bargain.
At a previous day’s racing Mrs. Verney wore
an artistically Jappv get-up of grey vpile with
a foot-wide sash tied high at the back in a huge
bow, and long ends falling to tho bottom of the
skirt. Mrs. Alec Hay, on one of the days on
which satin and ninon were worn, left a memory
of pink satin, over-skirted with blurred pink
chiffon, with a black ninon tunic over that, a
nattier blue belt and a hat with black and blue
grasses.
Mrs. Jordan Rodgers, who comes from Kay-
town Station, once the Burdekin’s place, up
Attunga way, had one of the best black outfits of
the meeting. It resembled the beautiful black
frock worn by Miss Nellie Wilson in the “Gibbs”
musical farce, all black satin, silk wire, net over-
dress and deep fringe.
Roses and dyed grasses were first favorites
during the earlier days of the season’s racing.
A Mrs. Vandenberg had an uncommon bit of big
millinery. It was encircled with passion flowers.
Her frock was of royal-blue ninon over amethyst
satin, with wide-Oriental bands of trimming, and
some gold and aluminium fixtures. The rule was
—littler the woman the bigger the hat. Miss
Maie Peach, about the smallest adult at the week’s 1
racing, outhatted all else save one. In fact, so com-
plete was the occultation of Maie that most per-
sons guessed her identity by the proximity of her
mother.
Some very attractive hattery was due to tiny
wild flowers and the smallest of rose and daisy
buds. Every third woman had a scarf either of
satin or ninon, and some fastened an overblown
rose either at the nape of the neck or on one
end. To have any novelty in these long scarves
you’ve to make them yourself or get them made.
The survey ship Penguin has sent out cards for
a revel on October 14. A benignant-looking pen-
guin, standing on the top of the card, wears a
hope-you’ll-accept air.
A belated line about the debut of the Maori-
land Association in N.S.W. It “came out” at
its first ball, a fortnight or so ago. Sargents’
Rooms was the scene of the festival, to which
came 176 Maorilanders, nearly all of whom are
living in exile in Sydney. The combine explains
its raison d’Stre: “ The Association is formed of
Maorilanders in New South Wales and their
descendants, and has for its object the bringing
together of those who desire to keep alive the
pleasant memories and glories of their dear home-
land, and by social, friendly intercourse to make
Maorilanders better known to each other, irre-
spective of political opinion or creed.” And,
further : “ To establish, maintain and conduct an
Association, the members of which shall have
resided in M.L. not less than five years.” Governor
Islington, of M.L., and Prime Minister Ward are
the debutant’s patrons, and Mr. E. Owen Cox its
President. Minister of Education Fowlds, his
wife and two daughters, who chanced to be in
Sydney at the time, attended the ball. A tele-
gram to the President from Prime Minister
Ward, saying something congratulatory to his kin
across the sea, was read at the psychological
moment (which, at a ball, is towards the end of
supper) by Mr. E. H. Montgomery, of the M.L.
Government agency in Sydney. The Association
wouldn’t surprise itself very much if it took the
Town Hall for its next celebration.
Maoriland Wards get a lot of seafaring, for one
reason or another. They and their large daughter,
who, by the way, drives a motor landau about
Wellington streets, go to London for the great
Enthronement act in the play of George the Fifth.
Squatter Higgins, of the Liverpool Plains, for
several years a familiar figure at the Australia,
where he used to live with his son and daughter,
died recently, after a long period of bad health.
Another death—a sudden one that left the
whole community of Sydney grieved—was that
of Mrs. Theodore Boesen. She was a musical
authority, and at one time a well-known music
teacher. As a pillar of the R.C. Church,
there was scarcely a work of charity connected
with that faith in which she did not interest her-
self. Mrs. Boesen was twice married, first to a
Mr. Meillon, then to the late Mr. Boesen, of the
firm of Petersen, Boesen and Co., who was Danish
Consul in Sydney. Two sons and a daughter
(Mrs. Gibson, of Melbourne) survive their mother.
Another of the pretty Ministerial S. W. Moore
girls is engaged. The lucky man is one Mr.
Sawkins. whohas a billet in the F.M.S.—as they
say for short—Federated Malay States, for long.
Miss Kathleen Beach, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. F. Beach, of Mosman, was married last
week to Mr. Skipper, an Adelaide solicitor. Bride,
a pretty, dark-eyed girl, is a relative of Chief-
Justice Way, of Adelaide.
York-street, where Sydney’s wholesale fluff
merchants congregate, is mildly excited over an
approaching wedding. Twenty years ago one A.
C. Muhs joined Alcock Brothers as office-boy.
Now, after the best manner of the Young Ladies’
Journal, he is to marry “ the firm’s ” daughter—
and, of course, there is a junior partnership on
the horizon, and shoals of congratulations in the
middle distance.
Colonel Lassetter seems to be taking an elder-
brotherly interest in that oaf-oof-production,
“Miss Gibbs.” The interest is due to his friendship
for a brother officer. Colonel Ramaciotti, who, dis-
guised as plain Mister, has latterly run the shows
at Her Majesty’s. On the way to Saturday’s races
the Lassetter car, holding 1 Mrs. Delniar, MissCissie
Jamieson, thecleverßed Hairess, and Miss Blanche
Browne, of the sweet smile and many teeth, dashed
past my tram and nearly made the driver shy.
The Lassetter tea to the blue-eyed Browne girl
was a feature of the afternoon. Mrs. “Car-
men” Delmar, looking very well in electric blue
and brown, in spite of her many assassinations in
grand opera, was another “ Redleaf ” guest. She
returned to her Adelaide Home on Monday night.
A brace of prime donne are acquiring tan at
Bondi and Coogee respectively. Florence Young,
at the former sea-frontage, has a cottage ; and
Amy Castles is surfing from a lair at Coogee,
though by the time this meets the public eye Miss
Castles will be folding both tent and Butterfly
wings for departure to Brisbane. After the
season in that poinsietta place, the grand
operatics disband.
The Goulburn household of the Caspers got
great joy the other day, when the postman brought
the annual report of the London Academy of
Music on daughter Ella. “ Rapidly gaining com-
plete mastery over her fine voice,” says the certi-
ficate. “Is bidding fair to be an artist of very
high attainments.” That was under the heading
of “Principal Study”; and the remarks under
“Language” and “Sight Singing ” were almost
as cheerful. After which it didn’t surprise the
household that its hope and treasure had been
awarded a brdnze medal to go on with.
Fanny Dango left by the Osterley under her
own name—Rudge. Elsie Perrin also departed.
Miss Thelma McQuade returned to Sydney last
week, wearing the latest in smart coats and skirts.
St. Mary’s Cathedral Fair promises to bring in
a lot of the money Cardinal Moran wants to finish
his beautiful temple. Most of the best-looking
R.C. girls are working in the Cardinal’s Hall,
which is a dream of decorative effort, for the
various stalls. You may buy a gas stove there, or
an unset jewel, or a piece of lace, or a ticket in a
trip-to-Melbourne lottery'.
There’s a Somebody man in a modest way play-
ing a small part in “The Night of the Party”
at the Criterion. He is Mr. Ulic Browne,
a great pet at the Westralian Government
House when the Bedfords ruled in that
State. His father, known as “ Tom Browne,
of Australia”—no relative of Rolf Boldre-
wood Browne’s—was once a well-known Queens-
land squatter, a great sport, and one of the first
polo players in this bit of the Cosmos. He intro-
duced the pony-and-ball game into the Western
District, so report says. Tom Browne, of Aus-
tralia, made wealth by squatting in Queensland,
but lost most of it hunting for what proved
rainbow gold in W.A. Mr. Ulic Browne, the
new mummer, who has evidently thrown over
Law, rises vertically to a height of about seven
feet. He hasn’t much show in his little York-
shire part, and a bunch of Westralians who were
in the theatre the other night wondered if Princi-
pal Willoughby knew that Ulic has a voice that
used to be the joy of Perth’s nobility and gentry.
“ Yes,” said the proud owner, as the winner of
the first prize danced and strained at his leash ;
“he does look well. But you don’t see a dog at
his best at a show ; he isn’t himself, as you might
siv.” “Loses his individuality,” I suggested.
“That’s it!” After wandering round the Kennel
Club’s Annual Show at the Agricultural Ground,
I had drifted out to the trotting-ring to get the
sound of barking out of my ears. There was
some sort of football match going on, and
the proud owner, who was taking his animal
for a run, had checked him for a moment
to ask the names of the competing teams.
I didn’t know, and told him so, with
the addition that the dog was a beauty. That
won him. “ It’s just like this,” he continued.
“Suppose you tied up a lot of people, and asked
a lot of strangers in to stare at ’em. People under
the circumstances wouldn’t look as well as they
do at ordin’ry times.” I agreed with him. There
were 38 different breeds of dogs represented at
the Show, and all of them had a look of boredom.
The foxhounds seemed to be doing most of the
howling; the bulldogs, with the exception of one,
were gloomily silent. I heard one give a curiously
feminine sneeze; his nose was remarkably small,
and it was the best he could do. A bright little
girl was combing a pair of tiny lap-dogs—silky-
haired terriers, I think they were. Their son (he
would have gone into a tea-cup) was looking out
of a basket, and the photograph of his pocket-
edition grandfather, compelled to retire from
shows by advancing years, was pinned to the stall.
Directly opposite were the lion-like mastiffs.
I .wanted one friendly fox terrier very badly;
but he was kept from me by his chain, and I was
kept from him by his price. Two stalls away was
a £2OO bundle of barks. I asked the prize-
winner’s owner about these fabulous figures, and
he grinned broadly. “ The owners don’t want to
part with ’em,” he explained; and, letting his im-
patient thoroughbred have his head, wept stum-
blinginits wake back to the place of many dogs.
The water lilies in Centennial Park are just
now worth a pilgrimage by tram. Was out there
on Saturday afternoon, and spent something less
than half an hour gloating over the acre or so of
cup-like waxen blooms shaking in the wind on
their floating islands of wide, green leaves. The
shallow lake is a twinkling mass of yellow and
white and pink ; from a little way off it looks as
if some giant hand had showered it liberally with
confetti. I looked round for Alice in the Won-
derland boat, with the old sheep knitting busily
in the stern-sheets; but I fancy they only come
out in the dusk when all the people have gone.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
His Ex. has been to Pinarno in quest of Useful Infor-
mation. Lady Bosanquet and the twin daughters mean-
time stayed at Anlaby, Mr. Henry Dutton’s moated-
grange sheep station, where the roads as well as the
rose trees are labelled, and thy very air is imported.
Minda, the home for weak-minded children, has
been grappling with the question of quarters. Hitherto
it has pursued its good work unobtrusively in utterly
inadequate premises at Fullarton. Now, however, a
piece of land has been bought at Brighton, a nice, quiet
locality famed for its horse car and its sea breezes. Here a
new building is to oe opened by the Excellencies
early next month. The State’s deaf, dumb and blind
babies are cared for in the same locality. In fact,
South Australia’s sick children are generally sent sea-
breezewards. Estcourt, the home for crippled young-
sters, stands away out on the sandhills between the
Semaphore and the Grange, and several miles from any.
where. The home is a huge one, with domes and bal-
conies and wide verandahs, and there is a heavenly outlook
over the gulf and a splendid beach below. It was built
for a private residence by the late Mr. Bucknell, and
its panelled walls and lofty ballrooms and wide windows
opening to the ground, bear witness to the good times
planned with it. Other things were also planned, they
say—among them a jetty where mailboats
small craft could drop in for achat and a CU P „
these other things did not materialise. - , , nC e
house, charming as it was, shine as a place of r , , iftg ’
the one road to it being badly addicted to„ 8 . linass! ,ble
which had agentle habit of making it utterly P 1 '
every now and then. The place was ? ven^ ua . anc i
the Jessie Brown Trust, and now crippled babies a
aged blind abide there. , , ,
To add a few pence to the £/000 needed
Minda building, Mr. Bevan’s choral seraphim will
sing Sullivan’s “ Golden Legend ” at the Town Hall next
" We’ are polishing up our double-Dutch, with the hos-
pitable intention of making your late naval visi
home when thev tether their broomstick «° .
Harbor next week. Adelaide expects to evolve a i
able bodied festivities for their benefit, an
auspicious circumstance that their presence w 1
with the big Cohen garden party at Victoria •
defy any fleet to see us looking nicer than on that■occasi .
This may be the Slowly City, but there are g, .
we set t’other-Staters a good little examp .
stance, our Government has QQdecided to lay a small piec
of mono-railway, and build a train to match,
test theutility of the Brennan invention ; (b) decided th.
in future women employed by the Governmen - .
paid an equal wage to that earned by men, \
services are of equal value. Has either Sydn y -
bourne rushed ahead to that extent? ,
Adelaide's next conference is in the bands
Women’s Liberal Union, which is the brand-new name ot
the erstwhile National League. No less than 60 politicalli -
disposed ladies from the other States are expec e ■
bring their frocks for 10 days of physical and .intellectual
revelry. Proceedings open with a reception in the I " i
Hall on Mondav eve, 17th.
The Players, a co. of aspiring amateur mummers, have
secured the Theatre Royal for two nights in the middle
of December. The plays to be produced are still a daiK
secret. The Appendrvena people, meanwhile, are ie-
hearsing “ Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace.” The name part is
to be played by Ethelwyn Robin, a sensible ladv, who
knows how to act, but doesn’t regard the amateur stage
as a life-work, like most young persons smitten with the
fever. . , ,
Yet another placing fraternity, the nymphs and shep-
herds of Mrs. Pow'is Stewart’s Shaksperian Salon, were to
have had their organisation opened b.v Lady Bosanquet
the other dav. But alas! the special scenery went to
Hindustan or Oodnadatta or somewhere by mistake, and
the revel had to be postponed.
Dolores passed through Adelaide en route to Westraha
on Thursday. She will be back again in November.
We are, nowadays, a very striking community in South
Aus. Tin-makers, jam-makers, railway-makers, and
mattress-makers have all had their little blow, but now
conies the unkindliest cut of all. The authorities have
just torn up Rundle-street; and now the workmen have
gmne on strike, and Woman is left, lamenting. She will
have to leap the excavations to buy her summer raiment.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED '
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
GOLD and SILVER CHAIN BAGS and PURSES
IN LARGE VARIETY.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
S"*
«■< si;’
COODS
*N approval.
Silver Chain Bats, with Heavy Oxidised Mount, 4£in. across top,
£4 BS.
FIVE PER OENT. DISCOUNT ON CASH TRANSACTIONS.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 OUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
MUMPS!
NIPPER: “WHAT, OH! BROTHER; suffering from mumps ?”
BROTHER : “ OH, NO ! I have been swallowing oceans of medicine to cure my Indiges
// \l >-
tion and Kidney complaints.”
NIPPER: “Nonsense; how unfortunate! Have you not
heard of
“FISHER’S”
WONDERFUL
PHOSPHERINE,
so simple and efficacious ?”
Take eight drops in water after meals, and you will have
no Indigestion. Take ten drops three times a day, and you
will have no Kidney complaints. “Fisher’s” Phosplierine
supersedes awkward pills and heavy, nauseous drugs.
“Fishers” Phospherine is clear as crystal, fresh and potent. Prepared every day.
W A FAMOUS REMEDY FOR I/-
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes, and declares on oath, the following:—“ I suffered
from acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue got a thick coating
over it, and I constantly suffered from nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly vomiting,
I consulted two doctors at Ashfield for years without getting relief. But in three weeks
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. I am Noble Grand of the Loyal Ashfield,
M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been in the lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of my ill-
ness. Five to 10 drops of FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE always takes away a in
the mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone know of my case.”
Subscribed and declared at Aslifield this
twentieth day of August, one thousand nine
hundred and three, before me—
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
sdf
sd
IF YOU PAY £5 A BOTTLE, YOU CANNOT GET A BETTER
TONIC FOR INDIGESTION THAN
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/= PER BOTTLE. FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
ALWAYS ASK FOR FISHER’S.
POST FREE FROM
FISHER & COMPANY,
Dispensing Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET (Opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Fisher’s Phospherine is sold outside of New South Wales under the name of “ Fisher’s Great Nerve
Tonlo,” therefore always ask for Fisher’s Great Nerve Tonic at all Chemists throughout Commonwealth.
500,000 Copies already sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
The Heart of The Bush,
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
Illustrated by H. CARTER.
Price l/= ; Postage 3d.
“The Heart of the Bush ’’ shows concl usi vely
that the people of the cities hold no monopoly
of the human passions, for the story teems with
incidents in which love and hate, jealousy and
revenge, weave in and out of the web of
Destiny in such a way as to enthrall the reader
from cover to cover. That this gifted author
has an intimate knowledge of the affairs of the
Bush as well as the affairs of the heart must
be apparent to the most casual observer, and
those of us who have either memories of Bush-
land or just “ that touch of Nature that makes
the whole world kin,” will revel in the absorb-
ing atmosphere that pervades these pages.
The episodes that culminate , in the duel in
Dead Man’s Gully are depicted in language
that leaves no doubt.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
A NEW RACING NOVEL.
By F. AGAR.
Illustrated by PERCY SPENCE.
Paper Cover, l/= ; Postage 3d.
“Eros,” be it known, was tlie Greek god of
love, and, as love generally wins, it was
thought a good name for a horse. But even a
good horse is not always allowed to win, and
many of the doubtful methods of preventing
him are exposed in this book. Both the upper
and under sides of “ The Turf ” are depicted
here—the aristocratic, straight-going owner
and the low-down swindler who lives on the
game; but the little Greek god has also an
interesting innings, as there is a fascinating
society love story running side by side with
the racing yarn, and the outcome of the plot
and counter-plot is that again “Eros” wins.
To those who don’t know much about racing
this book will be an eye-opener ; to those who
do, it will be a treat.
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers,
STEELE RUDD. A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
“BOOKSTALL SERlES’’—Price 1/- each; Post Free 1/3.
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
BUSH RANGING BOOKS.
l/= each; Post Free 1/3.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Charles White.
Short-Lived Bushrangers, by Charles White.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by Ambrose Pratt.
Übique,The Scientific Bushranger, by Clarence Martin
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
APPO,* r
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF DUDLEY,
Telephone 3429.
STEIDLE 8 LUX,
294 Collins St., Melbourne.
“THE BLOCK.”
tex
0
/
A
THE charming soft and natural effect depicted in our
* illustration is only obtained by use of our Trans-
formations, Plaits, Curls, etc. & &
Full particulars sent privately on application.


RECIPE FOR THE COMPLEXION.
One of our readers, who writes that she was
formerly severely troubled during the winter and
spring with chapped hands and face, gives us the
following recipe for a simple home-made lotion,
which, she says, is superior to anything else she
has ever tried, and also that it restores the delicate
velvety complexion of youth to those whose skin
has become paralysed and leather-like from the
use of lotions containing arsenic, bismuth and
pearl white.
Procure from your chemist a four-ounce bottle
containing two ounces Rose Water, one drachm
Tincture Benzoin, simp., and two ounces Flowers
of Oxzoin. Mix together and apply night and
morning, with the hands, or use a soft cloth or
sponge. Always shake well before using. If you
desire it perfumed, add a spoonful of French Fon
Fleur Perfume, which is an unusually pleasing
scent, and combines perfectly with the other ingre-
dients. To secure perfect results, bathe hands and
face in warm water and dry thoroughly before
applying. *
A
Right
and a
Wrong
Way.
When select-
ing your cor-
sets care must
be taken to
secure models
that will
mould your
figure to the
desired con-
tour. There is
V
aJD
a right and a wrong way of doing this.
Some Corsets do it the wrong way by
enclosing the body in an unyielding
prison, to the destruction of comfort and
health.
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
are light and flexible. While perfectly
boned and giving adequate support, they
yet allow great freedom of the limbs.
They are the sure, stable, healthy,
hygienic solution of the problem of
correct corsetrie. Ask your draper to
show you the new models.
ri
CQHTINE
SQVIORE -TREAD WEBS
fsd
fsd
f
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 10, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Caulfield Guineas sounded the real clarion call
to the Horse Carnival. A big crowd of people
responded to the blast; and though it is too early
as yet to expect the uproarious race-time fracking
there were a few top-notes worthy of remark.
Mrs. Ernest Brookes wore a pale lilac crepe-de-
chine dress that reached almost half-tide
mark. It was tortured and pleated and
corded into coat-shape, but the flimsy crepe
appeared to be protesting all the time that
it was never meant for tailoring. To go
with the dress she wore a frying-pan hat, and a
cavalier carried her fringed parasol ail day. Mrs.
Donald McKinnon added to her commanding
height by wearinga lyre bird in her hat. I didn’t
notice her dress; that unfortunate dead bird
monopolised all my attention. I heard that the
fashion people in Paris this season had designs
on our lyre bird ; but I did not expect an Aus-
tralian woman to follow that lead. The clutch
dress is having its last hobble. It is absolutely
doomed ; but, of course, the dresses had to
have an outing. One of the Kingston girls made
herself pleasantly conspicuous by wearing a sen-
vr 6 r p OW ' n £ black dress and going unhobbled.
Mrs. -torn Hogan also let ber voluminous rose-
colored gown go easy, except for a restraining
coat of smart black ninon. She brought an Ade-
laide girl, who has been having a gay time in
Du toll doings with Mrs. Tom for chaperone.
Ihe Railway Tait trio spent the whole day
together. The resigned Commissioner was on one
occasion reduced to a cigarette for the first time
on local record ; but he helped it with a monstrous
big cigarette-holder.
One girl wore flesh-colored silk stockings above
her patent leather shoes, and hauled her short
skirt well up to show them. The dressing was
certainly startling from a spectacular point of
view. Lady Carmichael balanced the sartorial
shrieks by garbing quietly and charmingly in
black. Her hat was turned up with a military-
looking cockade. Captain Vaux limped valiantly
along on his duty path, with a stick to save his
injured ankle.
Julius Knight acted as escort to an original fair
one. A monocle dangled about her fetching green
garments, and she smiled through a veil that
looked like an excellent tattooing.
Calv<s had a crowded hour or two at the Exhi-
bition, with people squashed into balconies land
several acres of “ dressed ” Sassiety on the floor.
She had turned herself into a white-robed simple
floweret—or thereabout—by draping herself in
white fringe. Just fringe, wound round and
round in the fashion of a very discreet Maori-’
lander or Islander. Probably she picked up the
trick in her recent tour. A dove-white scarf heavily
weighted with silver and more fringe helped the
effect, and a fat rope of pearls, that brought a
twinge of envy to every wotnan in the house,
hung round her neck. Not an emerald or a dia-.
mond or any decoration aloft—just blue-black
coils and wings of hair. Mimic that she is, she
has picked up some of the swayings and foot-
tappings of the Maoris. She used them cleverly
whilst singing. The Maori maidens have
no shoe-heels to tap; but the click of the
heel with Calve was effective enough. Obviously,
she doesn’t wear rubbers.
Part of the programme consisted of scenes from
‘Carmen.” An arrangement of mammoth
screens served as back-cloth and wings. These
neutral-tinted screens are being used a great deal
theatrically nowadays in parts farther afield. A
play or opera that has much color in itself can do
with a neutral background. The eliminating of
incongruous surroundings is so much more neces-
sary than the putting there of definite picturing.
The force of color and place can come from the
actors —sometimes. After a 12-minutes’ interval,
Calve appeared once more in a sumptuous frock,
all gold, and black embossed, and embroidered—
a most fascinating concoction.
Gasparri came before the screen for the first
entry as Don Jose in an ashamed way ; beseemed
to be intensely conscious of bis very red Briga-
dier’s breeks. A coat and vest of black over
conventional linen made him look like a clergy-
man top-side, and a sojer for the rest of him. But
he forgot his sensational clothes in the acting, and
even let Carmen hang round bis neck and rumple
his hair till it waved in serpentine tails, without
so much as one terrified look at the hall.
The Foundlings’ Bazaar has been wending a
rather weary way through the week. As a
fleecing function it failed. The Bazaar itself
acted as a nice, cosy foil to the luridly amatoo-ah
cafe chantants each evening. Rose Siegen-
berg engineered one on Friday night. Sassiety
damsels have been playing/rora instead of into
the hands of Florrie Green, who has taught
them to dance. Rehearsal has been a
gorgeous time for these colleens, who made
the pace from Town Hall to Vienna
in gala dress and full make-up, with a flimsy
cloak for subterfuge. Tea was on tao at the
bazaar, but nothing except the Vienna (and the
accompanying journey) would suit these flut-
terers. Gilded and leisured youth of the town
have been in attendance, arid, altogether, this
section feels it has had its joy of the affair. The
unfortunate finances would be nowhere if it were
not for the substantial support of the previous
bridge parties, balls, etc. Raffles were rampantand
the glorious possibility of winning twenty pounds’
worth for a shilling raked in many a coin. A
hushed-up tragedy was the theft on the first
night. The money has been “ replaced.” But,
spite of that, it looks as if the wide-eyed, anxious
Foundlings will benefit most by the preliminary
shows.
Julius Knight gave ns Beaucaire and a touch-
ing speech of farewell on Thursday, matinee-ing
at the Princess’s. Other mummers tendered the
matinee, “ which,” Julius remarked in his speech,
“is an honor rarely conferred on a fellow-actor.”
He also modestly pointed out other personal
aspects of this particular send-off. And as he
did it he put artistic tears into his voice,
and stood with one white-buckled Beaucaire
shoe pointed among scarlet roses, while he
crumpled the petals of “only a red, red
rose” in his sensitive fingers. Such an artist
in detail is Julius! The chief of all the
playactors in Melbourne added to the show.
Crowds from J. C. Williamson, from Clarke and
Meynell, from Anderson, and from Rickards
made the incidental material for the farewelling
of Superbus, and devoted admirers sat in the
theatre and absorbed it.
Dutch entertainments have ear-marked most
days of the week. On Monday evening the State
Parliamdht partied at the barn-like State House.
One can always forecast the programme of these
Parliamentary affairs. It is ever the same, with
the cinematograph show in the Queen’s Hall as the
star item. The picture gloom is plunged into
right away, for the Queen’s Hall opens right off
the carriage drive ; so there is a prompt stumbling
as of driven sheep on a dark, strange road. Every-
where are staring eyes trying to see who’s who in
the gloom. This time a few people managed to
arrive in time to shake hands with Mrs. Premier
Murray in the light of the chandelier. The official
greeting over, these fortunate ones shook out their
trains, thusreservingampleroom fortheirpreening.
Lady Carmichael, all in black, arrived in time
with her Governor husband; and the Dutch
guests flashed gold buttons among the crowd. Two
lots of vocal concert shrieked against each other
at opposite ends of the vast corridors till all
hands made a move for the supper rooms.
It was a good-natured, elbowing stream of
supper-hungry humanity getting along pell-
mell like a river in flood. The guests
of the evening were quietly gathered together and
spirited through byways to the great goal. Some
of them who had been left to their own devices in
the Queen’s Hall had been having an unexciting
time, and were delighted to be taken in tow again.
I he dressing 1 was desultory— not nearly so snappy
as that of a good mayonnaise lobster. There was
just one dame in a tiara (with accoutrements) —
she seemed the only be-diamonded one present.
I he frocks ranged through second and third bests
to the verge of the retired list. A contrast was
supplied by a horsey Sassiecy maiden, who is
usually dowdy, drifting in attired in a dream of a
Frenchygown. The party let up early and got
its motor soon after 10.
The gaud Mayor gave the Dutch a theatre
party at Her Majesty’s on Wednesday. “The
Whip,” with its good, old bellowdrama laid on
thick, would have been an easy proposition to the
visitors, even if their understanding of English
were not as good _as it is. The Dutchmen were
too .unevenly sprinkled among the party, which
took up the whole of the dress-circle. The uni-
forms were lumped here and there in twos and
threes. There were not nearly enough to go
round, in any case; but sweet girls might have
been given one a-piece just as far as the material
allowed. Food occurred at everv interlude—
especially beer, which, to quote Crooky Scrubbs,
is the nicest food there is.” The feminine re-
freshments did not happen till the-last interval,
when the pretty frocks rustled out into the lounge
and pecked at an ice or so.
The Dutchmen seem to grow more enveloped
in smiles every time they appear. Admiral Van
Voss laughed through the whole meeting, and the
officers went as willing prisoners in the care of the
girls who have attached them. The Dutch smiles
were particularly noticeable because of the awful
blueness of the average local racing man, sick of
watching outsiders romp past the timber. Winner
Wilson’s two pretty daughters looked subduedly
triumphant, and their smart linen frocks took on
a touch more of starch.
The Arts and Crafts opened its second annual
exhibition last week. Certainly, for a two-year-
old, it looks a fine, healthy child, and the im-
provement since the first show is marked. The
ballroom at Cliveden managed to contain the
show, with some assistance from the tea-rooms
in the hall. The ballroom windows look upon
the poor old conservatory, now a deserted wreck
of shelves and old gardener’s straw piled in
dusty heaps; but the big apartment itself was
very smart. There was a private view for the
Elect; but, as the show is to run for a fortnight,
the ordinary person possessed of the necessary has
plenty of time to see it all. Regiments of “ leer-
ridge folk ’ swarmed in the big, grey-elephant
entrance on the opening day. Governoress Car-
michael, who did the unsealing, is herself an Arts
and Crafts woman. She has been assisting the
movement with both hands all the time she has
been in Australia. She works hard, and urges
other people on in the awful mystery of
“stitches.” Her own exhibit, which con-
sisted of enamejs, drew the usual crowd of
insincere gushers, though the goods were honestly
worth enthusing over. Mildred Creed, the
daughter of Dr. Creed, of Sydney, had some fine
enamels in the same case. Molly Rvan, a Sassiety
dear, showed four miniatures. One is a telling
likeness of Lawyer Purves’s pretty chick Valerie.
Another is little Dicky Webster. Bess Norris
showed a trio of recent portraits—one of Ruby
Grey, the budding songstress.
The platform in the ballroom was given up
wholly to a nursery. The committee designed it
with the assistance of Lady Carmichael. The
frieze on the walls was painted by the Carmichael
niece Ena, who is a clever youngster. It showed
cockatoos, parrots and laughing jackasses on a
line of post and rail and trees. The very small
niece—the younger one—designed and worked
the cushions on the small chairs, and the Car-
michael lady spread herself somewhat in a new
kind of fireguard for preventing small people
getting themselves cooked. A large screen of
tapestry was also Carmichael work. The house-
hold, really, is most industrious.
The pottery this year shows such an advance
that I don’t think we will ever have to drag any
more potters into this country. Finlay, a local
boy, filled a case with beauties—though an acci-
dent at the arranging smashed a shelf-load. A
Queensland exhibitor, one Moroney, achieved
some glorious blues with a few lovely jars. The
Australian Tile Company let people know what
exquisite things can be made here with an exhibit
tit for flooring or lining any room or hall. Rugs
and homespuns (to be bought by the yard and
repeated) were also on view. The repeat in
homespun would be a godsend to mothers trying
to keep pace with school-children's growth,
rhe matching of materials for “lengthening”
is always such a futile matter; for when Molly,
who is two years’ younger than Dorothy, has to
have the superior .Dolly’s cast-off garments,
great is the wail thereat. A small girl’s
pride in her frocks is as- keen as a
grown-ups. Miss Chomlev, the secretary, cast
the eye of a satisfied general over the show, which
is pushing into imposing proportions.
Lady Carmichael, dressed in a moire gown, with
a lace veil hanging from her hat, carried a bouquet
of wild flowers—-ti-tree bloom and such, with
bright, sky-blue ribbons knotting the grey-green
and white. Governor Carmichael came with her,
and Secretary Victor Hood. That Adonis of an
aide, Captain Vaux, is down with a sprained
ankle. The damage was done while playing
tennis at the Grices’ a week or so ago.
When the Arts and Crafts had been pushed on
its way and was really jogging, the Carmichael
pair went along to the Federal House garden
party, given to the Dutch.
Blamire Young has been poking about in the
wilds of Victoria—on the heights of Buffalo at
snow-time, and in places where men burrow in
the rugged hills of Gippsland for gold and coal.
He had his paint box for company, and dipped
his brushes into the gorgeous colorin'g of that
country. City Australians don’t know their
country any too well, and a lot of Mel-
bourne is almost as ignorant of the beauty
of the nose of Victoria, which points down-
ward toward the South Pole, as it is of
the South Pole itself. Blamire Young has got
that country into the pictures which he is
now showing at the Guild Hall—the tang of hazel
scrub and flannel bush and ground ferns, aiid.
with all that, a sense of the rugged heights and
the blueness.
A feature of Blamire Young’s exhibition at the
Guild Hall is an “old master’’ with a story
hanging to it. The picture (it belongs to a mem-
ber of The Bulletin staff) is the portrait of a
lady who was formerly believed to be one of
Charles ll.’s numerous Court “beauties,” and
Lely was named as the artist. But a recent
restoration of the ancient work has almost proved
it to be a portrait of Lady Mary Wortley Mon-
tagu, painted probably by Sir Godfrey Kneller.
The restoration, revealing draperies, jewellery
and extras which had been hidden for 90 years,
was the achievement of a Melbourne expert, who
reckons it the most successful of the hundreds
he has accomplished.
Pen Boyd, that prize baby-boy of the k’Beckett
clan, is having another picture show. It is bold
of a youngster to blaze out so persistently as this
one does; but the pink-cheeked youth of tender
years dives into the nethermost depths of the
bush, paints like fury for months, then comes to
the surface with a great many gummy pictures
full of good color. He shows them, and even
sells them. A new show is due on October 18,
and the artist is turning the Guild Hall into a
luxurious drawing-room for the pampering of his
patrons.
A new club for women will be the Quamby, to
be run by the Mia Mia people over their new
rooms at a Collins-street corner. No men are to
be allowed in ; it is to be just a resting-place for
girls out a-shopping and a-pleasuring. A place
to “read, learn and inwardly digest”— not a bad
superscription for a club published as the supple-
ment to a tea-room.
Even a tube dress and a hat that goes six laps to
the mile cannot overawe the cheerful car-con-
ductor. Was on a sparsely-populated tram last
Sunday, and we had to wait for a couple of minutes
on a lonely loop. In the awkward silence the
conductor on the front car, which contained one
lone, fashionably-attired woman, leant across to a
coadjutor and remarked: “Got any change,
Bill ? This ’ere tart ’as only got two bob.” Mer-
cifully the “tart” heard it not; for just then a
motor whirred by and smothered the irreverence in
dust and petrol. The familiarity bred of lifting
fashion plates in and out of the chariots has made
the tram-person contemptuous.
A conspicuous rider in the jumping competi-
tions, at the Launceston Show last week, was Miss
Marjorie Longden, daughter of a Launceston
bank manager. She rode astride, in a khaki
riding-habit cut with a divided skirt. She is a
qualified nurse, and as such is attached to the
Launceston battery of the Australian Field Artil-
lery. Everywhere that battery goes Marj. is
sure to go. She is present, astride her horse, at
every parade; and when the battery drifts into
camp her own little tent is pitched alongside. Is
she the forerunner of a new' type of army nurse?
A Block circumstance, that attracted some
notice on a recent Saturday, was a tall girl with a
saxe-blue dress and a limp. Saxe-blue is Dutch-
blue,, and is noticeable. Besides, the girl was
very tall, and the skirt was very short and tight.
Under the dress showed several inches of Dutch-
blue openwork stocking ; and through the open-
work, as through a grille, could be seen the
bandage on the injured leg. It was a truly brave
effort to be in the fashion.
A —WIDOW, 39,-educated, R.C., tall, handsome
(member Austral Salon), private income £2OO
yearly, wishes introduction educated R. 0., indepen-
dent means, view matrimony. Holt’s.
“Member Austral Salon.” Oh, ye gods and
grundies ! Let’s hope the committee will deal
gently with this departer from the chalk-line of
convention when it finds her. Yet, poor woman,
circumstances should reduce the sentence. \Vhat
chance has a member within the Austral Salon of
a man? Never a man enters its portals—except
the Tenor or the afternoon-tea young-man, and
they don’t count in a game of keeps.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
Wee Maegregor, presiding- at! the annual meeting of
the Ornithological Society,-told some tales of his efforts
in Papua to keep the beautiful birds of paradise from
being turned into millinery decorations. Previously,
when a mere medicineman in Fiji, he used, on visiting
the local Government House, to furtively open the cages
and set at liberty the vice-regal birds', until dark sus-
picion fell upon him. Then he unblushingly admitted
his crime, and finally brought the Fijian vice-regals to
his way of thinking. And there were no more feathered
captives afterwards. i , ■.
Later, it did seem to me that the action of one bigwig
of the conference, wh6 joined a deputation to Phidson
asking for a local Zoo, was a little illogical. If not caged
birds, why caged animals that are quite as unhappy ? It
makes my heart ache to look at the two miserable bears
who for years have walked round the wretched pit in our
own Gardens. , One did make his escape once, and in two
minutes,' although he is not as big as a collie dog, he had
the Gardens to himself. Oh, it must have been his night
of nights !
The ornithologists have embarked upon the Federal
trawler for the Barrier Reef; and as they don’t look a
jolly sea-dog lot, and as they do say that the trawler cau
roll, they are probably now feeling like the man who
resolved never to eat pickled cucumbers any more,
because he simply felt that he must give up something.
Troubles seldom come in ones. After all Mrs. Joey
Bell’s anxiety over her husband’s illness, comes the news
of the sudden death of her sister, Mrs. McKellar, who was
Janet Ferguson, of Rockhampton. Her indisposition
was not thought serious, so Mr. McKellar left her at Dr.
Voss’s hospital, where she suddenly succumbed. _
Our sweet vision of the clan Macgregor is packing her
boxes, and soon will be speeding down to your own
Cranbrook, to do a round of gaiety under the wing of
the house of Chelmsford. Until now, Miss Grey-Eyes
hasn’t put her shapely nose outside this State since the
clan first came ashore.
The sitting propensity of the State Parliament would
meet with the approval of the most confirmed turkey-
hen. The House started on a recent Thursday after-
noon, and kept at it with meagre adjournments
for meals until half-past two on Saturday morn-
ing. The particular bones of contention were the Bible
in State Schools Bill and the Estimates, particularly that
part which had to do with the unexpended grant of
£70,000 to the University, and which Mr. Hawthorn had
transferred to a trust account, instead of pursuing the
ancient and not over-sensible course of letting the thing
lapse. Mr. Macartney, who is an adept at pulling down,
worried this last-mentioned bone considerably, and gave
Mr. Kidston an unpleasant view of “ the unanimity" of
his part}’. On the other question the gag was used,
whereupon Denny Keogh rebelled, and gave notice that
he would not again support the Government in putting
on the muzzle.
Pity the Scotch Commission, and likewise have its
sufferings in mind when you get it into your clutches.
On their first day on the Queensland trail the members
had to listen to 35 speeches. To date Sir T. Carlaw
Martin admits to having had his attention called to lfi
original Gardens of Eden, apart from several dozen he
has aforetime discovered in Canada. They are not ex-
pressingopinions of the State, however, but are loud in
their appreciation of local hospitality and the rosiness
and sturdiness of the Downs-bred children.
Mr. George Sampson’s orchestral concert suffered from
the weather clerk’s bad temper, and a smaller audience
than usual listened to a programme of which any capital
city might have been proud. The top note of success
was perhaps reached in the Beethoven Symphony in C
minor ; but both in the difficult “ Siegfried Idyll ” and in
the “ Meistersinger” the orchestra’s efforts were admir-
able. Mrs. Bell, as usual, sang like a canary ; and, like a
canary, was awarded with vegetable products.
Admiral Henderson, a savage-looking old gentleman,
arrived in this city on Tuesday night, and had more uni-
formed gorgeousness to meet him than the Gjovernor-
General did on that memorable visit when spmebody
blundered. The Admiral shooed away every pressman
(for which, the hour being late, they blessed him), and
retired to the fastness of the Queensland Club. Next day
he said still less, and departed, per Challenger, for Port
D irwin and the North, where he will find a huge silence
that ought to satisfy even his appetite for wordlessness.
Goulburn, in your State,.pronounces judgment on the
small Queensland contralto, Vera Parker ; and the ver-
dict ought to rouse the girl’s native city to do something
to assist her to a wider knowledge of the way to use her
wonderful notes. I hope, when next I pen you, to be
able to tell you that something has been done towards
the training of our contralto nightingale. By the way,
sister Mabel should be also able to earn a pretty place
among the musical with her mellow mezzo. Mifsic runs
through the family ; in fact, both Mr. and Mrs. Parker
are singers.
You will shortly have another Queensland student to
adjudicate upon—Miss Eileen Beattie, who will come
knocking at your musical house.
I’m not a prude, and' I hope I haven’t the Methodist
face, but still it is borne in upon me that there is a limit
in melodrama, and that that limit has been reached here.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


ON THE LAWN
At CAULFIELD M At FLEMINGTON
Many of the handsomest and most effective toilettes will be those purchased at the “ Mutual.”
Here—from a profusion of lovely gowns, charming millinery, exquisite lingerie and tasteful etceteras, daintily arrayed
throughout the Store—you may select an exclusive and distinctive outfit with very little trouble—and
pleasurable trouble at that—governed only by your own taste and the amount of money you desire to spend
This brief list of the more important items may be of service to you in making your choice.
You are invited to treat the Store as an exhibition or a shop, just as you please—it is both—and without feeling the
slightest sense of obligation to make a purchase, you are at all times welcome to walk through and% PP
everything. COME IN TO-DAY. K
m
*iKi :
Vo
PS&i
Black Tagel Hat, trimmed with white
feathers,’- 7y 2 guineas.
Costumes, ready-to-wear.
Dressy Costumes, in Silk, Voile, Shantung, etc., in new styles and
colorings, from guineas.
Linen Coats and Skirts, plain skirt and three-quarter coat, 295. 6d.,
395. 6d., 595. 6d. to 735. 6d.
Coats and Skirts, in Linen, all colors, new “ Cowes ” shapes, 555.,
595. 6d.
Linen Coats and Skirts, with coats braided in panels and Empire
revers, at 735. 6d.
Cotton Shantung Coats and Skirts, in few colors, 945. 6d. each.
Dust Coats, in Sicilians, all colors, 16s. 6d., 295. 6d., 355. to 945. 6d.
Dust Coats, in Tussore Silk, sacque backs, Chester fronts, 355. 6d. to
395. 6d.
White Muslin Costumes, with embroidery and lace, 31s. 6d., 355.
to 735. 6d.
Underskirts.
Soft Satin Underskirts, 455.
Japanese Silk Underskirts, with net flounce, 555.
Tussore Silk Underskirts, 325. 6d.
Hand-embroidered French Underskirts, 595. 6d. to 755.
Tagel Hat, trimmed with ribbon,
velvet and osprey, io guineas.
SUNSHADES.
A leading feature this season is the handsome com-
bination of colors and effective designs —floral, chine,
embroidered, checks, stripes, novelties in fancy
mounted sticks to ios. 6d. to 17s. 6d. each.
LADIES’ SHOES.
First-grade American Enamelled Kid Oxford Shoes, pump
soles, Cuban heels, 20s.
Laird Schober’s Enamelled Kid Oxford Shoes, pumos
C. D. and E. fittings, 30s.
C. and J. Clark’s White Canvas Oxford Shoes, pumps,
broad silk ties, very neat, in 3, 4 and 5 fittings,
ns. 6d.
Mutual Tan and Kid Oxford Shoes, pumps, 3, 4 and 5
fittings, 14s. 6d., 16s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 18s. 6d., 21s.
Wichert and Gardiner’s Tan Kid “ Gibson ” Tie Shoes,
plain toes, pumps, high Cuban heels, 255.
Wichert and Gardiner’s Enamelled Kid Golosned Button
Boots, glove tops, pumps, 30s.
Goodrich’s Enamelled Kid Oxfo.d Shoes, pumps, latest
style, 225. 6d.
Hilliard and Tabor’s (American) Enamelled Kid Derby
Shoes, welts, 235. 6d.
Ladies’ Enamelled Kid Langtry Shoes, oval nickel buckle,
Louis h - els, 225. 6d.
Ladies’ Glace Kid Langtry Shoes, fancy oval buckle, Louis
heels, 19s. 6d.
Wichert and Gardiner’s Enamelled Kid Oxford Shoes,
Louis heels, 30s.
SCARVES.
Egyptian, handsome designs, white and silver, black and
silver, blue and silver, 18s. 6d., 215., 255. to 375. 6d.
Handsome Chine Floral and the latest designs in Paisley,
Crepe de Chine, Ninon, Chiffon and Silk, hemstitched
and fringed ends, latest designs and colorings, 7s. 6d.,
ios. 6d., 12s. 6d. to 255. 6d. each.
HOTOR VEILS.
Ring top, iy£ yards long, white, ivory, sky, grey, reseda,
Saxe, vieux rose, violet, heliotrope, moss, mole,
myrtle, brown, navy, black, crystalline, 3s. nd. each •
Ninon, ss. 6d. each.
Ninon Veils, 1# yards long by 20 inches wide, in same
shades, 3s. 6d. each.
* n r
idJm.
m
m
&
v-\
&
Smart Paisley Foulard Race Gown,
trimmed with satin and new
aluminium trimmings, io guineas.
our Handsomely-Illustrated
Spring Style Book.”
GLOVES
Latest Novelties in wrist and Linen Gloves,
all shades, blue, green, brown, heliotrope, pastel and
white, 3s. 6d. per pair.
3-B. Fine French Kid, pastel, champagne, brown, black
and white, 3s. nd.; 3 pairs for 10s. 6d.
Best Quality Chevrette Kid, all shades, blue, green,
brown, champagne, 6s. 6d.; guaranteed.
Brown, Beaver and Pastel Kid Gloves, 8-B. length,
guaranteed, 6s. 6d. per pair.
Heavy Silk Net Gloves, wrist length, 2s. nd. per pair;
. guaranteed, 6s. 6d. per pair.
White and Beaver Doeskin Gauntlet, 3s. iid. per pair.
Linen Gloves, pastel shades, is. 6d. per pair.
HILLINERY.
Beautiful Hat, in grey tagel, trimmed with silk to match,
lined with pink, guineas.
White Crinoline Hat, mushroom shape, swathed with
tulle, finished off with white osprey mount, 4 guineas.
Pale Pink Aerophane Hat, large shape, trimmed with
handsome grey mottled feathers, lined with black
silk, 6 guineas.
Large Brown Tagel, mushroom shape, trimmed with very
pretty colored roses, 4 guineas.
White Tagel, smart shape, trimmed with hay-green floral
mount, 3 guineas.
Smart Shape, White Tagel Crown, covered in sweet pea,
relieved with black, 3*4 guineas.
HABERDASHERY.
Bead Hand Bags, dainty colorings, Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d. to
355. each.
Peggy Bags, in all shades and sizes, ss. 6d. to 455. each.
The “Trapeze ” Hand Bag, in newest leathers, 17s. 6d. to
50s. each.
Leather Shopping Bags, large size, 10s. 6d. to 60s.
Dainty Theatre Bags, with fan, 13s. 6d. to 275. 6d.
PARASOLS.
Silk Covers, plain and fancy sticks, self colors,
Fox s Paragon frame, brown, grey, navy, myrtle,
amethyst, mole, 12s. 6d. each.
Silk Covers, with iin. Ottoman bord r, self color, plain
and fancy-mounted sticks, Fox’s Paragon
frame, brown, navy, grey, mole, amethyst, myrtle,
14s. 6d. each.
9
Melbourne’s beading'
Department *Store,
Where Everything is the
Best by Actual Test.
Opposite Flinders Street Station.


CURE OF CORPULENCY.
Scientific Certainty Now Recognised.
The marvellous progress of modern medical
science shines all the more markedly for the
acknowledged ignorance of old-time practitioners
in their treatment of many diseases—especially
that of obesity, with which nobody can deny that
they boggled deplorably. Nowadays the matter
is simple. Any over-fat person can make up the
following efficacious prescription, or get his (or
her) chemist to do so : —Take one ounce of fluid
extract of Glycyrrhiza B.P., one ounce of pure
Glycerine B.P., one half-ounce of Mirmola, and
mix with peppermint water to make six ounces in
all. Do«e : Two teaspoonfuls after each meal.
The rapid reduction of weight effected by this
simple and harmless remedy is delightful to every
stout person who tries it, especially as there are
no exacting dietary or other restrictions imposed.
The tonic value of this remedy is as highly appre-
ciated as its reductive properties; the entire
digestive system undergoes a beneficial change.
Health, vigor, pure rich blood, renewed muscular
development, are amongst the valuable results
of this truly scientific and reinvigorating treat-
ment, which leaves no wrinkles, however great
the reduction effected.*
sd
THERE'S no polish made that
•rives a better shine than
Cherry Blossom, and as it
is sold in larger tins than other
polishes, you’ll find it the most
economical to use. Cherry Blos-
som makes the leather pliable,
resists the damp, and adds to the
wear of the boots. Nearly all
dealers stock both Black and Tan
at 3d. and 6d. If yours does not,
write us, and we’ll see you are
supplied.
Manasrinsr Asrent* for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE TROUBLES of DIGESTION, pain, flatulence,
acidity, and so on, are happily in most cases simply the
expression of some fleeting disturbance of function. The
best, way.to restore tone and regularity to the intestinal
tract is by taking a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water the first thing in the morning
every second or third day. *
Messrs. Peapes and Co. Ltd., Men’s Outfitters,
of 309-311 George Street, Sydney, haveissued an up-to-date
handbook of men’s fashions for the season, and it is a well-
catalogued production. Many illustrations are in colors,
and the popular prices quoted therein will appeal to the
country residents as well as ihe city men. A copy will
b" posted to anyone who has not already received such on
receipt of name and address.* ' • - w*-r ~
Do not go to the expense of calling in a
doctor when yon sprain your ankle. Bathe your
foot and ankle in water as hot as can be borne and
rub in Chamberlain’s Pain Balm freely. Repeat
the rubbing several times, and in two or three days
you will be able to get about and will be quite
cured in less than a week.*
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are V.oth laxative and tonic in action. They do
not gripe, hut do their work quickly, effectively
and painlessly. Sold at 10|d. and Is. 6d.
TOOK DRUGS
TO GET SLEEP.
*
Terrible Experience of a Victim
of Rheumatism.
At Rundaberg, in Queensland, lives Mrs. Alice
Edwards, Stewart Street, who experienced such
severe attacks of rheumatism that almost nightly
she had to take sleeping drugs in order to get a
little rest. For months she was confined to her
home iust able to hobble about the rooms with
the aid of a stick. Mrs. Edwards has succeeded
in driving the complaint completely out of her
system by the use of Dr. Williams Pink Pills, and
she thinks that other sufferers should know of her
experience. Mrs. Edwards made the followm r
statement to a reporter
“Rheumatism was in my family on my fathers
side • he was a Crimean veteran. It attacked me
in my hips and both legs. The attacks would last
for months, and I would have to walk with a stick
or just limp about. I could not go outside the
house. Such dreadful twinges of pain would dart
along both limbs ; every muscle would seem to
knot up. The only swelling was in the knees, and
the big toes would puff up very much. I had to
take sleeping draughts at night, or else I would
not have closed ,my eyes for the pain. 1 could
hardly get out of bed in the mornings, and when
I was in I would have to stay in one position
unable to move. My legs would be so stiff I could
not bend my knees. I could not pick up any thing
if I dropped it. I had all sorts of liniments to get
a little ease. The least change m the weather
would affect me and bring on an attack. IM
rheumatism only seemed to settle deeper ever
year. I read one day of a case so like mine that 1
bought a couple of boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and the result encouraged me to try some
more They gave me wonderful relief, the attacks
became less'severe and did not return so quickly,
the improvement continued, and at last 1 was ame
to discontinue the medicine, having been quite
CU The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. od.,
and if you have trouble in getting them, send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. ‘ ,
Med cine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney,,
thev will be sent post free by return mail.
MPTORE
denyer
causes no
dang- e r or
i n co n veni*
ence under
ardent pViy-
sical exer-
tion if you
wear DEN-
YERS’ Special ELASTIC TRUSS.
No Spring's to irritate. Cool.
Perfect Fit ensured. Prices—
-17/6 Single ; 22/6 Double.
DENVER BROS.,
281 GEO&GE ST. (opp.
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belt 3,
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLICAL
POINTS
THEORY AND PRACTICE.
Rudeness to the Japanese by the Australians has been
the rule for 20 years. By rudeness I mean the praetical
and continuous exhibition of distaste, dislike, repulsion,
and disgust. —Writer in Tory Journal.
Suitor : “ You let me marry your lilt'e girl l ”
Father (in fearful anger): “ Cer-certainly
not! You impudent dirty nigger; you—
you-!”
Under the heading “Political Slanders”
,-in indignant person (he signed himself “Common
Decency ”) lately wrote to the S. M. Herald de-
claring that Minister Hogue is an educated man,
and that there is no truth in the base yarn that,
in his capacity as N.S.W. Minister for Education,
he sent a carpenter to alter the curriculum of a
school, the teacher having complained that it
wasn’t quite satisfactory. Now, who in thunder
tried to father that dreary old London Paunch
joke on Hogue, so as to make it necessary to pub-
lish in defence a full account of his brilliant
career? In the same connection it is fair to state
that McGowen never proposed to send an anony-
mous cheque to a charity, and that Holman was
not the oft-recited alderman who wanted to get
two gondolas, one male and one female, and to
“ let ’em breed.”
That splendid Australian, Wade, opened
his heart in a hurst of candor at Bathurst. He
was talking-about the-eoloss.al ‘‘ benefits ” he had
conferred upon the laboring classes by wiping out
the stamp duties, when an ironical elector asked
why he hadn’t taken the poundage off postal
notes. According to the friendly S. M. Herald,
Wade replied :
If you can explain to me how I can hob the Common-
wealth, I WILL BE VERY GLAD TO FOLLOW YOUR SUGGESTION.
The Bulletin believes him.
Queensland Assembly has just put through
its Redistribution of Seats Bill, the net result of
which will be the abolition of some four
or five thinly populated western or northern
Labor electorates, and the creation of a
corresponding number of - seats in the more
Conservative districts of southern Queens-
land. As there will be no reduction in numbers,
the Bill will not save the State anything. But
that doesn’t matter —it is enough that the Bill
may save the Phidston Government its bacon.
“ H.H.” writes :
A very few months ago, when N.S. W. leaseholders of a
certain class were allowed to acquire the freehold of their
land at its present value, it looked as if the Wade Govern-
ment could command about two votes in the Dorrigo
district. But now that these leaseholders arp allowed to
get their freehold at the value as it stood when the leases
were issued (i.e., now that State lands worth anything
from £5 to £l5 an acre are given away for about £1 an
acre) things ought to he a lot better for the Government
up that way. It may seem a big price to pay for support,
but the value of an article is proportioned to its scarcity.
The S. M. Herald last week found a new
name for ‘the people who infuriate Wade by
asking him awkward questions ; it called them
“the pack.” The choice was unfortunate; it
suggests a number of honest fox-hounds chasing
either a poultry-stealing pest or a smell as of
stinking fish across country. The Herald should
try to be kinder to Wade, more especially as he is
very hard-pressed just now and in danger of losing
liis brush. It isn’t much of a brush ; but it is the
only one he will ever have, and ho wants to keep
it as long as possible. The time was when he
might have bartered it for a quantity of horse-
hair, but that time has gone by.
R. O. Blackwood, President of the Vic.
Employers’ Federation, has made this excellent
observation to his brothah employnhs:—'
In regard to the note issue, be could only repeat that
the Commonwealth had embarked upon an experiment
which was viewed with great concern. The picture of
the credit of the whole Commonwealth as backing to
these notes was an alluring one, but many other coun-
tries had been caught by the same illusion, and their
paper money experiments had always come to grief.
Consider, for instance, the unparalleled ruin of
Canada and India and the United States and
Queensland, which have had Government notes
for years and years.
Apropos of nothing in particular, Premier
John Hurry, of Victoria, lately declared :
He did not believe in hustling, and would rather see
a nation doing too little work than too much. The
nations that were not hustling would live longer than
those that were, and would get i here just the same. The
hustling nations were not those that were doing the best.
Illustrations of the truth of this wise saying
simply crowd forward. The hustling nation of
Germany, for example, is showing signs of retro-
gression and decay. On the other hand, the non-
hustling nations of Spain and Portugal are
pictures of intellectual and industrial progress.
But probably John wasn’t really thinking of
nations. What he may have been saying in effect
was: “Look at me and see where I am.” At
which miracle criticism can only mumble that
John was a bright enough Jack once.
One of the “Liberal” party’s women
organisers let the cat out of her dress basket the
other night at Mandurama (N.S.W.), and the
beast scratched her shamefully. She said the
Labor party opposed the Saturday half-holiday.
Being questioned on the matter, she admitted
that the McGowenites only opposed it because
Wade refused to make it apply to the country as
well as Sydney. Then, trj'ing to justify Wade
and co. in the eyes of the country people, the lady
explained that many “Liberals,” including herself,
were in favor of extending the movement to the
country, butthe“Liberal”Conferencebv a majority
decided against it. It was just there that the cat ;
escaped. The lady had persuaded the crowd that
a caucus was an invention Of the devil; and now
it transpired that the great “Liberal” party
owned the same devil’s invention as the Labor
party.
“ Jean Sibi ” snapshots Australia’s most
spotless Myth
For pellucid verbosity and a love for his laws of com-
position, I hand the whole Parliamentary tart-shop to
the hon. member for Parkes (N.S. W.). Smith’s speeches,
which probably occupy his mornings in elaborate re-
hearsal, are usually marvels of length and patterns of
melody. Sentence'after sentence, sodden with unction,
glides into the ear like the distant chime of a cathedral
bell. One sits interested for the first, five minutes ; sur-
prised in the first half-hour; then succ ssivel.v wearied,
appalled and oppressed at the solemn absurdity of a
creature who delivers his opinions like an organ recital.
Yet Smith, who is not entirely humorless, is too great to
perceive his fame as a rhetorical bore, and probably
enjoys his own speeches with a gourmet’s relish. Any-
how, when he is uttering his discourse, he seems to be
tasting its adjectives, chewing ; its adverbs, and revelling
in the flavor of its pompous nouns.
A notable remark by David Storey, Wade-
ite candidate, at Blayney (N.S.W.) :
It is all sham and humbug advocating settlement
upon the land unless you, at the same time, advo-
cate the building of new railways through the land
and the duplication of our existing trunk lines
north, south and west, so that those people living
on the land may be able to get their wheat, wool
and other products to market. OF COURSE, RAIL-
WAYS CANNOT BE BUILT WITHOUT BORROWING
MONEY.
What an unspeakably hopeless lot are these Wade
candidates ! Supposing the cost of a new country
railway is £5OOO a mile—and over most of N.S.W.
that figure is more than ample; in fact, recent
lines have cost less than £3ooo—then 200 miles of
line could be built every year for £1,000,000. And
until the Wade Government abolished a lot of
small taxes it professed to have a sufpus of nearly
twice that amount in a single year—-If-rail ways
can never be built without borrowing, then none of
the public debt can ever be paid off, for paving off
debt is just paying for railways out of revenue-
railways that were built 10 or 20 or 30 years ago.
And if none of the debts can ever be paid off then
N.S.W. is just plain bankrupt.
Quite naturally, the Fatmen of the Mel-
bourne City Council are among the first to come
along with an order for 35,000 tons of slack from
the Victorian State coal mine. In his private
capacity Fat opposes a State mine for the same
reason that he patronises it in his official capacity.
In one capacity he is a seller, and in the other a
buyer; and the thing he curses as a seller be
naturally blesses as a buyer.
AN UNPROFITABLE BARGAIN.
N.S.W. (sadly): “And this is what Pm paying
him my hard-earned money for I ”
One lordly Victorian squatter is uttering
bis little protest against the land tax in the
form of a threat to put his estate up to auction if
the tenants will not purchase their farms on his
valuation. Their leases stipulate for all land-
taxes to be paid by tenants ; but as the Federal
Act will make the owner liable, he has warned
them that it will invalidate their documents. In
short, he is endeavoring to bluff the tenants into
buying him out at his own price, which is Fat’s
idea of how an estate should be “burst up.”
Meanwhile, the tenants reckon that the land
would fetch at auction considerably less than the
owner’s lordly estimate; wherefore they sit tight
and wait.
In answer to the ‘ ‘ Liberal ” party’s lamenta-
tions about unfair election tactics, the N.B.W.
Labor people have been digging out a few samples
of the generous type of fight the “ Liberals” are
putting up. The Sydney Telegraph printed a re-
port.that Labor-candidate Fern bad a no-confi-
dence vote carried against him at Bowrat by a
two-to one majority. Someone forwarded a cut-
ting from a local paper, showing that he lmd re-
ceived a gpod hearing and a unanimous vote of
confidence ; but the Telegraph did not exhaust
itself in its rush to correct the error. At Tenter-
field, the town council ordered all flags, notices
and bills to be removed from the buildings. It
was when they were being taken down that people
observed they were all Labor notices. In a
number of towns the halls were secured for every
Saturday night right up to the election, and all
the balconies, convenient for stumping, were
hired by , Fat people who do not use them.' All
this by the party which speaks impressively of
“ British fair-plav ” and the’lamentable absence
of it in the other fellow !
Premier Murray’s Amending Factories
Bill represents another job that wouldn’t have
been necessary but for the obstructiveness of the
House of Landlords. Fat has the notion that
country landowners are the embodiment of all
the virtues, and that Minimum Wage laws,
Health Acts,' Pure Food Acts and the like are
quite unnecessary in their case. But the Pro-
gressives are eternally finding out that the em-
ployer on the land is no more honest or liberal
than his fellow of the city ; so Murray has to go
through all the wearisome process again in order
that the Minimum Wage laws shall apply to the
whole State instead of merely to cities, towns and
boroughs. Even .now he isn’t doing the job pro-
perly, aS the determinations are only to apply
where industries carried on in shires compete
with those in towns and cities. Nobody pursues
the wool-growing profession in Smith-street, Col-
lingwood, neither do market-gardeners or dairy-
farmers flourish ift Bourke-street. Yet those pro-
fessions will demand attention presently just as
much as the others, wherefore the job will some
day have to be done ofice more.
A scjap of argument from the S. M.
Herald :
c in any intelligent man or woman reconcile the present
flourishing condition of almost every phase of industry
with the existence of such ar, appallingly tyrannous, in-
capable and dishonest Government as the Wade Govern-
ment is monotonously described to be by the Labor
party ?
Ye-e-e-es ! And can any intelligent paper, rag,
journal, inky fraud or publication '* reconcile the
present flourishing condition of Mrnost every
phase of industry” with the alleged appalling
horrors of Protection as monotonously described by
Wade, and by the Herald, Telegraph. Evening
News, etc., etc.? N.S.W. has had Protection
much longer than it has had the Wade
Government, and the biggest Dart ,of the
present boom came along after Protection
started, but before the Wade Ministry Com-
menced. Unfortunately for the State Labor-
members, most of them are drearily anVi-
Federal, so they don’t want to ascribe the
great burst of progress to Federation ; and many
are Foreign-traders, so they don’t want to set it
down to Protection. Therefore, they let Wade
annex the glory.
The Melbourne Harbor Trust’s methods
get no better. Recently some of its members
wanted to import a new “grab” crane; but. in
order to avoid critical blasts, it invited tenders
from local manufacturers. At the same time,
however, the Trust omitted to supply plans and
specifications of the “grab” machine, though it
surely must have known that without these par-
ticulars no local manufacturer would attempt to
tender. The result, was as might have been fore-
seen by the brilliant Trust. No local man offered
to build the crane; so the patriots imported the
thing, with the usual tears in their crocodile eyes.
Works Minister Barnes preached to the
master-builders, the . other day, on the contract
and day-labor systems. His Department, he
said, had made an estimate of the cost of a piece
of work, on a day-labor basis, and had fixed it at
£7OO The lowest tender actually received from
contractors was £l2OO. Then, while the audience
naturally waited to hear a vigorous pronounce-
ment in favor of day labor, Barnes bolted away
from his reason and announced his preference for
the contract system. But though Mr. Barnes, as
a Phidston politician, mightchuck away £sooon a
small contract, people know what Mr. Barnes, the
potato-and-purnpkin merchant, would do.
“ Vigilans,” on the empty principalities
There are places in Australia where a land tax badly
needs 10 be applied to leaseholds. In the Northern Ter-
ritory there are squatters holding 42-vear leases, some of
which have over 30 years to run. How can this country
be developed when one man holds an area like Victoria
Do wis, of 12,000 souare miles, at a rental of Is. a mile,
and 20 years still to run ?, Alexandria, on the Barkley,
has an area of 10,000 square miles; rent, Is. 6d. a mile.
Brunette, 7000 miles ; rent, half a dollar. Avon owns
2500 miles; Wave Hill, 7000 sq. miles. Laurie holds
all the Adelaide River and part of the Alligator.
Amos Brothers and Broad have 10,000 miles on the
Macarthur Downs. Arafura measures 20,000 miles ; an
English Co. holds it. Roper River is held by a syndicate,
Dafy River and Douglas by one man, Katherine by the
publican there and one squatter. A graduated land tax
should apply to unimproved leaseholds in this great
bungled land, besides the freeholds held by absentees;
for a large portion of the leased country is held merely
for speculation. In Wesrralia things are nearly as bad.
Mostly the lessees are doing a lit tle more with the country,
but not one-tenth of what should be done.
D. T. Wiley, one of the best-known State
school headmasters in N. S. Wales, has his doubts
about the Wade Government's lavish promises.
After 40 years’.service Wiley got within a few
months of his retirement, and then he went on
leave. He had long been entitled to six months
on half-pay or three months on full pay ; so he
took the six months, and went to Europe, where
he got the material for a valuable report on
manual training—his specialty. He handed
this over to the Department, and then
called round about his retiring allowance—
to be calculated on his last three years salary.
Then he found that his allowance had been cal-
culated on 2k years at £4OO a year and six months
at £2OO. If Wiley had taken his leave years
before, the Wade Government would have calcu-
lated the allowance on three years at £400; but
because the old officer didn’t take it until the end
of his service, when he knew it would cause the
least inconvenience, the wretched administration
plunders him of £3O a year for the rest of his life.
ARRIVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time has arrived.— Prime Minister Fisher.
With giddy whiskers and a shining- scythe
Old Tempus whirls amid his hours and days,
Tiie world gets weary, but he still is blithe,
While dials turn and clock-chimes chant his praise.
Fat loves him as he brings the rent-day round
Faster than pay-time, but his fame will fade
When on the fated Fourteenth he is found
To heap destruction on the cause of Wade.
My views of him I find are rather mixed ;
Each morn he sets a pace like Hell let loose ;
H it, near knock-off time, both his hands seem fixed
On all his watches, crawling like the deuce.
Often he plays a very low-down game ;
I’ve seen him kick the setting sun in haste,
And hurry up the night till it became
Too cold to sit and hold Clotilda’s waist.
And then, on balmy evenings with iio moon,
I’ve known him break all records just for spite,
And send the last tram rushing home as soon
As two kind souls got happy in the night.
The old brute, being permanently grey,
Sprinkles white hair the darkest tresses o’er,
And in his meaner moments takes away
All sorts of things he never can restore.
Hut just at present he’s a good old sport,
And every swearful protest should he dumb.
Fat trembles when he reads the dread report
That Andrew Fisher says “ The time has come."
n.s.w.
PAT O'MAGRE.


* C >' ' .
/
m
*| if
Jt
'
&
*V i?
,S.. j*
RONISCH PIANOS
We Have a line sHow of
these famous Pianos,
in botH Uprights and
Grands.
THeir tone quality' is
Highly pleasing. The
more you Hear it, the
more enamored you be-
come with it.
THeir touch is light and
responsive, and their
case worK beautifully
finished.
We sell these Pianos on
Easy Terms if desired,
and Catalogues are Free
for the asKing.
W. H. PALING (Sl CO. LTD
338 George Street, Sydney. BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
Brand)
>Sbnd 'For
PATTEItftS.
m
\
fs
Obtainable
Only from
cr?
Sli.
k
n
tuu
m
OP
■US'
op
i
8
m
A SUCCESSFUL DINNER
SARGENTS' SUPERIOR SERVICE is the key to a successful dinner, whether
for a large or small party.
You could not offer your guests anything better, more inviting, or more
enjoyable than is to be had at Sargents'—perfect table appointments ; quick, quiet
and courteous assistants; and a repast of uniform excellence prepared with dainti-
ness and skill.
There is no guest too fastidious, no function too select or important for
Sargents'. Terms on writing or telephoning the Manager.
SPECIALITIES: Wedding and Birthday Cakes, Meat Pies, Fruit Pies and Pastry.
Sarg'ents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559 ;
Cafe, 1876 ; Catering;, 4250),
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FID - SKIM
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
HEALTH, STRENGTH
and MUSCLE
by my Physical
Culture Instruc-
tion BY POST.
Each exercise, fully explained and illustrated,
practised a few minutes daily in vour own
room, will ADD to ymir weight, INCREASE
your strength, INVIGORATE your circulation,
and IMPROVE and SAFEGUARD your health.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW !
Others are benefiting, WHY NOT YOU?
R. L. (“Snowy 7 ’) BAKER
Belmont Buildings,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALQOORLIE and COOLGARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Guineas Day at Caulfield was full of incident
and portent, and possibly full of woe for tiie systematic
backers of first favorites. The only favorite to get home
during the day was Orvieto in the .rich Debutant Stakes.
And the filly front Soobie’s stable, ridden by Bobby
Lewis, didn’t appear to win on her merits. In
u ding-dong race with Elvanite on the far side
of the course the colt got pinned against the
rails, so that his jockey (Evans) could do
nothing but lie on the hampered animal's neck.
A protes • lodged against the winner was dis-
missed by the V.A.T.O. stewards, hut against their
decision tlte owner of Elvanite is appealing to the V.R.C.
committee. Whichever way the appeal goes the result
will be unsatisfactory. Elv.mite was in front for most of
the way, and would never have got into a tight place Itad
Evans ridden more vigorously. But he had wasted 121 b.
to ride the “ good thing," it was said, and the Turkish
Baths had taken all the force out of hint. Evans was in
the condition of Peter Doody after his only carraway seed
had stuck in his hollow tooth.
The startling surprise came in the Guineas race,
for which Danaus started at 15 to 1 in a field of seven.
Blairgour, after leading for five furlongs, dropped out of
it. The son of Wakeful is not as good as people say, or
else tlte cold titat kept him in Itis stable awhile had left
him very short of condition. With three weeks still to
go ere the Derby and Melbourne Cup come due, it
wouldn’t be safe to judge Biairgottr’s chances at Fleming-
ton by his performance in tiie Guineas. Although rather
high on the legs lie looks more like a Derby horse than,
say, Desert Rose or Lager.
History repeated itself in the Caulfield Stakes.
Artiilerie, who beat Alawtv and tlte field last year, did it
again on Saturday ; but this time Alawa finished fifth
instead of second. The big horse, for some reason or
other, dropped back early in tiie race, and didn’t make
up much of the lose ground afterwards. Tlte matter with
Alawa is presumably an intermit tent pain in itis doubtful
forel gor in itis unreliable temper. Artiilerie, who ran
very kindly aqd won with a well-timed run, is not so fine-
drawn as she was this time last year, and if site were a
stouter-framed mare, capable of surviting many bumps
in a crowded field, site would look certain to make a big
bid for the Caulfield Cup.
The Toorak Handicap was a soft thing for
Sequarious, owned by Barney Allen. Tlte son of Sequence
soon took the lead from Gold Lace, and flew home with
the top-weight in attendance, the consistent Eye Glass
finishing- third. Sequarious must have a great chance for
the Caulfield Cup, if he is wanted and can stay the extra
half-mile. His record looks dangerous. He won the Netv
Stakes (9 furlongs) at Randwick a year ago, when Mayo
had him. Then he was sold to B. Allen, and proceeded
to score a long series of defeats. Now he is a Toorak
Handicap winner, with a penalty which will not stop him
in the Caulfield Cup if tiie distance is within his compass.
Sequarious, now four years old, was dropped into the
handicap at 6st. 131 b., the weight he carried last Saturday.
In venturing a Caulfield Cup prediction, one is
brought bump up against the fact that a muddling race
last year resulted in a dead heat between the outsiders
Blue Book and Aborigine. Tiie latter has only 61 b. more
to carry this year ; lie is only five years old and among
the top weights. The black gelding looks as dangerous
as M iltine, who is apparently returning to her best form.
These two and Master Soult should account for every-
thing handicapped above the Bst. mark. Danaus,
Sequnrious and Mindful may he reckoned the pick
of the light weights, and Artiilerie (7st. 131 b.)
must be preferred to Conge D’Eslire at the same
weight. But Seqttarious is an uncertain brute.
Eye Glass, in Scohie’s stable, is the respect able
performer with whom Olivaster will be tried—in the
betting market. In the A.J.C. Metropolitan, a year ago,
Maltine and Olivaster ran first and second, carrning
Bst. 41b. and 7st. 71b. respectively. In the coming
Caulfield Cup they have Bst. 131 b. and 7st. 911)”
and it goes without saying that, if Olivaster is well
backed, the disappointing son of Palmer will he a very
dangerous candidate. The writer fancies Maltine, Mast er
Sottlt, Artiilerie, and Olivaster for the Caulfield Cup,
and reckons that the one which starts at tlte longest
price will he tlte most reasonable investment, considering
the risks that all horseflesh is heir to in that jostling
struggle.
After the wild burst of the previous Saturday
and Labor Day, Saturday in Sydney was a comparatively
off-day in sport. The A.J.C. ’ Spring Meeting, which is
still regarded by a section of the public as sport,dragged
itself to a close on Saturday, and tlte public walked
home after a riotous time on tlte part of Christian Noses ;
the Sydney Flying Squadron held its opening handicap ;
the swimmers showed some signs of life, and the
cricketers wete abroad as usual. But there was nothing
of a wildly-exciting nature.
* * * *
The A.J.C. Spring Meeting mercifully came to
an end with Saturday’s cleaning-out of the public pocket.
Truly, the public was not rooked to tlte same extent as
tiie first three days ; but then it didn’t carry the where-
withal to be rooked. From start to finish ho horse won
more ’than one race, and tlte public is remarking
“ Whaffor?” in a most suspicious tone of voice. How-
ever, some people were abroad who knew when to come
in out of tiie wet, as in the case of Maltchester for the
High-Weight Handicap. Golden Slipper was favorite for
this race at five and six to one against., and Troon held
second place in popular estimation. Maltchester was not
in evidence; but righton time somebody cante witharush,
and, working off a thumping big commission, filled tiie
hearts of Patrick Abrahams and the public with dismay.
Golden Slipper had apparently gone stale, mid made prac-
tically no effort. Tite only serious challenger was Broad-
sword,a 10 to 1 againststarter, who made a game effort on
thedistance, after pacing it with Maltchester right through
the run. Tiie other 19 were simply not in it, and Malt-
chester landed tiie bacon, with Broadsword second and
Maorilander Mundic third.
Of the 28 on the card for the Waverley Handi-
cap only 10 faced tiie starter. Tlte public whacked its
good hard cash on Jinnee at 5 to 2 against, and Britain,
the winner, was in very slight demand at 5 to 1 against.
Apple Fie and Tiie Reckoning also had a few followers,
hut Jinnee was an easy favorite. Barring Britain, Royal
Ned and Apple Pie tiie field practically stood still, and
they finished in that order, with a great gulf fixed
between Apple Pie and Jinnee, who ran fourth. Never
did it favorite make a worse showing, and the backers
consoled themselves by making nasty remarks to the
effect that they had at least a walk for their money, and
tiie stewards cautioned the rider of Apple Pie for “ in-
competence.” Witlt regard to tlte Dowling Steeple, it is
only necessary to point out that the betting was
seven to one against Simple Simon, the wilin’ r;
and when a Sydney bookmaker lays that money against
a winner it is a fairly safe guess that he has a
skinner. The betting on the Members’ Handicap started
at five to two against Electric Wire, hut ns time went on
the odds lengthened out to seven to two. Blue Gem
started at four to one against, and tlte rest with two ex-
ceptions were begging at double figures. Electric Wire
had a regular walk over, and it was loudly proclaimed
that he had won hack quite a lot of money for tiie public.
Which was plain ratz. Tiie Randwick Plate narrowed
the choice down to five, with Pendil favorite at two
to one against; and Trafalgar in slight • demand
at nine to four. Parsee and Maltine were seven
to two and eight to one against, respectively.
Maltine lost, her rider at the stat, and Pendil drove the
diminished field before hint from the jump. Before the
mile was covered Trafalgar was on his own in the very
front. Then Parsee flashed alongside Trafalgar, and
they ran together till Trafalgar drew away. At the
turn for home Pendil made Itis effort, and succeeded
in cutting down Parsee; hut had never a hope against
Trafalgar, who beat him by t.iiree lengths, with Parsee a
couple of lengths behind the second and Lord Nolan away
to perdition up the straight. After this the crowd began
to move towards home. It was time, as Abraham
Macdougall had got practically the last copper, and there
was nothing left to stay for. And still they call it sport.
It was about the worst meeting the punter
has struck for a decade. Of the 120,000 who at-
tended at least 75 per cent, would have been better off
had they stayed away. The meeting comprised 24 races,
and it is a remarkable thing that no horse won
more than one race. Tlte reversals of form were staggering,
and no doubt have much to do with.the wild talk of
“pulling syndicates” 1 that is floating round. The
cleaned-otit horsepunter is vindictive when lie gets taken
down all tlte time, and is apt to regard Luck and
Chance as things to be controlled by tlte astute with
money to burn. Tlte total prize money was £27,215, and
of that tidy sum, the neat, not to say ornate, proportion
remaining in N.S.W. is £23,267. Victoria takes £2386,
and Maoriland £1602, while Queensland is dissatisfitd
with a modest £lOO. Of individual winners W. Fletcher
is easily first, with £5480, and £38,000 said to have been
cleared in bets. Other winners were H. Boart with
£2620, D. Watt £1692, and C. Jeffries £1530 ; after which
47 ot hers got, something towards the prads’ oats hill.
The public, as usual, got nothing.
n * * *
“Berry”: If there is a worse and more
appallingly-served nteal to he got, at the price, anywhere,
than tlte lunch supplied to tiie rank and file of A.J.C.
members, I would like to be presented to the calamity in
order that I might buy it and preserve it as a Horrible
Example for all time. On Monday, in tlte room reserved
for male members, it was impossible to secure a
bottle of lager beer without a species of death-
struggle, and a whisky and soda was out of the reach
of all who lacked the nerve, strength, time and cunning
to sally forth, spring personally on the barmen out-
side, and tear the alcoholic goods from them by
main force. In regard to the quality of the
food supplied, a deathly silence were kindest.
Enough to say that it would have stirred dissension
and blasphemy in many a humble suburban hash-tower,
where the house-flies live itt tlte butter as a general thing
and the eggs are never young. Sufferers had tiie exas-
perating fact to brood over that, in the ornate luncheon,
room which the committee-men reserve for themselves
and their guests, a surplusage of highly-trained servants
had been employed since the racing began, and were going
to be employed till it finished, handing round eatable
food, together with unlimited libations of vintage chant-
p gtte and shilling cigars. This is a senseless, in-
equitable and extravagant arrangement, that does not
prevail in any civilised social club. The committee of a
racing club has no more right to feed and wine
apart, at the expense of the rest of the mem-
bers, than (say) the committee of a military or uni-
versity club has to do the same thing. There are,
on the other hand, about 145 sound reasons why it
shouldn’t. What can be more idiotic than a system
whereby all those in authority—the only people whose
complaints and orders carry real weight—are care-
fully segregated while the important business of
f edirtg is in train, leaving the luckless folks
who find most of the money to keep the club
going at the mercy of drought, dyspepsia and a well-
meaning, hut inadequate, staff of waitresses. If the
A.J.C. committee-men must have payment in kind for
their services, let me suggest that each of them be pre-
sented annually with a case of wine, a thousand cigars,
or even a large, pawnahle gold medal. Thus would
much hard cash be saved. At any cost, let them be com-
pelled to tear food w’ith the re-t of tlte club members.
Not till they endure that dreary experience will they
acquire the keen human sympathy which makes for
reform in culinary as in other matters.
* * * *
Although last week’s Warrnanibool was the 14th
of the series, it was the first time the riders had to face
rain and a high head wind. So fierce was the wind that
the cyclists had to bunch to withstand it, and the close
ridingeonduced to a multitude of spills. It w'as the second
slowest race of the series, owing to the force of the gale,
and it had the greatest record of falls. Near Camper-
down, where the road curves rather sharply, no less than
15 men fell in one heap. Last year, the time was a record,
and the casualties were unusually few. Fast riding means
a more strung-out field, and in cycling, as in train-
running, there is safety in distance. The heavy wind
was fatal to the scratch-men and the back-markers gene-
rally. They were few in number and could not hunch.
It speaks well for the grit of the cyclists that of 355
starters, in the face of wind, falls, wholesale punctur-
ing and chain-breaking, no less titan 203 finished.
And what a finish it was ! Piercey was only half a length
ahead of McSweeney, who was ’ half a wheel ahead of
Perrett, and the fourth and fifth were so close up as
to cause more than a suspicion that the men were
wrongly placed. Then, six minutes later, the Westralian
Pianta flew across the line and secured the fastest time
by a margin of 35sec. McSweeney, the Reconri ntan in
the race, was also the second ntan in the time stiuggle.
It is estimated that, in spite of the weather, no less than
70,000 people viewed the event. The eating on the trip
was prodigious, 1060 food tins and 750 hags being dis-
tributed. The cost of the race to the Dunlop people was
£450 ; but., in return, their tyres secured the first six
places and also the fastest and second fastest times.
* * * *
Truly, the race is not always to the swift. Only
four timesin the history of the Warrnanibool has the man
who made the fastest time won the race. In ’95 J. Car-
penter made the fastest time, but was beaten by A.
Caldor with two hours’ start. Next year Carpenter won
the race and made the fastest time. Again in ’97, W.
C. Jackson repeated tlte trick ; hilt after hint there is a
gap right down to 1903, when Jack Artist, broke all exist-
ing records. In 1905 W. E. Hawley succeeded. Then
two races fell to the slow, and in 1908 M. Chappell gained
it for the swift, and he was the last of the swift winners.
* * • *
N.S.W. Rughy League’s benefit match to
“ Dailey ” Messenger cleaned up for £2BO, which makeß a
pleasant little souvenir of a season of glory. The League
It s succeeded this season beyond its wildest dreams, and
its coffers are bulging, and its clubs are bursting under
the strain of new members trying to break in. The
Union, on the other hand, is feeling like Jonah’s gourd
did about 9 o’clock the next morning.
* * * , *
While the “flannelled fool’’was posing before
his three small sticks and defending them front a ball
that would mostly miss them in any case, the “ niudditd
oafs” of the Vic’. Football Association were letting go
their last kick to decide tlte possession of the pennant,
and the 100-guinea challenge cup and the medals. The
argument occurred at the former North Melbourne
Gluepof, now an oasis in a wilderness of “ tips,” boil-
downeries, stinks, etc. North, being on its own
ground, had a small advantage over Brunswick,
but, up to half-time, the latter’s concerted play
kept it always within reach of victory. After the spell
’Wick's shooting became shocking, and when North
started to rage in earnest the Brickies went to pieces,
and the end of an interesting final was: North, 9 goals
14 behinds ; ’Wick, 5 goals 9 behinds. Tlte crowd num-
bered 28,000 ; gate, £475. This is North’s third premier-
ship since tlte League and tlte Ass. parted company ; but
there is little honor attached to it, as tlte victory, like
those achieved earlier, was chiefly due to the four stars it
acquired from Carlton at the beginning of the season.
Seeing that the Ass. has just fallen, heavily on two’bailers
for monkeying with tlte root of all evil, and that it
assumes its players to be amateurs, this writer hereby
urges it to publish all it knows about the acquisition of
tiiese Carlton stars.
* -* * *
Simultaneously, the Junior Ass. concluded
its discussions with a willing encounter between
Yarraville and Port Juniors on the Richmond city
ground, to tlte accompaniment of much “ Bli’nte ” and
“ ’St ruth,” tlte episode culminating in the uprising of tl*
Portonians and the downfall of last year’s premiers,
Yarraville, bv 32 points to 22. The windbali will now be
hung in a dry place, away from the boilers, till next
April.
* * * *
During the week the League wound up its
season in a blaze of murkiness, so to speak, by passing
out for 12 and 18 months apiece those two pairs of foot-
brawlers who disturbed the calm of the last quarter of
the “ grand filial ”; while the Ass. handed a six-weeks’
suspension, to take effect next year, to a Preston ’halier
who had “ jobbed ” an opponent over a month ago. Also,
the Ballarat League is taking plunges into that well at
the bottom of which a much-abused article is supposed
to lie, in the hope of getting at the facts of the
Imperial-Golden Point squaring cases. At latest it had
been given the name of a “prominent supporter of the
game,” who is alleged to have approached an Imperialist
with “ deadening ” intent, and had adjourned to let the
information germinate. What it proposes to do with the
“ prominent supporter” Heaven knows. This writer re-
commends that he be sentenced to three months Jud.
* * * *
The second round of the First Grade cricket
commenced and fortune favored the batsmen, although
only two centuries were made. Folk hard and Ired .le
were the culprits, with 124 and 113 respectively. Close
behind them came C’llins and Goddard, with 95 each,
Goddard carrying his but. But the real triumph of the
bat was itt the Balniain-Paddington and Redfern-Glebe
struggles. Assisted by Folkhard’s 124, the Tattered
Suburb smacked up no iess than 306 runs for five wickets,
and thereby not only staggered humanity but Balmain
itself. It was uncanny, eerie! The Redfern-Glebe
clash saw tlte Syrian suburb pile on 335 for eight wickets
by all-round good scoring. Goddard’s 95 not out was
the best effort of the team, and jt was backed up by
Nicltoils’s 77, Foster’s 65 and good old Sundries’ 35. For
the rest, Gordon notched 275 against University, Sydney
made 295 for nine wickets against Central Cumberland,
Petersham accumulated 225 against Waverley, and Bur-
wood knocked 223 off Middle Harbor, and then banged
down eight Harbor Wickets for 77 runs. North Sydney
had the bye. The bowlers of the day were Pite, of Waver-
le.v, who took five Petersham wickets for 55; and W. Wat-
son, of Glebe, who took four Redfern wickets for 38.
After that, in the bowling line all was slush.
Perhaps the best -bit of play of the afternoon
was ttie wicket,keeping of H. Carter for Waverley. He
played a sparkling game, and never allowed Sundries to
score a solitary one in a total of 225, Besides, he caught
out two batsmen and stumped a third. Carter was in
retirement last season, but evidently neither hand nor
eye has lost any cunning. C. Gorry, another candidate
for wicket keeping honors, was behind Glebe’s sticks, but
35 got past him, owing chi’fly to the wild blazing of
Cotter. “ Old Jim ” Kelly was on the mark for Padding,
ton, and manatred to block all but 13 extras in a total of
306. Apparently the fight for the job of wicketkeeper it
going to be one of the most interesting phases of cricke
this season.
* * * *
Adelaide cricket saw some sudden upheavals
on Saturday. C. E. Dolling bashed and banged 185 off the
University bowling, and carried his bat in triumph at
the finish. Gehrs started the season with 162 for North
Adelaide, and Olein Hill put together a modest 54.
A. H. Pretty gathered in nine wickets for 75 runs, and,
if the promise of October is fulfilled, will be a certainty
for the State XI.
* * * *
Pennant cricket quietly opened in Melbourne
last Saturday. Batting against East Melbourne, Essen-
don totalled 231, to which East has begun its response
with 19 runs without the loss of a stick. At St. Hilda a
frivolous mob of about four elderly men watched the
locals compile 209 against University ; while at P’ran
Northcote hit up 189 with nine wickets lost to the local
opposition. South Melbourne against Melbourne com-
piled 74 with a mixture of pugnacity and perspiration,
whilst Melbourne’s response at the stroke of time wa- six
wickets down for 83. As regards the battle between Tloy
and Carlton, the list of casualties is as follows: 'Boy de-
stroyed for 92 ; Carlton, five dead for 108.
* * * *
The promised sculling match between Pearce
and Webb would appear to have suddenly gone bung.
Pearce was informed that there would be a purse of 1200
for a race between him and Webb on the Wanganui
(M.L.); but word has now been received that there is no
such purse in existence. Some time ago it was said that
the purse was “as good as subscribed.” Now Pearce
knows that the thing that is only “ as good as ” the real
thing is a delusion and a snare. However, there is halm
in Gilead, as a sport in Palmerston North has cheerfully
offered to back Pearce to beat Webb for £2OO. Of course,
it. may not he as good as the purse, because there is a
doleful lack of particulars as to the terms on which the
Palmerston sport is willing to put up the money, and in
making these matches it is the details that matter most.
* * * *
The Bulletin doesn’t very often disagree with
a referee’s ruling, but in the case of the Suimners-Arthur
Douglas fight conscientious scruples and deep religious
conviction compel the writer to stand up for. truth and
justice. Not that there is any suggestion of intentional
prevarication or deliberate injustice on the part of that
fairest of referees, Mr. “Snowy” Baker. Asa mill the
meeting was a booming success, but as an affair to judge
it was a horror. Both men fought such a splendid scrap,
and showed such charming versatility, and proved
such a capacity for punishment, that it was
really inipo sible to separate them as far as
merit is concerned. Summers was down once, hut
it would not. be fair to say he was floored. Rather
was he assisted to lake up a recumbent attitude, and the
start of the downfall was certainly a slip. Also, the
same man sustained a fine healthy cauliflower on his left
ear. Half-way through the scrap, which was wildly
willing, fast as one could wish and very stark, it seemed
absolutely level pegging ; hut if tltere was any advantage
it apparently rested with Douglas. Then Summers came
out of his shell, and put in some of the prettiest work
ever seen in the Sydney Stadium. The crowd went mad,
and kicked up such a storm of applause that the bruisers
couldn’t hear the hell, and had to be torn apart by the
referee. For a few rounds Summers had somewhat
the better of it; hut Doughs pulled himself together,
and, altering his tactics, had the redoubtable Johnny
quite bewildered. Still he was unable to knock him out,
for John put up a good defensive fight instinctively. For
the 'time being, he was, however, quite outgeneralled.
The last three rounds were absolute whirlwinds, and
they were all Douglas’s. But the referee considered
that Douglas had not worked off the margin of points
standing to the credit of Summers, and made the Eng-
lishman the winner. Summers has now gone back to
England, hut it. is understood that he will return shortly,
and possiblv bring his family with him.
* * * *
Four Yankee bruisers arrived in Sydney on
Monday week by theZealandia, and immediately described
Sydney as being “nil right.” Pill.v Papke, “Cyclone”
Johnny Thompson, Ray Bronson, and Jimmy Clabby are
they bight, and all are desirables, who have plugged
their men, and slugged out many victims. Judging by
the crowd at Sydney Stadium last week, on the re-opening
of that resort, Sydney is in for another boxing boom, and
the chances are that some of these young men will be
seen in something sensational in the Rushcutter’s Bay
ring before they leave again. They will first be seen in
action at Sydney Stadium on the evening of October 26,
when Billy Papke, the middle-weight champion of the
States, will meet Ed. Williams, the Australian. Papke
will he supported morally by Ray Bronson, “Cyclone”
Thompson and Jimmy Cl bby. Clabby is the
welter-weight champion. Bronson’s first appear-
ance will he in Brisbane, where he will hump
Tommy Jones, ex-champion featherweight of this con-
tinent. The first appearances of the rest are not quite so
certain, but it is expected that James Clabby will get
busy with Boh Bryant, of Australia, at the Sydney
Stadium early In Novetnlter, and “ Cyclone” Thompson
will follow’ with somegood lightweight a week lat.er. Alto-
gether, these Americans are a hefty lot, and should
supply some good fighting business before the trip ends.
OCTOBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s something waking my discontent and making nty
heart beat high,
And causing regret for bobs misspent and for sovereigns
not put, by;
It’s part of the joy of a Melbourne spring when the drizzle
is gone, and when
Not yet does the dust-wind’s eddying half-stifle the sons
of men :
I gaze from my window across the roofs in a cloudless
vernal dawn,
And hear the sound of galloping hoofs, and think of
Flemington lawn.
A season comes when the wowser’s wail in vain in the
desert cries,
And the Gambling Evil is strong and hale, and gladdens
the sinner’s eyes ;
There’s a lurid light on the broadest brow, a glow in the
coolest vein ;
It’s “What do you think of Cadonia now?” and “How
does Alawa train ? ”
And tlte most impeccable Judkinite (though Judkins
howls with force)
Will whisper low in the dead of night, “ Marier, I’ve
backed a horse.”
We number many a thousand, who in the blossoming
season stray
Front the flock of the Righteous Folk to do misdeeds in
the good old way;.
Like the chariots racing along the sand, the steeds on
the sunlit green
Are beautiful, pagan, reckless, grand—as the world has
always been ;
A season of snivel lasts awhile in the sleet of a Melbourne
June,
But—Prince Foote gallops a startling mile, and we know
that joy comes soon.
Now God be thanked for the spring He’s sent to tingle in
men’s thick blood,
And thanked for the sun in the firmament that withers
the weed and Jud,
And thanked for the horse with the satin coat, and the
sons of Sliem that roar,
And the spirit that bids us act the goat till our cash is
ours no more ;
To a soul that’s weary and sermon-crammed, rule-trussed
and skewered up,
What a glorious cry of That-be-damned is the shout of a
Melbourne Oup!
VICTORIA.
L.
“AN AUSTRALIAN’S HOME”
MAY AT ANY TIME BE INVADED BY SICKNESS.
In the best regulated families the little ills of life
will creep in. Some member of the family circle
may occasionally suffer from biliousness or indi-
gestion, and one or the other will from time to
time exhibit the well-known symptoms of consti-
pation. From these little troubles more serious
complaints arise, and should, ■ therefore, not be
neglected. The slight headache, bad breath and
discolored tongue are the index to a disordered
stomach, and the necessity of keeping a safe, sure
and reliable remedy in the house is apparent. By
following such a course the more expensive method
of calling in a doctor will be quite unnecessary.
Be your own doctor, prescribe Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and always keep the little bottle in the
house, so that when sickness in vades your home
you will have a sure and reliable remedy to banish
it from your threshold.


Buy Rigney Footwear for Men!
If you want footwear that is smart in style, durable in
wear and dressy in appearance, you should buy Rigney
Shoes.
If you can’t call, send us your order by post.
The shoe illustrated is a Black Phoenix Calf Derby Shoe.
215., 225. 6d., 255.
Also In Tan, 235. 6d., 255.
Ditto in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “The Rigney Shoe for Men."
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
df
sdf
Would you like a Good Cycle ?
We have some splendid second-hand machines—thoroughly renovated and in
good order—that are going at very low prices. We are overstocked, and they
must be sold very shortly, Why not reap the advantage in price that our
overstocking will create?
We can supply a pood machine at £5, and if you prefer it with a free wheel, we will fit any
one listed with a free wheel and back rim brake or coaster hub at the special price of 15/- extra,
bend for list giving other prices.
BENNETT & BAR KELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
The MOTA (Regd.)
The man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a desire for the “ Mota’*—he lias
a NEED for one. For the “ Mota "at a small price
is the most comfortable and most distinctively
stylish soft felt of the day.
The material is stood —it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suityour style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “Mota ” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
puimi
mm
L
The
Highest
ard
of
Purity
used by leadin
lluou
s ana Motorist*
world.
©
m
o
3<170 •
66 in ® °
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a 44 Bijou ** table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use—it contains all the
merits of our standard tables*, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Alcock & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
114 Edward St., Brisbane. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Pertb.^ 4
sd
RAZOR SUPERIORITY !
In most good razors the claim is “good English steel,’’
but the PLUM quality is of a still higher grade, known as
good SILVER steel. It’s a steel that rings true as a bell,
cuts keenly, is finely tempered, and needs little stropping.
LET YOUR NEXT RAZOR BE A “ PLUM/’
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
Slngle Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
AH the above Post Free.
Price 10(6
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Crind and
Set Razors,
V- each.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
Craig S Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
' 30 Years.
A. M. L. $ F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing- Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land U Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
Bligh Street, SYDNEY,-
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
fs
Melbourne Cricket Club has just made Major
Wardill a life member, “ for his labors on behalf of
cricket.” Of course, this really means his labors on
behalf of Melbourne Cricket Club. But there was a
time when the Major was a very biff doff indeed. In
fact, as far as overseas cricketinff affairs were concerned,
the Major was Australia. And then, all in a niffht, the
Board of Control came up and overshadowed him and
his club, and the Major and the club faded out of the
public eye. Wardill, as a younff man of 24, played for
Victoria affainst N.S.W. Than was 44 years affo, before
the present ffeneration of cricketers were imbibinff wind
throuffh a rubber mouthpiece, so the alleffi d reward of
the Melbourne C. C. hasn’t happened aloriff any too soon.
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC.
Supplied from stock. Write for Catalogue.
SCHEELE 8 GIBBES, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney. Te c it y 64
A Sydney motorist, C. E. Waters, recently con-
ceived something quite new in private cars, and other
wealthy carmen might take a patriotic hint, with much
ultimate advantage to themselves. Outwardly, the ear
is an ordinary five-seater, of 25-35 h.p., but extra strength
has been added throughout, and provision made whereby
both body and bonnet may be removed, and the chassis
converted into a light gun-carriage, with bullet-proof
shields for the driver and the engine’s vitals. The owner,
who is a member of the Sydney Automobile Corps, was
moved thereto by experiments on the Liverpool battle-
practice country, which showed that, with careful
driving, he could negotiate roadless country that would
be impassable, or nearly so, to even horse-artillery.
DUNLOP TYRES
SCORE A BIG SUCCESS IN THE
“WARRNAMBOQL” ROAD RACE.
The First 6 Men and Fastest Time
Winner riding “Dunlops.”
LOOK AT THIS SEASON’S SCOOP.
Bathurst—Sydney Road Race - - - 1st on “Dunlops”
Timaru—Christchurch Road Race - First 6 on “ Dunlops ”
Beverley—Perth Road Race Every Rider but 8th finished on
“ Dunlops ”
Gouiburn—Sydney Road Race - First 7 and 2 Fastest Times on
“Dunlops”
Warrnambool to Melbourne - First 6 and 2 Fastest Times on
“Dunlops”
No better demonstration of the SPEED and
DURABILITY of these tyres is needed to
convince riders that “ Dunlops ” have no equal
on the Road.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Christchurch, N.Z.


ME NOVELTIES AT A. SAUNDERS
A. SAUNDERS.
“GEM JUNIOR” SAFETY
RAZOR, 7 best steel Blades,
Nickel-plated Frame, with extra
Handle for stropping purposes,
complete in Leatherette Case.
5/6.
CHARMING ARTICLES
IN SILVER PLATE AND LEATHER.
IDEAL FOR USEFUL GIFTS.
M
L_-*S
frmmtttrmfitmumcfim.f
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND .Stag Design, Pure Silver-plated,
Crystal Cut Glass Bottle, with Pen Rack,
complete,
25/-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, SO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL POLISHER, Pure Silver, Moun-
ted Nicelv Embossed, ...
3/6
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
COMB, full size, pure Silver-mounted,
4/6.
Other Styles, 5/6. 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, Pierced
sign, Pure Silver-plated,
7/6-
Plain, 5/6; B Quality, 4/6.
A
CHARMING
GIFT-
HANDSOME,
USEFUL,
LONG-
WEARING.
WE HAVE
OTHER
SILVER
PURSE
DESIGNS
IN
STOCK
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Purse and Card-
case, handsomely Embossed, size 4Jin x
2Jin,
£3/10/.
3O/; 4in x ‘2in, £2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR
BRUSH, hand-
somely Embossed,
Fine White
r
Bristles,
15/<i
Other styles, 10/6,
15/6, 17/6, 20/.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
ON ALL
THESE GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Juvenile Set, KNIFE, FORK, and SPOON, Pure Silver-
plated, in Silk-lined Case.
10/6
Two-piece 8/6, or Spoon only 6/6: Other styles, 12/6,
16/6.
A. SAtJNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION, Solid
Silver Mounted, Handsomely Em-
bossed, in Silk-lined Case, .
15/G-
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE
IS FULL OF OTHER IDEAS
JUST AS BEAUTIFUL Al>,D LOW
PRICED.
!S3*.
A. SAUNDERS. .
Hair BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richly
Embossed, Long White Bristles,
io/o
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15;.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIRPIN BOX, Pure Silver-plated,
Beautifully Embossed, Size, sin x 2im,
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
MAY WE
SEND YOU
OUR FREE
CATALOGUE f
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT or CLOTHES
BRUSH, Pure Sil-
ver, Large Size,
Embossed Design,
Long White
Bristles,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Marguerite TOILET SET, of six pieces, Large Fahey Mirror, 2 Hair
Brushes, full size, Hat and Clothes Brushes, Tortoise-shell Comb, Solid
Silver, Beautifully Embossed Design, complete in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£lO
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, compris-
ing Powder Jar, Polilsher, 1 alr
Scissors, Nail File, Cuticle Knife, in
Silk-lined Case,
20/.
' Other styles, 15/6, 25/, 30/, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS. .
French Briar PIPE, Bent or Straight, Am-
ber Stem, Pure Silver-mounted and Screw,
20/.
Without Bowl mount, 12/6.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Sterling Silver,
Hand Engraved, size 3in x 2i in.
25/.
Other styles, 15/6, 20/, 30/, to £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Pierced TOILET MIRROR, Plush Mounted,
Heart Shape, Bevelled Glass, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver RATTLE and Mother-of-Pearl Teething.
RING,
7/6- .
Medium Size, 10/; Larger Size, 15/.
.■* ‘ A. SAUNDERS.
Jewel 1 CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Plain and Em-
bossed Design, Silk-lined, Size sin x sin, £2-
Other Styles, 15/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
SOMETHING- QUITE NEW.
. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Pure Silver Handles. Beautifully Embossed, a very useful
addition to the Toilet Table,
5/6-
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
Gent.’s Automatic SHAVING STROP, Pure Silver-
plated,' handsomely Embossed, Satin finish,
20/-.
Size smaller, 10/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold TOOTH-PICK, Nicely Chased, 12/6.
15/, 20/. Smaller Sizes, 7/6, S/6, 10/.
Larger,
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, Chamois Lea-
ther lined, Extra Division, Strong
Stitched Handles,
10 G
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6 up.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted,
Cherub Design, Birthday
BOOK, heavy mounts,
full size,
10/6
HtoUlHM.ll.il,ll I . I'.l l -*' l -
-
IF—-
YOU DO NOT
SEE EXACTLY
WHAT YOU
WANT—WRITE
US-WE CAN
SUPPLY YOUR
NEEDS NO
MATTER
WHAT IT IS.
A PRACTICAL PRESENT
FOR ANY MAN.
SHAVING CUP and
Finish, Finest
Other Styles,
A. SAUNDEKS.
BRUSH, Pure Silver-plated, Embossed, Satin
Quality Badger Bristles, JtO/.
13/6, 15/. 17/0. 20/, 25/, 30/.
JEWELLER,^
Lukich zsjiock/
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.817. CEORCt ST. ( Opposite Railway Sfatjon) SYDNEY.N.S.W
Nvraijwa
0
HIIWSM3AIIS


ON
a cross in the TOP
so Vote for
i
Continuance UNDER GOV-
c! •«. -V ‘ f
me. T>'ur:y,£,
■ -.f/.
df


Wasting
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perma-
nently cures wasting in all
its forms. This statement is
made because hundreds of
people have written to say
that they or theirs were cured
of wasting by Scott’s Emul-
sion. For example, Mrs. W.
Morrison wrote, 3rd March,
1909, from 10, Griffiths Street,
Manly, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“At two months, my daughter could not
retain nourishment and wasted away al-
most to skin and bone; we thought she
sd
would die. After the first few
doses of Scott’s Emulsion
she was decidedly better. Soon
she took food and r'apidly
gained in weight and strength.
Now her flesh is firm and
solid, and she is a bright,
healthy child. She likes
Scott’s and has always
taken it without diffio dty.
This trademark was on the emulsi m I
bought. ”
If you wish to stop wasting,
and decide to buy Scott’s
Emulsion, decide also to GET
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
You may be asked to buy
another emulsion and told it
is “just as good as Scott’s.”
Substitute emulsions can
only be sold on the reputa-
tion of Scott’s Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Wasting if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
w
7
'p“
ra
\FXO.
ai
THE OLD
LINES
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
wh er e for mer 1 y th e m i r ror
reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
“Flesh-Food ” adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight by five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or call for
Free Trial Sample and Free Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT. 5,
Linden Court,
Castukpkaou St.,
SYDNEY,
“The Tie
L that J
fwill not
Crease
r
IRIS (k
Real Poplin Ties
None'"
Genuine
without
thij
Tab.
Obtainable All Mercerj
IR
BEAL POPLIN
silk& Wool.
RECi
xf - 'sr /a r \
<r v'®- j 1 j
mm
m
iH
m
fWim
h K
j
&
£
4
w
vo
lummmnii
TRADE MARK.
If
iCP
A Woman’s
Success
in life is limited according to the
state of her health. No woman can
put forth her best efforts if, for instance, 1
she is continually troubled with headaches, |
biliousness, depression of spirits, etc., which
arise through allowing-constipation to go on
unchecked. Many women make the mistake
of neglecting this condition, with disastrous
results in later life. And yet it is so easy to
correct. One or two doses of
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS
"Nature’s Pleasant Laxative’’
are all that is needed to stimulate the organs,
cleanse the system and restore the body to a
perfect state of health. Thousands of ; women
take California Syrup of Fi'gs, for it is, the one
natural remedy that benefits the system without
weakening or straining in the slightest degree.
Of Chemists, in-two sizes.
YOU MUST ASK FOR CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
fsd
Price 16/6
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
Shoe here illustrated —it is one of the latest and
most fashionable models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, l/» extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Booklet, “ Shoelight."
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. P
At the TARRANT,
MELBOURNE.
The House of the
World’s Best Cars.
We invite you to write us
for latest booklets, post free.
Our doors are always open,
and we extend to you a cordial
invitation to visit us.
We represent in Victoria the
F.N., FORD, FIAT, DE
DION, ARGYLL, MER-
CEDES, ROVER and
COMMER WAGGON.
Tarrant Motor Co.,
108 Russell St., Melbourne.
T
A
R
A
O
Mr. PERCY F. S. SPENCE’S
EXHIBITION OF PICTURES
Studio No. 14, Fourth Floor,
Equitable Buildings,
George Street, Sydney.
Private View, WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, "12t.ii
and 13th October. Open Free each WEDNESDAY,
from 2 till 5, thereafter.
Early Spring'
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
%
*
*
WISH
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
Sauce
• •
• •
» •
• •
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Barney: Dunno. For the thousandth time,
pars, cannot be acknowledged in this column—space
won’t run to it Jos. Jos. : Unsuitable Mother-o’-
Pearl: Yes, but when did The Bulletin say that divers’
paralysis was never fatal?....P.M.: Not much! The
BuLLETiN-won’t-help any bricks-and-mortar vandal to rob
Adelaide of its Victoria Square F. Ison: Angus and
Robertson have a Is. edition of-“ How He Died, etc.”
“ Rio Grande’s Last Race ” costs 55., and Where the
Dead Men Lie ”is out of print; but the booksellers may
have a second-hand copy.. ..Ponte: Go to.! “Quan”
guffawed mildly at the statement that Lawson, Gregory
and Wentworth were first across the Blue Mountains.
You substitute “Blaxland” for “Gregory,” and then
call “Quan” a liar bn the strength of your misquo-
tation Josie H.: No H.E.G.: Supposing a sailor
is killed by a fall from aloft, and his ghost, dressed
in oilskins and all the rest, rebounds into the water, and
the ghost doesn’t know it is a ghost, but thinks it is the
original sailor and hangs on to a lifebuoy under that im-
pression—what is to happen next? How long is the
ghost to float? Is it to be drowned, or will it swim ashore
in three weeks and light a fire on the beach? If it
is drowned, what is the corpse of a drowned ghost like. It
seems a sort of cul-de-sac C.V.E. : The Bulletin
reckons that, on the whole, it is a mighty good 1aw....
Monaro : Heavy as pig-iron, and no brighter McMick :
That sort of trifle must be very sharply pointed
E. 0.: “ Afternoon Tea ” jingle is earnest and full of slops
and frenzv, but the irregularity of the metre is against
it Mermaid: Surf-verses lack the real damp white-
topped roar of the everlasting sea C.H.W.: Unsuit-
able ...B. Bill(Q.): A creditable jingle, but it can’t go
the distance Louis M. : Not quite sufficient skill
Roo (N.Q.): Sorry to have to say “No ”to you. The
verses make heavy weather of it Constance M.
(Adelaide): Sketch dull E.W.H. (Brisbane): All below
par J. Rudd : No. Once again we implore you not to
write on both sides of the paper....l. Wayman: Your
imaginative bolt didn’t cheer us on our weekly round ..
The Parson : Unsuitable Onlooker: As true as it is
old—or dashed nearly. Advance on the Chow nuisance
from a new direction or in a novel fashion, and we will
greet you with cheers H.C.A.: Faultlessly typed,
but in all other respects below the mark
Romulus: H. L. Godfrey, Port Darwin, N.T
B. Anchor: There is not a smile in it.... E.M. B. :We for-
give you the verses; /our sentiments are admirable .
Seebee : Not quite enough brine in the trio. .. .C.R.F.
(London): Out of our line ..Monaro: Neither up....
S.R. (Sydney): They have no value Y.P.S.I. (M.L.):
The basket it is 1 S.W.C.Y.: Flora cannot reel in this
paper....lC Paw (W. A.): Declined the rhvmeless Spring
song with an answering whoop.. ..Moreover : Badly
handled.. ..Marcus: Too uneven D. 0.: “ Beyond the
Ranges” is now Beyond the Basket. It was, indeed, “ a
wild attempt at verse.” We managed to foil it... .C.V.E.
(V.) : Land Tax verses extra dry Bellerive : It is very
harrowing, but we will print it:
A RAILWAY TRAGEDY.
(Sample improved.)
To a lonely spot on the railway line
An heart-broken damsel strayed ;
She had listened to a deceiver’s vows,
An.d was ruined and betrayed.
She crouched between the iron'rails
In sad and blank despair,
As the sound of the express whistle
Rang out through the misty air.
As nearerdrew the rattling train'
She did await with bated breath,
Till crushed to pieces ’neath its wheels,
A quick and appalling death.
Taffy: It is unutterably sad, but there seems to be no
valid reason why
He may not kiss her when he leaves;
The tears from his eyes may not flow.
What is holding him? ...8.C.W.: It rambles in an un-
exciting fashion to the goal and neglects to mention how
it got there R.B.W. : “At Dusk” is an intensely
solemn, long-winded and pointless story, which ends in a
precipitate flight fromaTottie establishment. Send it
to Judkins ...C.G. (Q.): Had to sack those bosses....
Foss(V.): Derailed Tahuna : Unsuitable... .M. 8.8.:
Yes, it is the same writer. Address to the poet is a dis-
jointed and obscure production....O.S.F. : Valueless
rhymes.. ..N.H.L.: “The West” has no atiractions
Gil G.: Verses not up L. L. London : Hopeless stuff....
M.W. (North Sydney): The racecourse rhyme embodies
a remarkable truth ; but it isn’t skilfully built. The
marine poem was unseaworthy and went down with all
feet.....A.G.R. : You pipe cheerfully enough in “The
Woods”; but the poem is too rough. No address on
MS An Australian Wanderer: Muffled shriek for free-
dom received. Don’t know what it is about, but like the
adjective “ wowseristic.” M.J.5.,: A,dry rhyme, with
manv boulders in its course.. H.E.R.: Unsuitable..,.
Dena V.: Mrs. Higgs is a dull person ; leave her to her
washtub... .Budgeree B. : Too spasmodic a poem....
J.M.M. : Unsuitable A.W. (North Sydney): “Getting
Home" can’t quite clamber up the stairs C.R.F.
(London): Can’t use the story about the reckless, beauti-
ful girl who refuses the offer of an>escort, and drives off
alone in her motor to the fair (in this country “agricultu-
ral show ”), where she is taken charge of and kissed and
squeezed by the Duke of B—, disguised as a rough gipsy.
The Australian demand for disguised dukes is strictly
limited.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Taunton: Shows the inexperienced hand A.H.H.,
E.H..W.E.: No good for illustration.. .R.R.: Too heavily
labored... Percy R. : Ditto VV.J.C.: Crude. .G.
Sher: One joke died long ago ; the other is too weak to
live C.J.E.W.: The father of all pig stories ; but there
is crude humor in the drawing... .F.M.: Poor picture of
two men, and no reason why they should be saying one
thing more than another. They might be talking about
dried fish or paving-stones or the weather last Friday fort-
night... .E.F.8.: The original Bulletin gag Was : “ Well,’
that’s the smallest funeral I ever saw.” re the musician
with the fiddle-case. You have lifted and spoiled it....
W.H.P. (and others): Don’t send drawings in one packet
and a note and stamps in another. Fix any necessary
remarks and stamps (if you want the pasteboard re-
turned) on the back of the work of genius... .W.R. :
“ Jokes quite original.” We don’t doubt the originality.
We only doubt the jokes... .H.J.R.: No, please don’t.
The sample submitted is enough.... A.L.R. : Not Well
enough drawn, and hardly worth re-drawing....Azrael:
Re-christen yourself Gabriel. You can resurrect more
old jokes than anybody we’ve struck for a month....
Murphy: Bowvang-di ess idea used already ; other no
value.. ..F. : Interested.
The most charming lie that the N.S.'W.
“Liberals” are spreading was originated by the
Premier himself when he told how, if Labor had
been in power from the beginning, there would
have been no railways in N.S. W. As a matter of
fact, had the present Labor policy with regard to
the conservation of Crown lands been carried out,
N.S.W. would own most of its "railways, instead
of merely holding the pawn ticket. In 1901
Coghlan, in about the last issue of his “Wealth
and Progress of N. S. Wales,’’showed that the
Statehad sold land for over £47,000,000. If, instead
of selling that land and cheerfully scattering the
-proceeds, the State had held on to it, and got a
mere 5 per cent, return for it, there would now be
a fund of over £2,500,000 a year available for the
construction of public works; and as there wouldn’t
have been any interest to pay on those works, the
farmer and everybody else might have had far
cheaper railway-carriage than is possible to-day.
The Labor party can’t undo the tragic mistake of
its “ Liberal ” predecessors; but it proposes to
prevent the same tragic mistake being repeated.


Beale
Grand Prix
(London)
Pianos
TO INTENDING PIANO BUYERS.
H aving discovered a piano with the essential qualifications of pure tone and durability
of construction, and with the added advantage of a practical scientific tuning system, you
naturally begin to consider the question of the appearance of the instrument.
You want one that gives some outside indication of its value. There are plenty of
showy pianos to be had, but in our whole range of twenty-four designs we have nothing of
the kind. We have aimed at a high standard of excellence in case designing, and our
models are absolutely correct in detail, whatever the style, whether Renaissance, Rococo,
Empire, or other period. The Beale pianos are art productions as well as first-class
musical instruments. They were awarded a Gold Medal at the Franco-British
Exhibition by the first furniture experts of Europe for the excellence of the cabinet-work,
and the high quality of workmanship which it showed. A Gold Medal was also
awarded for the factory organisation under which such work was produced. With thej
exceptional distinction of the Grand Prix (for tonal qualities), and the next highest award,
Diploma of Honor (for patent frame and tuning system), these coveted prizes are a
greater number of awards than were ever made to one piano manufacturer at any exhibition.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL. SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 13 “Sar 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
j Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
▼ ” •''* i
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


SJLfcJOd 11 \f XV SIN3DV >? SBOUdO
ail Aid oO s HHWOMm 'HiiWlbW
I i®
a aiioO hiiwsghvmoh
Q3IIW □ oD N S Ti 'V ail oO S 3QIVI3OV
1 ■
'
1
qoea ui
msnv
Ije puv
wm.
■r
vi
m
:
* ss3M m-sSMSws
avmoay
■
I f Jill
111
V ,
> -'W* 'X'<
SB
Hi
SR
\
% % y-W®
'
■■■
®Slt
R\ '*'l
M \
• •«• •• . :
.W i-: ' .
H pill
.
SI


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY
LIMITED
(To be Registered under the Companies Acts 1899-1900).
CAPITAL £.100,000, Divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
Of which 25,719 are to be issued to the Vendors as hereinafter stated. 24,281 are offered for Subscription, payable:—
2/6 PER SHARE ON APPLICATION; 2/6 PER SHARE ON ALLOTMENT; 5/- PER SHARE ONE MONTH AFTER ALLOTiTENT;
and the balance as required in Calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than two months.
50,000 Shares are held in reserve.
The Company may proceed to allotment upon 10,000 Shares being applied for; 10,000 Shares have been underwritten, and the Company will take over the
business hereinafter mentioned as from Ist September, 1910.
Directors :
W. A. RUSSELL, Chairman.
W. A. WILLIAMS, now Manager of The Canada Cycle and Motor Agency, Ltd.,
Manager Bicycle Department.
T. D. CHAPMAN, Proprietor and Manager City Motor Works, Manager Motor
Department, Flinders Street.
M. A. STEWART, Proprietor and Manager of Bathurst Motor Company, Manager
Motor Department, George Street West.
H. J. WILLIAMS, G. H. WILLIAMS, Directors of The Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Limited.
Solicitors: ALLEN, ALLEN and HEMSLEY, Martin Place, Sydney.
Auditors: H. E. RUSSELL and SON, Incorporated Accountants.
Bankers: LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Secretary: W. FRASER (now Secretary to the Vendor Company).
Registered Office: 625 GEORGE STREET, CITY,
But to be transferred to No. 822 George Street on completion of New Premises.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The objects for which this Company is being: formed are to acquire by amalgamation the following 1 businesses, viz. :
THE CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, LTD.
(Hereinafter called the Vendor Company),
CITY MOTOR WORKS, BATHURST MOTOR COMPANY,
and to carry on the business of Cycle, Motor Cycle and Motor Car Manufacturers and Agents in all Branches,
including repairing, body building, garaging, etc.
THE VENDOR COMPANY.
The Vendor Company has secured an Agreement for lease of a seven-storey building now in course of construc-
tion, in George Street West, close 10 the Railway Station, adjoining the Southern Branch of the Bank of New South
Wales, and opposite the Glaciariurn. '
They possess the following valuable Agencies -THE MASSEV-HARRIS BICYCLE, the RED BIRD BICYCLE,
the RUBY RIM BICYCLE, and the IMPERIAL BICYCLE.
In addition to doing a very big trade in these Bicycles, they have established a very finfe business with their own
make of B.S.A. Machine, called the WARATAH, the name of which is registered, and have for a number of years
been manufacturing Bicycles from Standard parts with much profit to themselves and satisfaction to the general
public.
They also hold the Sole Agency for EXCELSIOR MOTOR CYCLE. This famous Motor Bicycle is the product of
the old-established and reputable firm of Bayliss, Thomas and Co., Excelsior Works, Coventry, England.
They have recently secured the Agency for New South Wales of THE “ WHITE ” CARS, Steam and Petrol,
the sale of which it is intended to-push with the utmost vigor.
The 1910 Model of the WHITE STEAM OAR has proved such an undeniable success that it is with the utmost
confidence the Directors look forward to its success here.
The result of the Vendor Company's past four years and ten months’ trading shows, according to the certificate
of Messrs. H. E. Russell and Son, a net profit of 1:9931, on an Original Cash Capital of £lo92—equal to £2054 per
annum, and needs no further comment, while the profit for the half-year ended August 31 last amounted to
£2109 Is. 6d.
From the figures above stated it will be seen that the orginal capital of £1092 has increased in four years and
ten months by accumulating profits to £11,023
Add to this total the amount of Cash Capital contributed since the establishment—
In 1908 .. .. .. .. . .. .. ..£266
In 1910 .. .. .. .. ..1000
£1,266
Makes the Surplus of Assets over Liabilities as stated in the Balance-Sheet .. £12,289
Mr. W. A. Williams, the present Manager of the Vendor Company, joins the new Company as Manager of the
Bicycle Department.
CITY MOTOR WORKS.
This business, at present beings conducted by Mr. T. D. Chapman, has a valuable lease of suitable and commo-
dious premises close to Oxford Street, Darling-hurst, at its intersection with Flinders Street, and is possessed of the
Agencies for ALBION MOTOR VEHICLES and CARS and ADLER TOURING CARS.
THE ALBION COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES, manufactured in Scotland, are now used in most parts of
the world, and are believed to be at the present time the best Commercial Motor Vehicles on the market.
Th ADLER Pleasure Cars are amongst the best, if not the best, of the German products, and are largely used
as TAXI-CABS in BERLIN.
Mr. Chapman joins the new Company as Manager of the Motor Department, Flinders Street.
BATHURST MOTOR COMPANY, BATHURST, SYDNEY.
This business was commenced in 1907 by Mr. M. A. Stewart, who opened a DepOt in Bathurst, and secured Sub-
Agencies for well-known cars in the Western District.
The Bathurst Motor Company are now possessed of the following Agencies :
1. —THE BRUSH CAR. This Car is in a class of its own, because it is the CHEAPEST REAL Motor Car yet pro-
duced. 10-li.p., 2-seater, with three lamps, horn, tools and outfit, £145.
2. THE EMPIRE ROADSTER is another car of American manufacture, which has passed the test of a thorough
expert inspection, and is of the high-powered racy type, seating two people, and selling for £235.
3. —THE JACKSON (British) 4-cylinder Standard Chassis, is built by the R. R. Jackson Engineering Co., London.
It is designed for a light-touring Or station car for Australian use, and the 16-h.p. Chassis, with tyres, will sell
for £275.
4. THE BRITISH SUNBEAM CARS. The 12-16-h.p., SUNBEAM TORPEDO TOURING OAR, Model de Luxe, is
beyond criticism.
Mr. Stewart joins this Company in the capacity of Manager of the Motor Department, George Street West.
The garaging of Motor Vehicles, as well as the repairing and fitting shop, will be carried out on the premises now-
occupied by the City Motor Works, Flinders Street.
The balance-sheets of the various businesses, duly audited, are stated hereunder, and the stocks of each Com-
pany have been certified to by Mr. Alex. Jobsoh, A.C.P.A., having been taken as at August 31, 1910, from which
date the businesses are being carried on in trust for the new Company.
ESTIMATED PROFITS.
The average net profits from the business of the Vendor Company ALONE are more than sufficient to pay 5 per
cent, interest on a capital of £37,600.
The new Company, strengthened as it will be by fresh capital ,-ind the assistance of the City Motor Works and
Bathurst Motor Company, anticipates no difficulty in paying regular dividends of 10 per cent, per annum after pro-
viding an.pie reserves.
The new Company will take over the Assets and Liabilities of the Vendor Company, and the Assets only of the
City Motor Works and Bathurst. Motor Company.
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Limited, BALANCE-SHEET AS AT AUGUST 31, 1910.
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
DEBENTURES
SUNDRY CREDITORS—
Canada Cycle and Motor Co., Ltd-
Trade Accounts..
Agents and Customers ..
Bills Payable .. .. ..
Deposit bearing Interest ..
DEFERRED COMMISSION .. ..
SUSPENSE ACCOUNT—
Wages and Salaries
General ..
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT—
Profit for Half-year ending August 31,1910
Brought forward.. .. ..
.. £OOOO 0 0
.. 3500 0 0
£6O 6 0
£1396 0 3
3 ’-'9 4 6
1525 4 8
903 18 11
.: 230 13 0
2720 2 7
.. 871 18 8
39 7 6
148 11 0
lB7 is 6
2109 1 6
4,50 1 2
6289 2 8
/
£19,569 2 5
ASSETS.'
SUNDRY DEBTORS—
Hiring Accounts ..
Less Bad Debts written off
Agents and Customers ..
Less Bad Debts written off ..
Bills Receivable ..
Less Reserve
CASH ACCOUNT—
Bank of N.S.W. ..
Cash in Hand (FLO.)
Petty Cash in Hand (H. 0.)
Cash in Hand (Armidale)..
Cash in Hand (City Depot)
STOCK IN HAND—
Plant and Tools
Less Depreciation, six months, 5 per cent.
Furniture and Fittings ..
Less Depreciation, six months, 5 per cent.
Uriexpired Rail Tickets ..
Stationery .. .. ..
New and Trade Bicycles
Extra and Accessories
OR.
£.7611 15 1
532 6 9
£7079 8 4
2937 4 2
259 4 2
2678 0 0
120 2 6
9877 10 10
223 14 3
9653 16 7
713 14 4
249 1 11
13 13 11
2 15 10
2 0 0
9Bl 6 0
' 209 17 4
10 9 10
199 7 6
144 15 6
7 4 9
— 137 10 9
56 1 8
59 17 7
4717 7 0
3763 15 4
— 8481 2 4
8933 19 10
Audited and found correct.—H. E. RUSSELL, F.O.P. A., Auditor.
£19,569 2 5
TOTAL STOCKS AS AT AUGUST 31, 1910.
Plant and Tools .. ...
Bicycle Stock .. ..
Extras and Accessories ..
Stationery ..
Office Furniture and Fitting's
Unexpired value Travellers’ Railway Ticket and Deposits
£199 7 6
4717 7 0
3763 15 4
’59 17 7
137 10 9
56 1 8
£8933 19 10
CITY MOTOR WORKS.
STATEMENT OF LIABILITIES AND ASSETS AS AT AUGUST 31, 1910.
LIABILITIES.
Liabilities Nil
Balance, being value of total assets £5430 0 0
£5430 0 0
ASSETS.
Lease of premises
Sundry Agencies—
The Albion, The Adler
Plant and Tools..
Stock in Hand-
Motor Accessories..
Furniture
.. £lOOO 0 0
.. 3000 0 0
.. 854 4 8
.. 531 3 3
.. 44 12 1
£5430 0 0
I besr to certify that I have carefully checked the quantities and the values of the Plant and Tools,
Stock in hand of Motor Accessories and Office Furniture of the City Motor Works as at August 31, 1910. I
am of opinion that the above sum of £5430 is a fair and equitable valuation on the assumption that the
business will continue to be a going l concern.
Septembers, 1910. (Ssrd.) ALEX. JOBSON, A.C.P.A., A.I.A.
I beg to certify that I have carefully checked the quantities and the values of the Plant and Tools, -
Bicycles, Accessories. Stationery and Office Furniture of The Canada Cycle and Motor Agency, Ltd., a$ at
August. 31, 1910. lam of opinion that the above sum of £'8933 19s. lOd. is a fair and equitable valuation on
the assumption that the business will continue to be a going concern. ,
Sydney, September 27, 1910. A. JOBSON, A.0.P.A., A.I.'A.
BATHURST MOTOR COMPANY.
STATEMENT OF LIABILITIES AND ASSETS AS AT AUGUST- 31, 1910.
LIABILITIES.
Liabilities.. .. .. .. .. Mil
Balance, being: total value of Assets £2OOO 0 0
£2OOO 0 0
ASSETS.
Brush Runabout. Afrency £7SQ 0 0
SUNDRY AGENCIES . (
The Jackson ..
The British Sunbeam
The Empire Roadster
The Helsby Tyres ..
250 0- 0
£looo 0
Stock in Hand .. .. 945 0 0
Furniture.. .. .. .. 55 0 0
£2OOO 0 0
I beg- to certify that I have carefully checked the quantities and the values of the Stock in hand and
Office Furniture of the Bathurst Motor Company as at 31st August, 1910. lam of opinion that the above
sum of £2OOO is a fair and equitable valuation on the assumption that the business will continue to be a
gqing concern.
September 27, 1910. , V (Sgd.) ALEX. JOBSON, A.G.P.A., A.I.A.
The consideration for the purchase is to be the issue to the Vendors of 25,719 fully paid-up shares of £1 each in
the following proportions, viz. :—
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, LTD.
Balance of Assets over Liabilities (as per balance-sheet)..... £12,289
Goodwill „ 6,000
£lB 9 89
CITY MOTOR WORKS.
Assets as per balance-sheet 5,430
BATHURST MOTOR COMPANY.
Assets as per balance-sheet 2,000
f lif
NO CASH CONSIDERATION of any kind will be paid to the Vendors ; the whole of their interest remaining
in the Company, and being >atisfied, as stated above, by the issue of 26,719'fu11y paid shares.
The cost, of flotation shall be borne by the Company, and includes an underwriting commission to Messrs. H. E.
Russell & Son, for underwriting 10,000 shares. ,
The following Contracts have been entered into, and it is believed that they are the only Contracts affecting the
Company, viy
1. A Sale afid Purchase Agreement dated the 29th day of September, one thousand nine hundred and ten, between
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency, Limited, of the first part , Thomas Dark Chapman, trading as the City
Motor Works, of the second part; Morveri Athol Stewart, trading.as the Bathurst Motor Company, of the
third part; and Alfred Macart ney Hemsley, as Trustee for and on behalf of the Company, of the fourth part.
2. A Contract dated the 29th day of September, one thousand nine hundred and ten, between the Can da Cycle
and Motor Agency, Limited, Thomas Dark Chapman, trading as the City Motor Works, Morven Athol
Stewart, trading as the Bathurst Motor Company, of the one part, and Henry Edward Russell and Harold
Yewens Russell, practising as H. E. Russell & Son, of the other part.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors, CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY LIMITED,
cjo Messrs. H. E. Russell <&■= Son, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
I-hereby enclose the sum of. being a deposit of 2s. 6d. per share on ...
Shares in the above-named Company. I request that you will allot me that number of Shares, and
I agree to accept the same or any less number that you may allot me. I further agree to pay the
sum of. 2s. 6d. per share on allotment, ps. per Share one month alter allotment, and the balance, if
required, in calls not exceeding 2s. 6d. per Share at intervals of not less than two months, .and' I.
hereby authorise you to place my name on the Register of Members in respect of the number of
Shares allotted to me. k , u ,;j
Name (in full) ....... ,\ :..1. c'
Profession or Business
Address (in full) v ‘. •
Signature :....; '.
Date.. .........igi >
Full Prospectus and any other information may be obtained from H. E. RUSSELL 8 SON, 14 Martin Place, Sydney, to whom Application for Shares should be made,


Shipping:.
P. and 0. - BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blu?) Anchor Line).
For NATAL,. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
"Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
f Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ARERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mki.bo'irnr Aornts : JOHN SANDERSON <fc CO.,
11l William-street.
Adrlaidr & Frkmanti.r Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Stdnet.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Korth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: .1 P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of ||eiii Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
oil Australia. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking- business.
THE.
Australian Sank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,012.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, EC.
DIRECTORS— PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ;■ Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C.; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq.; George .1. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: .JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E<q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ■ ’ ' -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mng'r.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual [ifo
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bri ck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
N ord
BY
D eutscher
L
loyd.
FARES TO LONDON'.
SINGLE ..L, £66 11., £3S 10s. 111..
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111.,
£l5 to £l7
•27 to 30 12?.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
to Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in arood time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
-f- Senes. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
bd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ ABCRPCCN LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN* WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
FARRS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. „ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
fTaking Passengers for Melbourne Cup.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THK WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on anplication.
LUGGAGR received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
■
Twin-screw Steamers.
*AFRIC, 12.000 tons, to sail about
October 26.
SUEVIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
November 23.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
*Taking Passengers V.R.C. Carnival.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
PARKS —Capetown or Durban del 5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 Co 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Railing,
DALGBTY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agems in Australia.
f
WINTER TOURS<
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Nov. 4, Dec. 16 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Oct. 21, Dec. 2 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Qffice - J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital .... £2,500,000
Reserve Fund - - - - - - £1,750,000
Reserve Liability of widitV
Proprietors - - - ----- £2,500,000
£6,750,000
DIREO'iORS:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin,
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas
, President,
lit., M.L.C.
V'alker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard Edgediff Laidlev, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E C
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and A -rents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J• RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
THE OCEAN
Banians, Public Comuanieg, &c.
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Lid.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
H 'rite for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COM PAN Y LIMITED,
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., I,L.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORKOWM AN, Manager.
FRKDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
THE) TWENTY-THIRD ORDINARY GENERAL
1 MEETING of Members will be held in the Royal
Exchange on MONDAY. OCTOBER 17, 1910, at noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to September 30,
1910.
To elect one Director in place of Janies Moir, Esq.,
who retires (under clauses 77 and 78 of the Articles of
Association), and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. W. Clark?
and F. Phillips, who retire, but are eligible for and seek
re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney. October 4, 1910.
Business Announcements.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEV, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Free for the Asking.
sdf
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Arid GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Oct. 15
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with K'lombana,
leaving Fremantle on
Oct. 31 for North-West
Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North fco Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, Oct. 22.
S.S. Yongala, Oct. 29.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on j'i
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at theCompanv’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADiAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 Oeorge-street, Sydney.
F. H. S.
Federal«Houlder*Shire Lines.
Fox* London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ ESSEX,”
11.300 Tons. T. Priskk, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 18th Oct.
>• ~ SYDNEY ~ 25th Oct.
.• ~ MELBOURNE „ Ist Nov.
.» ~ ~ ADELAIDE „ Bth Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the vovage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and j
LIVERPOOL f £49 10s - £l ° 13s - 15s - Tl 7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane •
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne -
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Qy
■lttiU
MW [i
fIEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being 1 a curse in your home and a nuisance to
.vour friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever hv DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. VV.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarilv. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street. Perth, W.A. [3
Y OU i<i G AUSTRALIA, atid Boys and Girls’ own
" Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES,
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “FARMER AND
SETTLER ” OFFICE, 430 Kent Street, Sydney.


MACMILLAN
& CO.’S
NEW BOOKS.
IN LOTUS-LAND JAPAN.
By Herbert G. Ponting, F.R.G.S.
With Eight Illustrations in Color and
96 in Monochrome, from Photo-
graphs by the Author. Crown 4to.
2is. net.
Vol. V. Completing the Work. New
and Revised Edition. GROVE’S
DICTIONARY OF MUSIC AND
MUSICIANS.
Edited by J. A. Fuller Maitland,
M.A. In Five Volumes, Bvo. Vol.
V., T—Z and Appendix. Previously
published : Vol. 1., A—E ; Vol. 11.,
F—L ; Vol. 111., M—P ; Vol. IV.,
Q —S. 2 is. net each.
TOTEMISM AND EXOGAMY : A
Treatise on Certain Early Forms of
Superstition and Society.
ByJ. G. Frazer, D. C. L., LL. D., Litt. D.
With Maps. 4 Vols. Bvo. 50s. net.
Westminster Gazette. —“ Dr. Frazers monu-
mental work is a most valuable addition to our
literature of this subject, and must rank as a first
authority . . . Dr. Frazer’s style is exquisitely clear,
his thought always lucidly and directly expressed,
and the general reader will find this treatise, on a
subjedt which might have been rendered into dry
and technical language, no whit less interesting
and stimulating’ than those earlier works on allied
subjects which Dr. Frazer has endowed with life
and vigor.’’
MACMILLANS
Colonial Library of
Copyright Books.
Issued in Paper Covers and in Cloth Boards.
NEW VOLS.
577 REWARDS AND FAIRIES.
By RUDYARD KIPLING.
580 REST HARROW.
By Maurice Hewlett.
582 THE HUMAN CHORD.
By Algernon Blackwood.
581 MEN, WOMEN AND GHOSTS.
By Edith Wharton.
583 THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP
SEA. By Rhoda Broughton.
578 A SNAIL’S WOOING.
By E. M. Sneyd-Kynnersley,
Author of H.M.1. : Some Passages in
the Life of One of H.M. Inspectors
of Schools'.
579 HEARTS AND CORONETS.
By Mrs. Wilson Fox.
573 A GENTLEMAN OF VIRGINIA.
By Percy James Brebner, Author
of Princess Maritza.
Observer.— “ Mr. Brebner’s story is quite breath-
less in its interest. ... A thoroughly good and
lively story.”
576 NATHAN BURKE.
By Mary S. Watts, Author of
The Tenants , etc.
Literary World.— •“ If this hook is a good deal
longer than most modern novels— it runs to 628
closely-printed pages—no reader could wish it to
be shorter.”
574 A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
By Robert Herrick, Author of
Together.
575 CANADIAN BORN.
By Mrs. Humphry Ward.
Times. —“ Mrs. Ward deserves our gratitude for
having written Canadian Born. lis theme is the
wonder of the Canadian West, the splendor of the
virgin prairie and the royal mountains beyond. . . .
The story is an excellent one. . . . English hostesses
who open their doors with the best of intentions
at the bidding of Imperial Leagues must all mark
and learn Canadian Born.”
570 A MODERN CHRONICLE.
By Winston Churchill, Author
of Mr. Crewe s Career , Coniston, etc.
Daily Chronicle.—“ We thank Mr. Churchill
heartily for a big, live, human book, full of every-
thing that should make a novel successful—verve,
wit, knowledge, sympathy, satire and pity—it book
that, will keep thousands of readers with their eyes
glued to its pages for many an hour during the
summer that;is coming.”
571 THE UNDESIRABLE GOVER-
NESS. ByF. Marion Crawford.
Country Life.—Hit has all Marion Crawford’s
simple directness arid humor of narration, and it
makes us regret yet again that his gifted and
capable pen will give us no more tales.”
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have bv the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is 'an. ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours. ' '
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
THE WEIGHT QUESTION.
In the weight of a bicycle there exists a point where safety is assured. Every ounce beyond
that point is superfluous and means wasted energy. Every ounce of that superfluous weight cut off
means increased ease of propulsion. In a Bicycle built of
GENUINE B.S.A. FITTINGS
the point of safety is assured —not by a clumsy addition of weight, but by the use of the
finest material the world produces, by the knowledge of the most expert designers, and
by the most scientific methods of manufacture known to-day.
. Thus are secured the_three essentials—Strength, Lightness, Speed. The fourth essen-
tial. equally important—is Suitability, and this can be secured by having your new bicycle
built to your order to suit yourself.
Get a copy of the latest B.S.A. Handbook (just out), read about our latest improvement*,
trade marks, also details of the famous Eadie Coaster Hub, Two-speed Gears, Free \Vheels, &c.
free from D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), 5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write lor Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRD!
gstUSTA V&Jk
Bird’s
Custard ipith Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
. Adults and the Youthful alike. ,
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
\
MOHRISS I
wee Witches
ewMtrrrt*
mmn
6° for
M*<s«
ienOM
HIGHEST GRADE.
Bs per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants,- beat-all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE ACENTS, with experts from the English Works
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied..
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The position with regard to that extraordinary
N.S.VV. Closer Settlement Promotion Act, mentioned in
The Bulletin last week, is interesting. The measure has
been put forward by the electioneering whoopers for the
State Government as one of Wade’s “ splendid achieve-
ments in the imerestsof the country.” But it is not so
much a splendid achievement as it is either a fraud ora
peril. It is, in fact, a fraud if it isn’t a peril ; and it is a
peril if it isn’t a fraud. According to the S. M. Herald
brand of electioneering whoop before-mentioned, “ any
three or more responsible men who can come to an
arrangement with an owner to sell them farms on his
estate, and can put down 5 per cent, deposit, may borrow
the remaining 95 per cent, from the Advances Depart-
ment of the Government Savings Bank for the
completion of the purchase.” As a matter of fact,
the Savings Bank Commissioners can prot ct themselves
against any such insane transactions, if they want to. The
Act provides that both they and the Closer Settlement
Advisory Board must make a valuation of the land, and,
if the lower of these valuations is higher than the price
which it is proposed to pay, the whole business is off
unless the owner likes to comedown to that valuation.
Under ordinary circumstances, a bank which might
he called upon to advance 95 per cent, of the
full value would take all sorts of care that
the valuation wasn’t high ; so the chances of the
bank and the owner agreeing on the point would be
Buckley’s. Yet, in this case, if the bank and the owner
don’t agree, th n, as mentioned above, nothing comes of
the whole business; and the alleged tremendous advan-
tages which the Act confers are all moonshine, and the
bread which the electioneering whooper says the Wade
Government gave the country is the old, familiar stone.
On the other hand, the hank may take another
view of the case. For the Act provides that, if it values the
land at a high rate, and the value slumps, and a loss
follows, then the loss has to be made good out of the
Consolidated Revenue. No ordinary bank in its senses
would dare to make advances equal to 95 per cent, of the
market value of the security, as a general thing. A bank
that would do that during, a .land-boom would smash
worse than any bank did in Melbourne in ’93. But this
Savings Bank won’t smash so long as the Treasury
can raise money by taxation or otherwise. “Any
deficiencies,” says section 20, “shall be made good
from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, upon such de-
ficiency being certified to by the Commissioners.” If the
Commissioners are thereby induced to go ahead, and lend
95 per cent, of the boom-value of land, there will be a
mighty call on the Treasury by-and-bye, and the Fat
landlord, who has passed on his freehold at a boom price,
will be fed out of the taxes. Therefore, as remarked
above, the Act is either a fraud or a peril. If the Com-
missioners make up their minds to keep the bank from
showing deficiencies, the measure won’t benefit anybody
to speak of, for there will be no transactions under it.
But if t hey go ahead, knowing that they are entitled to
dip into the Treasury, then the Treasury is going to have
a busy time before the thing is done with.
* * * »
The State Bank op South Australia, estab-
lished in 1896:
Business Premiums on Total
March, Profits. Bonds Sold. Profits. Reserves.
1899 .. £llB4 £7ll £1895 £4,765
1900 .. 1196 75 1271 6,036
1901 1724 - 1724 7,760
1902 .. 2011 2011 9,771
1903 .. 2731 2731 12,502
1904 .. 3051 3051 15,553
1905 .. 3116 3116 18,669
1906 .. 3315 3315 21,984
1907 .. 3598 3598 25,582
1908 .. 3798 3798 29,380
1909 .. 4218 4218 33,598
1910 ~ 4588 4588 38,186
This State Bank began operations in 1596 by borrowing
on mortgage bonds at from 3£ to 4 per cent.', and since
then it has made advances totalling £1,544,946 at the
uniform rate of 4£ per cent. The management was given
to trustees, Consisting of well-known business men, some
of them with a special knowledge of agriculture, and the
ifexecutive head is known as the inspector-general.
Operations were not confined to agricultural lands; the
£1.544,946 of advances previously mentioned are classified
t iis way :
Town freeholds .. .. £587,947
Country freeholds .. .. 804,548
Country leaseholds .. 137,431
Municipalities 13,270
Rural industries .. .. 1,750
Total advanced .. .. £1,544,946
The advances are made for from five to 42 years, the latter,
of course, only on securities in which the bulk of the
value lies in the land. In a case of that sort an annual
payment of £5 6s. 6d. per cent, covers interest and repay-
ment of principal. This unquestionably is one of the
reasons why farming has been a more heavily gilt-edged
business in S. Aus. during the last few years than it ever
was before. Down to 15 years ago the farmer paid any-
thing from 6 to 9 per cent, interest even where the
security was undoubted, and he was usually bled for
charges on top of that. Since this State Bank'was estab-
lished it can safely be said he pays less, on the average, in
interest and sinking fund than he formerly paid in in-
terest alone. Nor does he get the benefit of the reduced
charges only by borrowing from this bank. Other
lenders have had to follow' suit. At the outset they
prompted the usual gags: the State meant the
politician, and every dead-beat would be landed by
the politician into the manager’s otfice, so the
State would be victimised wholesale. One hears nothing
of that now. It is no use kicking against the pricks of
14 years’ experience. Here is the hard fact that, of the
£1,544,946 which has been lent, only 14363 of principal is
in arrear, and only £249 of interest, while not a single
foreclosed security is in the bank’s possession. It is a
record which ought to make the trustees and the
inspector-general proud men. And quite likely the bank
has done another service, too : it has probably made a
good many men think what a mighty thing compound
interest is. The Rothschildren knew" it, and built their
powpr on it; but the average man didn’t, and still
doesn’t bother—if he did, he would take good care that a
sinking fund was attached to every loan. The S. Aus-
tralian can borrow £lOOO to build a house, and by paying
£76 7s. a year (no more than he would pay for rent) he
can absolutely own the house in 20 years. A State which
uses its power to raise money cheaply for this purpose
can be forgiven a good many other sins'it may happen to
commit.
Some further particulars:—
Expenses p.c.
Advances Working of Mortgages.
March, Outstanding. Expenses. s. d.
1899 .. £420,297 £3516 16 9 per cent.
1900 . 454,552 3701 16 4
1901 .. 607,408 3773 14 10
1902 .. 536,906 3985 14 10 „
1903 .. 561,746 3955 14 1
1904 .. 602,642 4120 13 8
1905 .'. 582,215 3968 13 7
1906 .. 602,366 4105 13 7
1907 .. 613,731 4205 13 8
1908 .. 631,414 4242 13 5
1909 .. 668,535 4559 13 7
1910 .. 710,317 4557 12 11
Ifc was remarked up above that the S. Australian bor-
rower has benefited by the State Bank, whether he has
Sone to the bank or to some private Cohen. But if he
went to the State Bank in still greater numbers he might
benefit yet more. There is no reason why the expenses
should be even 12s. lid. percent, of advances outstand-
I n ”- ia o the mortgages have increased from £454,552
to £710,317 the expenses have come down nearly J per
cent. ; and if they were double the present amount they
could almost for certain be reduced to Bs. If that were
done the borrower could get the benefit of it; after a
more substantial reserve had been established he might
benefit to the extent of perhaps i per cent. The mutual
and co-operative life insurance offices have pretty well
taught their policy-holders to become honorary" can-
vassers for their own office in their own interest. It
rests to a great extent with the State Bank’s customers
whether they will secure a reduction of anything up to
J per cent, in their interest bill.
The money is still raised on mortgage bonds ;
and as the advances are repaid, old bonds have also to be
repaid. That is to say, borrowed money cannot be lent
a second time. This shows the transactions :
New Old Bonds Increase of Total
Bonds Repur- Bonds Out- Out-
sold. chased. standing, standing.
1901 .. £87,700 £37,700 £50,000 £504,200
1902 .. 80,550 61,600 24,950 529,150
1903 .. 68,290 54,440 13,850 543,000
1904 .. 100,490 55,510 44,980 587,980
1905 .. 35,340 54,570 568 750
1906 .. 76,690 64,110 12.550 581,330
1907 .. 96,890 85,620 11,270 592,600
190 S .. 104,510 106,030 591,080
1909 .. 121,100 123,380 588,800
1910 .. 191,130 73,960 117,170 705,970
The reserves are not invested outside the business, but
are mainly represented by a Treasury balance and pre-
mises.
* * * *
The South British Insurance Co. (Maori-
land): —
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £27,560 17i p.c. = £11,310 £16,250 £197,082
1900 .. 39,488'20 „ „ 12.926 26,562 223,644
1901 36,975 22J ~ ~ 14,541 22,434 246,078
1902 .. 44,896 25 ~ ~ 16,157 28,739 274,817
1903 ... 43,925 25 ~ ~ 16,157 27,768 302,585
1904 .. 75,532 30 „ ~ 19.35 S 56,144 358,729
£32,314 Reserves transferred to Capital 326,415
1905 ■! 58 - 691 26 P-c. = 25,000 33,691 360,106
•• | New Share Premiums .. 9,411 369.517
1906 .. 72,103 27i p.c. = 27,500 44,603 414,120
1907 . 48,121 30 „ ~ 30,000 18,121 432,241
1908 .. 40,308 30 ~ ~ 30,000 10,308 442,549
1909 .. 53,991 30 ~ ~ 30,000 23,991 466,540
1910 .. 74,740 32J „ ~ 32,500 42,240 508,780
The directors’ report mentions a gross profit of £67,663 ;
but that can be brought into line with the £74,740 referred
to in the table this way
Revenue account balance £67,663
Transfer to Re-insurance Fund ... .. 10,000
Investment Fund accretions .. .. 972
Total I. ..£78,635
Am written off Leaseholds, etc. £846
~ Grant to Officers’Fund .. 3049
3,895
Netproflt.. , V.„ .. ..£74,740
The £lO,OOO transferred to the re-insurance fund is, no
doubt, profit with some qualification. It is really an
amount of reserved premiums—an additional sum put by
to cover the unexpired portions of policy contracts.
The total of this fund, included with the reserves in the
table, is now £140,000. The other reserves are: Formal
reserve fund, £340,000; investment fluctuation reserve,
£2983; unappropriated balance, £25,797. The paid capi-
tal is £100,000; 10s. has been paid on 200,000 shares,
leaving shareholders liable for another £4 10s. It is a
nice, lumpy liability to put under the pillow to dream
over at night. The saving feal ure in the case is the size
of the reserves; they are equal now to more than
half of the liability. Some day, perhaps, the co.
may follow a plan commonly adopted by fire-insur-
ance cos. and transfer part of the reserves to
capital, thereby reducing the shareholders’ liability.
Meantime, policy-holders have the very comforting
assurance that, not only is there this £lOO,OOO of paid
capital and £508,780 of reserves to guarantee payment of
losses, but an uncalled capital of £900,000 as well.
The losses are always pretty heavy, though for
the past year they have been under the average in pro-
portion to risks: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Looses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 ’ £136,160 £50,229 65'0 p.c. 24'0 p.c.
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60'3 „ 26'9 ~
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60'4 „ 277 „
1907.. 333,131 218,314 92,032 65'5 ~ 27'6
1908.. 317,620 200,414 102,438 631 „ 32 2 „
1909.. 310,437 185,203 96,225 59‘6 „ 30'9 „
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 58‘6 „ 281 „
The expense rate is moderate. A comparatively big loss
rate and a comparatively shiall expense rate, when they
occur together, usually mean either a big marine busi-
ness, or a big reinsurance business, or both. The under-
writing profit—excess of premiums over losses and
expenses—was last year 13‘3 per cent, of the premiums.
This is a very excellent showing. And ttie whole of
that was put by for the further protection of
policy-holders and shareholders, because interest and
rent (£33,264) more than covered even the increased
dividend. There is rather too much of the funds in
landed property, perhaps ;. but as the co. has about
£225,000 in cash or securities 'that are plainly liquid, the
position even in that regard ts not one to provoke
criticism. The institution looks thoroughly sound
and its figures show it to be unmistakably progressive;
and altogether it is one of the things that Maoriland has
reason to be proud of.
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne)
Dividends.
Pref. l)ef. Ord. Total ten Nominal
July, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. Off. Reserves.
1900.. £18,554 7 7£ 6 £11,300 £5,518 £1,741
1901.. 14,583 7 7| 4£ 10,250 2,995 3,079
1902.. '10,414 7 7| 1 7,800 1,873 3,820
19H3.. 17,304 7 7£ Nil 7,100 7,860 6,164
1904.. 21,770 7 7£ 5 10,600 8,661 8,673
1905.. 17,578 7 7} 5 13,200 3,712 9,339
191 >6.. 26,131 7 7j 5 16,780 4,445 14,245
1907.. 35,301 7 7| 5£ 18,210 11,056 20,280
1908.. 44,940 9 9* 9 25,120 7,500 32,600
1909.. 50,183 12J 13 9 31,700 4,500 46,583
1910.. 53,5 6 12} 13 9 31,700 6,601 61,878
In the beginning this was the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre
Co. of Australasia, formed to take over Che patents of the
Dunlop people, along with a few odds and ends of furni-
ture and sundries. The price paid for the goodwill was
£125,000 ; the sundries were thrown in at £lO,OOO. This
total of £135,000 was paid in the following shape:—
Ordinary shares, £70,000; 7£ per cent, noil-cumulative
pref., £20,000; cash, £45,000. The cash and working
capital were provided by the issue of 80,000 7
per cent, cumulative pref. shares. Later on other
trade marks, patents and paper assets were pur-
chased, and the total cost w->s raised from £125,000 to
£151,240. The only amounts written off this very large
item total £13,716, leaving the paper assets now at
£137,524. Included in this l.hpre may he a small amount
of substantial assets, but the total is so small that it may
be disregarded. As for assets which can he felt, or smelt,
or tasted, or fallen over in the dark, the co., instead of
having any reserves, is therefore still short to the
extent of about £70,000. Nobody supposes that, at
this moment, the goodwill of the Dunlop business
is not valuable. But nobody knows how long it
will be valuabl If a co. had had a patent for making
solid rubber t.vres, it might have reckoned the thing
worth a lot of money until Dr. Dunlop brought out his
little idea. And, though nobody knolvs what the next
thing will be, there may be a next thing which will put
the Dunlop nose out of joint just as thoroughly as a few
years ago Dunlop put the other fellow's nose out. For
which reason the co. can’t consider its capital safe until
the paper assets have been replaced by something' that
will fetch 20s. in the £ or thereabouts, even if the patent
rights do meet with an accident.
As mentioned previously, the capital was
originally £170,000, and the name of the concern was the
Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. But the co. was blessed
with a tremendous lot of hustle, and it wasn’t long in
seeing that there isn’t much sense in hopping on one leg
if you’ve got two to run with. So more capital was got
in, and the other leg was equipped for the race. Tne
capital is now, therefore, £278,000; 88,000 more cumu-
lative pref. shares have been issued, making the total
168,000, and another 20,000 ordinaries (total 90,000): the
7J per cent, non-cumulative prefs. stand at the old 20,000.
But these ordinaries, issued in the first place to
the promoters and vendors, are not the usual sort of
ordinary. It is true the prefs. have first bite ; but
after they have bitten respectively 7 and 7£ per
cent., ordinaries feed on up to 9 percent. The latter
stop there; the prefs. go on. It takes £BlOO to
give the ordinaries their meal. Thus, after the prefs.
have had their 7 and 7£ per cent., totalling
£13,260, the co. must have made profits in excess of
another £BlOO before the prefs. can get a further
mouthful. Now it is proposed to issue another 12,000
cumulative prefs. For some time the ordinaries
had a pretty poor time, on the whole ; latterly, they
have had their full 9 percent., and there has been a nice
bit over as a bonus for the pref. people. Tne profits
have been increasing rapidly. For the pist 12 months,
after writing £l5OO off freeholds and £5lOl off plant, etc.,
there was enough to pay 20J percent, tonon-cum. prefs.,
20 per cent, to cum. prefs., and 9 per cent, to ordinaries.
Or, as the first table shows, there was a surplus net profit
of £15,295 after paying the divs. that actually were paid.
It is a splendid showing. Whether the lay-by is any too
large depends upon the view one takes of the future of
the business. Ordinarily it wouldn’t be regarded as
enough to put by considering the extent and nature of
the paper assets ; hut whether the Dunlop patents are in
a special cla-s is a matter upon which one wouldn’t get
enlightened even if he studied the accounts till he km w
the tail of every 9 and was on terms of intimacy with
every cipher.
* * *
The Farmers’ Co operative Association op
Canterbury (M.L.): —
Unex-
plained
Addi-
Writ- tions
Visible ten to Re- Re-
Protits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves, serves.
May, £ £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 16,459 lOp.c. = 6674 7,164 260 39.364
1901. .14,169 9£ „ ~5799 6,207 258 843 33,112
1902.. 8,091 9 ~ ~ 5859 5,188 1535 777 29,398
1903.. 16,632 9J „ ~ 6185 7,240 466 250 32,389
1904.. 9 „ ~ 5868 6,788 1548 31,932
J uly,
1905.. 22.539 8J ~ „ 6560 11,039 590 93 36,375
1906.. 22.035 10 „ ~ 6606 10,148 949 113 40.820
1907.. 10 „ ~ 7126 11,867 621 1,299 49,536
1908.. 26.769 9 „ „ 9250 11,825 1364 11,297 65,153
New share premiums, £233 65,386
Total Div.
and Bonus.
1909. 9 F °' Qn/' } 28,124 1863 67,991
New share premiums, £167 68,158
1910.. 38. 9^' 7 1471 ~ 7
It is a most unsatisfactory why of putting things ; but
the management evidently intends that matters shall be
left in a mist. The total amountof thedividend for 1908-9
can’t be even approximately arrived at, because a large
sum of new capital was got in during the year, and
there is nothing to show the period for which this new
capital had its reward. And as the management simply
lumps dividend and purchasers’ bonus together, it has to
be left in that unsatisfactory state. For the past year
the dividend will amount to about £17,000 ; but the total
of the 4 per cent, bonus to be paid to purchasers who are
also shareholders, and of the 30 per cent, refund which is
to be allowed on certain commissions, can’t be even
hinted at. All that can be said is that the co. has usually
had enough profit to pay out the dividend and
bonuses without encroaching on its reserves. The
reserves, as shown in the published accounts, are,
by the way, a trifle larger than those shown in the table
printed above. That is because some time back the co.
bought Ingram and Co.’s business at Oxford, and, to
make the accounts square, had to drop in among the
assets £lOOO for goodwill and £791 for amalgamation
exes. In the table these paper items have not been re-
garded as assets ; and the co. itself is gradually wiping
them out by writing off profits. The sooner they go the
better the accounts will look.
The more important movements are shown
hereunder:—
1901. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. .. £611,988 £113,389 £221,102 £227,721
Deposits .. 74,199 173,250 196,171 183,901
Overdraft .. Nil 32,460 Nil Nil
Other liabilities 81,611 113,102 111,972 142 166
Advances .. 99,523 157,449 219,504 238,110
Stock .. .. 81,066 176,165 157,394 151,631
Freeholds, etc,. 33,824 72,618 76,767 87,274
Book debts .. 30,883 91,632 99,069 103,497
Cash .. .. 11,947 Nil 56,723 62,231
There are a few other assets of little consequence—furni-
ture, fittings, and the like. The co. has rushed ahead at
a great rate. Deposits and other liabilities now amount
to 1326,067, as against £155,810 in 1901. Yet,
notwithstanding that rapid growth of debt, the
security ought to be a good deal better now
than it was in 1901. Then, for every £1 which the share-
holders had in the business, the public had £1 13s. ; now,
for every £1 of the shareholders’ money, the public has
only £1 2s. at risk. That means not only better protec-
tion for the depositors and other creditors, but also less
risk for the shareholders—though it also means less profit
for the latter. Against the £183,901 of deposits and
(.he other liabilities the co held £62,231 at the
date of the balance. It isn’t a large holding of
liquid assets ; but it has to be remembered that all the
deposits are fixed—the bulk of them for five years. Also,
no doubt the depositors are mostly shareholders (for
this isn’t the usual small-farmer co-op. concern); and
that circumstance would stop the depositor rushing to
the office with a demand for his money on the fir*t vague
hint of trouble. It is a business with a good deal of rislf
about it, certainly ; for instance, practically all the heavy
advances have been made against stock, grain, etc., in-
cluding shipments, and there are often sudden changes
in the markets for those goods. But both the paid capital
and accumulated profits are now so very substantial that
something very stunning would have to happen to
jeopardise the capital, let alone the deposits.
* * * *
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne)
Nominal
July, Loss. Reserves.
1898.. £7307 £8942
189.. 5649 3293
1900.. 3061 232
Deficit.
1901 .. 2235 2003
1902.. 1585 3588
1903.. 1472 5060
July, Loss. Deficit.
1904.. £2381 £7,441
1905. . 3120 10,561
1906.. 3033 13,594
1907.. 2941 16,535
1908.. 8565 25,100
1909.. 1385 26,485
1910.. 9913 36,398
In 1898 the reserves were nominally £8942 ; now the deficit
is nominally £36,398. Meantime the total debts have
been reduced from £339,205 to £180,266, and the total
ass ts from £579,636 to £375,351- That is to sav.it has
taken £204.279 of assets to pay off £158,939 of debt. The
position is shown here in more detail:—
1898. 1909. 1910.
Fixed deposits ..£251,155 £169,821 £163 779
Mortjrajres .. .. 79.77 L 18,687 11,235
Other liabilities .. 8,279 5,028 5,252
Total debts .. .. 339,205 193,536 180,266
Advances ... .. 558,773 387,933 364,871
Pivments in arrear .. 19,734 10,351 10,234
Other assets .. .. 1,129 256 252
Total assets .. .. 579,636 398,540 375,357
There thus remains £180,266 of debt to pay off, and
£375,357 of assets to do it with. If £204,279 has paid off
£158,939, then £375,357 should pay off £292,000, which
would mean that the society' would be able to
pay off all its debts and have £112,000 over. But
in a matter like this the good old rule of three
doesn’t always hold. In particular, it usually happens
that the best and most saleable properties {to first, and
the dregs have to be trot rid of at an alarming sacrifice.
No doubt in that respect things may not be as bad as
usual in Victoria, because there has been a big improve-
ment in the property market there during the last few
years. Last y'ear’s results don’t, however, hold out much
hope that things will be anywhere near as good as
the average of the past 12 years. Altogether in the 12
months £13,270 was got rid of, and it took no less than
£23,183 of assets to shift that much liability’. If the
balance of the assets can be got rid of at only that rate,
then they will leave no more than about £34,000 after
paying off present liabilities. The paid capital is
£231,490; but it doesn’t look from the foregoing as
though very' much of it is intact. One supplementary
trouble is that the income doesn’t pay exes, (including
rates and taxes), wherefore last year £B2B had to be added
to the deficit on that account. Consequently', though
values may improve as time goes on, it isn’t all gain to
wait, apart even from the loss of interest on capital.
* * * *
The Maryborough Co-operative Dairy Co.
(Q.):-
Bon us
to Writ-
Divs. and Sup- ten Re-
Profit. Tax. pliers. Off. serves.
June, 1904.. £276 £59
Dec., 1904.. 700 8 p.c. = £76 683
June, 1905.. 953 8 ~ „ 83 £ll6 1437
Dec., 1905.. 247 8 „ ~ 90 119 1475
June, 1906.. 1023 8 „ „ 117 273 £249 1859
Dec., 1906.. 750 8 „ „ 158 291 2160
Loss.
June, 1907.. 220 1940
Profit.
Dee., 1907.. 55 387 1608
June, 1908.. 1925 8 p.c. = 190 315 3028
Loss.
Dec., 1905.. 4 925 2099
Profit.
June, 1909.. 2274 8 p.c. = 215 452 3706
Dec., 19u9.. 998 8 ~ „ 196 394 4114
June, 1910.. 3127 S „ „ 198 700 554 5789
The profit shown in the last line is all right, and the
amount of the dividend is pretty near the mark,
but the amount, of the bonus is a guess; there
will, as usual, have to be a readjustment of
thing# six months lienee. The past term has been
a remarkably profitable one ; but very wisely, instead of
rushing up either the dividend (8 per cent.) or the bonus
to shareholders who are also suppliers (5 per cent, on
their cream cheques), the directors put by £lBOO to the
credit of a special depreciation and replacement account.
The co., besides something for the month’s supplies, still
owes £2037 to the Government on account of money
advanced ; and the balance-sheet would look better with
' that out of the way. A co. that is doing as well as this
one really shouldn’t be leaning against a pretty hard-up
Government.
* * » *
Warwick Butter and Dairying Co. (Queens-
land), which began with a deficit of £329, preliminary
exes. :
Dividend Bonus Written De-
June, Loss. and Tax. toOlients. Off. ficit.
1903.. £lOl Mil - £430
1904.. 273 Nil 703
Profit.
1905.. 73 Nil 630
Reserves
1906.. 2399 8 per cent. = £233 £546 £823 167
1907.. 1830 8 „ ~ 376 898 723
Forfeited capital, £24 .. .. 747
1908.. 2305 8 per cent. = 547 670 769 1066
1909.. 2381 6 „ „ 442 578 806 1621
1910.. 4009 8 ~ „ 695 1261 1107 2667
The amount of the dividend and bonus tax has not been
added to the past year’s figures ; but a small amount of
“ income tax for 1909,” charged to profit and loss, has
been deducted from profits. Also, the reserves include
£7ooto the credit of plant replacement account. Pro-
bably this represents depreciation, in addition to the
amount written off ; and no doubt it will disappear later
on. The co. has two butter factories, one at Warwick
and the other at Allora, besides a recently-opened cheese
factory at Texas ; and the whole lot are free from debt.
All that the co. owed on June 30 was £3138, chiefly for
the previous month’s supplies ; and it hud £4139 in cash
balances, besides stocks and book debts—the latter small.
The co.’s accounts read remarkably well.
* * * *
“ Issued for public information only ; shares
fully subscribed.” The prospectus of the City and
Suburban Parcel Delivery-Bryce, Ltd., wears 'that feather
in its hat in Brisbane. There is some doubt whether
Brisbane, for its part, shouldn’t be wearing stravys in its
hajr. The capital is £40,000, of which £27,000 is now
issued. Of the 27,000 shares, the vendors take 14,000;
also they collar £7OOO cash, leaving theco. with £6OOO, less
brokerage, etc. The £7OOO cash is for plant; the
14,000 shares are for the goodwill of “ the well-known
business of the City and Suburban Parcel Delivery-
Bryce Co., Ltd.” Qf bourse there is the usual talk about
motor vehicles to be bought with what is left of the £6OOO
and the unissued capital. The position is that the £7OOO
worth of plant (assuming it is worth so much), together
with whatever is left of the £6OOO, will have to pay in-
terest on £27,000. Therefore any competitor who only
wants a return on the capital he actually puts into plant,
etc., would get a better return on his money if he did
less than half as well as this co. That, however, is the
risk which every co. takes that starts with a lot of capital
represented only by paper. In this case there is the
further bad feature that the particulars given in the
prospectus are ridiculously inadequate.
* * * #
When he makes his few remarks about
Socialism, the financial man often has his tongue in his
cheek. The other day the Australian Alliance Assur-
ance Co. had its annual meeting in Melbourne. The
chairman complained of the State doing insurance
business in Maoriland :—“One undesirable feature of i his
competition was that the Government paid a consider-
able proportion of its revenue to Lloyd’s underwriters
for re-insurance, so thuf, instead of keeping the money in
the country, they were actually sending it to a body of
individual underwriters, who paid no license fees,’fire
brigade charges, or officials in the Dominion.” Thisuas
the remark of the chairman of a co. which had lately s< Id
itself, lock, stock ami barrel, to a foreign co., whose
assets are practically all on'the other side of the world,
and whose profits are scattered in the same remote place.
Apparently it is a fair thing for the Alliance to send its
money out of the country ; but when a Government does
the same thing, because the cantankerous local cos. won’t
take any of its re-insurance business, the same Alliance is
horrified.
* * * *
When, a few years ago, the Zinc Corporation
was left a. dismantled hulk after its disastrous experi-
ments in zinc flotation, it had one stick left standing-
the Elmore flotation process. The Corporation nailed its
colors to this stump of a mast, set its teeth hard, and
awaited the worst. But just when everything looked
hopeless, the Corporation was fortunate enough to secure
the services of an engineer who knew how to turn defeat
into victory, and the battered old hulk was taken safely
into port. For some time past the Corporation has been
netting big profits out of the treatment of its tailings,
because the application of the Elmore process had been
improved out of sight. This success was made on Block
10 tailings, which were high in zinc, and the treatment of
slimes was not essential to profit-making. Now this rich
dump of tailings has come almost to an end, and for
some time past has been eked out with British tailings
(also fairly rich in silver and zinc) in order to'allow the
Corporation time to make experiments. There were
no more tailings as rich as those from Block 10’s old
mill dump, and, worse still, the tailings purchased from
the British and other mines contained a large percentage
of slimes. With a lower grade of “ heads,” the question


BETTINOTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD,,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[t
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detpnators
Cartridges
of increased capacity came in, and the necessity for treat-
ing slimes caused the Corporation’s management to look
for something to supplement the Elmore process.
There is in Broken Hill only one flotation
process that seems to have an equal relish for all sorts of
material put into its maw, and that is the Minerals
Separation process, for years past in work at the Sulphide
Corporation’s Central mine. This process was experi-
mented with by the Zinc Corporation years ago when it
had its wretched little plant on the British mine, and for
some unexplained reason it was rejected as unsuitable.
Now the Zinc Corporation has gone back on its tracks
and installed this process as an auxiliary to the Elmore
process, at its big works in Broken Hill. One unit, con-
sisting of eight pans, has been erected, and should in-
crease the total capacity of the plant to about 30,000 tons
of tailings per month. Whether the Minerals Separation
process will eventually oust the Elmore machines is a
question which Mr. Loring will not discuss at present.
From a man in Europe who ought to know
what’s what in connection with zinc: “Spelter is firm
and is selling up to £23. The published market quotes
don’t mean much, as a rule. They are usually metal
, brokers’ prices, and relate to purely gambling offers ; in
the majority of cases the men haven’t the slightest in-
tention or expectation of doing business. The metal
brokers hate the Zinc Convention like poison, and
are doing what they can to prevent its renewal;
but the men who are in it have so much
at stake that it will go through, I think. It must have
been a great help to Broken Hill; so pray hard for its re-
newal. Unless an absolutely new process is evolved the
market is not likely to drop very low. The bulk of the
value in spelter is due to the costly and highly technical
work involved in producing it; and wages and coal have
risen so in Silesia, Rhineland and Belgium during the last
few years that, whereas some of them could formerly run
with spelter at £l7 10s., I doubt if £l9 would cover them
now. The electric furnace (not electrolysis) seems to be
coming. It is already largely in use for iron, steel, ferro-
manganese, ferro-silicon, tungsten, chrome, etc., and its
application to zinc seems to be only a matter of time.”
* * * *
The Harden (N.S.W.), though still feeling very
unwell, hopes to be able to potter around and make a hit
more than a living in a month or so. Lately the returns
have been verv poor, because, in order to find out the
limits of the payable ore, the co. has b en winzing as
cl >se to the edge of the payable values as possible. This
work is nearly finished; and for the next, few months
there should he a profit of from £506 to £SOO. But the
(mure, beyond those few months, is still very grey. The
bottom level continues almost a blank, and the co.
nasn’t yet the means to risk a still lower level.
* * * *
Kyloe (N.S.W.) reports will he worth watching
for the next few weeks. The shaft is down to a new level
(No. 5), and a start has been made to reach the lode. In
cutting the ch mtber the country seemed to be
changing, and some people then expected the lode ;
and it shouldn’t be far off, anyhow. It has hitherto been
going down in a wave; so no estimate of the driving
necessary to reach it can be made. Meantime the co. is
busy bagging and shipping prill ore to keep the pot boil-
ing while the furnace is closed down.
# * * *
The Welcome Stranger, Wyalong (N.S.W.),
the bonanza of the field in the early days, but which has
been under a cloud during recent years, is again coming
to the front as a gold-producer. Some years ago the pro-
perty was taken over on tribute by a party of four, includ-
ing \V. Griffiths, a shareholder and late manager, with the
result that, after paying expenses, the party has for the
period stated divided £l2OO. The last little parcel taken
from a vein at the 240 ft. yielded 15oz. Bdwt. per ton. The
shoot of stone looks good for several more crushings ; the
trouble is it takes so long to rake a crushing together.
* * -Jr *
A private cable from London says the Great
Cobar (N.S. VV.) report has at last been issued there, and
adds th it it might almost as well not have been issued at
all for all the color there is in it. Among the things that
it. would be really interesting to have precise information
about is the look of the Oliesney workings. In some
quarters very gloomy things are said about the state of
that mine.
Besides being the State’s biggest copper pro-
ducer, Great Cobar is also now one of the largest gold
producers, for its blister contains from 4oz. to soz. of
gold per ton. This is largely due to the fact that Collar
is smelting ore from at least four different mines, and is
also buying small rich lots from outsiders. The latest
return for a run of four weeks was 580 tons copper,
28060 z. gold and 10,8930’z. silver. This shows a reduction
of 39 tons blister compared with thh August return ;
but the metal contents of matte held over in-
creased by 41 tons copper, so the output is main-
taining an average of 600 tons blister copper per
month. Both Mount Morgan and Great Fitzroy
(Q.) produce more gold compared with the output of red
metal; and the heavy losses sustained by Fitzroy are a
warning not to consider the gold value associated with
the red metal as profit. Copper-gold separation and
copper-refining is a highly technical and rather expensive
business.
* *- •-* *
The Westralian output for September shows a
fair advance. The Perseverance assisted materially, but
the outback mines came up well, and even further ad-
vances should show towards the close of the year. Here
are the monthly yields for this year and last: —
1909. 1910.
Oz. Oz.
January .. .. 132,286 127,350
February .. 132,116 111,035
March .. .. 126,993 117,475
April .. .. 137,763 125,247
May .. .. 129,408 * 127,783
June .. .. 132,501 120,688
Julv .. .. 138,118 123,790
August .. .. 136,617 116,401
September .. 144,912 124,231
October .. .. 131,299
November .. 133,164
December .. 134,080
* * * *
Cables follow one another to London relating
to developments in the bottom levels of the Great Fin-
gall (W.A.). Briefly put, the management claims 13ft.
4in. of ore, worth 40s. fid.; and, of the total width, 7ft. is
valued at 70s. fid. per ton. The development is a good
one, but the cost of getting the ore out of a winze some
distance from the ordinary workings is, so far, not calcu-
lated. There has been something like 600 ft. of a blank
in the Fingall ore, and the prospecting work has been
done in a way that will necessarily mean a lot of opening
up before any great body of ore can be recovered. Hence
the hesitation of the market to take much notice of the
development. The cables are, nevertheless,' coming in
handily to cov r up the failure of the Tnrkwa, the West
African show into which much good Fingall m ney was
placed last year on the apparently-mistaken assumption
that there were some millions of tons of ore in sight.
* * * *
The Oroya-Links (the amalgamation of the
Brown Hill, the Kalgoorlie Amalgamated and the Golden
Link) is in a bad way owing to want of develop,
ment and the allegedly unexpected way in which
the ore of the Oroya-Brown Hill has petered out.
The whole burden of the immense share list
is now th own on the Link leases, and the effort
to supply 400 tons a day is too exhausting. The London
promoters ml holders of the big wads of scrip have been
calling out for a new manager, hut the job isn’t being
rushed. The only feasible plan is for 12 months’ develop-
ment work to be done, the output being reduced mean-
while to reasonable limits. London will have to knuckle
to this sooner or later.
* * * *
An entirely new brand of expert has arrived at
Kanowna with a plant to treat the pug left by the
alluvial diggers of the Sacred Nugget days. This man
paid his own passage money, put up some of the capital
for the plant, and offers no flotation shares, and asks for
no public concessions. To an astonished audience of
Kanowna natives, the other day, he proved the pug was
four times more valuable after treatment than the assay
showed it to be before treatment; and Kanowna is now
chiefly occupied in trying to solve the mystery.
* * * *
Two Coolgardie boys, out hunting rabbits, fol-
lowed the fur to a burrow, and, putting in their hands,
pulled out some plums in the shape of gold ore worth a
few pounds sterling. A pegging-out rush set in, but so
far it is under discussion whether the rabbit tunnelled
into a reef or took the samples home for its young ones
to play with.
* * * *
“The Battler”: The,carelessness with which
mine explosives are handled in Westralia gives the miner
newly arrived from t’other side the jumps. The Mines
Regulation Act prescribes the manner in which fracteur
shall be stowed and handled ; but the rules are as often
as not disregarded, except, perhaps, in the case of the
big mines of the Golden Mile. One pretty big mine I ken
of on an outlying field is notorious for the “plugs” that
are thrown casually behind legs and stulls, or left on
ledges of ground. Unused pings ought to be carried
back to the magazine ; but it’s, “ What’s the use—it will
be wanted presently!” And presently it is forgotten,
and is only discovered when a miner is pulling things
about to make a comfortable resting-place at crib-tune.
Then he dislodges a capped “primer.” Looking darkly
and suspiciously at his mates, he mutters, “ Men ought,er
be sent up fer leavin’ stuff bangin’ round like this.” See
Billjim climbing down a winze into a stope. He is sway-
ing about on a chain ladder and bumping against the
wall. Round his neck are a dozen fuses, with detonators
attached; inside his shirt are three packets (151 b.) of
gelignite. Two other packets are dangling on a couple
of finders which he manages to spare from the task of
supporting himself on the ladder. Twenty feet from the
bottom the two packets get heavy, so Billjim sings out to
his mate below, “Collar the-e, Jack,” and the chained
lightning is sent hurtling down the stope. The stuff does
not explode, but there are always interesting possibili-
ties. „
-» * * *
The Flag-Harbor View float (W.A.) is now
assuming shape. Somehow, though the prospects were
good enough to command the attention of any mining
man, the Melbourne and Sydney markets have taken a
good deal of rousing; but Westralians who know the
field came in, and the othersiders then began to wake
up. A Sydney syndicate has come along with a tempting
offer to purchase the tailings (13,000 tons), and is pre-
pared to put up a large deposit; and, further, to erect at
its own expense a new wet-process plant on the field.
This syndicate will give the new co. an option of pur-
chase of the plant on liberal terms, and will guarantee 70
per cent, ext raction. This materially enhances the value
of the Flag proposition.
* * * w
Walhalla (Vic.) peeped through keyholes last
week when Long Tunnel Anderson pirouetted into the
main street with Chairman Rowe and Secretary Dawson.
Cohen’s reef had been cut at 3325 ft,., assuring a continu-
ance of three billets for a bit longer. True, 16 inches
do-sn’t seem much of a reef to jubilate over; but with a
good seam of the old-fashioned gold showing in the l uni-
nations it, was worth while dancing a fandango. The
st rike happens at the right moment. Stopes in the Long
Tunnel have been creeping up into the levels above, and
yields don’t reach the old notch by a long way. So there
has been a sick feeling in the Board room’s stomach,
occasioned by the dread thought, that the co.’s venturing
to the deepest point at Walhalla might break up the
happy fortnightly party. The odd coincidence is that
when’ Rowe, in pure joy, donned his spring suit, Peter
Finlayson, at the Extended, had to go into crape. This
was because the first crushing by the Extended of 100 tons
from the North Tunnel Consols shaft panned out exactly
7oz. Is it to be a case of “ here ended the 1 st lesson,”
with the field left to the Long Tiinneli es? The Bulletin
always warned Peter Finlayson and his friends against
the belief that the North Tunnel was to help them out of
the ditch. But it never imagined that the first, trial lot
of stuff sent to the battery wouldn’t be better than the
quartz on Stringer’s Creek road. *
Jumbunna coal people (Vic.) cut up rough
over the Powlett, State mine. Just as diva, are in sight,
Peter Mcßride flips the froth off their pewter. They
think it is a low-down trick for Stanley Hunter’s
satellites of the Mines Department to go into the high-
ways as bagmen, and push the sale of Powlett slack
at 6s. per ton. That the consumer benefits doesn[t enter
into the consideration of ex-Railway Commissioner
Murray, who now directs affairs at Jumbunna. Nor
does Murray push to the front the slab of truth that
Jumbunna, like Outtrim, for long years was a recipient
of State bounty in the form, first, of a special allowance
for the coal supplied to the State railways ; and, next, in
the way of a concession in freight—made up to the rail-
ways year in and year out by the Treasury. It
is always the petted kid that yells the most when
the baby is born. No one has heard that Jumbunna isn’t
t,o be as well treated by the State in the future as hereto-
fore. Why, then, should Murray begrudge the public
getting back a little of its own in the form of cheap
slack? What doesn’t fit in with the Railway Depart-
ment’s intention to use all the Victorian coal available
is its big purchases of Newcastle. These figures, as to
railway supplies, tell a tale :
Powlett Other Vic. Newcastle
Coal. Coal. Coal.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
July .. .. 11,416 4,705 37,895
August .. ..‘ 18,770 5,291 39,412
September .. 19,534 4,808 30,797
Total .. 49,720 14,804 108,104
Powlett says it can give Tait 1700 tons a day, but that
Tait won’t take more than 800 tons.
* * * *
Several consignments of machinery for the
Hampden smelting plant, Cloncurry (Q.), have arrived
at the mine, and with decent luck the plant should be
completed about the end of the year. The newly-opened
Cloncurry-Elliott railway is under dual control, the first
portion under the Railway Department and the latter
part under the Construction branch ; and as these two
bodies do hot appear to be pulling together well, things
are shaping for a block. Elliott is now a large producer,
and the traffic is necessarily considerable. To hot boxes
and failure of engines, etc., have been attributed the delays
so far; but the matter is a grave one for the district, and
the sooner the whole length of line is in the hands of the
permanent department the better. Despite delays in the
delivery of material, etc., the Elliott has gone along
steadily since commencement of production. The
550 ft. level promises a big lode, and new sections are
being opened up with a promising outlook. The furnaces
are being charged with the ore as it comes from the
various stopes without picking, and the stopes look good.
The question that remains is what is it going to cost to
produce copper at Mount Elliott? Wages are high, timber
scarce and the mine a long distance from seaport.
■* * * *
Mount Elliott reports 525 tons blister, together
with 25 tons of copper in matte, from 4415 tons ore. This
indicates an average of 12 p.c., or practically eight, tons
of ore per ton of copper. A while hack, during a previous
smelting campaign, working costs stood at £3 18s. 3d.
per ton of ore ; hut with the rails at the door and other
changes, these are certain to have been much reduced.
Taking copper at £5O, 550 tons of the metal would be
worth £27,500. Gold and silver values are not, high ; and
after the cost of electrolytic refitting is paid for, there
can be very little extra profit from that source. It ntav
he reasonable to value the return for September at
£31.000 (gross value), on which £14,000 profit would seem
to he a very.liberal estimate at the start of smelting
operations.
* * -4 *
Promising developments have occurred in the
Ivanhoe and Black Rock mines belonging to the much-
reconstructed Stannarv Hills Co. (N.Q.): but in view of
the pat.ohy nature of rhe ore bodies previously worked,
it is unwise to build high hopes. There has been some
talk of moving the mil) from Rocky Bluff to the neigh-
borhood of the mines ; hut under present conditions
such a step qannot be recommended. Transport to the
present mill costs 2s. 3d. ; to the proposed new site it
would still cost about 6d. One-and-nitippence is worth
saving, no doubt; but it would take a lot of one-and-
ninepences to wipe out the cost of removal, and the
question is, Are the one-and-ninepences there ? It was a
mistake—one of a thousand—to erect the mill on the
present site; but the co. would need to have con-
siderably more proved ore reserves than it has
at present to warrant the costly job of moving an old
30-head mill in to the mines. In the past, the Stannary
people have based their plans on the assumption that
they had unlimited quantities of low-grade ore which
only needed reduced costs ; but the experience in N.Q.
is that-such ore bodies are rare, and that what one can
more reasonably expect are irregular bodies, compara-
tively limited in extent, but of fair tin value (3 per cent,
or over). Unfortunately, they are costly to operate, as
so much dead work has to be done to reach them.
* * * *
The Herberton-Irvinebank district of North
Queensland feels very limp. The old Vulcan certainly
looks up a bit; considerable quantities of low-grade ore
have been opened up, but nothing of much value has
been located in the recent development campaign.
The most promising properties around Herberton now
are the Mount Carbine wolfram mines and the North
Australian tin mine, both owned by the Irvinebank Co.
At the Carbine a series of quartz formations containing
good wolfram values are being opened up, and, at present
prices, should be highly profitable. A 10-head mill is now
well under way, and should start about the beginning of
next year. At the North Australian good bodies of milling
ore occur, in addition to a rich shoot which is being
worked in the neighborhood of Casey’s old lode. Prepar-
ations are being' made to erect a mill here also. In the
country near Cassowary Creek several small rich shoots
are being opened up, notably at the Stella mine (bought
by the Irvinebank Co.) and the Pompeii (now under
option to the same crowd).
* * * *
Mount Morgan (Q.) is still experiencing trouble
with its converter and smelting plant, and there is talk
of helping the monthly returns by shipping matte to
Port Kembla as a temporary expedient. It is comfoi ting
to reflect that the Many Peaks fluxing ore averaged over
2J per cent, copper, and the big co. will reap much of the
benefit of this when it has got through the change-over
difficulties.
* * * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) turns the light on its return
for September, and can only show a poor working profit
of £553. Its revenue was £11,345, and working expenses
£10,792. The metal extraction was 195 tons copper,
840 oz. gold, and 54040 z. silver from 6318 tons ore, which
gives an average of practically 8 per cent, copper and
2Jdwt. gold, worth (with copper at £5O) approximately
£2 per ton. Fitzro.v reckons assay values at 37 per cent,
copper and 2’B6dwt., worth in All 495. ; but the furnace
only recovered 80 per cent, of those values, so even the
profit on working account is less than 2s. per ton, which
is probably not enough to pay incidentals.
, * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, crushed
4780 tons for £9353, an average of £1 18s. Bd. It also
cyanided 3800 tons of tailings for £2050, making a total
of £11,403. The profit was £3305, which is an improve-
ment on £1912 for August. Development work on No.
20 level is being anxiously watched. Brilliant Extended
is the only mine on the Brilliant reef that is able to sport
an occasional dividend, for ihe Brilliant P. O. lias been
getting its revenue from theStockhOlm. The latter gave
£4715 a few days since from 1179 tons of stone ; but the
yield included probably £lOOO worth of gold from a clean-
up of the plates. The New Brilliant Freehold also gets
its £4102 from 1162 tons of stone (fortnightly return) from
the Day Dawn extension to the east. Freehold shares are
not now in much request, and the only bit of develop-
ment that relieves a humdrum state of things is the strike
of payable stone at the end of No. 5 hanging-wall branch
reef. The Freehold may be fortunate in having two
reefs, but they both appear to get poor at depth, as shown
by Mills’ United workings. Nevertheless, the latter per-
severing concern is still hammering away at No. 14 in the
hope of finding a big make of payable stone.
* * * *
Wallaroo’and Moonta (S.A.) will soon know
what t e deeps are like, for Taylor’s shaft at Wallaroo is
down 2475 ft., and a level has been started at 2310 ft. A
connecting rise up to the 2190 ft. level is also in progress.
Wallaroo and Moonta doesn't fill its reports with assays,
but shareholders will expect to get some information
about the quality of the ore from the deepest level.
* * * *
Tasmania gold mine (Tas.) came more into favor
when it was known that the deepest level looked more
promising than the stopes in the next levels above* But
the Sept, return of £9735 from 6730 tons of quarpz and
accumulated by-products damps any expectation of a
substantial profit. The management doesn’t mention
such a sordid thing as profit; but the milling average of
roughly £1 per ton of stone (16630 z. from 6730 tons), and
the hopelessly inadequate return of 740 z. from the
cyaniding of 2480 tons of tailings, excuses its silence.
*** * ;
The very latest in tin mines is the Stanley
Reward (Tas.). Later still is the visit paid by two
directors and the legal manager to see if the Stanley Re-
ward is what it has been cracked up to be. The story is
told by these eminent people that the lode has been sunk
on 20ft. in the ore body. What were the impressions of
the two directors and the one legal manager as to the
ore body is not divulged ; but Mr. Eric Moore is to pros-
pect farther in that direction. The alluvial flats were
next inspected. Seeing all that had come out of the
lode, it is nothing dreadful to learn that the shafts were
full of water. They often are when directors appear on
the scene. So the two directors and the legal manager
had to rely on samples from the headings. These gave
61b. of tin to the cubic yard, while old workings gave
121 b. per cubic yard, without the overburden occasioning
a second thought. Hence the shareholders have nil as
far as the average value of the ore goes, and a plus
in the matter of values from the headings. To com-
plete the sum, the result should work out at a
plus all round. But there is a supplementary minus.
The longest paragraph in the report of the directors
deals with the shortcomings of the State in various ways.
This is good enough for a political stump speech; but
what the shareholder in the Stanley Reward wants to
know is why he has paid the exes, of the directors and
the legal manager to the Stanley Reward only to learn
a bit about the headings and nothing about the bottom
of the claim.
* * * *
From the North : “ Kulamadau (B. 29/9/’10).
There is no visible danger of any thing in the way of a
general collapse in the mine. One stope (No. 3 north) is
in a had way ; but the rest are all right. And the mine
never had more stopes available. At present the co. is
stuping, or is ready to stope, over the No. 4 south lev 1,
No. 4 north, No. 3 north and south, and No. 2 north ;
and No. 1 is about to he opened up. The property
speaks for itself as follows: It has wiped off
an overdraft of nearly £7OOO, opened up the mine
without the assistance of calls, atid lias now a
credit of nearly £6OOO. There is enough ore in
sight to keep the mills going for the next two years, and
when the new shaft, bottoms, about March, there should
be no difficulty in keeping six mills going on ore. It. may
be mentioned that the directors have been through the
mill, and if dividends are shortly recommenced, the share-
holders may rest assured that the matter has been well
thought over. Anyhow, before any dividends are de-
clared the Board intends to put away £4OOO or £5OOO to
reserve fund.”
* * * *
May Brothers, the machinery makers, are quit-
ting Gavvler (S.A.) for Port Adelaide. The Mays, who
were an offshoot from the Martins, stuck to the northern
township in the belief that wages in the country would
keep lower than w gesin the city—though Heaven only
knows why it ever should be so. The S. Aus. farmer
wants men so hadlv, however, that there is no cheap
country labor left; wherefore the Maysdecide to go down
to the coast to save railway freight.
Salt stands second to copper now among the
mineral products of S. Aus. Some years gold beats it,
but 011 the average salt wins. For the past three years
the output totalled 201,407 tons, reckoned (crude) at 10s.
per ton ; and the current year’s output will be about
60,000 tons.
No. 2 S. Great Eastern, Gympie(Q.), isof interest
just now because the main shaft is down 1591 ft., and after
it has been sunk to the required depth a lone crosscut
will be run out to cut the Inglewood formation. This
make is, at about '2oooft. vertical, producing payable
stone for the Scottish G.vmpie, which has the field’s
largest output (from 6000 to 7000 tons per month),
and is one of the most cheaply-worked shows in the
State. The work will mean heavy expense, but there is a
reserve fund, and the last crushing of 850 tons returned
753nz.; so finances ought to be solid. The Power reef at
1250 ft. and 1190 ft. levels has produced some good stone
lately, and a leader about 3in. thick is also being worked
between No. 2 and No. 3 reefs.
* * * *
.Tack G. : Quite sound—if you must go to a
foreign office which owns nothing worth mentioning in
Australia, and lives here for the purpose of making divi-
dends and sending them out of the country... .Share-
holder : The Harden Future ? Don’t think it has 0ne....
Terence : Rubbish ! Every patent-item, included asjan
asset in a balance-sheet, ought to be written off hard.
For, at the best, a patent isn’t a freehold ; it’s only a sort
of short-term lease.
♦ •* * * ,
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. I-empriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferrodor” Patnt.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS& CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop val ves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using B ll’s
Asbestos “ Belli te" Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
arid Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipes and boilers with Bell’s Ashes os
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydney.* #
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal rffles.. has
been greatlvimproved.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made bv any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilflev Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
* * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its, high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* * * *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, London,
of 23/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Limited : “ There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz., that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness "the ‘Twelve
Option ’ contract lately placed on the market.”*
* * * *
Increased capacity, durability and economy are
the points which are winning favor for WOOD PIPE. Its
capacity is 15 per cent, to 20 per cent, greater than that
of metal pipe of similar size, while for durability and
economy the comparison is equally in its favor. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [3
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb, (J. YV. Styles, 20 years ExperUSalesman.)*
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
• •» *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
£ * • J ■» *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 20n
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 meshplAinswort.h’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


Father, Daughter and Baby Boy had
Dreadful Itching Rash —Would
Scratch Till They Bled and Sleep
was Badly Broken—Their Cures
PROVED ECONOMICAL
EASY AND PERMANENT
“My husband has suffered for years
at different times with this distressing
t*ty Slk
complaint—a
burning, irritat-
ing rash on his
I arms, legs and
down the centre
of his back. He
had tried other
remedies but it
j did no good until
I he tried Cuticura
I Ointment. With
the first night’s
use he got more
rest for of course
he always suf-
fered with it
more at night.
He would scratch till the pimples bled.
He persevered with the Cuticura Oint-
ment every night and within a week he
was completely cured. Thanks to Cuti-
cura he has not had any more trouble
of the old complaint.
“My little girl, since vaccination,
always had a rash. On the lower part
of her head and neck would form white
patches. I tried a lot of ointments and
cold cream for this but they never did
much good. She would scratch and
make places bleed but she soon stopped
her scratching after using Cuticura
Ointment for a fortnight. She has had
no return of it. She is five years old.
“My baby boy had teething rash on
his arms, legs and back for six weeks.
It used to keep us both awake all night.
He would keep scratching his little legs
till he really made them bleed. I used to
try different ointments for it. They did
not do much good but since using Cuti-
cura my baby hasn’t suffered any more
with teething rash. It cured him in
about a week. It did not take a whole
box of Cuticura to cure the lot of them.
Mrs. F. Hart, Castle St., Woodbridge,
Suffolk, England, Nov. 20, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns <fc Co., Sydney.
Depots: Australia, R.Towns*Co., Sydney; U.S.A.,
Potter Drus Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
oV\\VO
G
SS
BA
NET
TtRES
e
ap
231
CLARENCE
STREE
SYDNEY
ECS
1\
WHY
STAY
FAT?
613
'fi
When science of-
fers a complete,
positive, safe, lasting and effective cure for
Obesity! It seems a crime nearly, that any
fat woman or man should continue their life
a burden to themselves, and a laughing-
stock for their acquaintances.
"FATCURE”
will reduce your weight by as milch as 5
lbs. a week and, at the same time, it ft ben-
eficial to your general health. No drastic
dieting or killing exercise is required when
this method is used. It is most beneficial
in all cases of weak heart, especially if
fatty degeneration is suspected. A few doses
improves your breathing. Send 2d. stamp
for FREE TRIAL Sample and particulars
Watworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney.
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying: since 1880.
We pay tho Higrhest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. RLEEMO CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street. SYDNEY.
IF YOU SUFFER
FROM
INDIGESTION
HEADACHES-BILIOUSNESS
LANGUOR-PALPITATION
LOSS OF APPETITE
CONSTIPATION OR
AGIOITY,
a course of Mother Seigel’s Syrup
will quickly set you right. It is
a highly-concentrated, vegetable
remedy, having direct action on the
stomach, liver, and bowels. It tones
up and strengthens the stomach,
aids digestion, stimulates the action-
of the liver, gently regulates the
bowels, expels all impurities from
the system, purifies and enriches the
blood, and thus imparts health and
TARE
tone to every part ot
the body. Thou-
sands of men and
women are every
year cured of indigestion, biliousness,
constipation, and other stomach and
liver disorders by the aid of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. Their testimony,
given without fee or reward, affords
convincing proof that Mother Seigel’s
Syrup possesses curative and strength-
ening properties not found in any
other medicine. As a digestive tonic
and stomachic remedy, it has no
equal. Take it daily, after meals.
J
Mrs. Wilson, 121,
Cooper St., Waterloo,
NSW., says:—“ln-
digestion was at the root
of all my troubles.
Often I would no sooner
get a little food down
than up it would come
again. I was worn out
by continual illness,
when I first took Mother
Seigel's Syrup. In less
than two months, I was
fully restored to health
and strength.’’-10/7/09
MOTHER
Seigels Syrup
MADE OF CURATIVE EXTRACTS OF ROOTS.
BARKS AND LEAVES.
“MAN TO MAN’’
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet; will ■be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Free to Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N.S.W., writes: —
It gives trie great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
"My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit \o face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
KendW. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. 41, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. [2
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, TSple Agents for Australia.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
fsd
CP
Big G
Borated Golden seal
Compound
and simple remedy for 1
r Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
at chemists
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
L or mailed on request.
Ihe Emu Chemical Co.
Ciadanati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
The Inky Way.
The first issue of the Maoriland Worker announces
itself is “a paper devo'ed to the interests of industrial
unionism, socialism and progressive politics,” in a
country where there are nearly as many newspapers as
I O U’s. The Shearers’ Union found practically all the
money for the four sample issues—September, October,
November and December ; but an appeal is being made
to various Labor organisations to co-operate with the
sheep barbers to fit up the Worker permanently as a
weekly. The editor (a woman, Miss E. A. Rout) declares
that the advertising columns will be “as clean as the
editorial columns,” and all quack medicine advts. are
warned off.
S. E. O'BRIEN, LABOR CANDIDATE FOR
MIDDLE HARBOR.
The picture herewith is the best the photographer can
do with Steve E. O’Brien, who wants to he M.L.A. for
Mosman and thereabouts in place of Dr. Arthur. S. E.
O’Brien gets into the Inky way on the strength of many
a good paragraph and yarn printed in this paper and
elsewhere underneath or on top of the pen-names “Jack
Shay ” and “ Steve.”
* * * *
About to be started in Brisbane, the Catholic Advo-
cate, price 3d. A prominent cleric, a couple of members
of Parliament, and other followers of the Cardinal are
on the directorate, and a big endeavor will be made to
brew divs. Out of the evergreen shindy between Dill
Moran and Pat Macky.
Thus does the Corryong Courier (Vic.) set an ex-
ample of brotherliness: “In taking up our pen to
defend the London Times from a charge of creating a
false alarm—preferred against it by a Wodonga corres
pendent in this issue—we wish to state at the outset
that we are merely extending the usual journalistic
courtesy, well knowing that the Times would be equally
vigilant, in our interest should ihe integrity of the
Courier he impeached at any time by a London corres-
pondent.”
* * * *
“The Patriarch”: Apropos the first Australian Govern-
ment Printer (B. 22/9/’ 10). It seems most likely that a
prisoner named Hughes was the first to handle types in
Australia. He likewise was an amateur actor, and was
probably ihe primer of Australia’s first playbill, now in
the Mi chell collection.
* •*■ *
“A.V.” : I once worked on a North Queensland country
rag, where the ghost never walked. It was dead and
buried beyond resurrection. The boss was afflicted with
thirst, and any cash he collected was liquidated, which
left, us to bat tie for ourselves. We battled accordingly.
The building had been a chemist's shop, and, later on, a
bank ; and the different signs were still spread over the
face of it, with the result that all sorts of people used to
call in with doctor’s prescriptions and cheques. One
patient was an old lady, who told us there was some-
thing wrong with her works. We promptly diagnosed
the malady, and gave her a box of tablets, cut from the
composiiion we made our rollers with. We didn't see
her again forafortnig.it, and were getting anxious in
case she had overdone it ; but she turned up all smiles
one day and said the tablets had worked wonders, and
she would like to have a box or turn by her in case of
accident. VVe sold her half a sovereign’s worth. It was
a disgraceful rag that week. On another occasion a tin
scratcher came in and showed us a loose, yellow tusk he
wanted extracted. It wasn’t a pleasant job; but we
were thirsty and desperate, and yanked the molar oul
with the office bodkin and pincers. It was ss. for that
operation, Also, he shouted for us. Eventually, trouble
occurred 'over a £lO cheque, which we sent out to gel
cashed by an unreliable messenger, and it took us the
rest of the day to explain matters to the police. Next
morning a man with a ladder and a paint pot came along
and obliterated our signs and our hopes. There was
nothing for it then but to leave, and we left.
* * * *
“ Gallery Man ” : The Lone Hand received honorable
mention recently in S. A us., when the Speaker announced
that the Australian monthly magazine had been so per-
sistently stolen from the Parliamentary Library that, in
future, members could see it only on application to the
librarian.
BOTH SIDES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. George Reid suggested at the London Press Con-
ference banquet that every newspaper should strive to
present both sides of a question. —Cable message.
“ I wish the Press,” said Georgie Reid
(The Press and he were liquoring),
“ Would drop the note of Party Greed,
And stop this bitter bickering ;
For ev’ry No there is a Yes,
As men of open mind confess,
And he’s a statesman true, I trow,
Who drops his scruples down below
And blends opposing statements so—
No-Yes; Yes-No !
“ When I was in a corner tight
And facts had contradicted me,
When foes put up a bitter fight
And nearly had evicted me,
I juggled with the No and Yes,
Until I made them all confess
I was the wiliest in the show,
For all my scruples went below
In blending fact and fiction so—
No-Yes; Yes-No !
“ And thus I rose above my foes,
Until, as High Commissioner,
I lifted up a noble nose
And dropt the politicianer.
So now I do advise the Press :
Be h mdy with the No and*Yes,
And when the winds of battle blow,
And facts agin you grievous grow,
Just lift your voice and warble so—
No-Yes ; Yes-No !"
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE, CHILD REN’S FOOD.”
f
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of Is.S. W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandesdent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEDEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
TWO
TIU OHLY:
TYRE /
BUILT orv
/ciErtqnc
PRINCIPLE s
matt!
the
/ILVERTOWY
r RUBBER P
279 GEORGE / r
/YDHEY
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LAI T LAROLA
Invaluable
for fhe SKIN
in HOT
orCOLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
I’s
Lait
a/ro
Reg?,
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet,
LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
<| The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay-
*> CRACKAJAC K ‘VI
L jmffii j :;fl ; fl
Built to Beat the Band
Cjj The Reeds are made
or Be l Metal, and
are Tun;d to Perfec-
tion.
Crackaiack Mouth ° r s ans
V,i £y MADE in six styles
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds ....... 1/-
Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
i When Mosquitoes annoy you
k remember how useful, either for pre-
> venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antisepticaily cleansing their
i bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseased "
Sold by all'Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C.Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
morris's'
IMPERIAL ,
FVF "*'
OINTMENT
CUBES
Transformations, Puffs,
Pin Curls, Switches,
Coils, Plaits, Fringes
KEPT IX STOCK AND MADE TO ORDER,.
Only the Best European Hair used In the
manufacture of our Goods.
WE DO NOT USE ASIATIC HAIR rm
We receive by every mail from London and
Paris the Latest Hair Frames and Novelties.
MADAME” LEIGH,
Ladies’ Hairdresser, Hair & Skin Specialist,
23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Send in your Application /
NOW. *'
Absolutely FREE
MPIOiV
&
(Drawn from Photo)
“ The
Champion
Senior
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-.
you the Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do you see our reason Now .
We will send one of our “Champion Senior” Phonographs Free of any charge
whatever to any respectable and approved person applying if you agree to give a practical de-
monstration among your friends and comply with the conditions we send in response to
your application, in respect to the distributing of our Circulars and Price Lists, and
the use of our Records. &c. Full particulars of our method of Free Distribution sent
to each applicant. Write at once to
Anglo-Australian Importing Co.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR—YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono-
graphs, we have decided to GIVE HWfIY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at and Guaranteed
for 5 years.
How can we afford to, give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Records. Now, we propose to give
No. 2
CUT THIS OUT
and Iff ail to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
3 hereby make application for
full particulars of rour PREE
PHONOGRAPH DISTitIBUTION as
advertised by your Company.
Name
Street.,
Town State
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING $ MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation Of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is' able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON.
* 15-17 Market Street, Sydney


Public Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 30th September, 1910.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£2OO Reward.
YJJ HEREAS certain imitations of- sold coins have
v * recently been passed into circulation at Broken
Hill, in the State of New South Wales, NOTICE is hereby
ffiven that a Reward of Two hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth for information
leading to the apprehension of the coiners and the dis-
covery of the plant used in the manufacture of the coins
referred to. The Commonwealth Government will request
the State Government to extend a full pardon to any
accomplice who will give the desired information. This
offer will remain open for three months from this date.
(Sgd.) ANDREW FISHER, Treasurer.
For Sale.
MINING PROPERTY FOR SALE.
WENDERS are invited by th“ Liquidators of the Great
Central Freehold Mines, Limited (in liquidation), and
will be received at the offices of R. N. Kirk, 16 O’Connell
Street, Sydney; or Rollason Brandon & Co., 31 Queen
Street, Melbourne, up to the fifth day of November, 1910,
fdr their property situate at South Mount Hope, 84 miles
west of Condobolin railway station, N.S.W., comprising
an area of about 1042 acres, which includes 120 acres free-
hold, 350 acres Mineral Conditions Purchase Land (which
becomes freehold on payment of about 255. per acre), 140
acres of Conditional Purchase, and 423 acres, 3 roods
Special Leases for Water Reserve and works. On the pro-
perty is a large dam with a capacity of over 200,000,000
gallons constructed at a cost of £5OOO, and on the main
shaft a pair of first-class Winding Engines complete, in
good order, specification for which may be seen, or will
be “ent by post to likely tenderers.
This property is being offered to close up the affairs of
the Company.
Neither the highest nor low'est offer neces-arily accepted
By order of the Liquidators, R. N. KIRK, Sydney Agent.
Legal Notices.
"N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
No. 7403.
Between EMMA MAY SEERY, Petitioner,
find TIMOTHY SEERY, Respondent.
To TIMOTHY SEERY late of Toogood Street
Erskineville in the State of New South Wales
quarryman but now address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA MAY
SEERY has commenced a suit against'you inThis
Honorable Court and is applying fora dissolution
of her marriage on the grounds of your having
without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
and without any such cause or dxcuse left her
continuously so deserted during a period of three
years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the first day of December 1910
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A c-opy
of the petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated the seventh day of September, 1910.
H. HARDY, -Solicitor for the Petitioner,
58 Royal Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
JOHN GEO- LEARY (1.5,), Chief Clerk.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
No. 7315.
Between GEORGINA TRIBE, Petitioner, and
WILLIAM ALEXANDER TRIBE, Re-
spondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GEORGINA
IRIBE has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years and up-
wards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the sixteenth day of December next and in
theeventof your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit-be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
ARTHUR WAKEFIELD SIMPSON,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Armidale.
By his Agents,
SLY & RUSSELL,
_ . .369 George Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar, ,
JOHN GEO. LEARY (1.5.). Chief Clerk.
To WILLIAM ALEXANDER TRIBE.
Get an EDISON
Phonograph for
the Summer—!
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH never be-
comes monotonous, because its enter-
taining- capacity is unlimited. If voj»
own one you will realise this to the fullest
extent after having spent an evening with
the leaders of the amusement world
enjoyed from your easy chair in the quiet
of y >ur home. Such occasions as this will
prove to you that nothing in the way of
amusement that ever carne over the foot-
lights equals that afforded by an Edison
Phonograph.
The Edison “ Gem ” Combination Phono-
graph is a favorite model, and it plays both
Two- and Four-Minute Records. You can
purchase one complete, with Six Amberol
(Four-Minute) Records and Four Standard
(Two-Minute) Records for the small sum of
£4. Any Edison dealer will supply vou,
and you can have your own choice of
Records from the thousands included in
our lists.
We will send complete lists of Machines
and Records on apphoaitoi,, and supply
ithe name and address of your nearest
dealer, if you do not know it.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Lessee ami Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd!
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. u. WIL LI AM SON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
The Musical Success of our Generation,
0U It MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Palinsr’s.
Prices as usual.
Lessee & Manasrer .. J. C.' WILLIAMSON, Ltd'
SATURDAY NEXT. OCTOBER 15,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMsON presents
KATHERINE GREY,
Supported by WILLIAM DESMOND and a Brilliant
Company of Dramatic Artists, in Eugene Walter’s
Dramatic Play from American City Life of To-day
PAID IN PULL.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
DAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. ALLAN HAMILTON.
TO-NIGHT, AT S,
ALLAN HAMILTON and MAX MAXWELL’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Thrilling: Sensational Drama of Indian Life,
WHY MEN LOVE WOMEN
(By arrangement with Rupert Clarke and Clvde Mevnell).
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Les.-ee .. FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL present
Every Night and at Wed. Matinees, until further not ce.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and his NEW ENGLISH
FARCICAL COMEDY CO.
(including Mr. David James and Miss Mab Paul) in
THU NIGHT OF THE PARTY.
This is the piece which is provoking so much merriment
and such tornadoes of laughter. Box Plan at Elvv’s
PRICES AS USUAL. '
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. tramsstop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER !
w U ST’S PICTU RE S,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
-_6£L to 2/- Planar Nicholson’s (Fee. 6d. extra).
THE. LYCEUM..
i—LtYERY EVENING AT B
MATtWEIS-WI&NEMJA'rS SWUBBAYS AHOHOUDAM AT 230.
CPENCERSIiuATREKOPf <?
J PICTURES
» PfiE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTffERS.
Popular Prices Plaw at PAUNca
Sole Proprietor A Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
LAST NIGHTS of MORRIS CRONIN AND COMPANY.
GRACEFUL MISS GRACIE GRAHAME, Comedienne.
BARNES (George) and WEST (Iren •), Specialtv Dancers
WOODS (Leslie) and FRASER (Hilda), Sketch Artists.
THE Q.UEALYS, in the Society Sketch, “ Only a Drettm ”
THE AUSTRALIAN GOLD DIGGERS, by a Quartette
of Leading: Vocalists (Messrs. A. Sharpies, H. Powell,
E. Harrison and J. McKellar).
PRICES—Bs., 2s. and Is, Plan at Paling’s.
Q PERA HOUSE, MELBOUR tM E.
w Sdle Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WALTER C. KELLY, Monologue Entertainer.
LARRY LEWIS, Quaint Comedian.
THREE MIDGETS, Australian Specialty Artists.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Piquant Musical Artists.
MR. & MRS. MEYMOTT, Society Sketch Artists.
Godfrey james, singing collier.
FRED BLUETT and HIS BOY SCOUTS.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
A TREMENDOUS’SUCCESS.
William Anderson's; Famous Dramatic Co.
in a New and Picturesque Australian Drama
of Sporting Life,
THE WINNING TICKET.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s.' ~ " ‘ PRICES-Ss, 2s and Is.
LJ ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, (VI Ei_BOU ti iM i.
* * Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON presents his NEW LONDON 1
COMPANY in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THE WHIP.
A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL SCENES,
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO.-in
TOM JON hS.
THE SCENERY AND COSTUMES THE FINEST EVER
SEEN ON AN AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plans at Allan’s. §4T" PRICES AS USUAL.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW ENGLISH FARCE COMEDY CO. in
TIIE BRASS BO TTL E
THE MtRTH MAKER OF THE CENTURY.
Prices as Usual. Plan at All m’s.
\A/ e s T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST S PICTURES, THK BKST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturd ms & All Holidays at 2.30.
- Tub Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Pic ure Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prii-es— Ed. >n 2i Rnx Plan a’ 'lien’s.
»"ivnsa «v Hvid *i' avindoj
T'/t' oj; voi&Zdns' $/&& *•
saunxoidr
q)ldo3flßl¥3Hi S .«33N3dS
I’OC-Z iv fxvanoH uuv vxvaaruvs sxvasawoM, «awuvw
"2JO vLV 9NIN3A3 AH3A3VT
VIdWATO.SMJ.HIM
THE GLACiARIUM, MELBOURNE.
■ EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL TLIE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America
A COMPLETE CHANCE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6*
X/-, 6(1. Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays]
Amusements.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
CONTINUED AND UNABATED SUCCESS o{
THE CORRICK ENTERTAINERS.
10 BRILLIANT ARTISTS 10
Assisted b.v MR. ERNEST LEATHLEY,
the Clever English Comedian, in conjunction with
LEONARD’S BEAUTIFUL PICTURES.
Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
SEASON CLOSES ON SATURDAY, OCT. 22.
Amusements. .
‘«A rcad,a »” ST. HILDA ESPLANADE.
Mr. Edward Branscombe bejrs to announce the
Opening *>f
TESTERS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, ac 8.30.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB, FLEMINGTON.
GRAND JUBILEE of the MELBOURNE CUP.
VISITORS FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD HAVE BEEN INVITED.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day, Saturday, 29th October; Cup Day, Tuesday, Ist November;
Oaks Day, Thursday, 3rd November; Steeplechase Day, Saturday, sth ov.
RECORD ENTRIES. ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
H. Byro.v Moore Secretary,
DYE YOUR MOUSTACHE
a nice natural Brown or Black color by using
McGee’s Moustache Dye.
One gentleman writes : “Please send me another'bottle
of your Moustache Dye. It is the best I ever used.” The
original of this letter, together with others, may be seen at
my office.
This dye won’t wash off—lasts a long time. Send for a
bottle to-day. ;
sdf
3/- a Bottle. Posted N.S.W., free ; Inter-State, 3/2.
McGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN,
for coloring grey and faded tresses —never fails to give satisfaction. Brown
to Black. Easy to apply. Won’t rub or wash off.
4/6 and 8/6 a Bottle. Posted NiS.WY, 9d. extra; Interstate, 1/2.
ANDREW McGEE
GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSER,
5 and 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner .Hunter St., SYDNEY.
MAKE MONEY
Hi I/in nr
Picture Shows.
sd
HERE’S BIG MONEY IN THIS.
You’ve only to go round and see the
* crowds that rush Picture Shows all
over Australia.
No, you wouldn’t require much capital to
start a show of your own. You could operate
the machine yourself for a start—it’s not hard
to work and we’d show you how —and you'd
have your profits coming in from the first
day you started.
We’ll supply machine, films and all
needed by the Picture Showman.
Our Catalogue will tell you all, about it
—sit down and send for a copy now. It’s
your turn to make money and be your
own boss.
TFPMK’X
I
"THH
CINEMATOGRAPH
HOUSE,”
395 George St., Sydney
CAPILLARINE
*
fc*
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
A MOUSTACHE GUARANTEED!
The certainty of CAPILLARINE as a moustache producer gives us the
confidence to make statements like that.
Through the whole time we have been selling it—Bo years now—
CAPILLARINE has satisfied the most dubious by producing a moug.
taehe. In use it is harmless and not noticeable.
It will produce the desired moustache more quickly than any other
pomade on the market, and at considerably less expense.
10/6 per Jar, post free to any address in the World.
Craig" & Ait ken, 654 George St*, Sydney*
Established 30 Years.
s
k r
&
IN TUK £2250
3-HOUR A »T union
• AND SPORTS
(Under sanction o(the Attorney-General), Drawn Oct. 29,1910,
Ist Prize, value £5OO.
3rd Prize, value £lOO.
2nd Prize, value £250.
And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs, J. Bawdv, Warner
Avenue, North Hondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing? will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
T° !l ».v person forwardinjr stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Ajrents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
. . ■ Trade* Hall, Sydney,
DO NOT BE DICTATED TO
by no-license importations as to your standard of living', or how you should spend
your Sundays. You have as much intelligence to know right from wrong as the
outsiders who are dictating to you.
Some of the same people have advocated ISO PICNIC PARTIES NO SURF
BATHING, NO TRAINS, NO TRAMS ON SUNDAYS.
By placing your X in the top square of the Local Option Ballot Paper on the
14th next you
VOTE FOR CONTINUANCE.
Do not allow one section to dictate to another, thus restricting the liberty of the subject.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ’* Office


“ Waybacks Again.”
Another
stank of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is>
♦
FOOD
is soothing and satisfying. It contains all the elements
of a natural food in a condition suitable for immediate
absorption.
When milk alone is heavy and unsatisfying, Benger’s Food
made with milk, is appetising and nutritive.
Benger’s Food should be used for healthy development in
infancy, for rebuilding strength in weakened systems, and for the
preservation of old age in usefulness and vigour.
For INFANTS, INVALIDS , AND THE AGED.
The British Medical Journal says Benger’s Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Bender's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 832
fsd
Are You a Bad Writer ?
Many people imagine themselves “ Bad ” writers when the real
fact is that they have never succeeded in getting a pen which suits
them. Here are the pens for all so-called “Bad” writers!
Ball-Pointed Pens
neither stick in the paper, scratch, nor spurt.
Why ? Because you write on the face of a small Ball. Ball-
Pointed Pens can be had with fine or broad points. Ask your
stationer for a 6d. Sample Box. Commercial Men find them
wonderfully “easy.” Ladies say they are “just delightful.”
fs
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
■ Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
df
Will stop the mosfrriciou-i
dog- or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more hffect on
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. lieloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old. Leng th 5 inches, nickel-plated and nieelv
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free anywhere.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/ft and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, po-t free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and tiien closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening; the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner 1 ehooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
rest poclfet. Price wit h full directions, 7d. post free.
2*3
£3
52a
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
IMo. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
- limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fa*. Stock,
but only Wool, i. steeps kins,
Hides, Tallow etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds- protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
&
m
inn
c , s
Q:
O J
MM&
A tittle of
Old
ORKNEY
the Real Liqueur Scotch,
is better than a lot of an
inferior whisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
this, our own brand, which
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
. Dam. House, Arundel St., V.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co., 366 Bourke Street.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.,
f 108-110 Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE —Lord & Heseltine, 90 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON —John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART —John Ferguson & Co.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s '6d posted. Miiurik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is, Ventrijloq.uisjii Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter’, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys oE Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches,- Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, 1 s 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, ls>3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. "Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series; Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with - Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk', Is Gd. Howto
Make*Lovk, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and.
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. . The, Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for tiie
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, ,Is, 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love,. 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof.' Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
sdf
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. ‘ 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE, FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about _
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
Women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy marrit/d life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived. ■ i_
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY addrdss for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES,'SOO kinds, 1s 3d dozen. * !
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That, Rascal Gustave Is-; '.post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. Hpw to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card l Games (Rules for all Games), is. .How to
Mesmlerise, is 3d. Man From Snowy Riveij, ns 6d.
Poultry: Keeping, Is posted. Parlor jlagic, Is
-posted. ! Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man. ,llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date,;ls 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts; Public
Stealing Made Eas.v, is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits/ -Is ; post
is 2d. Simple (new), 4s ed.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted.; Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Hook keeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Bocgaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. Tiie Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got St.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ©C Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT
■>- Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street. Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
? POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How .to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s' Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of thf, King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court .of England, Is 3d. post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, , Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. • Tokology, 7s -fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is ?d, Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine-
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Though ifc is mostly supposed to be other-
wise, Sydney Mint was not a part of the public
hospital in the early days. The public hospital
stood on the site of the present Sydney Hospital.
It was intended for the poor, who, on payment of
Is. a day. were well looked after. The Mint
building was devoted to sick convicts whose
terms of punishment had not expired. When it
ceased to accommodate convicts it became a
depot for army medical stores. The stores were
packed on the ground floor, the upper part of the
house being used as a residence by Dr. Jonathan
Croft, the officer in charge. The army stores
were cleared away, and the building turned into
a branch of the Royal Mint in 1853, though
work did not begin there till 1855. In Croft’s
time there was a stone wall 12ft. high along the
front of the building, cutting it off from Mac-
quarie-street. This was such an eyesore to resi-
dents opposite, that it was removed, and a dwarf
wall with railings substituted. Now this wall
and railings are to go. in consequence of the
widening of Macquarie-street. Five Masters
have lived at the Mint since 1853, all officers
T3VI er i h £r Pl ? tlBh Government. The first was
Fid ward Ward, who held office till 1868. After
him came Charles Elouis, Robert Hunt and John
Macdonald Cameron, and; finally, E. H. S. Yon
Arnheim, the present Master.


o
: m
OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7Jlb. ; of 16-gauge, about 6ilb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
Stevens’ “Little Krag,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scrol trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3i)b.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
sd
18s. 6d.
©
&
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
and 16-gauge shot, 25/20 and 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7ilb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£5 10s.
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
fsd
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37£in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.YV. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle / 273 Darling St., Balmain / 197 Oxford
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [3
HEALTH BEFORE WEALTH
Beware of Colds, Chills and Winter Ailments.
Used in
Hospitals
and
Nursing'
Homes
Throughout
the
World.
fa<j
1
*• pnvtr* fiau<fui wn t
V,-
/j
S'
m
cm
&
w
There are Millions
of little corpuscles like soldiers fighting for you in your blood, and if they are well fed and
kept healthy will destroy that horde of germ enemies that attack you every moment. This
is a proven fact, and medical men practise their profession with strict regard to disease being
produced through the action of germs in the system. It is also well known to science that
Healthy Blood is in itself a germ-killing power. Now, Wincarnis is the one right thing that
ailing men and women have need of to fortify and create pure red rich blood. Its tonic
properties, its easy assimilating character, its exhilarating and strengthening effects proclaim
it THE WINE OF LIFE. Beware of chills and colds —take Wincarnis now, and itjwiU
protect and guard you from Influenza, Bronchitis and Pneumonia.
Wincarnis
Test It, and Prove for Yourself its Wonderful
Life-Giving and Recuperative Properties.
Thousands of Doctors consistently recommend
Wincarnis.
Wincarnis can be obtained from any Wine
Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer*
Australia and New Zealand Depot: 5 and 7 Barrack Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
COLEMAN & CO. LTD., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.
Model T Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and- the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
m Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 153-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of ‘ ‘ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON”
f
CHICAGO
THE AOOORDEON for Country Residents.
sdf
We don’t believe any Accord eon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE


Jerry’s Accident and what he did.
JERRY was a teamster, and drove a
One day an
frightened the
helped home by two 1
and Jerry was thrown from his
He was
Mrs. Jerry bathed the wound with clean
parts with /M * * -\ •.
Jerry
brought his tea on
laid up for days, and who
“No!” says Mrs. Jerry,
Healer. You will soon, be
when I scalded my
m
w
s<\
was dreadfully bruised and bleeding.
and gently covered the sore
went to bed, and Mrs. Jerry
He said, “ Now, I will be
V-/
will drive the
is the Rapid
well. Don’t you remember
by tipping over the ‘
cured me?” Mrs. Jerry was right, for the next morning his
how quickly
~~^ V so much better that he was able to go to work, and in
days it was entirely cured. Jerry carries the Jin of in his pocket to
show to all his
/II •
“ That’s
'» he, “ they call it the Rapid Healer, and
that is what it does. This little saved me losing many a day’s work.”
QA conct
THE RAPID HEALER
120 Post Holes in a Day!
Time was when the digging of Post Holes was a wearisome
and tedious task, but since the advent of the IWAN POST
HOLE AUGER, fencing has been revolutionised. Think
what it means to have the hole cut just the size of the post, and
in a fraction of the time taken with a spade. The Iwan Post
Hole Auger is being used with great success by farmers —it has
no adjustable parts, therefore nothing can get out of order.
Size—3in. 4in. sin. 61n. 7in. Bin. 9in. lOin. 12in. 141 n.
7/- 7/- 7/- 7/- 7/6 6/6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/-
Our 256-page Catalogue will be mailed Post Free for your asking.
Thomas McPherson & Son,
Established Half a Century,
582-588 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
sd
’ Hosiery
Underwear.
When buying
stockings, half-hose,
socks or underwear ask for
That is if you want the best,
have all the good features of the
highest quality all-wool wear.
More than this. wear is unshrinkable.
Do you realise the importance of this ? It means comfort and
longer life for the stockings and underwear.
Next time you are buying ask for
“Jason" Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock §a6or£ he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
Aa3
In case of difficulty write for "Jason” Booklet and name of nearest Agent, to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. ?>
WOOL,
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
STEM
WIND/
*
.STEM
SET
For Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards
GIVEN
Nothing can surpass
Horrockses'
SHEETINGS for
durability
We give absolutely FREE this handsome AMERICAN MADE, STEM WIND AND STEM SET. Watch, care-
fully tested and fully guaranteed for selling only twenty packages of our HIGH GRADE
ART POST CARDS at 5d a package. Send us your name and address (no money) and we
will send you the twenty packages of Beautiful Post Cards to sell at 5d per package.
When sold send us the 8 shillings and we will positively send you at once this beautif"l
WATCH and CHAIN and RING, We will refund the money if you are not perfectly
satisfied. Write today for the cards.
PEERLESS WATCH COMPANY.. 1137 East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION,
1908.
G. & G. 604
When buying see HORROCKSES’
name on Face-plait and decline
substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
me BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN 5d.
Twenty-Nine Pianos.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are twenty-nine pianos in our street,
And the child next door is going on the
stage.
You can hear her sternly thumping with her feet
Whilst the cheap pianos in their fury rage;
Oh ! the everlasting tumpty-tumpty-tum ,
And the future dancer’s endless heel-and-toe,
Like the beating of a maddened mullah’s drum,
Are a torture, so we’re packing up to go !
There are twenty-nine pianos in our street,
And on each of them a tireless demon prowls,
Hitting discords with his hands and tail and feet.
And at intervals emitting dismal howls.
Ancient ballads of the past assail my ears;
Ancient polkas urge my feet to leave the floor;
Oh ! I hate the tune that waltzes back the years !
So the van is quickly filling at the door.
There are twenty-nine pianos in our street,
And each makes about a million tinny sounds ;
With their keyboards and their varnish all
complete,
I suppose they represent a thousand pounds;
If I had a keg of cash I’d buy the lot,
Then I’d smash the shining cataracts of grief;
But a lone half-crown is all the cash I’ve got.
So in flight, dear lass, we’ll have to seek relief.
There are twenty-nine pianos in our street;
But God knows how many fumbling infants
strum ;
All their wild and noisy errors they repeat
In the never-ending tinkle-tumpty-tum ;
I am so unstrung I wait for each mistake
With the pen upraised and breathe a bitter
‘ “ Damn ! ’'
At the twenty-seconds-for-reflection break ;
So it’s time that we were starting for the tram.
There are twenty-nine pianos in our street;
Will the nine-and-fifty players win to fame?
Will we have to pay a guinea for a seat
When the terror that is next us makes her
name ?
Through my few remaining teeth I mutter:
“ Na y ! ”
And upon their humble destiny I gloat;
When a few more tinkling years they’ve strummed
away
We will drop them pennies on a harbor boat.
N.S.W.
FOE.
The Madness of Tonga’s
Grandson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ? ” Someone had started
I a discussion, and because it was so
humidly hot that the cards got marked
and greasy in the dealing, and the drinks warm
and flat in their passage from one hand to
another, the motley crowd of men in Sorrente’s
Harbor Hotel was glad enough of it. Teddy
VValshe had taken the subject up.
“Nature?’’ he questioned again, scornfully.
“Look at her here in the islands, right on the
Line, with ev'ry opportunity an’ chance it’s pos-
sible to have ! Look at her !” he demanded again
aggressively. “ What’s she got to show ? Just a
madness of vegetation and an over-abundant
supply of half-castes.”
Walshe always was clumsy, and it is recorded
still in the unwritten annals of his church college
(the training at which had not improved him)
that he always trod on the master’s most gouty
toe.
He trod on many toes this time, though—hard,
too.
Nicholson was the first to find vent for his feel-
ings. “Maoriland’s cold enough, and what about
her proportion o’ half-castes?”
Barry told some complicated and improbable
lie in explanation. Then he scowled, and nodded
triumphantly at Nicholson. Half-blood Maori
and half-blood Islander glared at 'each other,
while the white men and those whose blood was
too mixed for any defining at all, and who were,
therefore, exempt from the insult, cursed at the
trouble Walshe was making. Only the big Malay
was heedless, or seemed so.
But he slept on the mats of Tonga’s hut that
night, and next day Tonga, who was the father of
Lima, the prettiest girl for six islands round, came
to the hotel demanding a word with Teddy
Walshe.
It developed into a lengthy speech, like Alfred
Deakin’s best effort, before he had finished, and
the gist of it was this : He was disgraced, or felt
himself to be so. His other daughters, five of
them, might have done as they chose, and reared
up a family of half-caste tradershbrats to. torment
him in his old age, but Lima had been reserved
for a chief’s son. He was not sure as to which
chief’s son ; but the girl was handsome, and such
a glorious fate was therefore more than probable.
Now—here Tonga wept bitterly and uncon-
vincingly—he had cried the death wail over his
daughter’s honor and promise. Walshe and the
other white men—Tonga had insisted upon a large
audience—covered their ears hastily at a repeti-
tion of the performance, which sounded like the
boss cat fight of creation. Lima had added one
to the swarming tribe of brats. He had questioned
the girl, and she seemed to think Walshe was the
father of the boy.
Walshe thought it very likely, and so did every-
one else. Anyway, being more or less acquainted
with Tonga and Lima and her five sisters, nobody
seemed to think it worth denying.
But Tonga demanded a most outrageous quan-
tity of compensation, including much soft-
goods and no less than three guns. He com-
promised finally by accepting one gun, in
consideration of Walshe’s taking Lima to wife,
Island fashion.
It is not a very binding fashion, so Walshe did
not object over-much. And he really saved
money by the deal, because in six months’ time
Lima ran away with a big Tahitian, preparatory
to dying of fever. She left the boy with Walshe,
who in turn left him with Tonga; but, contrary to
custom, did not forget.him.
Now, once they have gripped him, the sweet
Pacific islands do not readily loose their hold on a
man, So when Walshe’s son reached 12 years of
age and had learnt all the exceeding little a
mission school could teach him, most of the white
and mixed men who had heard of the case were
able to debate the subject of the boy’s future.
Walshe had strong ideas concerning his respon-
sibility towards his presumable son. Not even
an indefinite-sized family in the various islands of
his trading course had shaken those ideas. Great
is the right of the first-born. He announced his
mtention of sending the boy to college in Sydney.
Nicholson looked up from his cards: “If you’ll
take my advice you’ll shoot him first,” he said
quietly.
“ Why ?” demanded Walshe, who never com-
pletely outlived his reputation for clumsiness.
Nicholson played clubs for spades, but he
didn’t seem to notice his blunder. “I m a
sample of the experiment myself,” he said simply.
It should have been enough discouragement of
the scheme, but it wasn’t.
Barry seemed too absorbed in his game to back
the statement up with his own example, or Walshe
might have been warned in time. As it was, how-
ever, Tonga’s grandson went far away from his
beloved islands. And some eight years later,
when he had learned to hate them along with him-
self, he was brought back.
His father was away on a trading cruise when
he stepped disgustedly ashore at the place his
mother’s blood gave him the right to call home.
He was sorry for Walshe’s absence, for he wanted
a reckoning very much indeed.
But he was rather relieved than otherwise to
find on inquiry that grandfather Tonga was dead.
At the same time he noted bitterly that, so
little did native blood and relationship count,
Walshe had not even troubled to note the bereave-
ment in any of his infrequent letters. But in
time, by his sheer easy-going patience and care-
less good nature, the white man won over his son
of the mixed bloods to something resembling
affection for himself as a man, if not as a parent.
He took him with him trading, whenever he could
persuade him to come. And there was always
sure welcome throughout the islands for Tonga’s
grandson, for Tonga had been a noted old cannibal
in his day. And at other times, which were fre-
quent, Walshe paid the publican’s bills uncom-
plainingly on his son’s account. He was beginning
to realise, as the youth grew to more splendid
manhood and the island girls became positively
importunate in their attentions, something of the
heritage of which he had robbed him.
There is a mixed collection of ladies at Mara-
nonga, one of the bigger Government and trade
bases. They are left there by their trader hus-
bands and fathers. Most of them have a dash of
the tar-brush, which is very good for their beauty
(while they are young), if not for their morals,
and which does away with the otherwise neces-
sary eyebrow-pencil! That is how Vallile com-
forted herself, anyway, when she saw the
all-white ladies of Suva with their fagged, dry-
skinned appearance.
By reason of his own very obvious streak of tar,
Walshe’s son found it easy to comfort Vallile
—till the inevitable climax came to his efforts.
Then he faced her very steadily on the bare
white stretch of beach, and the keen white moon-
light struck his high, broad cheekbones like a bar.
Vallile’s arms throbbed under his hands. It
seemed to him that all the night was white and
wide and still, and impregnated with the scent of
the dropping frangipani blossoms. He saw the
sharp gleam of the sand and the creamy .foam
upon its furthest edge. Even the girl, in her loose
gown, showed like an irregular white mass before
him when the moon hid for a second in the scud
of wind-clouds in the sky. Only her eyes burnt
across the little space between them—so little a
space that one long fine hair he felt but could not
see was brushing his face irritantly.
So much is life made up of little things that he
recalls the touch of that one hair now.
Her laugh rippled out very low and uncertain
as she waited for him to speak. He smiled at
the unconscious betrayal of blood even then, for
it is the fashion of an English girl to giggle in any
and every embarrassment.
He licked the salt film from his lips before he
shaped them to any word. Life and youth and
love alike were calling to him very strongly, but
the son of Tonga’s daughter—and, by general
allowance, of Teddy Walshe—forced himself to
take no heed.
And when Vallile understood this she fell to a
caressing and very flattering fit of tears. The
savage in him made him hate the dramatic touch,
while the rest of him scoffed vaguely at the
theatrical setting of it all. “I love you well
enough,” he said, and found himself listening in-
terestedly to his own words. “ That is, as a
man’s love goes, and that’s not very far in 90 per
cent, of cases. And you love me as far as it’s in
your quick, passionate nature to love anyone—
which isn’t saying much.’
“And that’s very probably the way your father
an’ mine and your mother an’ mine loved, too.
And, because of that, you and I exist and hun-
dreds like us. Pah ! ” He clicked his tongue in
a sudden disgust. Then he went on very quickly :
“There was a girl in Melbourne, too. Oh, we’re
all alike,” he broke out suddenly, “ev’ry one of
us. She cried too. I don’t know why, because
I’ve never spoke a word of love to either of you,
an’ I’m not going to, nor to any other woman.”
In his excitement he was using as,much almost
of the vernacular as of English. “I’m enough
warning to myself without the raising up of any
more like myself to burden my conscience.
Can’t you see we’re doomed ? ” he cried, dramatic
now in his turn, with the true, sure touch that
comes at least once in every life. “You, an’ me,
an’ all of us. We’re the wickedness of the world
run riot! ”
And then, because he was young and strong
and was afraid of his very strength, he turned
sharply from her and made for the beach. And
now that all the passion and stress were over, it
seemed to him the night was strait and grey.
A little beyond the creamy lather of foam his
father’s schooner showed a skeleton of lights as
the men bustled about preparing her for the
morrow’s voyage. He would go on that voyage,
too. Vallile followed him to his canoe. He
fumbled unnecessarily a moment with the paddles,
then he looked up bravely and said, “Good-bye ! ”
Her hand was on the chain that held a jewelled
cross at her throat, and her eyes shone with the
strange, wet radiance of tears. She took the
trinket off in silence, and laid it in his palm.
He shook his head a little sadly before he gave
it back to her, divining her meaning.
“ I wish I could,” he said. “ ’Twould be easier
if I were a priest, .1 suppose, but I’m a rank,
blank atheist! ” He smiled a little- with twitch-
ing lips, for he knew the extent of her transient
burst of religion. “Don’t try being a nun,
Vallile.” She felt him kiss her very softly before
he ran with his boat into the knee-high surf.
“Try and think of your atheist monk sometimes
at your prayers,” he called, and then the splash
of his pad,dies drowned anything further he may
have had to say.
Perhaps Vallile does. At any rate, her children
pray for the soul of a mythical uncle who would
seem to be a heretic.
Later, the big nameless Malay whose capacity
for spying was wonderful, considering his bulk,
gave full details to an interested audience, which
included Barry and Nicholson.
“Told you sending him to college ’ud be his
ruin,” said Barry in resigned satisfaction.
Nicholson flicked strong impatient fingers.
“ One never knows,” he said, softly.
But the Malay grinned in a sudden meaning,
“ Only Lima ! ” he drawled as much as it is in a
Malay’s nasal tone to drawl. He went out
chuckling...
LILLIAS GORDON.


Mgon y With a
■'•nm/iauncj
TOOT
nmiirl nnt Sloan—Knsnitsl Trfiai
Gould not Sleep—Hospital Treat-
ment Useless—Zam-Buk Speedily Cures.
“I suffered intense agony with a
poisoned foot,” says Mr. W. J. McGee,
of 236 Wright Street, Adelaide. “My
foot became inflamed and discolored,
and swelled up from the toes to the
instep, the throbbing pain being ex=
cruciating. Should 1 venture to put
the foot to tfie ground it would ‘ turn
black through the presence of the bad
blood. , .
“ I went to the hospital, where the
doctor treated the wound with anti=
septic washes, constant applications of
linseed poultices, etc., for eight days,
and during the whole of that period I
did not get a wink of sleep, so constant
and severe was the pain. Leeches
were also applied to the parts, but the
hospital treatment proved utterly
futile in giving me relief.
“ I left the hospital, and hearing Zam=Buk
well spoken of as a splendid antiseptic healer
for all sorts of festering, diseased and
poisoned wounds, I decided to try it. After
I had washed and thoroughly cleansed the
wmm§l
HI
J
er
<r
ttiH
-mzz-sm
wound with hot water and Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, I dried the parts
and applied a good dressing of Zam-Buk Balm. Under the influence of
Zam=Buk, after a while the wound burst, and I was able to squeeze most
of the bad, poisonous matter out. Continuing with the treatment of
Zam=Buk, all the inflammation was drawn out, the swelling reduced, and
a hole was left as large as the top of my finger, which Zam»Buk closed
and healed up in a few days with clean, new, healthy skin. Within
ten days after the first application of Zam-Buk the foot was completely
well, and I was able to put on my boot.
“After the failure, of doctor’s treatment, I am deeply grateful to the
curative powers of. Zam=Buk for my wonderful recovery.”
SOOTHING-HEALING—ANTISEPTIC.
4
4
HOME
NEEDS
ever*
pot
Pin your faith to Zam-
Buk, the modern healer*
and reliable skin-cure.
Zam-Buk is pronounced
unequalled for Outs,
Burn3,' Bruises, Scalds,
Eruptions, 'Eczema,.
Sores, and all injured
conditions of the skin.
1/6 per pot, or 3/6 large
size, of ail chemists, etc.
THE
QUESTION of the D AY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
-that is* on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best that possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s He,altH and beauty. ' There ,
can be no question about tHat. 3
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
Matchless for the Complexion,
The Old Oak in Phillip-street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT the Quay ward end of Phillip-street,
Where city and ocean meet,
Where the buildings are tall and grim,
And the daylight is dull and dim,
Leaning over the steel-bound way
Stands an Oak-tree bent and grey.
What its years are none declare —
Phillip himself may have set it there—
Set it there to flourish and grow
Lord knows how many years ago !
Brought it here with the famed First Fleet,
The grey old Oak in Phillip-street.
Where he planted it, green and wide
Sloped the turf to the harbor-side ;
When as a sapling first it grew.
Rippled the waters green and blue ;
Their plash was the only sound it heard,
Or, perchance, the call of a lonely bird.
Now it leans where the traffic jams,
In the narrow street where the droning trams
All day long go up and down
To fetch and carry for Sydney Town ;
Hurrying—scurrying—round the feet
Of the grey old Oak in Phillip-street.
The harbor tides are a dingy brown
Under the wharves of Sydney Town ;
Never the waves break crystal-green.
Never a blade of grass is seen ;
The sweet earth whence it used to spring
Is stamped and clamped as an iron ring !
Long ago, when the Oak was young,
Tts boughs to che glad, free air were flung ;
Now, with a menace on either hand,
Jealous and frowning the buildings stand ;
And when the cars roar in the shade
The old tree quivers like one afraid.
Yet year by year it may be seen
Fledged with the springtime’s-tender green;
Just when the golden wattle wakes—
Year by year into leaf it breaks—
A pleasant sight for the eye to meet
In the drab, stone cutting called Phillip-street!
And when I look on the gnarled old tree
’Tis more than an ancient Oak to me :
It stands for a type of the men we know,
Who older and harder and colder grow,
Shut from the wholesome airs of old
By love of self and the lust for gold !
Yet now and again, in the roaring strife,
’Mid the stony walls of a selfish life,
There comes a touch of compelling truth—
A joyous note from their long-lost youth—
And the sternest men may oft be seen
Fledged, like the Oak, with springtime’s green.
N.S.W.
O.C. CABOT.
Passing Glimpses of the Maori.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f pHE Maori, to the tourist, is an inter-
esting adjunct to' the scenery of Maori-
land. Without its human hall-mark the
geysers and the snowcaps, the .precipitous moun-.
tains and the lakes, and the fiords and the hot
springs would be without their most typical
characteristic. To leave out the Maori would be
like omitting the toi-toi, the flax and the cabbage-
tree. A picture might then just as well be of
Sweden or Switzerland. You look for the Maori
as you pass on the wing; you seek his tat-
tooed visage in the crowd; you miss the
brown, chubby face peeping from a rug on
its mother’s back; you are disappointed
because the brown man’s noisy talk is not
about the street. Somehow, it is what 'you
have partly paid for in coming to the country,
and you feel like the man who complained to me
at sea one day : “ I don’t see any whales about ! ”
He reckoned that the shipping company had-
swindled him, I think., Not that Maoris are as,
scarce as whales. Sometimes they overrun a town
like rabbits, livening the place up with their un-
conventional barracking and kaioras and how-de-
doos, and nosings (which is equivalent to shaking
hands), and asking each other to drink “ te peer,”
which is also known as “te long sleever.” And
they are not at all backward at making friends
with the pakeha—which is the white person. So
you hhed not go far without becoming intimate
with the brown people.
First Maori I saw was in a train leaving Wel-
lington. He entered the compartment with
dignity. His coat was in holes, his trousers gone
at various places; but he raised his hat and said to
the assembled passengers, “ Good mornin’, gentle-
men.” Next day I found Wanganui overrun
with his kind. A haka was to be danced at the
racecourse, so l attended. During the performance
an old wahine in a rare state of exuberance
planted herself in front of me and said, “ Kapai
te Maori.” I didn’t understand her, but gave her
a cigarette. Then the following conversation en-
sued. She said about 50 times between puffs,
“ Kapai te Maori”; and I said, “That is very
true.”
Seems to me that the Maori resulted from a
union of Irish and Chinese. They are browner
than a Chinaman, but paler than a filbert. There
is a buoyancy of temperament which is typically
Irish, and an intonation which recalls China.
Not that the Maori has any racial sympathy with
the Chinese. A Maori at the Napier racecourse,
who had punted right on to the edge-of blue ruin,
went round looking for trouble. At last he met
a Chinaman. He assaulted that child of the sun.
More Chinese appeared, and the Maori was res-
cued by the police. When he was asked why he
had misused the peaceful .Chow, he said : “ Oh.
that cow no hava te right to pe' in' this country.”
I would not have you believe all you read about
the noble Maori. . There are writers who are en-
thusiasts. Besides, Maoriland is a country which
knows how to advertise, and the picturesque
Maori is idealised. Now and again you meet a
noble Maori; but in the main they are a dirtv-
looking, lazy, loose-jointed, flabby people, who
look like greasy monkeys on sticks in the point
that they are strung together with cheap wire,
and you are afraid that they will lose their limbs.
They walk all to pieces, as if they had little or
no control over their legs and arms. I speak
of the women particularly. They have beauti-
ful brown eyes; but, apart from that', very
little good looks. You see an enervated
woman come shambling down the street, and you
momentarily expect her to collapse at every step.
But, by some wonderful agency, she manages to
keep going till she meets another woman, and
when they nose each other they sit down in the.
middle of the pavement—right in the way of
pedestrians. Then they fish out silver-mounted
pipes and tobacco and matches, and they start to
smoke and spit and talk noisily. Enervated
wahines pass and call out in a nasal wail, and
some stop and nose them and squat down with
them, till the passing pakeha has to go round
them to get on his way. Maybe you wish to
enter a shop. Well, three women are smoking on
the doorstep, and they won’t shift. They are too
lazy. But they don’t mind you squeezing past.
There is something rollicking about their good
humor, and what struck me most was their aris-
tocratic indifference to the white people. They
just said and did as they liked, without any fear
of offending the conventionalities. And the
women appear to be totally without modesty of
any kind. None of the women dress completely
in taste. You will invariably see them wearing a
good jacket, but the skirt is short and torn, show-
ing no hosiery over the tops of their boots; and
they will have a red or blue silk handkerchief tied
over their heads, gypsy fashion. Maybe, the
jacket is about the most fashionable and expen-
sive to be obtained. It is not want of money
which keeps the rest of the dress poor. For in-
stance, they will build houses in their pahs to vie
with the pakeha, but they put them to little use,
herding together in one of the rooms like com-
munistic pigs, and having no blinds at all. 'Many
are very wealthy, being landlords; others sow
potatoes and grow strawberries, and go shearing,
the women picking up and rolling fleeces. And
they own buggies or carts, Horses and bikes, and.
cut a dash as far as show goes. But there is very
little comfort about their pahs. They seem to
keep themselves warm by each other’s bodies..
They have blankets, and wooden dogs for pillows.
At the head is a little locker where they keep “ te
pipa”and “te tepacca,” and there is also a hole
in the wallfor them to spit through.
I met a man who opened a shop in Hawera.
Maoris would come in, and he would stand behind
the counter waiting for them to choose what they
wanted. At last he would ask if he could do any-
thing for them. “ Oh, no,” they would say ;
“ just hava te look round.”
Morality does not class high with the single
girls. A young girl comes along with a half-caste,
baby. “Is that vours ?” “ Oh, yes. You know
Wiki, te plumber? Well, him that feller’s father.”
One old fellow reckoned now that his old
wahine had “ shut te eyes and lie te ground,” that
he would marry a pakeha woman. His reason was :
“Maori woman no good. Too much te sit
down and puff, puff. No maka te kai, maka te
scrub, maka te sew, maka te ped.”
Anybody can see the love of Maoris for chi 1
dren. I’ve seen a Maori child dressed up in al
the colors of the rainbow, and the tribe admired
her so much that they showered money on her.
Hanging round her neck was a green stone heitiki
as big as a fair-sized doll. Talk about “ knocking
them in the old Kent road !” This vision in red,
yellow, pink and puce struck creation dumb.
There is nothing wrong with the Maori birthrate
that I know of. If a'woman is sterile she adopts
a child. In the early days, it is said, the Scan-,
dinavian settlers about Dannevirke were forced
to sell their children to the Maoris. A wealthy
Maori woman heard that the mayor of an adja-
cent. tojvn;was the father of triplets. She had no
children. She called on one of the aldermen.
“You know te Pilly Jones ? Well, him hava te
three papy,” counting them off on her fingers.
“Well, I want te Pilly Jones.” But she
was willing to make a legal agreement, and
£5OO was to be paid for satisfactory results, but
not three—only one. At last a baby girl was left
on the doctor’s doorstep; and now that girl is the
■Maori woman’s heiress.
People' talk about the superstition of the Aus-
tralian aborigine ; / it is nothing compared to the
superstition of the Maori. Between tapu and
taipo he is haunted for ever with blue devils.
Tapu is the something dreadful which will happen
to you if you touch anything belonging to a dead
chief. A stone might be tapu or a cherry tree.
That stone must not be disturbed, and the cherries
must not be eaten. Unfortunately white boys
like tapu cherries, and the Maoris tie pigs to the
cherry trees so .they will squeal when the boys
come for the fruit. Taipos are merely devils.
One day a couple of duck-shooters were capsized
on the lake back of Napier. They engaged a
diver to go down in his, diving-dress to recover
their-guns, etc. While the nien-were pumping
air down to the diver a Maori came riding along
the road near by. “Hulloa*! ” he said, “what
fish you catch ? ” “ Taipo,”' said pne of the men.
“ Oh, oh !” laughed the Maori incredulously. “I
wait and see, te taipo.” By-and-bye the diver
came up. The Maori yelled with fright. “Taipo
all right! ”, he cried, and, digging his heels into
his horse’s flanks, galloped off O’Shanter.
For years, no Maori would pass that of the
road.
But what a vain people they are ! How they
like you to say, “Kapai te Maori.” How they
love pageantry, flags, uniforms, show and glitter.
It is said a feather shows the way the wind blows.
Well, the Maori sticks the feather in his hat. It
will be a long red feather if he can get it—a feather
like that in the golden pheasant’s tail ; but a huia’s
feather will do, or even a fowl’s feather. A 1 feather
in the hat means high cockalorum. A Maori in
holiday time means high cockalorum. /'That is
why he. wears the feather. He loves ter put on a
flax mat and wave a mere’in the air.lor a spear ;
but, if he can’t get a mat or a spear, a btafich of
willow leaves round the loins and a stick plucked
from a packing-case will do. I’ve seen a Maori
out on a pageant in a child’s toy helmet.
I’ve only heard of one Maori who objected to
a military encampment. This was near Thames,
when a regimentals out for a week. One beauti-
ful moonlight night the troops were making the
most of the weather when an excited Maori ap-
proached' the lieutenant. “ Are you te captain ’ ”
he asked. “No, that is Captain Shand over
there.” The Maori approached the other officer.
“Are you te captain?” “Yes, what is your
trouble? ” “ Well, too much A? plurry jnoise,” he
said. “ Too much te shout—too milch te plow te
pugle—too much te peat te pig trum —to much te
plurry row altogether. .You mighty stop quick.
My wife, him want te sleep.”,
' You meet a good manyjMaoris in the! Salvation
Army. I think they admire the' red football
tchirt.” But it is not alone the Maori -who loves
a uniform ; all Maorilanders, white and brown, are
so fond of a uniform thap I wonder they are not
all in the Salvation Army. ' ~ -
ROBERT BROTHERS.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FKUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. UNO. Ltd.. ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*,
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Grave'.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ISaE!
AG
DO YOU KNOW WHAT
a miserable feeling it is to suffer from Indigestion—to be afraid
of eating—unable to take what you would like for fear of after-
effects —to possess little or no appetite —to suffer from “ wind ”
and occasional pains near the heart (caused by flatulence) —to be
■ troubled with an unpleasant sense of repletion after only a
moderate repast? Are you upset in these ways, and are you
sometimes Constipated —Liverish—Bilious —Headachy—or col-
loquially “ A bit off-color ” ? How often do you feel that, although
you can scarcely say you are really ill, you are far from being as well
as you would like —as well, in fact, as you know you ought to be ?
SEECH AMS
PI EES
are the speedy remedy for any such ailments, and indeed for all
disorders due to an unhealthy condition of the stomach and
bowels, or sluggish action of the liver and kidneys. Beecham’s
Pills are ’compounded' with great care from ingredients of vegetable
origin, specially valuable for their purpose. You need only to try
Beecham’s Pills once to be satisfied as to their genuine worth.
So many thousands of English people take this medicine with
beneficial results, and it also commands such an enormous sale
abroad, that without question it has become the world’s most
popular household remedy, Taken as directed, these famous
pills are always efficacious. The healthiest person is the better
for a little medicine from time to time, and you will find an
occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills the best tonic-aperient for
general use. After a trial you will have no need to ask what they
CAN DO FOR YOU
Sold in Boxes, labelled, price (36 pills),
1/1 (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
WOLFE’S
_
The Family Stimulant.
fsd
FOR MEN- —
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 passes, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pan-es, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining, Donald olark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPA RA TION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power,
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
fs
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over. Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
lully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge*
S.H. HENSHALL,
Re#d. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing;
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I|, 2/9 & 4/S
df
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
*
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY,
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sever?
Prize Medals,
sd
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 'I hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works : Birmingnam,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
fsd
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE * BREAKSPEAR
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY. „
n’ha Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SMOLETOrs EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
r
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth ltoad- Loudon, Eng.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
iM.L SHAPES
1/-EACH POST FREE l/ 2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'STOREKEEPERS -t TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
ASTHMA CURE
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, NervousConcha,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by, GKIMATJXT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTKS. Sold bv all Chmitti.
fs
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenienre
in
hours.
Etch Capsule bears the name
prj
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
iAY?
V.A.V.
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
AN Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.


Perdriau Dependable
Cricket Footwear.
df
Perdriau Cricket Footwear looks
well, fits well and wears well. The
prices make for economy.
The following lines are recom-
mended for use on matting wickets.
Special White Canvas Bhoes,
with black rubber soles. Men’s,
2/0 ; Boys’, 2/6 per pair.
Champion White Canvas Shoes,
with superior black rubber soles.
3/3 per pair.
Maltese Cross White Canvas
Boots, leather insoles, with white
rubber soles. Men’s, 7/6; Boys’,
6/0 per pair.
Postage on the above lines is 1/-
extra per pair.
Write for a copy of onr Price
List,-if you cannot oalL
PERDRiAU RUBBER CQ,, LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
' 270 George Street, Sydney.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertaking's
are becoming general. .The 44 HEENAN ” Patent is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction*—
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
Full particulars on application to
AUSTRALASIAN
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,
: i 'L :
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS II*? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete,■ and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Jln. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings. ,
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B" to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
5.81=5.83 Little Collins St,, Melbourne.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
J. Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten. sd.
o
$
o
*
o
BE UP-TO-DATE AND USE
THE
Electric Shearing Machines.
British Made. Therefore Reliable.
Write Tor Information to
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
SOLE AGENTS.
$
c
*
&
o
o
*
o
m
sd
fsd
Where a PORTABLE STEAH ENGINE
is required we strongly recommend
The "Clayton ff Shuttleworth"
WELL KNOWN AMONGST AGRICULTURISTS!
|o drive Shearing Machines, Chaffcutters,
Saws, Pumps, etc.
TANGYES ou
Stationary or Portable Types. All Sizes. Very
simple to Operate, Require practically no attention.
fsd
sole Agents
or Above -
f
Miller’s Point,
SYDNEY.
sd
ALL SIZES
for Direct, Alternating
DESK 8 WALL
£1 10s. to £4.
■
>■ ■*
IN STOCK
S Three-Phase Circuits.
CEILING.
£3 10s. to £7 10s.
Mm
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
BEST QUALITY.
STAERKER 8 FISCHER,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
172 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
4S Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) PropyLtd .
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
Udii T'S&WTnmiA I j * pm ii j m
fsd
DRINK
R
’
w
■
(Ffrench’s Process)
PATENTED.
N
LI
CHEAP, SIMPLE, BUT A SURE KILL.
PROVED BEYOND DOUBT AS THE QUICKEST AND BEST SYSTEM.
WRITE FOR TESTIMONIALS.
Guaranteed to penetrate and destroy to the furthest dead-ends
Sole Manufacturers and Agents,
265 George St., Sydney; 525 Collins St., Melbourne
